1 2010-05-01 An error by reliever Randy Choate helped Kansas City score twice in the ninth inning Friday night, and the visiting Royals held on to beat the Tampa Bay Rays for only the second time in 12 games, 3-2.

Scott Podsednik reached base safely when Choate (0-2) misplayed his comebacker to start the ninth. After Billy Butler singled and Jose Guillen was hit by a pitch from closer Rafael Soriano, Alberto Callaspo put the Royals ahead, 2-1, with a sacrifice fly. Mitch Maier followed with a single to push Kansas City’s lead to 3-1.

Evan Longoria homered and drove in two runs for the Rays, whose 17-5 record entering Friday was the best 22-game start since the 2003 San Francisco Giants (18-4). Longoria nearly won the game in the bottom of the ninth, but his drive to left with two on was caught at the wall for a sacrifice fly, and Joakim Soria retired B. J. Upton on a fly ball for his sixth save.

SORIANO FUELS CUBS’ RALLY The Cubs hit four home runs, including a three-run shot by Alfonso Soriano in the sixth inning that gave them their first lead, and Chicago beat the visiting Arizona Diamondbacks, 11-5. Kosuke Fukudome, Geovany Soto and Marlon Byrd also homered as the Cubs stopped a three-game losing streak. It was the most runs the Cubs had scored at Wrigley Field this season. “It really came at the right time,” Manager Lou Piniella said.

MORNEAU HOMERS IN RETURN After sitting out two games because of a stiff back, first baseman Justin Morneau made an instant impact in his return to the Twins’ lineup: he hit a two-run homer against Fausto Carmona (3-1) in Minnesota’s 9-3 victory against the host Cleveland Indians. Manager Ron Gardenhire said Morneau’s recent back stiffness was not related to the back injury that forced him to miss the last month of the 2009 season, including the playoffs.
2 2010-05-01 Those back-to-back double bogeys were the first of their kind for Woods since the Arnold Palmer Invitational in 2007, when he double-bogeyed the 17th hole and triple-bogeyed the 18th.

He missed the cut by eight shots.

How did he take it? Rather well, all things considered, doffing his cap at the final hole before shaking hands and smiling with Cabrera and Stewart Cink, who missed the cut by two strokes after shooting 72-75. Woods hit only two fairways but had zero outbursts and pounded no clubs.

“Yeah, I didn’t play well,” he said, “and more importantly, my short game wasn’t very good. I chipped poorly, putted poorly, but for the most part I didn’t really hit the ball that poorly until the end, when it was already pretty much out of reach.

“It’s frustrating. I didn’t have much. You have to let it go. It’s like baseball. You go 0 for 4 two days in a row like I did, you’ve got a whole new tournament next week, which is great.”

And there are a few great things about this week’s event, not the least being the opportunity Mickelson has to pull a bit closer to Woods in the rankings. A victory here would give Mickelson a 4-0 edge in the last four tournaments in which both he and Woods competed.

For now, Mickelson said he was not looking at anything except the third round. Though he let a couple of birdie chances slide on his incoming nine holes after playing the more difficult back nine first in four-under-par 32, he managed to go around without a bogey and had four par-saving putts of 7 feet or more.

“I thought I was going to get a few more birdies,” Mickelson said of the easier front nine. “I didn’t hit great shots that nine holes and I didn’t take advantage of the two opportunities I had on the par-5s, which kind of stalled the round. But four under — I would say I’m in good position for the weekend.”

Everyone among the 14 players within the top nine and ties could say the same. Even the first-round leader Bo Van Pelt, who shot a 76 to give way to Mayfair, is not totally out of it at three-under 141, tied for 14th. The only players mathematically eliminated are those who missed the cut at one over, and for the first time since last July that list included Woods.

Woods might have been more disturbed than he let on, but he hid it well if he was. “At least I get the weekend to watch and see how it’s done, how real players play golf,” he said. “And hopefully I can piece it together for next week and be ready to go.”

Maybe so. Cink witnessed the round up close, and even he was matter-of-fact about what he had seen from Woods.

“Well, he hit a bunch of crooked shots off the tee and didn’t have the heroic up-and-down shots like he always does,” Cink said. “He kind of got steamrolled on the back nine. Happens to the best of them.”
3 2010-05-01 Shanghai kicked off the 2010 World Expo on Friday evening with an extravagant opening ceremony and fireworks show and a pledge to be more open and inclusive. The two-hour performance at the new $270 million Expo Culture Center ended with a spectacular outdoor multimedia show punctuated by a parade of hundreds of national flags carried by boats along the city’s Huangpu River. The city has spent $45 billion, more than Beijing spent on the 2008 Olympics, to put on what it says will be the biggest Expo ever, and a showcase of China’s new economic might. Organizers are expecting 70 million visitors during the six-month-long Expo, mostly from neighboring provinces.
4 2010-05-01 Lyondell Chemical said on Friday that it had exited bankruptcy after 16 months. Its debt load was reduced to about $5 billion from $24 billion. It was able to exit through financial backing from two private equity firms and the industrial holding company Access Industries. The new company, LyondellBasell Industries, will be based in the Netherlands and will trade in New York later this year.
5 2010-05-01 Lala, the online music service, will be shut down on May 31, five months after Apple bought the start-up. Apple is widely expected to use Lala’s “cloud” technology to integrate a Web subscription service into its popular iTunes Music Store. A notice on Lala’s Web site on Friday said it would issue refunds to users who had already paid for songs they had yet to download.
6 2010-05-01 The Chevron Corporation’s quarterly profit more than doubled, beating forecasts, as a rise in oil prices offset lower refinery earnings.

The oil company’s chief financial officer, Patricia E. Yarrington, said on Friday that she saw some softening in the West Coast and Singapore refining markets going into the second quarter.

“You may still have some sloppiness in the market,” she told analysts on a conference call, referring to how refining capacity under maintenance was coming back on line.

Oil and gas production climbed to 2.78 million barrels of oil equivalent a day in the quarter, up 120,000 barrels a day. The company increased its output in the United States, Nigeria, Angola and at Tengiz in Kazakhstan.

Chevron is aiming for average production of 2.73 million barrels a day for 2010, and said it would discuss this outlook further at the second-quarter earnings conference call in July.
7 2010-05-01 Swiss justice officials said on Friday that they did not require access to the sealed testimony of a prosecutor involved in the case against the director Roman Polanski, even though lawyers for the filmmaker have said the testimony was needed for the officials to rule on his possible extradition to the United States. On Thursday Mr. Polanski’s American lawyers filed a motion in Los Angeles County Superior Court seeking the sealed testimony of Roger Gunson, a retired deputy district attorney, about a sentencing plan devised by Judge Laurence J. Rittenband. Mr. Polanski pleaded guilty to having sex with a 13-year-old girl but fled the United States in 1978 before he could be sentenced by Judge Rittenband, who died in 1993. Mr. Polanski’s lawyers said the testimony would show that the United States request for his extradition was based on false and incomplete information. But Folco Galli, a Swiss Justice Ministry spokesman, told The Associated Press that the sealed testimony was irrelevant because the United States and Switzerland “have to work on the assumption that the facts in the extradition request are represented correctly.”
8 2010-05-01 But while the nation continues to be praised as a darling of the foreign aid world and something of a central African utopia, it is increasingly intolerant of political dissent, or sometimes even dialogue, and bubbling with bottled-up tensions. Recent grenade attacks in Kigali and a shake-up in the army showed that even one of the cornerstones of the new Rwandan state — personal security — might be in danger.

“Kagame’s strategy for stability is a dangerous, long-term gamble,” said Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch. “By stymieing a political opposition, an independent press or a critical civil society — in short, by not allowing democratic institutions to form — Kagame is leaving people little to identify with but their ethnic group.”

With less than four months to go before national elections, few of the major opposition parties have been allowed to register. Some opposition supporters have been attacked inside government offices; others have been jailed. Several prominent government officials who recently broke ranks with Mr. Kagame defected to other African nations, saying they feared for their lives. The BBC local-language radio service was shut down for a time because the Rwandan government did not like the way it was talking about the genocide of 1994.

That dark period, when death squads from the Hutu majority massacred hundreds of thousands of minority Tutsis, as well as moderate Hutus, remains the touchiest subject of all. In the past three years, Rwandan officials have prosecuted more than 2,000 people, including political rivals, teachers and students, for espousing “genocide ideology” or “divisionism.”

Mr. Kagame and his disciplined military quickly restored order after the genocide, and this stability has been the foundation for Rwanda’s remarkable comeback. The foreign minister, Louise Mushikiwabo, says that after all Rwanda has been through, the government has to remain vigilant about ethnic divisions.

“Rwanda will not allow any politician, political party, any individual, to tamper with the reconciliation and unity in Rwanda,” she said in an interview.

Instigators of violence have been prosecuted for divisionism, but so have people trying to discuss the country’s past or its current direction. Critics contend that the government wields Orwellian-sounding laws that are intentionally vague to stifle any inkling of opposition.

Even programs like the one on Iwawa Island, which the government says will give street people a second chance, are not exactly what they seem.

As a boatload of officials recently glided onto shore, one police commissioner gestured to the birds, the trees and the young men with uniformly shaved heads fetching water and said, “Welcome to our Hawaii.”

But on the mainland, people describe it as an Alcatraz.

“We call it the island of no return,” said Esperance Uwizeyimana, a homeless mother of four.

None of the vocational training programs had started by mid-March. Protais Mitali, the youth minister, insisted there were no street children here, just adults. Yet squeezed in with the men were many adolescents like Gasigwa, and employees confided that several dozen boys were incarcerated here.

“This isn’t a good place for children,” one employee said in hushed tones because the minister was nearby. “They could get abused.”

Rwandan officials are prickly about complaints. President Kagame lashed out at foreign critics this month, saying, “Who should be giving lessons to Rwanda’s 11 million people about what is good for them?”

He called opposition leaders “hooligans” and said Rwandans were “as free, as happy, as proud of themselves, as they have never been in their lives.”

Several leading opposition figures, like Victoire Ingabire, say it is impossible to challenge the government, arguing that it is controlled by a cabal of Tutsis who were refugees in Uganda before the genocide and now unfairly dominate the economy.

Mrs. Ingabire, a Hutu, was an accountant living in the Netherlands until she returned in January to run for president. Today, she lives in a new housing development called Vision 2020 Estate; her sturdy, two-story brick town house is indistinguishable from dozens of others, except for the guards out front.

“There’s no space to talk about what happened in our country,” said Mrs. Ingabire, who has been charged with genocide ideology, being a “divisionist” and collaborating with rebels. It is not just Hutu politicians who feel persecuted. Charles Kabanda used to be a leader of the Rwandan Patriotic Front, the Tutsi-dominated ruling party, but split with it in the late 1990s, he said, because “they were ruthless.”

He recently worked with the Green Party, but said it had been repeatedly blocked from competing in the elections. Government officials said the Green Party failed to meet requirements like getting 200 valid signatures from all over Rwanda. Mr. Kabanda simply shook his head.

“ ‘Enemy, enemy, enemy’ — that’s what they call anyone who thinks differently,” he said. “This government’s record is dreadful. It’s only you, the international community, who is showering them with flowering praise.”
9 2010-05-01 The recent recession was, as seen by those questions, similar to other deep recessions in the mid-1970s and the early 1980s.

The third question, which is shown on the accompanying chart, is fundamentally different. It does not ask how the economy will do. It asks how the specific person expects to fare. In six months, does the respondent expect his or her own family’s income to be higher, lower or about the same?

Until this downturn, the number of people expecting things to get better for themselves had always exceeded the number expecting lower incomes. But at the low point in this cycle, in February and March of last year when the financial system seemed most vulnerable, fewer than 8 percent of respondents expected their income to get better, while almost a quarter thought their incomes were set to decline.

The chart shows the difference between those two groups, ignoring the percentage, always large, that expects things to stay about the same.

The pessimism shown by those responses has declined since then, but not gone away. In April, the Conference Board reported this week, about one person in 10 expected his or her family’s income to improve, while about one in six expected family income to go down.

As can be seen from the chart, good times in recent years have produced less net optimism than in previous cycles, while bad times have brought more pessimism.

On its face, such a result would seem to indicate Americans are losing their optimism, but it may not be as simple as that. In this cycle, unlike earlier ones, many workers were forced to take pay cuts, at least on a temporary basis. So it became reasonable to expect lower income, even for some who did not expect to lose their jobs.

Still, the decline in expectations regarding their own incomes is another indication of how much this recession scared people — and that some of the fright remains.
10 2010-05-01 ISLAMABAD — A former Pakistani intelligence officer with deep connections to the Taliban and Al Qaeda was found dead in the western tribal area of Pakistan on Friday, after being kidnapped by militants a month ago.

The body of the former officer, Khalid Khawaja, was found on a road between the towns of Mir Ali and Miranshah in the militant-controlled North Waziristan area, Pakistani news outlets reported. He had been shot in the head and the torso, according to Pakistani television, which broadcast a photograph of what appeared to be Mr. Khawaja’s body. His son, Osama Khalid, confirmed the death.

The killing of Mr. Khawaja, 58, highlights just how complex the snarl of militant networks has become along Pakistan’s western border with Afghanistan. Mr. Khawaja, a fast-talking former air force officer, had long been a link between the Pakistani military and militant networks in Afghanistan in the 1980s, when the United States was funneling money to the networks to fight the Soviets there. But as years passed, militants once under the control of the Pakistani state began to turn on it, forming a dangerous patchwork of tribal, ethnic and sectarian alliances.

It appeared to be Mr. Khawaja’s role as a negotiator in a battle between Pakistan’s military and a militant mosque in Islamabad in 2007 that got him into trouble. The siege enraged militants all over Pakistan and was the turning point for many groups, including Jaish-e-Muhammad, a group based in Punjab Province that split, with half moving to Taliban-controlled Waziristan and declaring war on the state.

A religious leader familiar with the kidnapping said the militants, who called themselves the Asian Tigers, were part of the Jaish-e-Muhammad splinter group. Pakistani television reported that a note had been left with his body, stating that he had been killed because he had sided with the government in the siege of the mosque. Reports stated that the militants spoke Punjabi.
11 2010-05-01 BEIJING — Gao Zhisheng, a prominent human rights lawyer whose 13-month disappearance at the hands of Chinese security agents stirred an international outcry until he resurfaced in March, has again vanished, his friends said Friday.

Associates said Mr. Gao failed to return to a Beijing apartment on April 20 after spending more than a week in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang region in western China, where he had been visiting his father-in-law. Mr. Gao telephoned his father-in-law as his plane left Urumqi, saying he would call upon his arrival in Beijing, they said.

That appeared to be his last contact with the outside world. Li Heping, another Beijing human rights lawyer and a close friend, said he had visited Mr. Gao’s apartment repeatedly, but had not found him. “No one had been there for a while,” said Mr. Li, who last went to the apartment on Thursday. “I have no idea who to call, or who has taken him.”

Others said they were sure that the government had again removed him from public view and that the authorities’ earlier decision to allow him to resurface briefly had been a ploy to try to demonstrate to the outside world that he had not been mistreated.

“Now we understand that the freedom was arranged by the authorities just for a show,” Jiang Tianyong, a Beijing lawyer and rights activist, said by telephone. “He is missing again; he is still under their control. We must continue to pay attention to his case.”
12 2010-05-01 NEW ORLEANS — Officials in the Obama administration began for the first time Friday to publicly chastise BP America for its handling of the spreading oil gusher in the Gulf of Mexico, calling the oil company’s current resources inadequate to stop what is unfolding into an environmental catastrophe.

As oil edged toward the Louisiana coast, fears continued to grow that the leak from the seabed oil well could spiral out of control. One official at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in a widely distributed warning on Friday, said the oil flow could grow from the current estimate of 5,000 barrels a day to “an order of magnitude higher than that.”

The increased level of concern was reflected in the sharp new criticism by federal officials of BP for not stopping the leak and cleaning up the spill before it reached land, something the company’s officials had said was possible earlier in the week.

“It is clear that after several unsuccessful attempts to secure the source of the leak, it is time for BP to supplement their current mobilization as the slick of oil moves toward shore,” Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said pointedly, as the government announced steps to supplement its response with people and equipment from the Defense Department.

Geoffrey S. Morrell, deputy assistant secretary of defense, said in a statement that the government would hold BP accountable for the cost of the department’s deployment, which as of Friday night included the Louisiana National Guard to help clean up coastal areas once the oil comes ashore.

BP officials said they did everything possible, and a review of the response suggests it may be too simplistic to place all the blame on the oil company. The federal government also had opportunities to move more quickly, but did not do so while it waited for a resolution to the spreading spill from BP, which was leasing the drilling rig that exploded in flames on April 20 and sank two days later. Eleven workers are missing and presumed dead.

The Department of Homeland Security waited until Thursday to declare that the incident was “a spill of national significance,” and then set up a second command center in Mobile. The actions came only after the estimate of the size of the spill was increased fivefold to 5,000 barrels a day.

The delay meant that the Homeland Security Department waited until late this week to formally request a more robust response from the Department of Defense, with Ms. Napolitano acknowledging even as late as Thursday afternoon that she did not know if the Defense Department even had equipment that might be helpful.

By Friday afternoon, she said, the Defense Department had agreed to send two large military transport planes to spray chemicals that can disperse the oil while it is still in the Gulf.

Officials initially seemed to underestimate the threat of a leak, just as BP did last year when it told the government such an event was highly unlikely. Rear Adm. Mary E. Landry, the chief Coast Guard official in charge of the response, said on April 22, after the rig sank, that the oil that was on the surface appeared to be merely residual oil from the fire, though she said it was unclear what was going on underwater. The day after, officials said that it appeared the well’s blowout preventer had kicked in and that there did not seem to be any oil leaking from the well, though they cautioned it was not a guarantee.

BP officials, even after the oil leak was confirmed by using remote-controlled robots, expressed confidence that the leak was slow enough, and steps taken out in the Gulf of Mexico aggressive enough, that the oil would never reach the coast.

Some oil industry critics questioned whether the federal government is too reliant on oil companies to manage the response to major spills, leaving the government unable to evaluate if the response is robust enough.

“Here you have the company that is responsible for the accident leading the response to the crisis,” said Tyson Slocum, director of Public Citizen’s Energy Program. “There is a problem here, and the consequence is clear.”

But it is still the government, in this case the Coast Guard, that has the final say. A law passed a year after the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster makes "each responsible party for a vessel or a facility from which oil is discharged" liable for cleaning up a spill. But oversight of the cleanup is designated to the Coast Guard, with advice from other federal agencies.
13 2010-05-02 The financial regulation debate is entering tricky new territory - for the Republicans who are losing it, for the Democrats who are winning it, and for Wall Street....
14 2010-05-02 If the stunning red brick studio house in London's Holland Park neighborhood known as Leighton House looks a lot spiffier, there's a good reason....
15 2010-05-02 But if people use Latisse without seeing a doctor, the side effects may come as a big surprise. Cynthia O’Connor, an interior designer from Minneapolis, got Latisse from the woman who does her facials, who works out of the office of a plastic surgeon who is listed as a Latisse provider on Allergan’s Web site. The woman did not ask her medical history or mention a single risk, Ms. O’Connor said, and she never met the doctor.

When “very dark purply” discoloration showed up on her eyelids, Ms. O’Connor was perplexed, but took it in stride because her new plum “eye shadow” garnered compliments. Then, the purple hue appeared under her eyes, where she had never applied Latisse.

“It looked like I hadn’t slept in a month,” said Ms. O’Connor, 58. “It was horrible.”

Five months ago, she stopped using Latisse, but some discoloration is still visible.

Allergan has a policy against selling Latisse online and says it will cut off supplies to doctors who do so. “Allergan strongly believes consumers should seek consultation from a qualified doctor to determine if they are an appropriate candidate for treatment,” said Heather Katt, an Allergan spokeswoman.

Consumers have long been able to obtain some prescription drugs illicitly without seeing a doctor — think of the flurry of Web advertisements for generic Viagra — but with Latisse, it is striking how routinely no-prescription sales of the real product take place in plain sight. The high cost of the drug, $89 to $150 for a month’s supply (depending on the markup), seems to offer a powerful incentive to all kinds of would-be salespeople.

Since Dr. Gambhir started prescribing the lash-enhancing drug last summer, he said, he has put an estimated “10,000 bottles out there,” and “a good bit are online transactions.” (Though many states prohibit doctors from selling drugs online without seeing the customers, Pennsylvania does not.)

Asked about Allergan’s policy against online sales of Latisse, Dr. Gambhir said, “Allergan is aware that Latisse is being sold online by myself.”

Other Latisse providers said in interviews that their Allergan representatives knew about online sales. Dr. Peter J. Sacchetti of York, Me., said that his Allergan representative had provided before-and-after pictures for his Web site, but that he had not started selling Latisse online because of concerns raised by his insurance company. (His Web site does say that a consultation is required before buying Latisse.)

Ms. Katt said Allergan had shut down two health care providers who were selling Latisse online and was investigating 12 others. But she said that most online sales of Latisse were illegal ones over which Allergan had no control, either because the product was being smuggled into the country or because it was really a generic knockoff not approved by the Food and Drug Administration.

Latisse is the same formula as Lumigan, Allergan’s eyedrops for glaucoma, which reduces eye pressure but also happens to grow lashes. Both are also known as bimatoprost ophthalmic solution. In early 2009, Allergan introduced the drug as a lash enhancer. According to Ms. Katt, Allergan sold $73.7 million worth of Latisse last year, expects to sell $140 million of it this year and estimates that net sales could ultimately exceed $500 million a year.

Some doctors said it was common knowledge that Latisse was easily available without a prescription.

“They say in the patient packet insert that it is doctor-prescribed, and that’s not true,” said Dr. Seth L. Matarasso, a dermatologist in San Francisco. “Patients in my area say they found it in their health club. It is dispensed by a variety of people. Controls are not that strict.”

Dr. Matarasso injects his fair share of Botox but said his sales of Latisse were “not astronomical,” largely because it is so easy to obtain. He does not sell Latisse online and does require an in-person consultation.

The risks for consumers vary. The Latisse they buy online could be adulterated or fake. But even when the Latisse is the bona fide Allergan product, bypassing a doctor means a patient is not necessarily taught proper application or made aware of the potential problems.

“When the F.D.A. approved this product for marketing, they made a determination that the side effects or misuse or inappropriate use could cause harm, and that’s why they restricted it to a prescription drug,” said Carmen A. Catizone, the executive director of the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy, which represents state agencies that regulate pharmacies and pharmacists. “If it was completely safe to use without doctor supervision, they would have deemed it over-the-counter.”

Excluding ophthalmologists, most doctors do not do eye exams before dispensing Latisse, but they do explain how to apply it. Latisse must be dabbed on the upper lash line only, since it can grow unintended hair — on the cheek, for example. People are not supposed to place it on the lower lash line or eyebrows (though some do), and they are meant to use the one-use applicators that come with Latisse to avoid infection and to give the right dose.

Without a doctor’s guidance, “it’s a cumulative risk,” said Dr. Andrew G. Iwach, executive director of the Glaucoma Center of San Francisco. “Let’s say you use the product once inappropriately, or outside the approved guidelines, you might get away with it, but this drug is being applied repeatedly over weeks, months and potentially years. The consequences, or risk of consequences, add up over time.”

Most people who use Latisse or Lumigan do well, Dr. Iwach said. Still, he said issues did arise, like ingrown lashes, when lashes get so long they scratch the cornea. Latisse can also reactivate dormant eye inflammation. “When it’s something as personal, something so critical as vision, you don’t want to cut corners,” Dr. Iwach said.

Even so, some people’s enthusiasm for Latisse is hard to overstate.

Last week, Brad Denherder, a 21-year-old hairdresser in Seattle, got Latisse from a client as a gift. He believes that his lashes lack fullness and said he could not wait to use Latisse: “I want them to be so long that they create wind tunnels.”

Victoria Parker, 39, is thrilled by her “teenager lashes” and relieved that after four months of Latisse use, her blue eyes have not gone brown. “I’m in for life,” said Ms. Parker, a licensed child care provider in Tacoma, Wash. “I can’t go back to having no eyelashes.”

Ms. Parker buys her Latisse on a Web site run by two registered nurses in Pennsylvania, who send their customers’ medical histories to Dr. Lori Alfonse, a breast surgeon in East Norriton, Pa., for review before packing up Latisse.

Dr. Alfonse, whose practice is listed as a Latisse provider at Allergan’s site, has no qualms. Latisse, she said in an interview, is “not a controlled substance.”
16 2010-05-02 Even as it continues to try to battle joblessness and hold down inflation, the Fed is poised to receive new duties from Congress for protecting the financial system and consumers. Mr. Obama’s selections reflect these duties, but also are consistent with the mandate set out for the Fed at its creation in 1913, said Jon Faust, a former Fed official.

“The Federal Reserve Act envisioned that the board would represent a broad range of interests,” said Mr. Faust, an economist at Johns Hopkins. “The emphasis on academic economists is a trend that’s only been happening in central banks around the world over the last 15 to 20 years.”

So far there has not been vocal criticism of the nominees, whose backgrounds were reviewed for a month and a half before the appointments were formally announced. If the three are confirmed, they will join Mr. Bernanke, whom Mr. Obama backed for a second term; Daniel K. Tarullo, a law professor and an authority on banking regulation, whom Mr. Obama named to the seven-member board last year; and two Republican governors named by President George W. Bush.

“We ran a careful and thoughtful selection process,” Mr. Summers said. “We considered a large number of people, and all of us on the economic team felt this slate would be very strong.”

Daniel P. Carpenter, professor of government at Harvard, said that as an authority on fiscal matters, Mr. Diamond, who is close to Peter R. Orszag, Mr. Obama’s budget director, “can speak with greater credibility” than Mr. Bernanke on taxation and spending.

The fact that Mr. Bernanke, 56, has known and admired Mr. Diamond, who just turned 70, for more than three decades adds a wrinkle to the dynamics on the board.

“In academic culture, no matter how advanced you are or how many awards you’ve won, people look up to their academic advisers,” Mr. Carpenter said. “This is going to be a vote on the board of governors that is going to have special weight.”

Mr. Carpenter predicted that Ms. Raskin would elevate the prominence of consumer concerns at a time when Congress was considering housing a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau within the Fed.

“There are at the root level a number of consumer capacities at the Fed, including bank examiners and regulators at the regional banks,” Mr. Carpenter said. “The problem is that a lot of these lower-level regulatory functionaries tend not to get the attention or status that the high-level monetary policy-making functionaries get.”

J. Kevin Corder, a political scientist at Western Michigan University who studies Fed policy-making, agreed that the board needed to go beyond monetary policy.

“The monetary policy function has been so overwhelmed by the regulatory challenges and the extraordinary interventions that the board is drawing on different types of expertise than it has in the past,” Mr. Corder said.

For Ms. Yellen, who was a Fed governor from 1994 to 1997 and then chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Bill Clinton, the appointment amounts to a homecoming.

“I am strongly committed to pursuing the dual goals that Congress has assigned us: maximum employment and price stability,” Ms. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco since 2004, said on Thursday. “And, if confirmed, I will work to ensure that policy promotes job creation and keeps inflation in check.”

The positioning of employment before inflation in that statement might fuel a perception that Ms. Yellen is an inflation “dove,” more concerned about the 9.7 percent unemployment rate than the prospect of inflation jitters.

But Laurence H. Meyer, an economist who served with Ms. Yellen on the board, called that depiction an exaggeration.

Before the Fed’s policy-making arm met in September 1996, he recalled, he and Ms. Yellen paid an unusual visit to Alan Greenspan, Mr. Bernanke’s predecessor.

“Janet and I were both worried about inflation, even though it was very well contained at the time,” Mr. Meyer wrote in a blog post last month. “We told the chairman that we loved him but could not remain at his side much longer if he continued, as he had been doing for some time, to push the next tightening action into the next meeting, and then not follow through.”

Mr. Meyer and Ms. Yellen ultimately stood by Mr. Greenspan, who had correctly predicted that technological change was fueling a boom in productivity and alleviating inflationary pressures. The Fed did not raise its benchmark interest rate until the following March.
17 2010-05-02 John Hardzog rightly observes the seeming contradiction that greyhounds can be “calm, gentle dogs” and “efficient killers.” As far back as 6000 B.C., greyhounds were valued as hunters and companions. However, even thousands of years ago, some people deplored using greyhounds to prey upon other animals for sport. In A.D. 124, Arrian wrote “On Hunting Hares” and noted, “The true sportsman does not take out his dogs to destroy the hares, but for the sake of the course and the contest between the dogs and the hares, and is glad if the hare escapes.”

Nowadays, this versatile breed has several alternatives to their hunting origins. Artificial lure coursing, where dogs pursue a plastic bag dragged across a field, is one. Greyhound racing, where dogs chase a mechanical rabbit around an oval track, is another. Life as a pet is perhaps the most humane alternative of all. Cynthia A. Branigan

The writer is the author of “The Reign of the Greyhound: A Popular History of the Oldest Family of Dogs.”

Having spent much of my life in the Midwest, where hunting is what people do, I learned and appreciated the fine qualities of a good hunting dog. These are areas where dogs are bred for intelligence and skill, where the Westminster dog show is considered a joke. Out in the fields, you appreciate what a beautiful hunting animal a dog is. You can see the excitement of the hunt and the pure joy in doing what it was meant to do. It is the classic predator-and-prey drama that plays itself out a million times a day. George Anad

I was appalled when I read the article regarding the man who hunts coyotes with his greyhounds. What Hardzog is doing cannot be considered sport. If he lived in my state, I would be doing everything in my power to persuade the authorities to seize the greyhounds and find decent homes for them where they wouldn’t face serious injury or possible horrific death on a daily basis. Jan Turner

I compared the outcome in the cases of Michael Vick and Tiger Woods with Ben Roethlisberger’s, and the punishment in his case is less severe. It is so apparent that race was a factor in these cases. Only a suspension of six regular-season games, which can be reduced to four depending on good conduct. Roethlisberger can practice in training camp and play preseason football. Roethlisberger goes on with his professional career without missing a beat. When infidelity and dogs become more important than the sexual assault of women, there is a breakdown in our mainframe.
18 2010-05-02 Analysts, lawyers and others involved in the larger bankruptcy boom say that some fees are legitimate — and that others are, at a minimum, highly questionable.

“There’s clearly pressure on people to create more revenue,” says Robert White, a former bankruptcy partner at O’Melveny & Myers who retired in 2006 after practicing for 35 years. At one deposition he attended last year, each law firm sent two or three lawyers when one would have sufficed. “They were just sitting there on their BlackBerrys and talking to other people,” he said.

With first- and second-year associates charging more than $500 an hour in some of these bankruptcy cases, according to court records, that can amount to some pretty expensive downtime. At several firms, including Weil and Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, partners now charge $1,000 an hour or more for their bankruptcy services.

But billable hours explain only part of the run-up in costs. In the seven months after the bankruptcy filing of G.M., which taxpayer dollars helped keep afloat, various law firms and other advisers received nearly $90 million. Lawyers from Weil, which has accounted for nearly $16 million of fees in that case, put in for $364.14 in dry cleaning as well as more than a week at the Sherry-Netherland hotel in Manhattan last summer, where one lawyer’s room cost $685 a night.

In court documents, the firm responded that it could be tough to find hotel rooms in New York City for $400 or less and that dry-cleaning or laundry bills were appropriate for out-of-town lawyers required to stay in New York for 9 or 10 days.

THINK the lawyers are expensive? Meet the consultants. Alvarez & Marsal, a turnaround firm that is essentially running what remains of Lehman, has billed more than $262.1 million.

No charges have been too big, or too small. The Huron Consulting Group, a management consultancy involved in Lehman, charged $2.54 for “gum in airport.” In the G.M. case, Brownfield Partners has billed $230,209.55, including an $18 fitness-club charge at a hotel.

A Brownfield partner said an employee didn’t realize that there was a separate charge to use the fitness club and didn’t notice it on the hotel bill. The firm agreed to remove the charge after the examiner brought it to the firm’s attention.

Analysts say that nickel-and-diming might be worth a laugh or two — if some of the larger fees weren’t snowballing so quickly as well. They say these bounteous fees reduce the money left for creditors in the bankruptcy cases. In the Lehman case, some unsecured creditors, including bondholders, banks and vendors, are likely to get just 14.7 cents on the dollar for their claims, according to Lehman’s proposed reorganization plan. Nor will they get their money quickly — some experts say they believe that the Lehman case could drag on for three to five more years.

Lawyers and restructuring pros who are picking up the pieces of companies swamped by the bankruptcy wave say that their fees are well deserved and that their services help make the bankruptcy process more efficient. And they say the pay is more than made up for by a tidier resolution of a financial debacle — or, as in G.M.’s case, the revivification of a wounded company.

“The legal skill we used to sell Lehman’s North American capital markets business to Barclays saved 10,000 jobs and preserved the business itself, capturing value that otherwise would have been lost,” said Harvey Miller, 77, a Weil partner who is considered the dean of the bankruptcy bar.

Many people in the industry agree that Lehman, in particular, is a huge case that tests even the most experienced lawyers. “Lehman is a sufficiently complicated company that it would be safe to assume that if it weren’t for equally sophisticated professionals running the Chapter 11 case, that the creditors would essentially receive nothing,” says Stephen J. Lubben, a professor at the Seton Hall University School of Law. “In those situations, it makes sense for sophisticated professionals to handle the case.”

Others, however, have a distinctly different perception about the fees that advisers are harvesting in bankruptcies.

“It violates any sense of proportion,” says Kenneth Feinberg, the Washington lawyer who serves as the “pay czar” for banks bailed out by the government and whom the court appointed last June to monitor fees associated with the Lehman bankruptcy. The court asked him to participate after concerns were raised in the news media about the soaring fees in the Lehman case.

“Unemployment is over 9 percent, and to be paying first-year associates $500 an hour angers the public,” he observes. “People read about all of this and say that lawyers and the legal system are one more example of Wall Street out of control.”

Despite the rise in bankruptcy fees over the years, there was little or no public criticism or pushback until recently. Lawyers were reluctant to challenge their peers, fearing retaliation. Analysts say watchdogs from the United States Trustee’s office, a part of the Justice Department that oversees bankruptcy cases and monitors billing practices and possible conflicts, were overworked and outgunned. Even as its workload has increased, the Trustee’s office has seen its staffing fall to 1,323 in 2010 from 1,468 in 2007.

Meanwhile, judges, many of whom used to work at the firms now benefiting from the bankruptcy boom, were also reluctant to challenge the status quo. All of this, analysts say, has fed a legal culture with few restraints on billing for bankruptcies.

“I don’t think professionals cheat the client, but in a number of ways they can talk themselves into doing things that they wouldn’t do for clients outside of bankruptcy,” says Nancy B. Rapoport, a former bankruptcy lawyer at Morrison & Foerster who teaches law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “If you send eight people to a hearing because there is an outside chance they might have to speak at that hearing and you try that outside of bankruptcy the client will go ballistic.”

Now, however, a handful of fee examiners in several high-profile bankruptcies are taking a harder line on such charges, setting the stage for a confrontation with lawyers and consultants opposed to the moves. Both Mr. Feinberg and the examiner in the G.M. case, Brady C. Williamson, for instance, have suggested reductions in hourly fees charged by some firms.

That’s the kind of precedent that sets some of the bankruptcy industry leaders’ teeth on edge. “Mr. Feinberg doesn’t know what he’s talking about,” says Mr. Miller. “We don’t generally give discounts. Just because bankruptcy has been the hot legal area for the last 19 months doesn’t demand you cut fees.”

If Mr. Feinberg and others succeed in reining in certain fees and expenses, the outcome could reverberate through the bankruptcy universe.

“This is a very important test case; it’s bigger than just Lehman,” observes Mr. Feinberg. “The culture of bankruptcy is unique.”

So what, asks Bryan Marsal, co-founder of the restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal. “I don’t care whether Feinberg or Moses comes into this case, you’re not going to get me to apologize,” he says. “If you look at this case in the context of the billions of dollars that has been recovered and the billions of dollars in claims that have been managed, just because the case was big doesn’t mean it was operated inefficiently.”

ON the evening of Sunday, Sept. 14, 2008, Mr. Marsal was sitting in his study in Westchester County, N.Y., when the phone rang.

Calling was Mark Shapiro, who ran Lehman’s restructuring practice. He told him that Lehman’s lawyers were preparing a bankruptcy filing and that the board wanted Mr. Marsal’s firm to oversee the bankruptcy and eventual liquidation after Barclays and others bought pieces of the firm.

Since receiving that call, Mr. Marsal’s firm has been billing $13 million to $18 million a month in fees and expenses for its work on Lehman, a 160-year-old name on Wall Street.

Mr. Marsal says the firm will most likely bill at $13 million a month through October, just after the second anniversary of Lehman’s collapse. After that, rates will begin to decrease, although Alvarez & Marsal will also earn an incentive fee at the end of the case, which could total more than $50 million.

A jovial, self-deprecating man who points out a coffee stain on his shirt and, later, jokes that he wants to put on a blazer to hide a rotund midsection, Mr. Marsal is unapologetic about the fees that he and his staff are earning. Those fees pay for the salaries of the 150 people from Alvarez & Marsal now working inside Lehman (down from a peak of 185), including Mr. Marsal himself. He serves as Lehman’s C.E.O., while John Suckow, an Alvarez & Marsal managing director, is Lehman’s president and chief operating officer.

“The size of this case justifies the size of the fees,” says Mr. Marsal, shrugging as he sits in a conference room at Lehman’s headquarters in Midtown Manhattan. Mr. Marsal and Mr. Suckow estimate that they have increased the potential recovery value for Lehman creditors by $4 billion to $5 billion in the last year.

Indeed, deciding whether these firms and their sky-high fees are justified is difficult because the bankruptcy trade is in uncharted territory. Several of the companies that went bankrupt in the last two years were significantly bigger than Enron, in terms of assets, when it collapsed in late 2001.

As if the magnitude of the bankruptcies weren’t enough, there’s also the matter of the complex financial instruments that some of the companies held.

“There was commercial real estate, bank loans — all of that stuff is pretty well known to our team, but derivatives? We hadn’t had much experience in derivatives,” acknowledges Mr. Marsal, who added that his firm hired two subcontractors to work through Lehman’s derivatives book.

Mr. Miller adds that those derivatives, even today, are taking up a lot of time and energy. “We’re still in the process of unwinding them,” he says, “which raises all sorts of difficult and novel legal issues.”

In April, Lehman filed a plan with the court that would create an asset-management business, called Lamco, that would manage Lehman’s real estate and private-equity assets for five years.

By not selling some assets at fire-sale prices, the estate will be able to recoup much more money for creditors, notes Mr. Marsal.

“The money that’s going to the creditors is my money,” he says, pointing out that he’s aligned with the creditors’ goals. That’s because, at the end of the case, Mr. Marsal’s firm will receive an incentive fee that is based on a percentage of the money returned to creditors.

Mr. Marsal says critics should be careful about identifying where problems lurk in bankruptcy fees. He says the savings that result from making sure that no one is flying first class to Europe are “peanuts.”

“You should be much more worried about the two or three lawyers who are overbilling and whether they should even be in attendance at a meeting,” he says. “I think the fee committee and the fee examiner is a lot of hooey.”

IF anyone is a master of getting to yes, it’s Kenneth Feinberg. As a mediator, he brokered settlements in long-running product liability suits brought by those who said they were victimized by Agent Orange, asbestos and the Dalkon Shield. More recently, he managed to win praise on delicate assignments like determining how much the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund should pay out — or what is an appropriate salary for an executive at a financial institution that the government propped up with taxpayer funds.

But he says that challenging bankruptcy lawyers is tougher in some ways. “In the 9/11 case, the country was behind me; as pay czar, there was a lot of support for what I was doing,” he says. “This is more problematic.”

In particular, Mr. Feinberg is perplexed by why fees keep rising in the Lehman case, even though it’s no longer the chaotic affair it was in the weeks and months after the bankruptcy filing. “Now the emergency is over; it is more like a traditional bankruptcy,” he says. “Yet the fees are higher than ever.”

Mr. Feinberg has managed to get under the skin of the lawyers in the case. And he is equally frustrated. His voice rising and Boston accent thickening (think “debt-ah” and “credit-ah”), he says that bankruptcy professionals “still haven’t gotten the message.”

The four-member Lehman fee committee, of which Mr. Feinberg is chairman, has disagreed about how to rein in fees, he says. But he declines to elaborate. Mr. Miller says it’s because creditors and debtors are willing to pay well so they can get “the best representation possible.”

On a rainy summer day last year, Mr. Feinberg journeyed to the plush offices of Mr. Miller in the General Motors building in Manhattan. His pitch was simple: Cut 10 percent to 15 percent right off the top of the fees being billed.

Mr. Miller and Dennis Dunne, a partner at Milbank who represents creditors, told him, “You don’t know how complicated this is; you don’t know how difficult it is,” Mr. Feinberg recalls.

Mr. Miller doesn’t dispute Mr. Feinberg’s account, and Mr. Dunne declined to comment for this article.

Despite these frictions, a deal was eventually struck.

Among the new fee rules being enforced are these: Air travel must be in coach class only. Ground transportation is limited to $100 a day, and only after 8 p.m. Hotel rooms are capped at $500 a night. Photocopy charges are limited to 10 cents a page. Late meals can’t be more than $20 each.

“If you continue to violate the very guidelines that are in place, 50 percent of the disputed amounts will be deducted,” says Mr. Feinberg. After that, the full amount will automatically be deducted, he added.

The lawyers reserve the right to challenge the fee committee’s decisions at the end of the case, but the ultimate call will be up to the bankruptcy judge, James Peck. He declined to comment.

Mr. Feinberg has so far challenged a very small percentage of the fees and expenses in the case. But he is intensifying his efforts. In March, the court increased his monthly budget to $250,000 from $75,000, giving Mr. Feinberg more accountants, examiners and others to pore over records and to zap overcharges. His firm and the fee committee have billed the Lehman estate $645,000 in fees for services through March.

Already, he’s called out Jones, Day, saying it charged $70,800 extra for photocopying and spent $2,856 too much on taxi rides last summer. According to court filings, a Jones, Day partner, William Hine, claimed more than $2,100 for late-night rides home in one month. Milbank, according to court filings, charged $148,426 just to compile its bills and time records — a move akin to a doctor charging a patient to prepare a bill after expensive, complex surgery.

“Lawyers don’t charge for invoice preparation except in bankruptcy,” Mr. Feinberg says. “I’ve prepared bills my entire professional life. You don’t charge a fee. Most people would argue that charging anything is inappropriate.”

Jones, Day and Milbank both declined to comment.

Like the restructuring executives, bankruptcy lawyers seem defiant and want to make sure precedents aren’t set that would make it easier to curb fees in the future.

“When people work late and they want to go home, we don’t like to send people in the subway at midnight or thereafter,” Mr. Miller says. “I don’t believe it’s appropriate to require people to fly coach for 15 hours and then go to a meeting.”

Nevertheless, Mr. Miller is going along with Mr. Feinberg’s guidelines.

“Those are the rules; we’re going to abide by the rules and pick up the difference,” Mr. Miller says.

FOR all his annoyance at Mr. Feinberg’s role in the Lehman case, Mr. Miller saves his real vitriol for Mr. Williamson, the fee examiner in the G.M. bankruptcy, which Weil also worked on. In the case’s first seven months, Weil accounted for $16.5 million of the $90 million in fees paid. Mr. Williamson objected to a small portion of the expenses. Weil, according to court documents, agreed to deduct $500 in expenses relating to the cancellation of a vacation, and said that any first-class travel charges were included “inadvertently” and reduced. It also agreed to pay for any meals in excess of $20.

Mr. Williamson also recommended that a 5 percent cut in Weil’s overall rates would be “appropriate,” especially given that several other large firms in the case already provided discounts.

“Williamson is way off base,” says Mr. Miller. “He perceives himself to be a sage, giving advice to the world, and that is not his role.”

Mr. Williamson wrote in an e-mail message: “Courts appoint independent examiners to help ensure transparency and accountability, most recently where tax dollars and significant economic issues are at stake. Not everyone, unfortunately, always appreciates either the role or the rules the examiner is bound to apply.”

Mr. Miller sees his own work as a battle between corporate life and death, with the money spent on photocopies and dry cleaning an insignificant detail.

“If you had cancer and you were going into an operation, while you were lying on the table, would you look at the surgeon and say, ‘I’d like a 10 percent discount,’ ” he explains. “This is not a public, charitable event.”
19 2010-05-02 ANN ARBOR, Mich. — President Obama on Saturday directly confronted the sharpening political rancor in Washington, on the airwaves and on the Internet, telling the graduating class at the University of Michigan that the country needs a “basic level of civility in our public discourse.”

As a panoply of protesters shouted outside, many of them carrying signs decrying Mr. Obama as a “socialist,” the president told some 8,500 graduates — and 80,000 family members, professors and others in the audience in Michigan Stadium — that passions were overheated and that people on all sides of the political debate needed to find ways to listen to one another.

“Throwing around phrases like ‘socialist’ and ‘Soviet-style takeover,’ ‘fascist’ and ‘right-wing nut’ may grab headlines, but it also has the effect of comparing our government, or our political opponents, to authoritarian and even murderous regimes,” Mr. Obama said. Such rhetoric, he said, closes the door to political compromise.

Clad in a black robe, the president, who received an honorary doctor of law degree, at times struck impassioned tones, giving a defense of government intervention at times of crisis.

“Governments make sure that oil spills are cleaned up by the companies that cause them,” he said in a reference to the BP oil spill threatening the Gulf of Mexico. The White House said Mr. Obama would travel to the region on Sunday with a “small footprint” to avoid getting in the way of cleanup efforts.

Mr. Obama brought up the oil spill again on Saturday night, when he addressed the star-studded black-tie White House Correspondents Dinner. Most of his remarks were full of the usual inside-the-Beltway political one-liners (“The Jonas Brothers are here. Sasha and Malia are huge fans. But don’t get any ideas. I have two words for you — predator drones.”)

In addition to the oil spill, Mr. Obama mentioned other serious issues, including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Even as we enjoy each other’s company tonight,” he said, those at the dinner should reflect on what residents of the gulf were going through as oil lapped the shores of Louisiana. While his speech at the dinner was mostly humorous, his remarks in at the University of Michigan sounded different chords.

The mostly friendly crowd at the stadium in Michigan was the largest that Mr. Obama has addressed since his inauguration. He urged the graduates to engage with people from different backgrounds and different experiences, and with opposing points of views.

“If you’re someone who only reads the editorial page of The New York Times, try glancing at the page of The Wall Street Journal once in awhile,” he said. “If you’re a fan of Glenn Beck or Rush Limbaugh, try reading a few columns on the Huffington Post Web site.” Mr. Obama has followed his own advice, a White House spokesman said afterward, and tunes in to his critics on the cable television channels, particularly when he has time during travel on Air Force One.

“It may make your blood boil,” the president said. “Your mind may not often be changed. But the practice of listening to opposing views is essential for effective citizenship.”

For Mr. Obama, whose presidency has, for more than a year, been the object of both adulation from supporters and vilification from critics, the speech harked back to his campaign days, where he sought to portray himself as a unifier.

It also showcased the president in his professorial role, as he offered a short discourse about the history of American political fighting, complete with references to how his predecessors got roughed up. “A newspaper of the opposing party once editorialized that if Thomas Jefferson were elected, ‘murder, robbery, rape, adultery and incest will be openly taught and practiced,’ ” Mr. Obama said, to laughs from the crowd. “Not subtle.”

He said he had decided to talk about civility in American politics after a kindergarten class wrote to him, with each student asking a question. That anecdote gave Mr. Obama the opportunity to drop a reference to Abraham Lincoln, since one student asked him if he wore a black jacket or if he had a beard. “So clearly they were getting me mixed up with the other tall guy from Illinois,” Mr. Obama joked.

“But it was the last question in the letter that gave me pause,” he said.
20 2010-05-02 BEREA, Ohio (AP) — Colt McCoy grew up on a farm in Texas building fences, hauling hay and feeding cows.

“It definitely taught me a lot of values at an early age,” he said.

Hopefully patience was one of them.

McCoy put on another orange jersey — a Cleveland Browns practice jersey — as part of the team’s first rookie minicamp last weekend. But the Browns’ president, Mike Holmgren, has already said he wanted McCoy, the 85th overall pick in the draft, to stay on the sideline next season learning behind Jake Delhomme and Seneca Wallace.

That is fine with McCoy, at least for now.

“Every quarterback is a competitor,” McCoy said. “I do see myself playing in the long term. I want to be out there. Ask anyone in this locker room what they want and they want to be suited up and playing. But right now my job is to come in and learn.”

McCoy, who will wear No. 12, called joining the Browns “the perfect fit” even if he had to wait until the third round to be selected. McCoy, criticized before the draft by the former N.F.L. coach Jon Gruden for his southern drawl, barked out signals Friday and did his best to lead the rest of the players. It is what Holmgren and Coach Eric Mangini ask of all the rookies.

“A lot of the guys we bring in typically have been captains at their universities,” Mangini said. “Sometimes when they come to a new place, they sit in the shadows until they find their way through and then it starts to come out. But we want them to lead in whatever capacity they feel comfortable doing it. Some guys that’s in the weight room, some guys it’s in the locker room and some guys it’s in the classroom. But we all have the capacity to help others become better.”
21 2010-05-02 Overnight on Friday, crews dumped 3,000 gallons of sub-surface dispersant at a rate of nine gallons per minute. According to a Coast Guard statement, officials were still evaluating its success.

The Obama administration has publicly chastised America for its handling of the spreading oil gusher, yet a review of the response suggests it may be too simplistic to place all the blame for the unfolding environmental catastrophe on the oil company. The federal government also had opportunities to move more quickly, but did not do so while it waited for a resolution to the spreading spill from BP.

The waited until Thursday to declare that the incident was “a spill of national significance,” and then set up a second command center in , The actions came only after the estimate of the size of the spill was increased fivefold to 5,000 barrels a day.

The delay meant that the Homeland Security Department waited until late this week to formally request a more robust response from the Department of Defense, with Homeland Security Secretary acknowledging even as late as Thursday afternoon that she did not know if the Defense Department even had equipment that might be helpful.

By Friday afternoon, she said, the Defense Department had agreed to send two large military transport planes to spray chemicals that can disperse the oil while it is still in the Gulf.

Officials initially seemed to underestimate the threat of a leak, just as BP did last year when it told the government such an event was highly unlikely. Rear Adm. Mary E. Landry, the chief Coast Guard official in charge of the response, said on April 22, after the rig sank, that the oil that was on the surface appeared to be merely residual oil from the fire, though she said it was unclear what was going on underwater. The day after, officials said that it appeared the well’s blowout preventer had kicked in and that there did not seem to be any oil leaking from the well, though they cautioned it was not a guarantee.

BP officials, even after the oil leak was confirmed by using remote-controlled robots, expressed confidence that the leak was slow enough, and steps taken out in the Gulf of Mexico aggressive enough, that the oil would never reach the coast.

On Friday, the company drew sharp new criticism from federal officials for not stopping the leak and cleaning up the spill before it reached land. They called the oil company’s current resources inadequate.

“It is clear that after several unsuccessful attempts to secure the source of the leak, it is time for BP to supplement their current mobilization as the slick of oil moves toward shore,” Ms. Napolitano said pointedly.

Geoffrey S. Morrell, deputy assistant secretary of defense, said in a statement that the government would hold BP accountable for the cost of the department’s deployment, which as of Friday night included the Louisiana National Guard to help clean up coastal areas once the oil comes ashore.

Meanwhile, one official at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in a widely distributed warning on Friday, said the oil flow could grow from the current estimate of 5,000 barrels a day to “an order of magnitude higher than that.” The NOAA document, first obtained by The Press-Register in Mobile, was described by an agency spokesman as simply a possibility raised by a staff member, not an official prediction.

Some oil industry critics questioned whether the federal government is too reliant on oil companies to manage the response to major spills, leaving the government unable to evaluate if the response is robust enough.

“Here you have the company that is responsible for the accident leading the response to the crisis,” said Tyson Slocum, director of ’s Energy Program. “There is a problem here, and the consequence is clear.”

But it is still the government, in this case the Coast Guard, that has the final say. A law passed a year after the 1989 disaster makes the owner of a rig or vessel responsible for cleaning up a spill. But oversight of the cleanup is designated to the Coast Guard, with advice from other federal agencies.

Rear Adm. Robert C. North, retired, who was commander of the Coast Guard’s Eighth District from 1994 to 1996, said that decisions in these situations are made collectively, but that the buck essentially stops with the federal coordinator — in this case, Admiral Landry. “The federal on-scene coordinator is kind of the one individual to say, ‘I think we need to do more’ or ‘That’s adequate,’ ” he said.

If the government determines that the responsible party is not up to the job, it can federalize the spill, running the cleanup operations without the private company but billing it for the cost. This is a last resort, however. In this case, Admiral North said, the oil companies have more technology and expertise than the government. “It doesn’t appear that federalizing it would bring in any more resources,” he said.

Officials from BP and the federal government have repeatedly said they had prepared for the worst, even though a plan filed last year with the government said it was highly unlikely that a spill or leak would ever result from the Deep Horizon rig.

“There are not much additional available resources in the world to fight this thing offshore,” said Doug Suttles, BP’s chief operating officer for exploration and production, in an interview. “We’ve basically thrown everything we have at it.”

Mr. Suttles said BP’s efforts did not change after it was disclosed Wednesday night that the leak was estimated at 5,000 barrels a day, five times larger than initial estimates had suggested. He said BP, which is spending roughly $6 million a day and will likely spend far more when oil reaches land, had already been mobilizing for a far larger spill. However, he did not deny that BP initially thought the slick could be stopped before it reached the coastline.

“In the early days, the belief was that we probably could have contained it offshore,” Mr. Suttles said. “Unfortunately, since the event began we haven’t had that much good weather.”

The first weekend after the sinking of the rig, choppy seas brought the cleanup to a near halt, and made more complicated tactics like controlled burns impossible. But even after the weather cleared — and just a few days before officials began acknowledging the likelihood of landfall — Tony Hayward, BP’s chief executive, expressed confidence the spill could be contained.

Adm. Thad W. Allen, the commandant of the Coast Guard, said Friday that he agreed the situation was catastrophic and could continue to unfold for up to three months, but he said he remained satisfied with his team’s response, saying that even if it had initially known that the leak was 5,000 barrels a day, the response would have been the same.

“While it may not have been visible to the public, from the very start, we have been working this very hard,” he said.

Within a matter of hours of the report of the explosion, the Coast Guard had dispatched three cutters, four helicopters and a plane to the scene, helping to save 90 workers, including three critically injured ones who were sent by helicopter for emergency care.

“We have never tried so many different methods for a large spill on the surface as we have during this, and I have been doing oil spill response for 30 years,” Admiral Allen said.
22 2010-05-02 At this point, Beane is supposed to blossom into an energized, enthusiastic human being. I am basing this opinion on Mr. Kolvenbach’s script and on reviews of previous productions. “Love Song” began life at the prestigious Steppenwolf Theater in Chicago in 2006 and had a run later that year on the West End in London, where it was nominated for an Olivier Award, Britain’s equivalent of the Tony.

But in the Hudson Stage production, directed by Dan Foster, Beane seems largely unchanged. His raving over the deliciousness of a turkey sandwich at a restaurant just registers as inappropriate behavior in public, not joie de vivre, and his speech about the connection between the “better mousetrap” adage and sexual intercourse seems misguided, if not deranged.

Harry and Joan, who consider themselves Beane’s keepers, see his supposed transformation differently, especially when they both begin to suspect that there’s something fishy about Molly. “This makes him crazy,” Harry concludes. Joan replies, “This makes him happy.”

Of course it’s hard to imagine that any character played by the young and handsome Mr. Domig would have trouble attracting women, at least initially, despite considerable personality problems. And it might be easier to see Molly’s complexity if Amy Clark, the costumer, had put her in Beane’s clothes, as the script indicates. She does wear pants, but they seem like an everyday choice.

Ms. Clark also puts Joan in what looks like a 1970s Diane von Furstenberg wrap dress in a 1960s Pucci print, and Andreea Mincic’s set design includes some “Mad Men”-era artwork. But there is no other indication that “Love Song” is set in decades past, so it’s probably safe to infer that this Joan and this Harry simply enjoy retro fashions and décor.

On the positive side, Joan and Harry’s discovery of the power of frivolity and fantasy, inspired by Beane, is well played and almost enviable. In another scene, Beane’s unexpected admonition to his girlfriend, as Joan knocks loudly on the apartment door — “Molly, she can’t hear you” — has just the horrifying impact it is supposed to have. And Beane’s yearning for emotional connection is truly poignant.

When he tells his sister, “I’ve always known that life was meant for other people,” we feel his pain. But we have to question whether his experience with Molly, which turns out to have been of an unusual nature, could actually change that.
23 2010-05-02 Melissa Anne Renzi and Robert Peter Gustafson were married Saturday evening. The Rev. Peter J. McGuinness of the Federation of Christian Ministries officiated at the Abington Art Center in Jenkintown, Pa.

The bride, 33, is the senior copywriter for the Sawtooth Group, an advertising agency in Woodbridge, N.J. She graduated from Bucknell University and has a master’s degree in education from California State University, Dominguez Hills.

She is a daughter of Genevieve M. Renzi and Howard R. Renzi of Wyncote, Pa.

The bridegroom, 33, is the iTunes producer for “American Idol.” He oversees the uploading of performances on the show; he works in Los Angeles. He is a founder of Space Shank Media, a production company that creates online and television entertainment like “Flipper Nation” and “My Roommate the Cylon.” He graduated from Boston University.

He is the son of Karen E. Gustafson and Paul G. Gustafson of Putney, Vt.
24 2010-05-02 Dr. Emily Milbank Doelger and David Teman Rosenblatt were married Saturday evening in Ridgeland, S.C. The Rev. Thomas Summers, a United Methodist minister, officiated at Turkey Hill Plantation, a home owned by the bride’s family.

The bride, 32, is a third-year resident in emergency medicine at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. She graduated from Georgetown and received a medical degree from Jefferson Medical School in Philadelphia.

She is the daughter of Victoria Milbank Whitney of Brookline, Mass., and Peter W. Doelger of Boston. Her father is a managing partner in Doran Capital Partners, a real estate investment company in Seoul, South Korea. Her mother is a real estate agent at Hammond Residential, an agency in Chestnut Hill, Mass. The bride is the stepdaughter of Yoon Doelger and of Thomas Handasyde Perkins Whitney Jr.

The bride’s maternal grandfather, the late Jeremiah Milbank Jr., was the chairman of the Republican National Finance Committee during the terms of Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford; she is also a great-great-great-granddaughter of Jeremiah Milbank, a financier who helped establish the Borden Company in the late 19th century.

The bridegroom, 30, is the search-engine marketing manager at FTD, the flower delivery network, in Chicago. He graduated from Tulane.

He is a son of Joyce Rosenblatt and Dr. Arthur Rosenblatt of the Villages, Fla. His father is an otolaryngologist and maxillofacial surgeon at Ocala Ear, Nose and Throat Specialists; the bridegroom’s mother retired as the manager of her husband’s practice.
25 2010-05-02 There’s a long tradition in Chicago jazz of pragmatic experimentation, bands that don’t exactly play in the common language but still aren’t breathing fire or going all out. They may be squawking or rustling or smuggling in whole-tone scales, like dream sequences in old movies, but their feet are on the ground.

They’re dealing with swing and counterpoint and recognizable structure. You glimpse this disposition in Chicago jazz from the 1940s through the ’60s, often in the work of pianists: Earl Hines and John Dennis, Andrew Hill and John Young, Ahmad Jamal and Muhal Richard Abrams. And Sun Ra too, in the ’50s, before he moved on to New York and Philadelphia. Anyway, there’s a history there, nonobvious and ever-fertile.

The Chicago band People, Places & Things, led by the drummer Mike Reed, has dedicated itself to Chicago post-bop, as repertory and inspiration. For its excellent third record, “Stories and Negotiations” (482 Music), the band brought in some elder statesmen — the trumpeter Art Hoyle, the trombonist Julian Priester and the tenor saxophonist Ira Sullivan — to expand a quintet into an octet for a live album.

The older Chicagoans are excellent, enlivening section passages, stretching out at length, and trading four-bar solos with their younger counterparts. But you can also hear the passion and precision in the core band. Some of the players are good enough to be serious contenders. I’m thinking of Greg Ward, whose long and searching alto saxophone solo in “Third Option” is one of the best things I’ve heard on record this year.

The accordionist and singer Anibal Velasquez has been important to Colombian music for almost 60 years, and he remains prominent in Barranquilla’s annual carnival. But his early work isn’t as widely known as it should be. “Mambo Loco” (Analog Africa), a reissue anthology, might change that. Most of the tracks here come from the 1960s and ’70s, when Mr. Velasquez had moved to Venezuela to escape the drug-related violence around the Colombian coast, but they could start a riot without pretext. (There is footage of Mr. Velasquez at analogafrica.blogspot.com from a coming documentary about Colombian coastal music.)

This is wild, blenderized Antillean and South American forms: bits of guaracha, guajira, cumbia, mambo and Dominican meringue. It has thundering piano ostinatos and hummingbird accordion solos, all done incredibly fast, the vocals sometimes reduced to whippoorwill noises and crazed laughter. In one track, “El Pecheche,” you hear crickets in the background and two bottles clanked together for percussion. It will rock a party.

The Puerto Rican band El Gran Combo has been together since 1962, and playing consistently well, with only one major period of restructuring, in the early 1970s. (The key is the musical director Rafael Ithier, who’s been constant through the entire trip.) It’s still in good shape. On “Sin Salsa No Hay Paraíso” (Sony Music), a new album, the three lead singers — Jerry Rivas, Charlie Aponte, Papo Rosario — make their voices ring, slicing up the tracks with swing phrasing and varying degrees of older-guy rasp. The trombonist Moises Nogueras trickles his lines from out of the brass section, then plays pure, clean high tones like a French horn. And staring down a good song from a much earlier point in its career — “Achilipu,” from 1971 — the band booms, with precision.

Tim Presley is a member of the bands Darker My Love and the Strange Boys, which do variations of dirtied-up psychedelic pop. White Fence is his third band and much more idiosyncratic. It’s just Mr. Presley making songs as complicated as he wants, with his multitracked asthmatic voice and his gift for weird, wayward song hooks. On “White Fence,” just released on CD by Woodsist, drum rhythms stumble and recohere; chord changes are half-forgotten or blown altogether. Audio quality changes from track to track or even in the middle of a song, and so does the music’s speed. The album sounds as if it were mastered on a cassette machine with failing batteries. This whole enterprise is way, way moth eaten: the Syd Barrett/1960s Los Angeles garage-punk influences, the dirty-on-purpose sound quality, the overmodulated guitar leads.
26 2010-05-02 “The amount of traffic we get lately is far lower than in the past when the market was higher,” Ms. Tomko said, echoing a sentiment expressed by brokers of expensive homes across the North Shore. “You tend to focus for the buyers that you have currently.”

Valerie Van Cleef, a broker and branch manager of Coach Real Estate Associates in East Norwich, recalled the days when a broker open house would attract 125 agents. “Today if you are getting 15, 20 brokers,” she said, “you feel like you are doing a good job. With all of the increased inventory, some brokers have just thrown up their hands.”

In the high-priced village of Oyster Bay Cove, Ms. Van Cleef said, there are 50 homes available and 8 under contract; in Muttontown, 55 are on the market and 6 under contract. Lattingtown has 24 for sale and 5 under contract — though 4 of them were priced under $1.595 million.

“The air gets real thin when you get higher up,” Ms. Van Cleef said, adding that with the sizable down payments required for a mortgage, “the buyers are much fewer and farther in between than they used to be.”

She encourages her agents to send “personal invitations to the top agents in our market area” and hold a broker open house at least every 30 days, during the week. (Public open houses are typically held on weekends.)

“We try to think out of the box and be creative to get the brokers to come,” she said, adding that enticements include lunches by the pool, brunches and raffles.

Barbara Candee is a vice president and director of the upper tier marketing program for Daniel Gale Sotheby’s International Realty, which concentrates on the North Shore from Port Washington to the North Fork. To lure other brokers, Ms. Candee arranges piano concerts and formal teas.

Recently in Mill Neck, she clustered tours of nearby homes. “You aren’t going to get in your car and go to Lloyd Harbor or Port Washington to go to one house, unless it suits a particular client of yours,” she said. “If you have four houses, you are more likely to do it.”

On a recent Thursday, Lois Kirschenbaum, an associate broker and an associate director of Daniel Gale Sotheby’s, held a sushi lunch at a new $3.18 million listing for a five-bedroom contemporary, built in 1987, with a pool and tennis court, on three acres in Muttontown zoned to allow horses.

Ms. Kirschenbaum, who has about 15 listings, says that as she usually eats lunch in her car “running from house to house,” she selected sushi as “something to entice” brokers to stop by. “It’s an amenity,” she said.

Twenty-two brokers showed up, all but five from her agency, though she had been hoping for 25 to 30. “They don’t want to spend their gas” if they don’t have a customer, she said.

When a passer-by noticed the balloons announcing the open house, he came to the door to check it out. Ms. Kirschenbaum refused to let him in.

“When I get more information on him,” she said, “I’ll bring him to see the house.”

During the same two-hour midday time slot, Diane L. Anderson, another Daniel Gale broker, welcomed 18 brokers to a 7,400-square-foot $4.1 million brick center-hall colonial on 2.3 acres in Laurel Hollow, noting that because of the home’s surround-sound system, all the flat-screen televisions were included in the price. Hers was one of four broker open houses held by staff members of her Cold Spring Harbor office that day.

Subhra Saha, the homeowner, had encouraged discretion. “I do have many personal possessions that I want to protect,” she said.

But Ms. Anderson was more concerned about the scarce attendance. She said brokers who didn’t bother showing up were missing opportunities. “You have to see your inventory,” and “know what the competition is,” to tell homeowners how their residences stack up.

“I spend my day going to open houses,” she said. “It helps me to price houses.”

As for public open houses, owners of expensive homes are often uncomfortable with them, but Ms. Van Cleef says she encourages at least one, if only by appointment — because buyers like them. “They like the anonymity of being able to come in and out and not be obligated to one agent until they are ready to buy,” she said.

But she does screen to make sure the caller is “a ready, willing and able buyer and not just somebody who wants to see a celebrity’s house or a special mansion.”

At the McGunnigles’ March 10 open house, a dozen brokers showed up for wrap-style sandwiches and a house tour, despite mounds of snow in the driveway. At another one two weeks later, only one broker came.

After they dropped their asking price to $2.395 million, an open house last week attracted six brokers.

Ms. Hyman said many brokers were “too busy playing mah-jongg, playing golf” to check out available inventory.

But those who did attend have since brought 10 clients to the house — albeit without an offer.
27 2010-05-02 Mr. Shivnarain was goaded into reliving those trying times one recent afternoon. He was wearing a blue T-shirt and jeans, and hosing down the Impala behind his house in this quiet Long Island suburb — an unlikely place to find a lowrider, much less a garage like Mr. Shivnarain’s.

The garage is tall and white with an overhang on one side that shelters a vehicle lift. One of the two big barn doors was open wide. Spray nozzles for his airbrush gear and canisters of paint lined the door’s shelves.

Mr. Shivnarain was a teenager, living in nearby Hempstead, when he began airbrush painting on jeans and T-shirts. One day, a close friend hired him to do airbrush work on his 5-liter Mustang.

“I was a little afraid of it,” Mr. Shivnarain remembered. “And he’s like, ‘What’s the worst that can happen? If it doesn’t come out good, we’ll sand it off and I’ll get it repainted. But if it works out good, I’ll give you 200 bucks.’”

Just like that, a career was born.

Lowrider Impalas were the music video car of choice for rappers tall (Snoop Dogg) and small (Skee-Lo). Before he bought the silver ’64 Impala SS convertible he was washing, Mr. Shivnarain owned a standard 1964 convertible, which he sold to a man in Australia.

“He owned a limousine business,” Mr. Shivnarain said. “And he said they loved the lowriders out there. They were booking it left and right for weddings and all kinds of things.”

Mr. Shivnarain remembered the car fondly. “It was all built up,” he said. “It had hydraulics, candy green paint — a nice looking car. But it wasn’t an SS, you know?” The SS — the abbreviation for Super Sport — was the top level of trim for Impalas.

His current car is relatively tame by lowrider standards. It has hydraulics; the instruments have been replaced by a row of electronic readouts. But it lacks the dazzling finish of his previous car. There is some rust along the edges. Mr. Shivnarain plans to give the Impala the full lowrider treatment. But, he said, he has too many customer cars awaiting paint to work on his own.

Mr. Shivnarain has also cut back the amount of time he spends doing airbrush graphics, a change necessitated by the pain lingering from an assault about six years ago.

Leaving a restaurant in Hempstead with his brother and some friends, he said, two men approached; one pointed a gun at Mr. Shivnarain’s head. He managed to bat down the assailant’s arm, but the gun went off and Mr. Shivnarain was hit in the side. His brother and a friend were also shot.

The three men recovered from their wounds, but Mr. Shivnarain said there was still a bullet lodged close to his spine, and it becomes painful if he’s on his feet for too long. Now he does more of his design work at the computer — his company is called Artist Technicians — and spends less time doing custom paint for customers.

His 2-year-old son, Jayden, ran around the backyard, stopping every once in a while to dip a blade of grass into the soapy water. Mr. Shivnarain spoke about California, the epicenter of the lowrider culture, which can be traced to the 1940s.

“When I’m out there, it’s like a history lesson,” he said. “I’ll be with guys all the way down in San Diego and up to Montclair. They all have different stories of what a lowrider is to them. I’ll reach out to the older lowriders, and they have some of the best stories from the ’70s and ’60s.”

“When we started out in 1992, there were no lowrider shops anywhere in the five boroughs,” Mr. Shivnarain said. Hence, the catastrophes.

In 1994, when Mr. Shivnarain and his friend Kenneth Joseph, known as Bean, started the Drastic Auto Club for lowriders, they contacted Mario De Alba Jr., who opened Mario’s Auto Works in Montclair, Calif., with his father Mario Sr., in 1986. “They were superstars,” Mr. Shivnarain said, before correcting himself. “They are superstars.”

Three other De Alba brothers (Albert, Greg and Adrian) also work at the shop, as does Albert’s son, Albert Jr.

“And that’s what’s so cool about California, they learn right from their father, they learn right from their grandfather,” Mr. Shivnarain said. “They’re learning the right way.”

Eventually, Mr. Shivnarain and the other members of his car club acquired the skills needed to build a proper lowrider, including audio-video installation, body repair and hydraulic systems.

Mr. Shivnarain, who has a degree in graphic design from the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, has built a steady clientele for his airbrush business.

“It wasn’t a plan,” he said. “That’s just how it worked out.”

Mr. Shivnarain brought out a vintage Taylor Tot stroller that he said was from the 1940s. It was painted blue and sparkled with chrome. He planned to teach Jayden about lowriders so his son won’t have to learn the hard way — “if he shows interest,” Mr. Shivnarain said.

“The amount of stuff, it took me so long to learn certain things,” he said. “It could’ve saved me so much time and money.”
28 2010-05-02 2. Add the pico de gallo ingredients to the sauce. Delicately fold in the avocado, chilies, shrimp and crabmeat. Spoon into ice-cream-sundae or martini glasses and serve with warm homemade tortilla chips. Garnish each dish with a fresh bay leaf and finely chopped fresh jalapeños on the side. Serves 8 as an appetizer. Adapted from Levi Goode at Goode Company Seafood in Houston.
29 2010-05-02 ANN ARBOR, Mich. -- President Obama on Saturday directly confronted the sharpening political rancor in Washington, on the airwaves and on the Internet, telling the graduating class at the University of Michigan that the country needs a ''basic lev...
30 2010-05-02 STOCK--Albert, on April 26, 2010. Dear son of the late Richard and Rose, loving brother of Leslie, proud uncle of Roger and Elyse, and their children. Contributions may be made in his memory to the UJA-Federation. Services were held....
31 2010-05-02 THIS 1959 gem of a painting may be small  -- only 10 inches by 8 inches -- but it incorporates many of Mr. Johns's signature techniques. Here he takes a single stenciled zero as his subject and creates a playful, densely colored canvas that also u...
32 2010-05-03 Advocates for students at New York City's two public schools for the hearing impaired fear the effects of moving 250 other city students into the schools' building....
33 2010-05-03 Next Restaurant, to open in Chicago this fall, will change its menu four times a year, reflecting the cuisine of a particular time and place. It will also sell tickets, not offer reservations....
34 2010-05-03 Six months after being shut down by the city, the Jane Ballroom is expected to finally reopen Monday night....
35 2010-05-03 Apple announced Monday that it has sold one million iPads since the device went on sale last month....
36 2010-05-03 Boeing adjusts its responsiveness after a flap over 8-year-old Harry Winsor's letter to the airplane company....
37 2010-05-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
38 2010-05-03 Stephen Paul Mancini, formerly the sommelier at Maialino, explains why Westchester County is a more comfortable place to run a restaurant than New York City....
39 2010-05-03 A service just introduced in San Francisco allows people to share their personal cars....
40 2010-05-03 Becky Chidester, president of the New York office of Wunderman, was named to a new post, president of Wunderman World Health. David Shulman, who had been chief digital officer at a Wunderman sibling, Enfatico, will succeed Ms. Chidester as New York president. Wunderman is part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP.

Michael Dezso joined the Atlanta office of JWT, a unit of WPP, in a new post, director for strategic planning. He had been vice president and senior account planner at BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group.

DiMassimo Goldstein, New York, is offering employees the opportunity to receive trader education in areas like options and futures and will each have $1,000 deposited into online trading accounts. The goal is to have employees think like traders, said Mark DiMassimo, founder and creative director.

Marc Ducnuigeen, president at the Denver office of the Integer Group, was named to a new post, president for international. Integer is part of the TBWA Marketing Services unit of TBWA Worldwide, a division of the Omnicom Group.

Edison Best New Product Awards bestowed its 2010 honors for innovation in 15 categories. There were gold, silver and bronze awards presented in each category. Among the winners of gold awards were the Always Infinity feminine hygiene brand from Procter & Gamble, in the category of personal-care consumer packaged goods; Betty Crocker gluten-free dessert mixes from General Mills, in the category of food consumer packaged goods; the Kindle II digital reader from Amazon, in the category of media and visual communications; and the General Electric hybrid water heater, in the category of lifestyle and social impact. Edison Achievement Awards were presented to A. G. Lafley, who recently retired from Procter & Gamble, where he served in posts that included chief executive, and Susan Hockfield, president of the Massachusetts Intitute of Technology.

Nick Johnson and Peter Nicholson joined Redscout, New York and San Francisco, part of MDC Partners, in new posts. Mr. Johnson becomes president; he had most recently been associate partner and managing director at Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco. Mr. Nicholson becomes chief creative officer; he had most recently been partner and chief creative officer at Deutsch, New York, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Eric Kish joined MRM Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, executive vice president of strategy for the East region, composed of offices in Detroit, New York and Princeton, N.J. He had most recently been group vice president for strategy at the Tel Aviv, Israel, office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, also part of the McCann Worldgroup.

Catherine Kolodij, vice president and audience intelligence director at Allen & Gerritsen, Watertown, Mass., was named senior vice president for strategy. She succeeds Graham Nelson, who left to join Beam Interactive, Boston, as executive director.

Liquid Thread was formed by the Starcom MediaVest Group, part of the Publicis Groupe, by the combining of three units that specialize in content creation and branded entertainment: Connectivetissue, Pixel and Starcom Entertainment.

Chris Matys and Mark Wright joined Adenyo, Toronto, in new post. Mr. Matys becomes chief analytics officer; he had been global business services executive at the Nielsen Company. Mr. Wright becomes marketing director; he had been director for global marketing operations at Research In Motion.

Bob Michaels joined Clear Channel Radio, San Antonio, part of Clear Channel Communications, in a new post, executive vice president for research. He had most recently been running his own consulting company, Bob Michaels MediaSense, and will continue to work with current clients in addition to working at Clear Channel Radio.

Michael Nathanson will join Nomura Securities International, New York, in a new post, effective in July. He will become a managing director and head of the United States media and telecommunications equity research team. Mr. Nathanson had been an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, New York, covering industries like advertising, entertainment and publishing.

Mark Oltarsh joined Thrillist, New York, in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had most recently been vice president and group publisher at Life & Style and In Touch Weekly magazines at Bauer Publishing, New York, part of the Bauer Media Group of Germany.

Andi Poch joined Alloy Digital, New York, part of Alloy Media and Marketing, in a new post, senior vice president for sales. She had been senior vice president for advertising sales at Buzz Media.

R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, opened an office in São Paulo, Brazil, to be led by Paulo Melchiori, executive creative director, and Paola Colombo, group director for production.

Todd Riddle, a group creative director at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, is leaving, the agency said, to work on personal projects that include a screenplay and an album.

SapientNitro, part of Sapient, opened an office in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

Marita Scarfi, executive vice president and chief operating officer at Organic, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, was promoted to chief executive, a post that had been vacant since May 2008.

Stuart Smith, head of planning at the London office of Wieden & Kennedy, will return to the New York office to become head of planning. He succeeds Neil Arthur, who was recently promoted to managing director of the New York office.

Bill Stewart, who had most recently been chief marketing officer at Kmart, part of Sears Holdings, will become the first participant in a program at NBC Universal, New York, part of General Electric, that is being called chief marketing officer in residence. The program will seek to bring in executives four times a year to work with the integrated sales marketing department at NBC Universal.
41 2010-05-03 If you're going to pay the minimum on your mortgage and invest any spare cash, be aware of the risk you're taking on....
42 2010-05-03 The original film, about a precocious young performer and her eccentric family's do-or-die efforts to get her into a beauty pageant, went on to earn more than $100 million at the box office worldwide....
43 2010-05-03 On security solutions for solar panels, an immediate benefit of the health care law and other consumer-focused items from Monday's Times....
44 2010-05-03 The Senate investigation into Goldman Sachs offered up concrete evidence last week of how defaults on subprime mortgage loans became so costly they brought the financial system to its knees, The Wall Street Journal reported....
45 2010-05-03 Democrats and Republicans have proposed changes to the regulatory overhaul that is set for floor debate this week....
46 2010-05-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
47 2010-05-03 On a recent Monday morning, a small-business owner arrived at work and found he had payments totaling $22,666.31 that had to go out the door. His bank balance: $355. Here's how he gets through the week....
48 2010-05-03 Appearing for the first time in public since Bear Stearns was bought by JPMorgan Chase in 2008, former chairman Jimmy Cayne will answer questions on his role in the downfall of the investment bank....
49 2010-05-03 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. chairman, Sheila Bair, has told lawmakers she believes a Senate plan that would force banks to spin off their derivatives businesses could destabilize the banks and push risk into other parts of the financial sector...
50 2010-05-03 In a terse statement on its Web site, China's central bank raised mandatory reserve ratios Sunday by 50 basis points, up from its the 16.5 percent large banks had to hold until now, forcing lenders to keep more assets on hand as of May 10....
51 2010-05-03 The lawyers, accountants and restructuring experts overseeing the remains of Lehman Brothers have already racked up more than $730 million in fees and expenses, with no end in sight. Anyone wondering why total fees doled out in the Lehman bankrupt...
52 2010-05-03 As Democrats close in on their goal of overhauling the nation's financial regulations, several prominent experts say that the legislation does not even address the right problems, leaving the financial system vulnerable to another major crisis....
53 2010-05-03 Greece announced on Sunday that it had reached agreement on a long-delayed financial rescue package that would require years of painful belt-tightening, but the deal might not be enough to stop the spread of economic contagion to other European co...
54 2010-05-03 Alejandro Valverde of Spain claimed overall victory in the Tour de Romandie in Switzerland after winning the fifth and final stage. Valverde led by one second over Michael Rogers of Australia going into the final stage of 121.8 kilometers (75.7 miles) around Sion but dominated a four-man sprint to the finish.

Valverde is barred from racing in Italy because of a link to a 2006 doping scandal. The International Cycling Union has been pushing to have that ban extended worldwide.
55 2010-05-03 Stand-alone swap desks would inevitably make derivatives more expensive, and thereby discourage excessive speculation. The setup also would give banks cover, whether they think they need it or not, from accusations that taxpayers are backstopping risky trading. If banks find excising swaps desks alone too difficult for clients who want a suite of trading services, they could always return to a full separation of traditional and investment banking functions.

A major problem with the proposal is that it would send much derivatives business to banks based outside the United States. That is, if other jurisdictions do not follow suit. American banks might be safer, but at the expense of their competitiveness.

Without overseas cooperation, the problem of global systemic risk wouldn’t be fully addressed either. For banks to successfully be separated from their derivatives, both American lawmakers and their international counterparts would need to work together.

The Pritzker family appears to be cashing out in unusually amicable fashion. The sale of a majority stake in the credit reporting firm TransUnion is the latest step by the Chicago clan to unwind its $15 billion empire. Earlier squabbles over the spoils looked ominous for the plan. But it seems to have gone relatively well compared with the trouble many rich families face.

American dynasties tend to resemble, well, “Dynasty.”Selling off the family silver often turns nasty, or at best clumsy.

The Koch brothers fought a bitter battle for ownership of the family oil services business. The Dorrances, of Campbell Soup, watched their franchise deteriorate, and then wrangled over whether to exit. In 2007, the Bancrofts tripped all over themselves when it came to selling Dow Jones to Rupert Murdoch.

The Pritzkers have had their soap opera moments, too. In 2002, Liesel and Matthew Pritzker accused relatives of looting their trust funds. The lawsuits resulted in $450 million settlements for the pair, no small hiccup in the proceedings. But since that resolution, the rest of the family has moved along smoothly to execute its agreement to divide the fortune by 2011.

The results have been fruitful. Conwood, a smokeless tobacco company, went to Reynolds American for a robust $3.5 billion in 2006. Then, Warren E. Buffett’s company paid $4.5 billion for 60 percent of Marmon Holdings, giving the Pritzkers nine times operating income for their industrial conglomerate. Most recently, the Pritzkers floated a quarter of Hyatt Hotels for $950 million, a price that translated to 13 times earnings even though the family would retain control.

The TransUnion deal appears to follow this solid trend. The sale of 51 percent to the private equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners looks likely to value the company at north of $2 billion. That’s in line with its rivals, Experian and Equifax.

Younger generations often struggle with their corporate inheritances. But heirs elsewhere would do well to stop watching the growing number of their wealthy peers turning up on reality TV and pay closer attention to how the Pritzkers have moved past the drama. AGNES CRANE and ROLFE WINKLER
56 2010-05-03 Even as it is being examined for all its flaws by Comcast, its prospective new owner, NBC has multiple holes in its schedule and few continuing hits. It has also just come through a ferocious public-relations battering.

The insertion of the late-night star Jay Leno at 10 p.m. five nights a week last year proved to be an instant flop, which led to the upheaval that pushed its other late-night star, Conan O’Brien, from the network.

So the fix-it list is long, but Mr. Gaspin has made a start. The patchwork schedule he put together at 10 p.m. this winter has managed to exceed expectations, providing some breathing room. NBC has been up over 40 percent in the 18- to 49-year-old audience, which is highly sought by many advertisers, with shows like “Law and Order: Special Victims Unit” and “Parenthood” in Mr. Leno’s old time slot.

That rebound has been critical after what Mr. Gaspin conceded were years of turmoil at NBC. “We want to be a calming force in the company. We can’t look like we’re flailing.” He added, “We have to look like we know what we’re doing, and we have things under control — which I think we do.”

One big step was opening itself to the best program ideas available, no matter where they came from. In recent years, the networks have relied more heavily than ever on buying from their own studios, hoping to cash in on selling shows internationally and in syndication.

NBC is in no position to be picky. “Our goal right now is to find those shows that are the tent poles of your schedule,” Mr. Gaspin said. “I don’t care where they come from. I don’t care whether we own them or not.”

This has played nicely into the hands of the Warner Brothers studio, which has delivered some of the most talked about potential new shows to NBC, including dramas developed by prominent creators like J. J. Abrams (“Lost”) and Jerry Bruckheimer (“CSI”). Bruce Rosenblum, the president of Warner Brothers Television Group, said the studio had “a lot tied up” in an NBC comeback.

Mr. Abrams’s new show, “Under Covers,” was expensive to acquire, and the pilot may have cost as much as $10 million to produce (with Mr. Abrams directing). But it has a commodity that has been in short supply at NBC: buzz.

Mr. Bruckheimer’s drama, “The Chase,” is another of his intense police procedurals. If either show becomes a lasting hit, Warner Brothers will reap the main financial benefit. Mr. Gaspin said building NBC’s own Universal studio can only be a “long-term” goal right now. “That’s a great asset if we can get there; I’ve got to get there first.”

Can he do it? The pressure is certainly on, though Mr. Gaspin said that comparing the shows’ results with the results of the fall, when Mr. Leno’s show was struggling, might help a bit.

“Absolutely there are a lot of chips on the table for NBC,” said Brad Adgate, the senior vice president for research at Horizon Media.

So it won’t be easy. Steve Sternberg, the longtime research analyst for advertising agencies who now writes his own Sternberg Report, said in an e-mail message: “Only NBC’s Thursday comedies, ‘Parenthood,’ ‘Law and Order,’ and ‘S.V.U.’ are virtually guaranteed to return next season. The network needs to come up with new scripted series.”

But he added, “The network races are still so close, one or two new successes — certainly not out of the realm of possibility — could help turn things around.”

Some other prospective shows that are building talk for NBC include a new law-based hour from the prolific legal-show creator David E. Kelley (“Ally McBeal”) called “Kindreds”; a remake of the classic series “The Rockford Files,” from David Shore, the creator of “House”; and a quirky romantic comedy hour, “Love Bites,” from Cindy Chupack, a writer on “Sex and the City.”

Mr. Gaspin, who said he would also like to find several new comedies to give himself a chance to open a second night (beyond Thursdays) for the genre, professed to be “cautiously optimistic” about NBC’s development slate.

The key, he said, is to begin to rebuild NBC’s brand, which he set at a high bar. “We’re a network of quality, sophisticated content.”

As for that late-night mess — which featured Mr. Gaspin as the architect of the short-lived plan to move Mr. Leno to 11:35 p.m. in a half-hour show, sliding Mr. O’Brien back to 12:05 a.m. — it is no longer on Mr. Gaspin’s radar.

He said he was not worried about recent erosion in Mr. Leno’s ratings back at “The Tonight Show.” “I look at him compared to Letterman,” he said, referencing the CBS late-night star David Letterman. “He’s still got the same margin of victory.”

Over all, Mr. Gaspin said, “late night’s not my problem anymore.” Why? Because, he said, “he’s going to cable.”

“He” means Mr. O’Brien, who signed to bring his show to the cable channel TBS in November, after a long dalliance with the Fox network.

“I don’t have to worry about Conan anymore,” Mr. Gaspin said. “Whereas if he was on Fox we’d all be, you know, what’s it going to do?” Mr. Gaspin said: “That’s all over. The Conan story is gone for me.”
57 2010-05-03 The bill, which was introduced by Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, would extend oversight to a wider range of financial institutions and activities. It would create a new agency to protect borrowers from abuse by lenders, including mortgage and credit card companies. And it seeks to ensure that troubled companies, however large, can be liquidated at no cost to taxpayers.

A diverse group of critics, however, say the legislation focuses on the precipitators of the recent crisis, like abusive mortgage lending, rather than the mechanisms by which the crisis spread.

Gary B. Gorton, a finance professor at Yale, said the financial system would remain vulnerable to panics because the legislation would not improve the reliability of the markets where lenders get money, by issuing short-term debt called commercial paper or loans called repurchase agreements or “repos.”

The recent crisis began as investors nervous about mounting subprime mortgage losses started demanding higher returns, then withholding money altogether. The government is now moving to prevent abusive mortgage lending, but Mr. Gorton said investors could just as easily be spooked by something else.

The flight of investors is the modern version of a bank run, in which depositors line up to withdraw their money. The banking industry was plagued by runs until the government introduced deposit insurance during the Great Depression. Professor Gorton said the industry had now entered a new era of instability.

“It is unfortunate if we end up repeating history,” Professor Gorton said. “It’s basically tragic that we can’t understand the importance of this issue.”

Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner agreed in April testimony before the House Financial Services Committee that “more work remains to be done in this area,” but he said that regulators could address the issue without legislation. The government plans to require lenders to hold larger reserves against unexpected losses and to require that they keep money on hand to meet short-term needs.

David A. Skeel Jr., a corporate law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, said it would be a mistake for Congress to leave the drafting of these standards to the discretion of regulators.

“Regulators working right now will be tough,” Professor Skeel said. “But we know from history that as soon as this legislative moment passes, the ball is going to shift back into Wall Street’s court. As soon as the crisis passes, what inevitably happens is that the people that are paying the most attention are the banks.”

A second group of critics say the government helped to seed the crisis through its efforts to increase home ownership, including the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in buying mortgage loans to make more money available for lending. The companies are now owned by the government after incurring enormous losses on loans that borrowers could not afford to repay.

Lawrence J. White, a finance professor at New York University, said it made no sense to overhaul financial regulation without addressing the future of federal housing policy. He said he was trying to find the strongest possible words to describe the omission of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from the legislation.

Republicans have repeatedly criticized the administration for advancing legislation that does not address the companies’ future. The Obama administration says drafting a new housing policy is on its agenda for next year.

Other critics warn that the proposed legislation would insert the government deeply into the financial markets, creating new distortions and seeding future crises. They say the focus of financial reform should instead be on increased transparency.

Andrew Redleaf and Richard Vigilante, hedge fund managers who started warning investors in 2006 that a housing crisis was inevitable, proposed a minimalist version of reform in their recent book “Panic.” They want to require all financial institutions, including investment banks and hedge funds like their own, to disclose, at least once a week, every position in tradable securities.

“The Dodd bill is almost entirely irrelevant,” Mr. Vigilante said in a telephone interview. “All it does is strengthen what we’ve had for years,” a system that depends on judgments made by regulators behind closed doors.

Proponents of the legislation say that it significantly expands transparency, for example by requiring many derivatives contracts to trade in public view. But they say that the government also needs to expand the scope of its oversight because the worst excesses that led to the crisis began and flourished at nonbank financial institutions that were not subject to federal regulation.

The most basic critique comes from Professor Lo and others who say that Congress is moving too quickly. The origins of the crisis remain a subject of intense controversy. Investigations continue to unearth surprising information. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, a bipartisan panel created by Congress, is not scheduled to report until December. Why not wait, they ask, until the targets are clearer?

Phil Angelides, the chairman of the inquiry commission and a Democrat, says that the problems raised by the crisis will not be solved in one stroke and that he supports the Democratic push to begin the process soon.

But the critics point to the words of Nicholas F. Brady, a former Treasury secretary who led the bipartisan investigation into the 1987 stock market crash: “You can’t fix what you can’t explain.”
58 2010-05-03 “I want to tell Greeks very honestly,” he said, “that we have a big trial ahead of us.”

“I have done and will do everything not to let the country go bankrupt,” Mr. Papandreou said in a televised address that urged Greeks to accept “great sacrifices” to avoid “catastrophe.”

While the bailout provides a lifeline to the Greek government, similar challenges await other deficit-racked countries like Portugal, Spain and perhaps even Italy. Moreover, nations like Latvia, Hungary and Romania — which are outside the 16-member group that uses the euro as its common currency — are all struggling in their own efforts to meet economic and fiscal goals set in conjunction with the I.M.F.

A big test of the rescue plan’s effectiveness will come this week when global markets render a verdict. Until now, efforts to assist Greece have been seen as too little, too late — prompting the upward spiral in interest rates that finally forced Europe and the I.M.F. to act decisively.

The fact that the rescue plan has been expected for the better part of a week, and does not address challenges in Portugal and Spain, may well be seen by investors as a sign that the broader issue of Europe’s debt problem remains unresolved.

Poul Thomsen, I.M.F. mission chief for Greece, said the austerity measures should help reassure markets. “I think this is a defining moment for Greece; I think it will restore confidence,” he said. “I think you will see a sustained, significant decline of spreads.” He added that the package for Greece was in no way a blueprint for other countries.

For Europe, the agreement was an important step toward preserving the credibility of its single currency. It followed weeks of negotiations that created some of the deepest fissures in the move toward European integration that began more than half a century ago. European leaders have bristled at criticism that their halting response to the crisis made things worse and insisted on stringent conditions for the required bailout.

“I think that result is fully in line with what we very much wanted,” Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, told a news conference in Brussels on Sunday.

He added, though, that “democracies have their own particular timetables,” an apparent allusion to the national interests that critics say prevented a quick and coordinated response.

The strongest national interests are in Germany, where there is stiff public resistance to a bailout of Greece. The German parliament must still approve the aid package before the loans can start. Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Sunday that she would present draft legislation to her cabinet on Monday and hoped to have the approval of the German contribution through the parliament by Friday.

“I’m going to get behind such a path by all means,” she told reporters in Bonn. She said the program was essential to safeguard the stability of the euro.

For Greece, the rescue package, which is expected to be approved by the Socialist-controlled legislature later this week, will require years of sacrifice.

The finance minister, George Papaconstantinou, said Greece had agreed to raise its value-added tax to 23 percent from 21 percent, to freeze civil servants’ wages and to eliminate public sector annual bonuses amounting to two months’ pay. In addition, members of parliament would no longer receive bonuses.

He said special rules allowing for early retirement of civil servants would be tightened and the government intended to increase taxes on fuel, tobacco and alcohol by about 10 percent.

But Mr. Papandreou said that in tough negotiations with the I.M.F., the European Union and the European Central Bank, the government had succeeded in avoiding cuts to private sector salaries.

Crucially, Mr. Papaconstantinou did not address the critical issue of whether the government would relax rules on laying off public sector workers, whose generous salaries and benefits have been a central cause of Greece’s debt problem.

Indicating that the measures would inevitably undermine economic growth, Mr. Papaconstantinou forecast a deeper than expected recession of 4 percent for 2010, with a further fall of 2.6 percent in 2011, before the economy returned to growth of 1.1 percent in 2012.

And he conceded that the program, even if successful, would take longer than originally hoped to restore Greece’s fiscal balance.

“We will be in recession for the next few years, which means that we have to run faster to reduce the deficit,” he said.

Vassilis Papadimitriou, a spokesman for the Greek prime minister’s office, said President Obama had spoken by phone with Mr. Papandreou and had offered his support for the measures taken by the Greek government, calling them “brave.”

The bailout begins with 45 billion euros this year, followed by more aid in the next two years.

In return, Greece has promised to make budget cuts of 30 billion euros, or $40 billion, over the next three years. Mr. Papaconstantinou said the financing from the rescue plan covered a large part of Greek borrowing needs for the next three years.

European Union and I.M.F. officials said the bailout plan also included a support fund for domestic banks, which may face an increase in bad loans as the recession deepens.

Mr. Thomsen of the I.M.F. dismissed any suggestions that Greece needed to restructure its debt and require lenders to take a big hit as well. “It has never been discussed, no plans, nothing,” he said.

But some economists argued that debt restructuring should not be ruled out as an option for the future. It would reduce the overall debt burden on Greece’s economy, but would also create the heavy risk of pushing spooked investors to deny Greece access to credit markets.

For all the effort that has been put into creating the rescue package, doubts remained whether Greece would be able to follow through on what amounts to a cultural revolution in the social contract between state and citizen.

In a sign of the challenges ahead, Greece’s largest public sector workers union, ADEDY, said on Sunday night that the harshness of the cuts had prompted it to extend a 24-hour strike previously scheduled for Wednesday to two days beginning on Tuesday.

Mr. Papandreou has thus far largely escaped blame for a crisis that has been pinned on the profligacy of his predecessors from the center right.

But Yannos Papantoniou, a former finance minister from the ruling Socialist party, said that while Greeks understood the need for sacrifice after years of excessive borrowing, their patience was limited and they would expect to see positive results soon.

Yiannis Stournaras, a leading economist and former economic adviser to the ruling Socialist party, argued that the close monitoring by the I.M.F. and the European Union would prevent the Greek government from deviating from the austerity path.

“The I.M.F. will be here every few months and will be keeping a close eye on Greece’s every move,” he said. He jokingly conceded that such skepticism was inevitable.

“People haven’t trusted the Greeks since the time of the Trojan war,” he said. “So this is nothing new.”
59 2010-05-03 This new wave of austerity also risks pushing the entire European Union into a period of artificially low growth just as economies are trying to recover from the recession of last year, caused by the huge housing and banking crisis that started in the United States. Negative or low growth will increase already sizable unemployment and put new pressure on government spending, as well as on the banks themselves, and make it harder for everybody to reduce their debts.

“How can Greece grow out of its debt if there is deflation?” asked Jean-Paul Fitoussi, a professor of economics at the Institut d’Études Politiques in Paris. “Deflation increases the debt burden, so we are following this virtuous circle that is bringing us toward hell. Economics has nothing to do with virtue, which can kill an economy.”

There is also some doubt whether this latest package of 110 billion euros over three years will be enough to calm the markets, which may then turn on other vulnerable countries, like Portugal or Spain.

Some countries that use the euro — Germany, in particular — need to pass legislation to come up with the money, although European Union officials said Sunday night that funding would be in place before May 19, when the next major tranche of Greek debt must be rolled over.

Embedded in the euro and thus no longer in control of its own currency, Greece cannot take the easy way out of its debt by devaluing. So Greece must either cut its spending sharply or default on its loans — which would badly damage German and French banks carrying a lot of Greek debt.

That is considered one reason President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has been so quiet on the Greek crisis, Mr. Fitoussi said. The Greek deal “is an indirect way of bailing out French and German banks,” he said. “The French understood this from the start, but Germany didn’t seem to.”

Katinka Barysch, an economist and deputy director of the Center for European Reform in London, said that that realization had hit home in Germany. “It might be unpopular for the Germans and Europeans to bail out Greece, but it will be even more unpopular for them to bail out the banks that owned Greek bonds,” she said.

Thomas Piketty, the founder of the Paris School of Economics and a professor there, thinks that the demands on Greece, driven by a market frenzy, are simply too high.

“Austerity can be justified, but 8 percent interest rates on a debt that amounts to more than 100 percent of gross domestic product is just crazy,” he said. “They will have to restore their public finances and then pay back this huge debt at the same time — and Greek debt amounts to so little when you compare it to what was needed to bail out the banks” last year.

“Not only is this not going to help growth, it’s going to end very badly, politically speaking,” Mr. Piketty said, referring to Greece. “Taxpayers cannot accept this in the long run.”

On Sunday, the Greek finance minister, George Papaconstantinou, forecast a deeper than expected recession of 4 percent for 2010 and 2.6 percent in 2011, before the economy supposedly returns to growth of 1.1 percent in 2012. “We will be in recession for the next few years, which means that we have to run faster to reduce the deficit,” he said.

But no one really knows what will happen in 2012, or if the Socialist government of Prime Minister George A. Papandreou, elected on a platform of increased prosperity, will still be in office. Standard & Poor’s suggested last week that the euro value of Greece’s gross domestic product may not return to last year’s level until 2017.

“Unfortunately for economists, there is democracy,” Mr. Fitoussi said. “If you impose too strict a program, the population will refuse.” Some countries, he acknowledged, have responded quietly so far to deep cuts, like Ireland and Latvia. “But Greeks are not Latvians,” he said, citing serious worker demonstrations already this weekend.

Yet the problem is deeper for Greece than for other vulnerable and relatively uncompetitive countries, like Portugal and Spain, where the budget situation before the crisis was fairly good, even if overly reliant on a housing bubble. “If growth stays negative or low in Greece, the fiscal debt will continue to increase, whatever they do,” Ms. Barysch said, while difficult structural reforms to liberalize the economy will take time.

The economists she speaks to “don’t really see a solution for Greece in the longer run,” she said. Some argue that Greece should stop using the euro, as Argentina dissociated itself from a peg to the dollar in 2002, devaluing its currency and soon returning to growth, although with high inflation. But others say that since Greek debt is denominated in euros, leaving the euro zone will be too expensive and disruptive for a society in crisis.

Greece is functionally bankrupt, Ms. Barysch said. “For most European officials and experts, it’s not about fostering Greek growth, it’s about the stability of the euro zone.”

For Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, an economic policy research organization in Brussels, Greece is paying for its past sins of easy credit and false statistics, and has no choice now but to restore the health of its public finances.

“I don’t think there is an economic debate on this, because restoring fiscal sustainability must be the first step,” he said. “They can focus on growth afterward. But at this point, there is no way for Greece to escape this very painful process.”

Still, Mr. Fitoussi warns that the crisis is not over — that the market will move against other countries, to see if the Europeans have the will and the funds to protect them, and that the Greek government will not survive the painful adjustment.

“There will always be another government,” he said. “But in the process Europe will have lost its credibility, by imposing on a country an unbearable program.”
60 2010-05-03 Americans are already starting to see the benefits of . The new law requires companies — starting in September — to end their most indefensible practice: rescinding coverage after a policyholder gets sick. In recent days insurers and their trade association have rushed to announce that they will end rescissions immediately.

That is very good news for the thousands of people who each year pay their premiums but lose their coverage just when they are likely to run up big medical bills.

The insurers decided to act quickly after they were whacked by some very bad publicity. An investigative report by Reuters said that one of the nation’s biggest insurers, , was targeting women with for fraud investigations that could lead to rescissions.

Although WellPoint fiercely denied singling out breast cancer patients for scrutiny, it acknowledged using computer algorithms to search for a range of conditions that applicants would likely have known about at the time they applied. That seemed like a backhanded admission that it was indeed searching for excuses — the company would say legitimate reasons — to cancel coverage. The Obama administration and Congressional Democrats urged insurers to end rescissions at once.

Insurers claim policies are rescinded only when people have misrepresented or lied about their health status or other important factors at the time of application. Insurers do rescissions only on individual policies, not employer-based coverage. They argued that to keep down rates for the rest of their customers they needed the ability to exclude people who failed to report pre-existing conditions.
61 2010-05-03 Perhaps the law is on the side of Apple and that of the Rapid Enforcement Allied Computer Team, California’s high-tech crimes task force, which served the search warrant (Apple is represented on the public agency’s board).

Perhaps Gizmodo was involved in the felony theft of property when it paid $5,000 and published photos and videos of the device.

Perhaps Jason Chen, the Gizmodo blogger who lost four computers and two servers to the police last week, is not protected by the California shield law intended to prevent the authorities from seizing journalists’ reporting materials without a subpoena (that matter is currently under consideration so the police and county attorneys have held off combing through the computers).

But those are a lot of assumptions, and regardless of how the law shakes out, the optics are horrible for Apple. Anybody with a kilobyte of common sense could have told Steve Jobs that the five minutes of pleasure that came from making a criminal complaint against journalists would be followed by much misery.

Apple executives have often behaved as though the ultimate custody and control of information lies with them, and the company has gone to extraordinary lengths to protect its interests. Yet for all of its spectacular achievements, Apple is exhibiting a remarkable tone-deafness in the issue at hand. As Apple is changing into a media company, as well, its Silicon Valley brand of aggression is running up against its broader ambitions.

For the iPad, Apple is eager to partner with all manner of content providers, but here the decisions seem capricious and punishing. The swimsuit girls of Sports Illustrated? There’s an app for that. But Dirty Fingers, the scantily clad girl that wipes your screen clean? Nope.

A guide to gay New York and a phone directory with caricatures of public figures from a conservative filmmaker did not make the cut. And that app from the media writer and Jobs antagonist Michael Wolff? Not happening.

The cartoonists’ app having a bit of fun with Tiger Woods was not approved, but the one that does a similar thing with the visage of the president of the United States? That’s O.K. And Mark Fiore’s political cartooning app got rejected and then suddenly approved after he won a Pulitzer.

Notice a pattern? I haven’t either. As a consumer and admirer of Apple’s chronic innovation, it makes me queasy.

The iPad, a gorgeous device for displaying content, has become something of a metaphor for the hermetic kingdom of Apple. A seamless device that can’t be opened, it has no apertures for input and is animated mostly by purchases from Apple.

Then again, it will take you anywhere on the Web, unless it involves the use of Adobe’s Flash software, which Mr. Jobs has found wanting. The churlishness about Flash again goes to the issue of control, of wanting to have dominion over all aspects of the customer experience.

More broadly, Apple’s behavior and choices in the Gizmodo affair threaten to interrupt the séance between the company and an adoring press, who have looked past all the frantic secrecy and reverently stared in wonder at what was eventually revealed behind the curtain.

The media’s crush on Apple has always been an unrequited love affair. The company has a few familiars in the press whom it favors, but Apple has “no comment” programmed on a macro key. The company has unsuccessfully sued bloggers who, it believed, had punctured its veil of secrecy, and important tech news organizations like Wired have been shut out as a result of coverage deemed ill-mannered.

The raid on Mr. Chen can only ratchet up the tension.

“When I got home, I noticed the garage door was half-open,” he said in a letter posted on Gizmodo. “And when I tried to open it, officers came out and said they had a warrant to search my house and any vehicles on the property ‘in my control.’ They then made me place my hands behind my head and searched me to make sure I had no weapons or sharp objects on me.”

Apple has an admirable history of innovation and marketplace performance, but this time the company and Mr. Jobs are drawing attention for all the wrong reasons. Everyone knows that it is his show, his call. But in engaging the long arm of the law on behalf of his corporate interests, Mr. Jobs may lead us to think, um, differently about Apple’s growing cultural dominance.
62 2010-05-03 The opening Monday of a monthlong United Nations conference to strengthen the main treaty meant to halt the spread of nuclear arms is likely to be dominated by Iran's president denouncing the West and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton warn...
63 2010-05-03 The financial regulation debate is entering tricky new territory - for the Republicans who are losing it, for the Democrats who are winning it, and for Wall Street.     The catchiest Republican argument against the Obama administration's regulator...
64 2010-05-04 As Tony nomination slates go, this one is fairly intelligent and just....
65 2010-05-04 The striker Fernando Torres has been beaten and battered this season in the Premier League with Liverpool and now his World Cup with Spain may be in jeopardy....
66 2010-05-04 The New World Symphony, a Miami Beach-based training orchestra, said that it would celebrate the opening of its new home on Jan. 25...
67 2010-05-04 A study from Consumer Reports says that a majority of U.S. Internet users, 52 percent, have posted information that puts them at risk of cybercrime on Facebook and social networks....
68 2010-05-04 The arrest of a suspect in the Times Square bombing attempt revives the debate over how the United States should treat terrorism suspects....
69 2010-05-04 After closing over a dispute with its landlord, Columbia University, a Cuban restaurant in Manhattanville is up and running again with an improvised kitchen....
70 2010-05-04 Soho House Berlin, a 40-room hotel and private club aimed at the young and affluent, is set to open on May 10 in Mitte, a district once dominated by squatters and unemployed artists....
71 2010-05-04 If you've had another child or are now supporting aging parents, you may want to buy more life insurance....
72 2010-05-04 Links from around the Web....
73 2010-05-04 Charlie Davies said reports in France that he won't be fit for the World Cup were not true....
74 2010-05-04 With Marin Energy Authority poised to turn on the juice this Friday, the California Public Utilities rebukes Pacific Gas & Electric for trying to keep its customers....
75 2010-05-04 Although Apple said iPads were selling faster than the original iPhone, it's still rare to see them in public....
76 2010-05-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
77 2010-05-04 Mitch McConnell, the Senate's top Republican, is backing Trey Grayson's Senate campaign....
78 2010-05-04 Susan Philipsz, an artist whose works have used her own recordings of songs by Radiohead, Nirvana and the Velvet Underground, was among the finalists announced for the prestigious British art award....
79 2010-05-04 New York's highest courts rule that gay parents, even if they are not the biological parents of children, have certain rights....
80 2010-05-04 Hotels are expected to add and even raise existing fees charged to customers in an effort to make more money, much like the airlines....
81 2010-05-04 Irish aviation officials said Monday that all flights in and out of the country Tuesday morning had been canceled because of a renewed risk of volcanic ash drifting south from Iceland....
82 2010-05-04 Independent contractors and the self-employed will be able to purchase insurance on the new exchanges....
83 2010-05-04 The British hedge fund industry only seems to trust the Conservatives, The Guardian reported, if you go by campaign donations....
84 2010-05-04 The Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice are exploring opening an antitrust probe into Apple....
85 2010-05-04 A number of lawmakers, while critical of Wall Street practices like short-selling, themselves bet on a decline in stock markets in 2008, according to The Wall Street Journal....
86 2010-05-04 On a recent Monday morning, a small-business owner arrived at work and found he had payments totaling $22,666.31 that had to go out the door. His bank balance: $355. Here's how he gets through the week....
87 2010-05-04 Lehman Brothers bankruptcy administrators are preparing for a series of legal fights against other banks which have filed more than $50 billion in claims for losses related to derivatives contracts, The Wall Street Journal reported....
88 2010-05-04 NYSE Euronext said on Tuesday its quarterly profit rose 26 percent, matching expectations as its growing derivatives operation offset sluggish stock trading at the exchange operator, Reuters reported....
89 2010-05-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
90 2010-05-04 Theme park operator Six Flags emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Monday after wiping out more than a billion dollars in debt by turning the company's ownership over to bondholders, Reuters reported....
91 2010-05-04 A planned merger has stalled between two weak savings banks in Galicia, in northwestern Spain, illustrating the reluctance of the Spanish government to take a firmer hand to its financial problems....
92 2010-05-04 GMAC Financial Services, a lender majority-owned by the government, posted its first profit since the fourth quarter of 2008 as it starts to recover from billions of dollars lost on bad mortgages....
93 2010-05-04 GMAC Financial Services, a lender majority-owned by the government, posted its first profit since the fourth quarter of 2008 as it starts to recover from billions of dollars lost on bad mortgages.

GMAC, one of the largest car loan companies in the United States, said Monday the profit was a milestone in its recovery from the losses that drove it to seek multiple government bailouts.

As part of that turnaround, GMAC will change its name to Ally Financial on Monday. GMAC was formerly owned by General Motors, which owns the trademark on its current name.

The right to use that trademark expires in 2016. GMAC is replacing it with the Ally name that it first introduced for its bank in May 2009.

GMAC said its turnaround was based on significantly reduced loan loss provisions, increased stability in auto credit trends and continued efforts to reduce the bad mortgage assets on its books.
94 2010-05-04 So far, the federal government has delayed significant fiscal tightening. It fears that doing so would cause political harm, particularly in regions where elections are coming soon, while also choking off a long-awaited recovery.

José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the center-left prime minister, presented an austerity plan this year based mostly on measures that would not kick in until next year at the earliest. The measures include spending cuts amounting to a modest 2.5 percent of gross domestic product.

But Mr. Zapatero may no longer be able to wait. Just as he has been unable to force the savings banks, Caixanova and Caixa Galicia, to consolidate before the situation deteriorates further, he finds Spain increasingly vulnerable to forces beyond its control.

The planned merger of Caixanova and Caixa Galicia — banks known here as cajas and important to local politicians — is caught up in squabbling over who would dominate the combined institution. Desperate to break the deadlock, a Galician government official warned last week that fighting between power brokers from the cities where the banks are headquartered could lead to “self-destruction.”

In a broader setback, Spain joined Greece and Portugal last week in being downgraded by Standard & Poor’s, the rating agency. While Spain remains well above the junk level S.& P. gave to Greece and ahead of Portugal’s A- rating, its fall from AA+ to AA was a blow.

Among the reasons for its decision, S.& P. highlighted Spain’s private sector indebtedness of 178 percent of G.D.P. and an inflexible labor market that was likely to leave Spain with a jobless rate of 21 percent this year.

To date, Mr. Zapatero’s policies have rested on the hope that the economy would begin to recover soon and that the jobless rate would average no more than 19 percent this year.

Yet the jobless rate has already reached 20 percent, according to government statistics for the first quarter released Friday, almost double the level when Spain’s recession began in 2008.

The bleak outlook makes it difficult to come up with a coherent policy. Mr. Zapatero is now boxed in, experts say, because he failed to adopt changes that challenged existing political interests when he enjoyed greater popularity after his re-election in 2008.

The leading Popular Party opposition has rallied against his economic management, often with the backing of trade unions that once supported the Socialists. While the Popular Party’s own credibility is suffering because it is engulfed in a bribery investigation, it now enjoys an advantage over the Socialist government in polls.

Perhaps the biggest obstacle to overhauling the economy is a Spanish electoral calendar likely to put regional priorities ahead of national ones. Though Mr. Zapatero has two years remaining as prime minister, most of Spain’s regions will have held their own elections by then, starting with Catalonia this autumn.

The regional governments already account for 57 percent of Spain’s public spending, double the level of two decades ago, according to Carlos Sebastián, an economics professor at Complutense University in Madrid.

“The two big parties really value their regional strongholds and are not willing to do anything that would risk losing control over one of them,” he said. “Until these regional elections, nobody will want to push for reform.”

Federal and regional interests diverge on crucial issues, notably labor legislation, the overhaul of which is seen by economists as essential to reducing unemployment and increasing productivity. For instance, the regions of Andalusia and Extremadura in the southwest apply looser rules on eligibility for unemployment assistance than those in the rest of Spain. That assists the seasonal work forces that underpin their large but fragile farming sector.

Both regions have Socialist governments that face tough re-election campaigns and therefore have little incentive to support any proposal from Mr. Zapatero that could upset their workers.

Indeed, Mr. Zapatero has shown little inclination to force change on his people. In late January, his government proposed pushing up the retirement age to 67 from 65 to help cope with the costs of a rapidly aging population. After a series of protest marches, the plan was put on the back burner.

But now investors are turning their skepticism to Spain as the weakest spots in the country’s economy show little sign of improvement.

In a research note last week, analysts at Credit Suisse argued that beyond agreeing on a multiyear rescue package for Greece, Europe needed to set up standby arrangements for Spain and Portugal, allowing them to “fund their ongoing budget deficits while carrying out tough fiscal adjustment programs.”

In the first quarter, the Spanish government’s expenditures overshot its income by 8 percent. Again, economists partly blame politics, as the Madrid government maintained its own bloated ministerial structures while delegating more power and authority to regional governments.

As for the ailing savings banks — which are worse off than the big name banks like Santander and BBVA, in part because they earn little from lending abroad to offset real estate losses at home — both the Spanish central bank and the government have recently stepped up pressure on them to consolidate. That followed a warning in March from the finance ministry that a third of the 45 cajas faced solvency issues.

Another proposed alliance, led by Cajastur and Caja Murcia, could involve as many as eight cajas. While the proposal does not call for a full merger, it is proving even more contentious as its political stakeholders represent different regions.

“When politics intervenes in the banking sector, obviously you get a clash,” said Jamie Dannhauser, who covers Spain for Lombard Street Research in London. “I don’t think that the recognition process of bad loans has really got going at all.”
95 2010-05-04 Justice Carruthers sentenced Ms. Lowery, 28, to 25 years to life in prison for bludgeoning Ms. Stein to death on Oct. 30, 2007. He also imposed maximum sentences for her conviction on charges of larceny, forgery and identity theft, to be served after she completes her sentence for murder, meaning it would be about 27 years before she is eligible for parole.

And although Justice Carruthers would have no deciding role in a parole decision, he said he would recommend that Ms. Lowery never be considered for parole. He also ordered her to pay $30,000 in restitution.

“I’m relieved for society that that woman will never be on the street,” Mandy Stein said afterward.

When Ms. Lowery had her chance to speak before sentencing, she was defiant, denouncing Justice Carruthers for giving her what she said was an unfair shake.

“My innocence will continually remain as it did since Oct. 30, 2007,” Ms. Lowery said. “I was never afforded a fair trial, which was based upon your undisclosed reason.”

She said Justice Carruthers had failed to allow her lawyers to ask witnesses proper questions, and she criticized his decision not to let her change lawyers during the trial. Ms. Lowery also defended her stepfather, Daniel Walsh, who was held in contempt of court in March after an outburst during a proceeding.

Her stepfather, Ms. Lowery told the judge, was exercising his “freedom of speech, since you kept violating my constitutional rights.”

“However, that didn’t stop or discourage me,” Ms. Lowery said. “This is just the beginning of a new fight, of a new beginning to get a fair trial.”

Ms. Lowery replaced the lawyers who represented her during the trial with a new lawyer, Paul S. Brenner, who said he would appeal on several grounds, including Justice Carruthers’s decision to allow Ms. Lowery’s videotaped confession into evidence. Ms. Lowery later recanted that confession, her lawyer argued.

Prosecutors said that Ms. Stein, 62, who at one time managed the Ramones, learned that Ms. Lowery, her personal assistant, was stealing from her. When Ms. Stein confronted Ms. Lowery, the assistant beat her to death in Ms. Stein’s Upper East Side apartment, prosecutors said.

Samantha Stein-Wells, who was often emotional at the trial, remained composed enough on Monday to deliver a few words to Ms. Lowery.

“Natavia, there’s so much I want to say to you, maybe stuff I can’t say in this courtroom today because I’m a lady,” Ms. Stein-Wells said, as she glared at Ms. Lowery. “You robbed me, like you robbed my mother, from my chance to give her a last goodbye and from my chance to say, ‘I love you’ one last time.”

Ms. Stein-Wells also said she was troubled by Ms. Lowery’s lack of remorse. “Not one apology,” she said. “You can’t even look at me today. You truly are a cold, ruthless killer.”

Mandy Stein said that she was pregnant and that her mother “will never set eyes upon or hold my baby.”

In a lengthy, disjointed statement in court, Mr. Brenner alternated between blunt responses to what Ms. Stein’s daughters said and appeals for sympathy for Ms. Lowery.

“Somebody has got to shed a tear for Natavia Lowery, a woman who said from the beginning, ‘I didn’t do this,’ ” Mr. Brenner said.

“As the trial evidence showed, excellent detective work and the prevalence of modern technology led quickly to the one person responsible for the death of Linda Stein and for all the attendant misery,” he said. “And that is the defendant at bar, Natavia Lowery.”
96 2010-05-04 David Brooks argues that greater regulation of financial markets by regulators in Washington is the wrong approach to financial reform, but I disagree with his premise that the clueless “establishment” can’t be trusted to prevent the next financial crisis when even the best and the brightest on Wall Street missed warning signs of the last one (“The Goldman Drama,” column, April 27).

It is certainly Wall Street’s position that the financial crisis was akin to a natural disaster that no one could have foreseen or prevented. But I find it inconceivable that “smart and sleazy” bankers, in Mr. Brooks’s words, didn’t comprehend that housing prices were grossly inflated, and that even a modest correction in housing prices would cause the default of a great many mortgage-backed securities and huge payouts by financial institutions that had agreed to insure such securities through “derivative” contracts.

Indeed, numerous risk managers inside Wall Street reportedly warned their institutions of these risks, but were ignored by bankers whose enormous bonuses depended on peddling mortgage-backed securities and derivatives. Government regulators, meanwhile, were either ideologically blinded or neutered by years of deregulation.

If the fundamental problem is that bankers have every financial incentive to engage in risky transactions that place their firms and the nation’s economy at risk, then the solution must be to eliminate the perverse incentives or regulate the risky transactions. The Democratic bill is a step in the right direction.

David Brooks says of Fabrice Tourre, the only individual mentioned in the Securities and Exchange Commission case against Goldman Sachs, that “he seems to be the product of the current amoral Wall Street culture in which impersonal trading is more important than personal service to clients, and in which any product you can sell to some poor sucker is deemed to be admirable and O.K.”
97 2010-05-04 BECAUSE I travel so much, I’ve developed a lot of routines. Sometimes people think I’m a little crazy, but it works for me.

I never leave home without saline solution. It helps keep my sinus and throat clear. I drink an enormous amount of green tea before flights, or even in flight, if I can get it. I’ll listen to soothing music on my iPod. Then I’ll slap one of those sleep-mask things on my face. Take a little melatonin to help me relax. And before I know it, I’m in dreamland.

Once I arrive at my destination, I’ll take a run or go for a sauna or a massage, and then relax and go to bed.

In some 30 years of flying, I rarely waver from this routine. And so far, it works. When other people are feeling jet-lagged at meetings, I’m the guy that’s filled with energy.

But then of course there are times when it doesn’t work.

Like the time I traveled with my 80-year-old mother. We were at London’s Heathrow Airport trying to get from our bus to our plane. I miscalculated the distance, and it was a nightmare. I was sweating and frantic.

My mom was not happy with me, and I felt like I was 7 years old again. When we finally got on the plane, I drank an entire bottle of wine. There wasn’t enough melatonin on the planet to calm me down.

I like to look at my time on a plane as a chance to regroup. But I’m also a pretty friendly guy. A few times, I’ve had a seatmate recognize me. Sometimes it’s wonderful. Sometimes it’s pure, living hell.

It always starts the same way. My seatmate will say, “Oh, you’re that nutritionist guy.” I’ll say, yes, because I can’t lie. And then, off we go.

On a recent flight back from Miami, I spent more than two hours talking to a seatmate about every ache and pain he has and all the food he ever ate. By the time we landed, I was ready for another bottle of wine.

You would think that after so many years of flying, I would be better able to deal with some of the hassles that we all encounter. Not so.

I was traveling to Sardinia last summer for business. I had a box with me that was filled with supplements and protein shakes. It was checked, and when I went to retrieve my bags there was nothing there. I called the appropriate people and was told the holdup was over my “mysterious” box.

I had to go to Customs and explain myself. I met four really roguish Customs agents. These guys were huge. They were chain-smoking. And they all had their hands near their guns.

I tried to explain to them that these bottles were filled with designer nutrients and vitamins that would help build muscle. They didn’t believe me. So they made me drink some in front of them. When I didn’t burst into flames, they let me go.

Just recently I was in Miami, and an agent told me I couldn’t board with my little dog, a dachshund named Karenin. I’ve traveled with dachshunds before. I know what to do. But this time I was a little dumbfounded.

That’s because the gentleman told me the carrier was too small for the dog. I asked him why he thought it was too small. Because, he said, the dog couldn’t stand up. I told him the dog was standing up. It took two other officials to come over, peer inside the carrier, and then confirm that my dog was indeed upright.

All I can think is maybe that first guy preferred cats.
98 2010-05-04 But that protection has never included civil cases. Lawyers for the poor argue that it should because civil courts are where people who cannot afford lawyers often face the loss of the necessities of life in lopsided legal battles. Opponents say more government-paid lawyers for the poor will paralyze the courts with needless disputes.

Some Democratic legislators said they were interested in Judge Lippman’s idea. In a statement, Speaker Sheldon Silver said the Assembly had been a strong supporter of civil legal services for nearly 20 years.

Austin Shafran, a spokesman for the State Senate Democratic leader, John L. Sampson, said the senator had always supported programs that provided lawyers for indigent New Yorkers and was looking carefully at what Judge Lippman had put forward.

Judge Lippman, a longtime court administrator, has set an unabashedly liberal course as chief judge, a position he assumed last year after he was nominated by Gov. David A. Paterson. In addition to a seat on the highest court in New York, the chief judge also has a broad role as the top administrative official of the state’s sprawling court system.

The speech may well give Judge Lippman national prominence in efforts in recent years by lawyers for the poor, consumer advocates and some legislators around the country to expand the right to a lawyer. California passed a law in 2009 intended to expand legal counsel in civil cases.

There have been local bills elsewhere, including in New York City, and lawsuits in several states arguing that the protections of the legal system are often meaningless to people too poor to hire lawyers. In 2006, the American Bar Association said there should be a right to a lawyer in civil cases where basic human needs were at stake, like those dealing with shelter, sustenance, safety, health or child custody.

Advocates for the right to a lawyer in civil cases — some of them call it a “civil Gideon” right, referring to the 1963 ruling for criminal cases — said Monday that Judge Lippman’s speech was one of the most notable steps in their efforts.

“It is a very important statement, both in New York and nationally, about the need for access to justice. I don’t know that any stronger voice has come forward,” said Donald Saunders, a vice president of the National Legal Aid and Defender Association, the largest national group of lawyers for the poor.

In his speech, Judge Lippman said the recession had swelled the ranks of New Yorkers who could not afford lawyers facing civil legal problems to more than two million a year.

Judge Lippman said he would hold hearings beginning this fall in every part of the state to assess the extent and nature of the unmet need for civil legal representation. He said the hearings would end with recommendations to the Legislature of the kinds of civil cases in which legal representation should be required and what financing would meet those needs.

Legal Aid and other providers of civil legal representation to poor people in New York State operate on about $200 million a year, officials say, a combination of federal, state, local and privately raised money. Those organizations said that they were unable to meet the needs but that the extent of the shortfall was not known.

Steven Banks, the attorney in chief of the Legal Aid Society in the city, called it “a huge step” for the leader of the court system to endorse the idea that poor people had a right to a lawyer, whether they found themselves in criminal or civil court.
99 2010-05-04 Investigators quickly traced the stolen Connecticut license plate on the Pathfinder to a Ford F-150 pickup truck that had been brought into Mr. LeBlanc’s shop, Kramer’s Used Auto Parts, in Stratford, for repairs three weeks earlier. And there it had sat. In an interview Sunday, Mr. LeBlanc said he had sold the truck some time ago to Elmo C. Jones of Bridgeport, who returned it last month for suspension work. But Mr. LeBlanc said he had been too busy to get to it.

When investigators knocked on his door early Sunday, Mr. LeBlanc said he had not even been aware of the chaos that had enveloped Times Square several hours earlier. He told reporters he had spent the night watching “Old Yeller” with three of his grandchildren, who were having a sleepover at his house.

The agents, accompanied by Norwalk police, told Mr. LeBlanc they wanted to talk to him about a serious matter, he said. They asked him about the Ford pickup. Mr. LeBlanc said he told them what he knew. Then “they asked me if I’d take a ride to my business,” he said in an interview on Sunday.

With the agents and police in two cars behind him, Mr. LeBlanc led them on the 20-mile drive to his business. Mr. LeBlanc said he had not known that the license plates were missing.

“We advertise in Connecticut and New York,” he said. “A lot of people walk in and look around. We don’t keep a close watch on them.”

Mr. LeBlanc said that he did not object when the agents asked to take the truck with them and said that he was fully cooperating with the investigation. He said he would question his employees about the missing plate. “There’s going to be a thorough check,” he promised.

By Sunday afternoon, Mr. LeBlanc was getting peppered by phone calls and visits from reporters, though the police had not suggested that he or Mr. Jones, the owner of the Ford, were suspects. Camera trucks remained parked around Mr. LeBlanc’s business on Monday.

Mr. LeBlanc seemed to take the attention in stride when asked about it on Sunday. But he kept himself scarce on Monday, staying away from reporters.

Tom Manis, the owner of Manis Motor Sales in Bridgeport, said investigators visited his home in nearby Monroe at 6:45 a.m. Sunday. Local and state police, accompanied by three Joint Terrorism Task Force agents, escorted him to his dealership to look through files. They told him a sticker for the dealership had been found on the rear exterior of the Pathfinder.

He said that being awakened by investigators was frightening, but that he was eager to help in any way he could.

They did not have a vehicle identification number but asked him to search his records for sales of Pathfinders. He found one silver Pathfinder and one gold one that had been sold about 2004. Investigators quickly ran the identification numbers and determined that the cars had since been resold. “They were very thorough,” he said. “It’s just good police work, I guess, and that’s what they’re trained to do.”

The sticker had an old design that he had not used in at least four years, he said, so he knew the sale could not have been more recent. Investigators have not contacted him since, he said.

But the news media were a different matter. Mr. Manis was interviewed by a steady stream of reporters at his dealership on Monday. He seemed slightly disappointed that investigators had not contacted him in 24 hours, and said that he did not know if the files he had supplied them were useful. But when told that newspapers were reporting that the owner of the S.U.V. had been located, he perked up.
100 2010-05-04 While Abigail Breslin’s Broadway debut in “The Miracle Worker” did not meet with much success, a stage adaptation of the movie that helped put her on the map (and earned her an Academy Award nomination at age 10) is inching ever closer to Broadway. The musical version of “Little Miss Sunshine” will be presented next year at the La Jolla Playhouse in San Diego, Variety reported. The film, which also starred Greg Kinnear, Steve Carell, Toni Collette and Alan Arkin, centered on a precocious young performer (Ms. Breslin) and her eccentric family’s do-or-die efforts to get her into a beauty pageant. It was a breakout hit at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival and went on to earn more than $100 million at the box office worldwide. A version of the musical was presented last year at the Sundance Institute Theater Lab at White Oak in Yulee, Fla. The La Jolla production, which will run from Feb. 15 through March 27, 2011, features music and lyrics by William Finn and a book and direction by James Lapine. No casting has been announced.
101 2010-05-04 Mrs. Merkel hopes to convince voters that she took the necessary steps to ensure the stability of the euro, and hence the German economy. Mrs. Merkel and top officials from her conservative Christian Democratic Union have worked hard to head off the view that the bailout is nothing more than a giveaway to the Greeks, with other indebted countries like Portugal and Spain forming a line behind them.

“It does not just mean that we help Greece, but that we stabilize the euro as a whole, which helps people in Germany,” Mrs. Merkel said at the news conference on Monday in Berlin. She called the bill “a last resort” and “an emergency situation,” portraying it as a necessary evil.

Up to two-thirds of Germany’s people have said in opinion surveys that they oppose a bailout, which according to the draft legislation would send $11.2 billion to Greece this year, in the form of guaranteed loans through the state development bank.

The opposition runs deep. The bitter German news coverage of Greek tax dodging and early retirement touched a nerve here. German workers have long accepted stagnant wages and shrinking pensions to stay competitive in the global economy.

“If Germany had to go through that, why shouldn’t other countries as well?” said Ian Stewart, chief economist for Deloitte in Britain. “The German public is not happy about the bailout, but I think that’s understandable. The German economy has been through the mill. It has had to cope with loss of competitiveness and has done so very successfully.”

On Sunday, in an interview in Germany’s largest-circulation newspaper, Bild, Mrs. Merkel contended that the loans to Greece might not cost taxpayers a cent, and could even make money for the government if the Greek government paid them back as planned.

In a continent awash in debt, Germany has the most fiscal flexibility among European Union members to help Greece, and as Europe’s largest economy, it has historically been the leader on economic matters, including the establishment of the euro. In other European capitals, Mrs. Merkel was criticized for slowing down measures to help Greece in recent months, and raising the cost of the bailout as a result.

The question for Mrs. Merkel has been one of political will in the face of public discontent and threats of a constitutional challenge over breaking the monetary union’s no-bailout clause.

The latest opinion surveys show that the election in North Rhine-Westphalia, a western rust belt state, is too close to call. And it is far from a referendum on Greece, with the state’s voters weighing a campaign-finance scandal that has damaged the Christian Democrats there, as well as issues like education and health care policy.

“The federal government is anything but popular for its financial and social policies,” said Timo Grunden, a political scientist at the University of Duisburg-Essen in the state. But he said the Greek bailout’s effect would be muted by the fact that the main opposition parties all supported measures to stabilize Greece’s finances, even if they disagreed over the exact methods.

Right now, Mrs. Merkel’s party appears set to lose at least seven percentage points compared with the last election, in 2005, when the Christian Democrats won nearly 45 percent of the vote. In an interview on the N24 television news station on Monday, the interviewer asked Mrs. Merkel whether she believed that her party would be punished in the election for the Greek bailout.

“I believe that the people know that one does what one has to do,” she said.
102 2010-05-04 But escalating costs and the national debate over the health care overhaul are forcing medical schools and residency programs to grapple with teaching about the financial side of their profession. Accrediting organizations now require such teaching, and students and residents recognize that they need to understand finances as well as blood tests.

“It’s a very odd system where we make purchasing decisions on behalf of patients but we don’t know what anything costs,” said Dr. Neel Shah, a first-year resident in obstetrics-gynecology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. “There’s no disincentive to ordering tests — all we have to do is click a button and we’ve ordered it.”

To be accredited, medical schools and hospital residency programs, in which doctors spend three to five years learning a specialty, are supposed to be teaching future doctors about health care costs and cost-effective practices. The A.A.M.C., which does the accreditation of medical schools, made this clear in a 1998 report. And since 2007, residency programs in the United States have been required to teach doctors to “incorporate considerations of cost awareness and risk-benefit analysis” in caring for patients, according to the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.

A commentary in the April 8 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine by Dr. Molly Cooke, a professor at the University of California, San Francisco, and director of the school’s Academy of Medical Educators, said it was “a critical responsibility of medical schools and residency programs” to educate physicians about cost issues.

“Medical schools and residencies, in general, are taking this very seriously,” said Dr. John Prescott, a physician and the medical college association’s chief academic officer.

Nonetheless, the effort has not been universal. According to a recent A.A.M.C. survey, about 60 percent of 102 American and Canadian medical schools include some material on health care costs, although the time they devote to it varies widely.

Dr. Prescott said a separate survey of 155 large teaching hospitals that together sponsor more than two-thirds of accredited residency programs in the United States found that only 41 percent had made sure that all their residencies included material on health care costs.

Dr. Whitcomb, the former A.A.M.C. vice president, said one reason medical schools and residencies have been slow to tackle the subject is that most of their faculty members are academic doctors or researchers who know little about health care economics and don’t feel comfortable teaching it. “Trying to figure out how to do it and who’s going to do it is a real challenge,” he said.

Some medical schools have met the challenge by creating courses for first- or second-year students on health policy or professional responsibility that include information about treatment costs and insurance.

A second-year student at the Yale School of Medicine, Alexandra Ristow, said, “We discussed the fact that we have all this technology now that we can’t necessarily afford to provide to every single patient — and it’s not necessary, either.” She added that, in other classes, cost considerations are part of the discussion of how to treat hypothetical patients.

Professors ask: “What is this test going to tell you? Is it going to change the diagnosis, or change how you manage the patient’s care?” Ms. Ristow said. Concerns about treatment costs, she said, are “just very pervasive.”

But once students begin working on medical teams in hospitals, during their third year of medical school, they must focus on developing clinical skills and learning to care for patients — and, according to students at several schools, the financial aspects of care are seldom discussed.

“We all know that the cost of health care is high, but it’s sort of fuzzy how doctors play into this,” said Chitra Akileswaran, who has completed three years at Harvard Medical School and is enrolled in a joint degree program in medicine and business administration.

At the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City, students can get hands-on lessons about the impact of treatment costs on patients by volunteering Saturdays at the East Harlem Health Outreach Program, a student-run free clinic for uninsured residents of a low-income neighborhood nearby.

Medical students evaluate patients, choose which drugs are prescribed, arrange care for patients who need to see a surgeon or other specialist and collaborate with a social worker to help those who need social services or assistance paying for medicine. They also sit on the steering committee and are in charge of researching and updating the clinic’s formulary, a stock of inexpensive, cost-effective drugs that are purchased from the hospital pharmacy.

Dr. Yasmin S. Meah, an assistant professor of medicine at Mount Sinai who directs the program, noted that medical students initially campaigned to establish the clinic, similar to others at several New York medical schools and an estimated 110 nationwide, as a service to the community. Since opening in 2004, it has become an invaluable setting for teaching future doctors to practice cost-effectively. Students come to “understand what is necessary and what is not,” Dr. Meah said. “They’re using the cheapest drugs to get the biggest bang for the buck.”

During residency, trainees’ heavy workloads and the need to care efficiently for very sick people make it hard for them to consider the cost of tests and treatments. “You definitely try to think about it,” said Dr. Ian Warrington, a first-year resident in emergency medicine at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. “All of us are aware that a CT scan is significantly more expensive than a chest X-ray, and an M.R.I. is significantly more than a CT scan.”

Emergency-medicine residents memorize guidelines that help them determine when imaging studies are needed after certain kinds of injuries, and professors routinely ask trainees to defend their rationale for ordering certain tests. But sometimes, Dr. Warrington said, residents and the doctors supervising them will end up ordering an expensive test even when the probability of finding a fracture or a hemorrhage is low because they are worried about missing something serious, and about being sued if they do.

“You’re sort of working on not enough time and not always enough information, and you do the best you can,” he said. Cost “should be factored in, but realistically, with the environment that we practice in, you have to be very cautious how you do that.”
103 2010-05-04 The deal was announced on the heels of Hewlett-Packard’s acquisition of Palm; Hertz’s deal for Dollar Thrifty Automotive; Apollo Management’s takeover of CKE Restaurants and CenturyTel’s purchase of Qwest.

Nick Kalivas, vice president for financial research at MF Global, said the latest merger had led to talk of further consolidation in the transportation sector.

“That is complemented by the fact that Avis is talking about raising the bid for Dollar,” Mr. Kalivas said, “and providing competition for Hertz, which is kind of boosting the idea that the market has some value.”

Wall Street traders were also encouraged by reports on consumer spending, manufacturing and construction spending, which helped to push the industrial sector higher. The indicators, Ms. Krosby said, are “all marching in the right direction albeit on a slower pace.”

Consumer discretionary shares closed higher, and financial shares, among the most heavily traded, also rose sharply. Several analysts attributed the rise to Warren E. Buffett’s support of Goldman Sachs, which is fighting accusations of trade fraud from the Securities and Exchange Commission.

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 143.22 points, or 1.3 percent, to 11,151.83, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 15.57 points, or 1.31 percent, to 1,202.26. The Nasdaq rose 37.55 points, or 1.53 percent, to 2,498.74. Oil prices topped $86 a barrel in afternoon trading.

In Frankfurt, the DAX closed up 0.5 percent and the CAC-40 in Paris rose 0.3 percent after Greece received a bailout package from the International Monetary Fund and the other 15 countries in the euro zone.

But Terry L. Morris, senior vice president and senior equity manager for the National Penn Investors Trust Company, said that while Greece’s bailout offered some breathing room, Athens must still execute its austerity plan, which might be easier said than done. “Investors are still a little leery to believe the citizens of Greece are going to put up with a whole lot more cost-cutting,” Mr. Morris said.

On the economic front in the United States, the Institute for Supply Management said that manufacturing activity roseto 60.4 in April from 59.6 in March, the most substantial increase since June 2004. Construction activity rose 0.2 percent in March; economists had expected a decline.

Mr. Kalivas said that the employment index was quite strong in the manufacturing report, and said that inventories suggested that the “legs of the recovery are still pretty strong.”

Bank shares rebounded on Monday after a sharp sell-off on Friday. Shares of Goldman Sachs, which dropped 9.3 percent on Friday, were up about 3 percent on Monday, after Mr. Buffett defended the company and its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, during Berkshire Hathaway’s shareholder meeting over the weekend in Omaha.

Citigroup and Bank of America rose about 1 percent and JPMorgan Chase, 2.2 percent.

“I don’t see a whole lot of economic news that has made this market move,” Mr. Morris said. “I feel the market is focused on Goldman still, and Greece too.”

On the Nasdaq, Apple rose about 2 percent after it reported that it had sold a million iPads in the first month of the device’s release.

The Treasury’s 10-year note fell 8/32, to 99 16/32. The yield rose to 3.69 percent, from 3.65 percent Friday.
104 2010-05-05 Executives testified that they did all they could to keep Bear Stearns afloat before it fell victim to an unstoppable run on the bank....
105 2010-05-05 The Senate approved two amendments that both Democrats and Republicans claimed would end the prospect of taxpayer-financed bailouts for companies deemed "too big to fail."...
106 2010-05-05 Video | From a PC World collection of funny old tech ads and promos....
107 2010-05-05 If you have old unused gift cards, make an effort to spend them, one of the steps on our Financial Tuneup checklist....
108 2010-05-05 After a short stint at Nissan, Joel Ewanick has been named General Motors' vice president of U.S. marketing....
109 2010-05-05 Mitch Jacobs, founder and chief executive of On Deck Capital, talks about what he hopes will be a revolutionary new approach to getting credit to small businesses....
110 2010-05-05 Nick Bilton sits down with ABC News correspondant John Berman about Apple's current imagine the mainstream media and with its growing customer base....
111 2010-05-05 Senator Jim DeMint backs Rand Paul for Senate in Kentucky -- a day after the Senate's top Republican, Mitch McConnell, backed Trey Grayson in the same race....
112 2010-05-05 Analysis of the Washington Post Company's sale of Newsweek, announced Wednesday....
113 2010-05-05 An underground gay publication from the 1980s finally gets its due....
114 2010-05-05 All dog breeds have their health scourges, but cancer is particularly common among golden retrievers....
115 2010-05-05 City Council President Christine C. Quinn finds making her dog obey her is at least as difficult as keeping the Council in line; and an inside look at an important City Hall players most people have never heard of....
116 2010-05-05 Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, expresses frustration that he can't get votes on amendments to the overhaul of financial regulations....
117 2010-05-05 The European Union dismissed rumors of an aid package for Spain or Portugal on Wednesday, as markets continued for a second day to bet against the two countries' debt....
118 2010-05-05 Here are some questions to ask yourself and to ask your prospective group before you decide....
119 2010-05-05 I wish I could treat my clients as if I were a doctor: "I have bad news. If you don't buy a new videoconferencing table immediately, you will die."...
120 2010-05-05 Citigroup chief executive Vikram Pandit has said the bank plans to create a $200 million fund earmarked for loans to small businesses in low- and moderate-income communities, The Wall Street Journal reported....
121 2010-05-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
122 2010-05-05 Prudential Plc, the British insurer, said Wednesday it would defer releasing the terms of its upcoming rights offering, an issue it hopes will raise $21 billion to finance its $35.5 billion takeover of the Asian life insurance arm of American Inte...
123 2010-05-05 Toscafund, a large London hedge fund, is offering to write off as much as a fifth of the value of U.K. mortgage holders' borrowings if they remortgage their property with a new lender, The Telegraph reported....
124 2010-05-05 Europe's nervous markets were calmed, at last, on Monday after the European Union and the International Monetary Fund broke their logjam and approved a long-delayed financial rescue package for Greece. But then Tuesday came, and that poise vanishe...
125 2010-05-05 Senator Mitch McConnell, left, on Tuesday endorsed the Republican establishment’s candidate for Kentucky’s other Senate seat, instead of a newcomer backed by the Tea Party movement and by Senator Jim Bunning, who is retiring. Mr. McConnell said Trey Grayson, the Kentucky secretary of state, had “a track record of leading by example,” and called on voters to choose him as the Republican nominee in the May 18 primary. Mr. Grayson faces five Republicans, including Rand Paul, the Tea Party favorite. Mr. Paul is the son of Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who made an unsuccessful bid for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008.
126 2010-05-05 The Honduran government inaugurated a truth commission Tuesday, charged with investigating the events surrounding the coup last June that ousted former President Manuel Zelaya. The commission’s chairman, former Vice President Eduardo Stein of Guatemala, promised that the panel would interview both opponents and supporters of the coup. International human rights groups say that attacks on opponents of the coup have continued under the new government of President Porfirio Lobo.

Correction: May 7, 2010 

 A report in the World Briefing column on Wednesday about the Honduran government’s establishment of a truth commission to investigate events surrounding the coup last June that ousted former President Manuel Zelaya misstated, in some copies, the given name of the commission’s chairman, a former vice president of Guatemala. He is Eduardo Stein, not Eduard.
127 2010-05-05 Though the court did not specifically address the parental rights of gays and lesbians who are not birth parents but have other legally sanctioned unions, like a marriage performed in a jurisdiction that allows same-sex couples to wed, the case provides them a legal claim to parenthood.

“In many ways this is a real breakthrough in New York,” said Susan L. Sommer, who argued the case before the Court of Appeals and is senior counsel and director of constitutional litigation for Lambda Legal, a gay-rights advocacy group.

“But there’s also a lot more work that needs to be done, because the decision stops short of bringing New York into line with the growing trend in other jurisdictions,” Ms. Sommer added.

Some legal experts said they were dismayed by the ruling because it effectively established two sets of standards for children of same-sex couples: one set for those born to couples with a legally recognized relationship, and another for those born to couples without legal recognition.

“A distinction between whether one is a parent or is not a parent based on whether a couple is in a civil union or not in a civil union — that should not matter,” said Nancy Polikoff, a law professor at American University. “From the child’s point of view, he or she has two parents.”

The court declined to establish criteria for parenthood in relationships in which one partner or spouse is not the biological parent, saying a more flexible standard could invite claims of parental rights by people who have no business raising them.

“Parents could not possibly know when another adult’s level of involvement in family life might reach the tipping point and jeopardize their right to bring up their children without the unwanted participation of a third party,” Judge Susan P. Read wrote in the opinion.

Other jurisdictions have amended their laws to grant nonbiological parents broad legal rights. Colorado, Indiana, Minnesota, Texas and the District of Columbia have all established criteria under which people other than biological parents can claim to have parental rights.

The Court of Appeals said nothing prevented the Legislature from following that lead.

Sherri L. Eisenpress, the lawyer for the biological mother involved in the case stemming from the Vermont civil union, who is identified only as Janice R., said the case was never about broader issues. Instead, Ms. Eisenpress said it was about following established family law in New York, which states that anyone who is not a biological or adoptive parent lacks standing to seek custody or visitation rights.

“Her goal in this case was never to establish some precedent or to make any broader statement other than that she expressly declined to allow this woman to adopt her son because she did not want to co-parent with this person,” Ms. Eisenpress said.

Though the case presents a twist on the traditional American family, in one sense it is conventional. Explaining why she entered into a civil union, Janice R., according to the decision, said, “to put an end to (Debra H.’s) nagging.”
128 2010-05-05 Gov. David Paterson of New York made a brave — and startling — move on Monday to create a board to consider pardons for immigrant New Yorkers who are on a fast-track to deportation because of old or minor criminal convictions. He said he wanted to inject fairness into an “embarrassingly and wrongly inflexible” system that expels immigrants without discretion, without considering the circumstances of a person’s life or family, or even holding hearings to consider the possibility that deportation might be unwise or unjust.

Mr. Paterson’s decision is a response to the government’s aggressive enforcement of immigration laws that have greatly broadened the definition of “aggravated felonies” for which noncitizens are subject to mandatory deportation.

The category used to apply just to serious crimes like murder and drug trafficking, but it has come to include a vast array of nonviolent, even trivial misdemeanors. Under the law, minor drug offenses or even shoplifting can count as “aggravated felonies,” and this stringent view can be applied retroactively. Immigrants can be deported for decades-old convictions of crimes that were not “aggravated felonies” back then.

The harsh laws have been coupled with harsh enforcement; the Obama administration has arrested and deported tens of thousands of legal immigrants with a zeal that has gone to extremes.

In one case, now before the United States Supreme Court, the government maintains that a Texas man’s two misdemeanor convictions — one for less than two ounces of marijuana and one for a single Xanax pill without a prescription — make him a “drug trafficker” subject to mandatory deportation with no right to a hearing in which a judge could consider the absurdity of the case.

Mr. Paterson has shown courage and common sense at a time when the national debate about immigration shows little of either. His move was unconnected to the radicalism in Arizona, which just passed a law making criminals of every undocumented person within its borders, and greatly empowering the police to arrest people they suspect are here illegally.

But it inevitably calls to mind the bad example of Arizona. “In New York, we believe in rehabilitation,” Mr. Paterson said, adding that his five-member board would consider pardons judiciously, distinguishing minor offenders from dangerous criminals. His action repudiates the growing belief that only tougher and more rigid enforcement should be applied to all immigrants who run afoul of the law, with expulsion as the first and last goal.
129 2010-05-05 The procedural vote in the Senate last week on financial reform did more than end a Republican . It set up the real test of the Democrats’ resolve to enact the kind of change that the nation’s financial system so badly needs.

Achieving that requires passing amendments to strengthen the bill’s weak areas and defeating efforts to weaken its strong parts. Senate leaders may try to bridge partisan divides by hampering or blocking amendments on divisive issues. That would enable reluctant reformers from both parties to avoid politically difficult votes and appease the banking lobby, but it would not serve the public interest.

By the time this bill passes, the public needs to know who stands where on the most important reform issues, starting with these two:

TOO BIG TO FAIL Senators said Tuesday that they had reached an agreement on how to pay for seizing and dismantling big whose imminent failure could destabilize the system, but that doesn’t confront the more difficult issue of how to cut big banks down to a less threatening size. The Senate bill calls on regulators to impose higher capital requirements on riskier institutions. The aim is to make size and complexity so expensive that banks opt to restrict their size, but the new rules are unlikely to be enough.

The Senate bill also imposes needless delays on the enactment of the so-called Volcker rule, which would bar banks from making risky market trades for their own accounts and from owning hedge funds and funds. Senators of and of , both Democrats, have an amendment to enact the Volcker rule without undue delays or tinkering.

Even that may not be enough. Democrats Sherrod Brown of and Ted Kaufman of propose size caps on banks that include limiting nondeposit liabilities to no more than 2 percent of gross domestic product. That would provide a necessary backstop against bailouts and decrease the political power of banks.
130 2010-05-05 Petroleum purchased from refineries in Russia and Central Asia accounts for about half of all helicopter and jet fuel used in the war in Afghanistan, according to an American Congressional investigation into possible corruption among suppliers and resellers.

In Kyrgyzstan, where the fuel went to a transit hub and aerial refueling base at the Manas airport outside the capital, Bishkek, prosecutors are investigating the legality of a 2005 parliamentary decision to grant tax exemptions worth $77.8 million to companies that they say came to be run by the younger Mr. Bakiyev.

Kurmanbek Bakiyev had assumed power that year, on the heels of another uprising. Then, as now, allegations that the ruling family benefited from behind-the-scenes deals with the base helped foment popular discontent.

The Pentagon agency in charge of buying fuel has said it would not be illegal to do business with a member of the family of a foreign ruler.

Michael McFaul, a senior adviser to President Obama on matters relating to the former Soviet Union who was visiting Kyrgyzstan on Tuesday, denied any corruption in the fuel procurement process and said the American government would publish documents related to the deals, Reuters reported from Bishkek.

“I’ve read lots of stories about black holes and corruption and things that happened,” Mr. McFaul said, according to Reuters. “They are not ... true.”

Still, the House of Representatives is investigating the matter. The chairman of the national security oversight subcommittee, John F. Tierney of Massachusetts, released a statement last month saying that allegations that the Pentagon did business with the son of the president of Kyrgyzstan “raise serious questions about the Department of Defense’s management and oversight of contractors along the Afghan supply chain.”

The deals, he said, left the impression that the United States had “allowed strategic and logistical expedience in Kyrgyzstan to become a lasting embrace of two corrupt and authoritarian regimes.”

The elder Mr. Bakiyev fled the uprising in April and eventually took refuge in Belarus. On Tuesday, the new provisional government issued a decree formally stripping him of the immunity from prosecution he had enjoyed as president and asking prosecutors to request his extradition to face charges of ordering the police to open fire on demonstrators. Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, the president of Belarus, told Reuters in an interview published on Tuesday that he would not extradite Mr. Bakiyev.
131 2010-05-05 You can have pizza, too, sitting at a blue table built out of old police barricades: ovoid, thin crusted and just charred, not at all sweet and barely chewy, cut into squares in the manner of bar pie in St. Louis. Sweet rock shrimp and speck make one very good topping, in a garlicky, oregano-heavy tomato sauce the color of a gleaming fire truck. There is a fine “bianca tradizionale,” as well, with mozzarella, pecorino, black pepper and lashings of pork strutto, which is the Italian way of saying clarified pork fat. The meatball version is nice, as well, with pickled chilies.

Despite this, though, and despite the rare McNally misstep of the blaring neon signs out front that say so, Pulino’s is not really a pizzeria, nor a bar. It is a restaurant, a good one. (It’s only a bar if you didn’t make a reservation and need to sit or stand until a table opens.)

The chef is Nate Appleman, a young transplant from San Francisco. His cooking is simple and brash, as American as it is inflected with Italian flavors, rustic in the sense that it comes out of smoky, wood-assisted ovens, and urban for the very same reason.

He makes menacing fingers of pork fat and skin into fancy chicharrones, with a sweet, acidic pear mostarda to cut into their salty, velvet crunch. He shaves bottarga into a dressing for smoked sablefish with celery, capers and dill, a nice nod to the neighbors at Russ & Daughters, champions of such flavors. Red cabbage comes in a tangle with roasted sunchokes that might be pancetta, and actual pancetta alongside that, with oranges scented with honey, all salted with pecorino. It is delicious.

Mr. Appleman isn’t interested in beauty. Unsightly on its face is steak, which he serves with anchovy butter, potatoes, rosemary and Parmesan. It looks like the heel of a cabdriver’s shoe, with a pile of dodgy potatoes beside it that might be fries or some kind of baked error. But it makes for fantastic eating, with a sear on it perhaps an eighth of an inch thick, under which soft, rosy meat blooms to complement the starch. There is splendor beneath its surface.

The fazzoletti isn’t much to look at either, crepe handkerchiefs folded under a thick run of lamb ragù heightened with pecorino. But it, too, is marvelous, one of the few lamb dishes in an upscale New York restaurant that tastes emphatically of lamb. The dish has a kind of funky, fantastic flavor that rebounds off the pancakes nicely. It sticks in the mind: the sort of dish you go to sleep thinking about, dreaming about, and wake up desiring.

In such an environment, roasted scallops with grapefruit, olives, shallots, radicchio and a shower of herbs counts as health food — the dish is light and almost smoky. Order it with a crèma gelato sundae for dessert, with amarena cherries, chocolate cookies and salted pistachios, and life without meat seems livable.

Too bad, though, that baked ricotta is dry and underflavored, and that the nduja, a house-made sausage paste, has none of the bang-pow flavor and fattiness that it calls for in its Calabrian ideal. (Both dishes are better ordered at A Voce.) Hen-of-the-woods mushrooms, at their best almost sausagelike in intensity and texture, need a little more butter or more time in the oven, or both. (Semolina gnocchi, in a Roman-style tomato sauce, with braised chicken, needs less.)

And a section of pinwheel sausage reminiscent of the sort sold at Faicco’s on Bleecker Street will elicit shrugs from any New Yorker who has spent 45 minutes waiting for a table here, delicious as it is. Coulda made it at home.

So, don’t order that. Look instead to nightly specials, where Mr. Appleman tacks away from Mr. McNally’s haute comfort-food groove and makes the food better than it needs to be. Goat meatballs to convert the squeamish, with a tang of yogurt: oh, man. Duck with charred dates, fennel, smoked olives: yes.

Come late for the burgers that are served, hipsterishly, only after midnight. Come early for breakfast, where a roasted grapefruit benefits from its crust of muscovado sugar and scattered mint, and the pizza has sausage and bacon on it, with white Cheddar and a fried egg. (Good coffee, too.)

Pulino’s can be punishingly loud, particularly when the walls on the east side of the room are open to blatting trucks on the Bowery and everyone’s shouting into the din. But it is beautiful, and the service has the practiced excellence of first-class air travel or Parisian bistros. The restaurant is a vision of Manhattan that, like all of Mr. McNally’s projects, is at once entirely fake and entirely accurate.

Restaurant dressed as theater dressed as nostalgia, is how the novelist Richard Price put it, in “Lush Life.” That’s Pulino’s exactly.

ATMOSPHERE In McNallyworld, everyone sits in the catbird seat. We are all Julian Schnabel here.

WINE LIST Brief and heavily Italian, with most weighing in at under $50 a bottle — kind of Morandi-lite. Love the carafe service of house wines at $18 a pop.

PRICE RANGE Antipasti, $8 to $15; pizzas, $9 to $19; entrees, $18 to $29.

HOURS Monday to Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 2 a.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 2 a.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to midnight.

RESERVATIONS The restaurant takes reservations for about half the seats in the dining room. Call at least two weeks in advance or chance a wait at the bar.

WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The dining room is extremely crowded. There is an accessible restroom on the main floor.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer’s reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.
132 2010-05-05 The New Jersey Senate will block Gov. Christopher J. Christie’s appointment of a State Supreme Court justice by refusing to vote on whether to confirm the nominee, the Senate president said Tuesday, escalating a partisan clash between the governor and the Legislature.

On Monday, Mr. Christie, a Republican, broke with tradition and said he would not reappoint Justice John E. Wallace Jr., the court’s only black member, whose seven-year term is about to expire. Since the current system of reviewing justices after seven years was adopted in 1947, no justice had been refused reappointment.

Mr. Christie nominated Anne M. Patterson, a corporate litigator. The governor did not directly criticize Justice Wallace, but he has repeatedly said that he intends to change the historically liberal court, which he has accused of overstepping its authority.

On Tuesday, the Senate president, Stephen M. Sweeney, a Democrat from Gloucester County, said he would not allow confirmation hearings, a committee vote or a vote by the full Senate on Ms. Patterson’s nomination. A vacancy does not prevent the court from functioning.

“This governor has injected politics deeply into it,” Mr. Sweeney said. “The message to judges was, ‘Do as I say or you’re not going to be around.’ ”

The governor’s press secretary, Michael Drewniak, said in a statement: “The Senate’s constitutional duty is to provide ‘advise and consent’ through a hearing for the nominee, followed by an up-or-down vote in the full Senate. That’s all we ask. So we would be surprised if the Senate president is willing to simply abandon the New Jersey Constitution and refuse to consider a qualified judicial nominee.”
133 2010-05-05 Has any major composer disappeared from public view in the United States more completely than Karlheinz Stockhausen did during the last decades of his life? Once a seminal figure in the international avant-garde, Stockhausen all but reduced himself to a historical footnote in the decades before his death in 2007, through his increasingly esoteric output and with an ill-conceived statement ascribing aesthetic value to the 9/11 World Trade Center attack.

But Stockhausen never stopped composing, and a concert presented at the Guggenheim Museum on Sunday as part of the Works & Process series suggested that the time for a reassessment of his late works is at hand. The program included “Oberlippentanz” (“Upper Lip Dance,” 1984), derived from the opera “Samstag aus Licht” (“Saturday From Light”), and “Freude” (“Joy,” 2005), part of an unfinished final opus, “Klang” (“Sound”).

This was a brave, important move. The significance of Stockhausen’s major works from the 1950s and ’60s is beyond challenge, and the simpler style he adopted in the 1970s has its advocates. But from 1977 on, Stockhausen was absorbed with two epics steeped in pancultural mysticism: “Licht,” a cycle of seven operas, one for each day of the week, and “Klang,” a 24-part series based on the hours of the day, of which he completed 21 sections before his death. (The first integral performance of “Klang” is scheduled to take place on Saturday and Sunday during the Musik Triennale Köln in Cologne, Germany.)

Those latter works have largely gone unnoticed outside Europe. One exception, the 1993 “Helicopter String Quartet” from “Mittwoch aus Licht” (“Wednesday From Light”), attracted attention chiefly for nonmusical, logistical reasons.

At Sunday’s concert, the fascination was purely musical, and substantial. “Oberlippentanz,” adapted from part of the third scene in “Samstag aus Licht,” was inspired by the piccolo-trumpet improvisations of Stockhausen’s son, Markus Stockhausen, and named for an onstage ensemble arranged into a gigantic face.
134 2010-05-05 WASHINGTON — The arrest of a suspect in the attempted Times Square car bombing revived the volatile political debate over terrorism policy on Tuesday, as President Obama ’s supporters and critics squared off over how the nation should handle those plotting against it.

The suspect, Faisal Shahzad, was interrogated without initially being read his Miranda rights under a public safety exception, and provided what the F.B.I. called “valuable intelligence and evidence.”

After investigators determined there was no imminent threat to be headed off, Mr. Shahzad was later read his rights to remain silent, but he waived them and continued talking, the F.B.I. said. Authorities charged him as a civilian on Tuesday, but postponed plans to bring him to court.

The handling of Mr. Shahzad touched off the same sort of argument that followed the attempted Christmas Day bombing of a passenger jet bound for Detroit. Some Republicans urged the Obama administration to interrogate Mr. Shahzad without affording him Miranda rights and to classify him as an enemy combatant, which would allow authorities to detain him indefinitely. But Democrats said his quick arrest and his reported confession showed the system can respond to threats of terrorism without resorting to extraordinary tactics.

“The American people can be assured that the F.B.I. and their partners in this process have all the tools and experience they need to learn everything we can,” Mr. Obama said. “That includes what, if any, connection this individual has to terrorist groups. And it includes collecting critical intelligence as we work to disrupt any future attacks.”

Republicans quickly accused the administration of worrying too much about legal niceties and not enough about public safety.

“We’ve got to be far less interested in protecting the privacy rights of these terrorists than in collecting information that may lead us to details of broader schemes to carry out attacks in the United States,” Senator Christopher S. Bond of Missouri, the ranking Republican on the Senate intelligence committee, said in an interview.

Senator John McCain of Arizona called it a mistake to read Mr. Shahzad his Miranda rights so soon. “When we detain terrorism suspects, our top priority should be finding out what intelligence they have that could prevent future attacks and save American lives,” he said on Sean Hannity’s radio show. “Our priority should not be telling them they have a right to remain silent.”

Representative Peter T. King of New York, the ranking Republican on the House Homeland Security Committee, said in a separate interview that he was troubled by the rush to charge Mr. Shahzad as a civilian. “In these kinds of cases, the first preference should be a military commission because you can get more information,” he said.

But unlike the Nigerian suspect in the Christmas attack, Mr. Shahzad is an American citizen. The Supreme Court has ruled that an American citizen captured in Afghanistan could be detained as an enemy combatant, but it is not clear whether that would apply to citizens detained on American soil.

Under the Military Commissions Act of 2006, only noncitizens can be tried in a military commission, meaning the law would need to be changed to bring Mr. Shahzad before such a tribunal.

Democrats said the Shahzad case dispels the idea that constitutional protections need to be tossed aside in cases of terrorism. “We have proven in this country for a long, long time that you can get very valuable information out of people after you Mirandize them,” Representative Adam Smith, Democrat of Washington, said in an interview. Looking at the results of other interrogations, he said, “you see that what we’re doing is actually very effective.”

In a case of odd allies, Glenn Beck, the conservative Fox News commentator, said Mr. Shahzad was entitled to his rights. “He’s a citizen of the United States, so I say we uphold the laws and the Constitution on citizens,” Mr. Beck said. “He has all the rights under the Constitution. We don’t shred the Constitution when it’s popular.”

The administration is struggling to recalibrate the war against terrorists and to pull back on some of what Mr. Obama considers the excesses of the past. The administration has yet to figure out how to keep its promise to close the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. And it is reconsidering plans to hold civilian trials in New York City for figures accused of the Sept. 11 attacks.

Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said Tuesday that he has not ruled out holding 9/11 terror trials in New York. “Unfortunately, New York and Washington, D.C., remain targets of people who would do this nation harm,” he said. “And regardless of where a particular trial is, where a particular event is going to occur, I think that is going to remain true. And it is why we have to be especially vigilant in New York as well as in Washington.”

The White House said that the Central Intelligence Agency and the director of national intelligence were consulted before the decision to read Mr. Shahzad his Miranda rights, and that the high-value interrogation group that specializes in terrorism cases was tapped for its expertise.

Because of the limits on the handling of Mr. Shahzad, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, suggested legislation that would strip the citizenship of Americans tied to terrorism. Speaking on Fox News, he noted that existing law removes citizenship from Americans fighting for enemy militaries.

“It’s time for us to look at whether we want to amend that law to apply it to American citizens who choose to become affiliated with foreign terrorist organizations, whether they should not also be deprived automatically of their citizenship and therefore be deprived of rights that come with that citizenship when they are apprehended and charged with a terrorist act,” he said.
135 2010-05-05 The drug companies Pfizer and Merck posted better-than-expected first-quarter results Tuesday and stood by their long-term forecasts.

Pfizer and Merck — the world’s top two drug manufacturers by 2009 sales, according to IMS Health — are counting on huge cost savings in the next few years from acquisitions of rivals Wyeth (by Pfizer) and Schering-Plough (by Merck).

“It looks like both companies are already getting leverage from merger-related cost savings, and it’s going right to the bottom line,” Damien Conover, a Morningstar analyst, said. “This is a trend that we’ll see continue going forward.”

Results of drug manufacturers in the quarter were hurt by the new health insurance overhaul legislation, which requires companies to provide larger price rebates to patients in the Medicaid insurance program for the poor.

“The results for Merck and Pfizer also complete that theme we’ve seen for other drug makers this quarter, that largely good results are offsetting the costs of health care reform,” Mr. Conover said.
136 2010-05-05 On Tuesday the rout was again centered on Greece, whose stock market fell 6.7 percent. Ominously, though, it spread around the heavily indebted fringes of the Continent, including Spain, where stocks plunged 5.4 percent. Even in Britain, which has a general election on Thursday, investors sold off stocks in droves.

The jitters also jumped across the Atlantic to the United States, which until recently had been perceived as comfortably distant from the financial troubles in Europe. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.02 percent, to 10,926.77, on Tuesday, its lowest level in nearly a month.

Investors battered the euro, the currency shared by 16 nations and often seen as a barometer of confidence in the European economy. At the end of trading it was worth just above $1.30, down considerably from its record high of $1.60 in July 2008 but still well off its low of 83 cents in 2000.

There are growing concerns that the crisis could turn into a full-blown European banking disaster that could choke off credit to businesses and consumers at a time when the European economy is still fragile.

For the first time since markets were jolted by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, distress seemed to return to money markets, analysts said, where banks borrow short-term financing. The analysts pointed to a small but significant rise in interbank rates like Libor and in cross-currency basis swaps, which companies use to borrow in different currencies.

“There are some stress indicators, and one or two are flashing yellow,” said Zach Pandl, an economist at Nomura in New York. “Relative to where we were post-Lehman, this is innocuous, but it is starting to happen.”

Rating agencies are warning that European banks could come under pressure. The banks are big holders of government debt, and their loan losses could mount as economies stagnate.

On Tuesday, the Greek finance ministry said it would dedicate $15 billion from the bailout program to a fund providing extra capital for its banks, Bloomberg News reported. Nevertheless, an index of the top 12 Greek banking stocks fell 10 percent.

“A lot of French and German banks have Greek bonds,” said Kevin Chau, a currency analyst with IDEAglobal in New York. “If they default it is not going to look good. So there is a fear that these banks may default. It starts a whole financial contagion. It will start to snowball.”

Governments have built up mountains of debt rescuing their banks and providing stimulus money to their economies over the last two years. That has left financial markets questioning whether heavily indebted countries in Europe can meet their pressing debt obligations.

Although Greece’s problems have dominated the headlines, the crisis would take on another dimension if it were to spread to Spain, which has a much bigger economy. On Tuesday there were signs it was doing just that.

At a news conference in Brussels, the Spanish prime minister, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, rejected the idea that his country — which is headed into a second year of recession with a soaring budget deficit and an unemployment rate of 20 percent — might require a Greek-style bailout.

“That’s something I would not give any credit to,” Mr. Zapatero said. “It is complete madness.”

But his statements did not seem to reassure the markets. As European stock markets erased the gains they had built up this year, European government bond yields rose — in Portugal, for example, yields on two-year government notes rose to about 4.5 percent, up from less than 2 percent in January.

As the problems in Europe rippled through United States stock markets, the crisis seemed to be entering a potentially more dangerous phase, one that could have ramifications for American businesses and consumers.

Robert C. Hockett, a professor at the Cornell University Law School, said the European crisis could be good news for the United States in the short term as investors flee Europe, making credit more freely available for American borrowers.

But further out, he said, it could spell trouble as a stronger dollar makes United States exports more expensive abroad. That could hamper the recovery here.

“If this turns into a classic contagion about sovereign debt rather than just Greek or European debt at some point American sovereign debt may be targeted,” he said.

Michael T. Darda, an economist at MKM Partners, said that so far equity markets rather than debt markets had borne the brunt of investor nervousness.

“Despite the recent rise, Libor and interest rate swap spreads remain well within normal levels and thus do not suggest to us an imminent problem in the corporate bond market,” he wrote. “However, the recent rise should not be ignored either, so we will continue to watch these indicators carefully.”
137 2010-05-05 But according to Andy Brown, a partner at B & W Quality Growers, which is based in central Florida and is the world’s largest producer, I was lucky. Eating wild watercress can be as risky as nibbling a foraged mushroom.

It’s not the watercress, he said; it’s the environment. To be safe, the plants, which actually grow in water, must be right at the source of a spring before it can be contaminated by parasites carried by tiny snails or livestock or other animals. In some areas, wild cress may also absorb high levels of heavy metals, like copper. According to the Web site wildaboutbritain.co.uk, the British post warnings about wild watercress along some streams. The watercress sold in stores should not pose a risk.

Jeff Aldana, a sales representative for Baldor Specialty Foods, a wholesale distributor in the Bronx, said that chefs today tend to use arugula because the cultivated watercress that he sells, from Florida, is twice as expensive.

Still, there are chefs and cooks who adore it. “I love the texture and the heat,” said Sharon Pachter, of the Grocery in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, who was shopping at the Union Square Greenmarket in mid-April. “It’s great sautéed or in a salad.”

Watercress can be quickly blanched and puréed, often with the addition of some spinach in classic recipes, and be turned into a soup, a sauce or the basis of a savory soufflé or custard. And it’s a stir-fry staple. For these uses, the heavy stems may be left on.

The Chinese account for about 60 percent of the market, Mr. Brown said, and they prefer the bigger, woody bunches, stems and all, for dishes like beef with watercress or watercress soup.

“They regard it as a cooling ingredient and a healthful antioxidant,” he said.

In short, watercress is yin. Like other dark leafy green vegetables, it is packed with nutrients. But it’s the flavor that attracts cooks. Like tatsoi, baby mustard and radish sprouts, it is a cruciferous vegetable related to broccoli, standing ready to impart a nice feisty note.

Craig Koketsu pairs it with halibut and a pea purée at Quality Meats in Midtown. At Print, at 11th Avenue and 48th Street, Charles Rodriguez uses it to tie together the flavors of scallops, a red wine onion purée and mushrooms.

Marcus Jernmark, the executive chef at Aquavit in Midtown, folds the purée into a risotto-style dish made with barley, which he calls barlotto. He is partial to its tanginess. “It’s my palate,” he said. “I would use horseradish all the time if I could, but watercress gives a similar effect.”

Supermarket watercress often looks wilted as its shelf life diminishes rapidly. But you can refresh it by untying the bunch and dropping it into a large bowl of cold water. It will perk up. Dry it gently, and it’s ready for a salad like the one with Gorgonzola and pears at Frankies Spuntino, which has locations on the Lower East Side and in Carroll Gardens.

Mr. Brown also said that it is easy to grow at home. Put a bunch in a large bowl of water with some clean gravel in the bottom, and it will begin to put forth roots and grow. Soon it will be ready for a tender harvest, on demand.
138 2010-05-05 If there was one person who didn't need to wear a name tag at Edward R. Murrow High School,  it was Saul Bruckner, Murrow's founding principal, who guided the school in Midwood, Brooklyn, to national prominence over 30 years, from 1974 to 2004.   ...
139 2010-05-05 McCORD--Robert Reed. My wonderful husband and very best friend died April 28, 2010. He was generous and loving, and lived his life with goodness and great wit. Contributions can be made in his memory to harlemrbi.org, which he cared deeply about. ...
140 2010-05-05 Europe's nervous markets were calmed, at last, on Monday after the European Union and the International Monetary Fund broke their logjam and approved a long-delayed financial rescue package for Greece. But then Tuesday came, and that poise vanishe...
141 2010-05-06 Former Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. called the regulatory system that he confronted in the Bush administration “archaic and outmoded.”...
142 2010-05-06 The $106.5 million sale of Pablo Picasso’s “Nude, Green Leaves and Bust,” a record price for the one-day masterpiece, underlines the disparate fortunes of the financial and the real economy, Reuters Breakingviews says....
143 2010-05-06 A student-run bank branch inside a charter high school in Harlem teaches teenagers -- and their families -- valuable lessons in financial literacy....
144 2010-05-06 The Sanders amendment may now have a chance at passage....
145 2010-05-06 Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of United States District Court said that the director Joe Berlinger would have to turn over more than 600 hours of footage from his documentary "Crude."...
146 2010-05-06 At a bank branch of the Thurgood Marshall Academy in Harlem, student bankers educate their classmates in the art of saving money.
147 2010-05-06 Highlights for consumers from the special section on business travel in Thursday's Business section....
148 2010-05-06 Scientists lash out after months of unsubstantiated assaults on the integrity of climate research....
149 2010-05-06 They are not cheap. They're also not very expensive....
150 2010-05-06 Wall Street indexes tumbled nearly 9 percent and then, almost as quickly, recovered most of their sudden decline....
151 2010-05-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
152 2010-05-06 Scientists and politicians are in more or less uncharted territory in putting so much dispersant -- chemicals that break down oil -- into the Gulf of Mexico to contain the spill there....
153 2010-05-06 Young talent and audiences will need to find other venues....
154 2010-05-06 Officials delayed another commercial jet bound for Dubai moments before taking off from Kennedy Airport after finding that a passenger's name matched one on a federal "no-fly" list. The person on the flight, thought, was not the same person who is...
155 2010-05-06 Many of the city's best-known musicians are assessing the damage to their property and making plans to help Nashville get back on its feet...
156 2010-05-06 Americold Realty Trust, the real estate investment trust controlled by Ron Burkle's fund Yucaipa, on Thursday delayed its $660 million initial public offering, according to Bloomberg data, a day after it slashed the pricing for what was set to be ...
157 2010-05-06 In 2014, people who receive insurance through their employers but pay more than 9.5 percent of their income in premiums will be able to purchase insurance on the exchanges instead....
158 2010-05-06 Procter & Gamble, the nation's largest advertiser, is resuming a campaign honoring mothers, which the company described as among its most popular and successful....
159 2010-05-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
160 2010-05-06 The e-mail message: 'Please help me with this. I need the money to make payroll next week. I have to pay my workers. I cannot miss that payment. You can help me. I am on my knees, begging. Please. Please. Please.'...
161 2010-05-06 Swiss Re, the world's second-biggest reinsurer, boosted its capital by around $3 billion, making the company think it can repay a costly convertible loan from billionaire Warren E. Buffett and regain a key AA credit rating....
162 2010-05-06 Student Opinion | If intelligent beings exist on other planets, would they be friendly or threatening if they visited Earth?...
163 2010-05-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
164 2010-05-06 Douglas Dynamics, the snowplow maker, said Wednesday it priced shares of its initial public offering at the bottom of a reduced range, raising $112.5 million....
165 2010-05-06 Borrowing costs for Europe's more vulnerable countries rose on Wednesday while stocks and the euro fell, as the possibility of a new credit downgrade for Portugal underscored fears that efforts to contain the debt crisis to Greece were failing....
166 2010-05-06 Europe may need a broad cure to its debt crisis, but the increasingly awkward pairing of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund makes such action unlikely....
167 2010-05-06 Liberal Democrats in the Senate, emboldened by a wave of populism, are trying to make financial regulatory legislation far tougher on Wall Street, potentially restricting or breaking up the biggest banks and financial companies....
168 2010-05-06 But Mr. Stringer, Ms. Quinn and Mr. de Blasio all played down the role of politics in the squabble over earmarks.

“Voters smell when you’re not being forthcoming,” Mr. Stringer said.

And Ms. Quinn said: “This is New York City. Almost never do two people have exactly the same idea.”

As for Mr. de Blasio, he said: “I understand why politically minded people instantly go there. But it’s outrageous. It’s just months after the last mayoral election.”

Still, there was little doubt in some corners of City Hall that the debate over transparency had taken on political overtones.

Council members said they felt caught between competing factions, with several refusing to cooperate with Mr. de Blasio for fear of upsetting Ms. Quinn.

Peter F. Vallone Jr., Democrat of Queens, said the Council had grown accustomed to dealing with the politics of city government. “We’re caught in political battles every day,” Mr. Vallone said. “Most of what’s done at City Hall has a political aspect to it, and I’m sure this one does too.”

So far, only 5 of the 51 Council members have handed over applications for earmarks to Mr. de Blasio. In response, he gave Ms. Quinn an ultimatum, calling on her to provide the rest of the applications by last Friday.

Coincidentally, or not, Ms. Quinn held a news conference that day to promote her own Web site to disclose how the estimated $50 million in discretionary money was spent. While her database includes information on earmarks doled out in 2009 and 2010, it will not expand to include applications until next year.

Ms. Quinn praised Mr. de Blasio for focusing on the issue, but said his effort was flawed because he could not ensure Council members would provide every application they had received. She repeated her intention not to comply with his request.

Mr. de Blasio, a former councilman, and Ms. Quinn have had a long and sometimes combative relationship. They met as young staff members during the Dinkins administration, when Mr. de Blasio was a City Hall aide and Ms. Quinn worked for the Council. They collaborated in the early 1990s on an effort to extend health benefits to domestic partners of city employees.

Their paths crossed again during Hillary Rodham Clinton’s 2000 Senate campaign, which Mr. de Blasio managed. Ms. Quinn, then a freshman Council member, urged Mrs. Clinton not to march in the St. Patrick’s Day Parade because of its rules banning displays of gay pride. (Mrs. Clinton decided to march anyway.)

In 2006, as two of the most visible members of the Council, Mr. de Blasio and Ms. Quinn competed in the race for speaker. Ms. Quinn won, but she ultimately made Mr. de Blasio part of her leadership team. “I knew he was a smart, hardworking guy who shared my values,” she said.

But Mr. de Blasio said the two did not always work in harmony. “The first few weeks were a little strange,” he said.

The two sparred again in the debate over extending term limits. Mr. de Blasio pulled no punches in his criticism of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and, by extension, Ms. Quinn, who backed the mayor’s efforts to rewrite the law limiting city officials to two terms.

As speaker, Ms. Quinn has made strengthening oversight of the Council’s budget, including its discretionary money, a cornerstone of her agenda. Critics say lax monitoring of the money helped contribute to the scandals.

In December, former Councilman Miguel Martinez was sentenced to five years in prison involving the theft of $106,000 in city money, some of which was intended for nonprofits. In February, Councilman Larry B. Seabrook was charged with money laundering, extortion and fraud for directing city money to family and friends.

Federal and city investigations into the earmarks are continuing and include nonprofit groups linked to Councilwoman Maria del Carmen Arroyo of the Bronx.

Mr. de Blasio has made the Council and its budget one of his early focuses, perhaps hoping to reap potential political rewards. He has made a point of showing up to Council meetings more frequently than his predecessor as public advocate, sometimes four or five times a week.

“Did I understand that some people would be uncomfortable? Of course,” he said. “It’s clearly more comfortable to do things in the quiet than out in the open.”

Mr. White, of the New School, said that Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Stringer did not hold particularly powerful positions but that they could use the high-profile nature of their jobs to continue to chip away at Ms. Quinn’s public image.

“They’re certainly trying to make clear that they are not a Michael Bloomberg kind of official,” Mr. White said. “All three of them are going to try and show that they are the most populist.”
169 2010-05-06 And while most environmentalists support the application of dispersants as a necessary evil to limit the damage, some have assailed an industry policy that guards their chemical makeup. Keeping the exact mix secret makes it harder to evaluate the risks to marine ecosystems and to know what side effects to look for as the crisis unfolds.

What is more, the main dispersants applied so far, from a product line called Corexit, had their approval rescinded in Britain a decade ago because laboratory tests found them harmful to sea life that inhabits rocky shores, like limpets, said Mark Kirby, a scientific adviser to the British government on the testing, use and approval of oil spill treatment options.

But Mr. Kirby added that the finding might have little to no relevance to the current situation, where the product is being applied in the open ocean. While Corexit failed the British government’s limpet test, it passed its offshore safety tests, Mr. Kirby said. (The dispersant had to pass both tests for British waters.)

Still, as the molecules from the 160,000 gallons of dispersant bind with the oil from Deepwater Horizon, the oil drilling rig that exploded on April 20, and fan out across the gulf, some groups are fighting for more information about the product’s composition. That amount of dispersant is greater than the entire stockpile kept by oil-producing nations like Norway.

“We flew over there and saw BP spraying all over the place,” said Frederic Hauge, head of the international environment group Bellona, based in Oslo. “We deserve to know what’s in there.”

Although the Nalco Company, which makes the Corexit dispersants, posted copies of the safety documents for two of its dispersants online Wednesday, some of the ingredients are listed as “proprietary.”

The 10-page documents go into detail about compounds that must be handled with great care in their original form, that should not touch the skin and can damage lungs. Although the documents state that the potential environmental hazard is “moderate,” they say that when used as directed at sea in the recommended amounts the potential environmental exposure is “low.”

“It’s like any other product,” said Charlie Pajor, a senior manager at the Illinois-based company: “We developed them and we’re protecting our trade secret.”

Mr. Pajor said that the company increased production over the weekend because it generally stockpiles only a small amount, Corexit products are generally used in much smaller amounts to treat far smaller spills, he added.

Mr. Pajor said he could not recall a deployment of the product comparable to the current effort.

Dispersants do not remove the oil from the ocean but instead bind with it and cause oil slicks to break up into tiny droplets that sink and can be “dispersed” by the current. They are particularly effective in treating spills in deep water and far from land, where the current can spread the particles over a large range, diluting their dangerous effects.

“You’re basically taking the oil and transferring it to other compartments where it won’t do so much damage,” said Mr. Kirby, a team leader at Cefas Lowestoft Laboratory in Britain.

Most dispersants, he said, are a mixture of four to six chemicals that in tandem cause the oil to break up. Roughly 20-odd dispersant products exist, he said, and while they have generally similar types of components, they “have proprietary recipes like Coca-Cola.”

When used out at sea, the products create a toxic plume in the immediate area that might be dangerous for marine life there, scientists agree, but they are diluted rather quickly by currents.

Like the United States and Britain, many countries test and approve the products before they are used, determining how toxic they are when administered in low doses to marine animals like shrimp.

New products are constantly being developed to be more effective. Still, a few countries forbid their use because their long-term effects are somewhat uncertain and many require prior approval of national officials before deployment.
170 2010-05-06 Sometimes politicians accidentally tell a very big truth. That’s what happened at a New York State Democratic conference in Niagara Falls last week. Malcolm Smith, the State Senate president, was talking to party members about the redistricting that has to take place before the 2012 elections. If Democrats keep control of the State Senate next year, he vowed, “we are going to draw the lines so that Republicans will be in oblivion in the state of New York for the next 20 years.”

We have long known that Albany’s venal crowd — both parties — see political mapmaking as the best way to guarantee themselves lifetime employment. You just don’t expect to hear them admit it in public.

The current system is gerrymandering, pure and cynical. It is hugely unfair to voters who deserve real elections with real choices rather than these old mapmaking scams that are the foundation of Albany’s dysfunction and inertia.

If you don’t believe us, just listen to Mr. Smith. He has made the case for why New York desperately needs a new, fair, nonpartisan system for drawing Congressional and legislative districts. The answer is an independent, redistricting commission now being championed by Assemblyman Michael Gianaris and Senator David Valesky, both Democrats. Leaders of both houses should assure that this bill makes it to the floor for a vote in the next few weeks.

Voters should also put their representatives on notice right now: Support the creation of an honest redistricting commission or we’ll vote you out in November. They must also insist that all candidates for governor take an airtight pledge that they will support the Gianaris-Valesky proposal — and, if elected, will veto any gerrymandered maps brought to the governor’s desk.

Mr. Smith scoffs at such reforms. He says that Democrats can draw maps fairly. Republicans also promise that they could do it right if they were just back in control. Voters, don’t you believe it.
171 2010-05-06 “Investors were deceived into believing that SpongeTech was a successful business, while SpongeTech and its senior executives were illegally dumping shares into the market,” said Christopher Conte, an associate enforcement director for the commission.

Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney in Brooklyn, said the defendants were charged “with executing a bold scheme to portray SpongeTech as a company that was performing at a level far above reality.” She added, “The audacity of their scheme was matched only by their obstructive efforts during the course of the S.E.C.’s investigation.”

SpongeTech may never have been a successful business, but it did buy a lot of promotions at sports stadiums and on broadcasts. Last year, the company says, it had deals with at least 30 teams, in baseball, hockey, basketball and football. The S.E.C. says some of those deals were financed through the illegal sales of stock. Some of the teams and stadiums have sued SpongeTech for not living up to its obligations.

On Tuesday, sitting in a conference room in SpongeTech’s offices, across the street from the Empire State Building, Mr. Moskowitz offered a series of statements that were directly contradicted by the government’s accusations.

That the S.E.C. was interested in the company was old news. The commission temporarily suspended trading in the stock in October, but allowed it to resume after 10 days. In December the company said it had been notified that the enforcement staff planned to recommend to the commission that a suit be filed, but that there had been no public developments since then.

In the interview, he said that the S.E.C. was investigating only two things.

The first was that the company had given a different profit figure in a news release than it gave in an S.E.C. filing. He said the S.E.C. filing, made later the same day, was correct, and that his lawyers had told him there was no need for a corrective news release, given that the S.E.C. filing had already corrected it.

The second issue, he said, concerned sales of stock by persons who had done so using legal opinions — saying the shares were freely tradable — whose accuracy the commission evidently doubted. He said he did not know who the lawyers or the shareholders were. None of the shares, he added, were sold by the company’s officers or directors, or by entities associated with them.

He added that the company had 723 million shares outstanding, just as it had reported in the last financial statements it filed with the commission, in April 2009.

He said the company’s profit claims would be vindicated later this month, when it filed overdue audited financial statements.

The commission’s suit and the federal charges, filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, contradict almost everything Mr. Moskowitz said. The S.E.C. put the number of outstanding shares in SpongeTech at almost three billion.

The commission says some of the legal letters in question were supposedly signed by a nonexistent lawyer who used the name David Bomart and also used the same fax number as Mr. Moskowitz. It said the stock was sold by RM Enterprises, a company controlled by Mr. Moskowitz and Mr. Metter, and that Mr. Moskowitz fired SpongeTech’s stock transfer agent when it demanded a meeting with Mr. Bomart.

After the S.E.C. began investigating and asked for ways to contact SpongeTech’s major customers, the suit says, RM Enterprises hired George Speranza, whom the S.E.C. describes as a consultant “who operates the Internet stock hype site, ‘nohypenobull.com.’ ” He was assigned to create false Web sites and false office listings for the fictitious customers, the S.E.C. said. He was also named as a defendant in the S.E.C. case.

SpongeTech shares, which traded for more than 28 cents last summer, when the promotion was at its height, fell 3.4 cents to seven-tenths of a penny in over-the-counter trading on Wednesday. More than 177 million shares were traded.

If the government accusations are correct, then the company should rank as among the most aggressive penny-stock frauds ever.

Two weeks ago, it filed a suit in New York state court seeking $100 million from The New York Post, which has aggressively covered the company’s disputes with sports teams, and from a hedge fund manager and others the company said were involved in a “short and distort stock manipulation scheme” to drive down the price of SpongeTech stock.

“SpongeTech has been, and continues to be, greatly injured in name and reputation including, inter alia, public opinion of SpongeTech as a company and an investment vehicle is unfavorable and the company and its executives have suffered contempt, ridicule, aversion, shame and disgrace among others in their community and in the business world, among citizens of the state of New York, the nation and the world,” the suit asserted.

A call to SpongeTech’s office seeking comment on Wednesday reached a message saying the phone line was temporarily out of service. Mr. Moskowitz did not respond to an e-mail message. He and Mr. Metter were released by a federal magistrate Wednesday afternoon on $2 million bond each, secured by property.
172 2010-05-06 LONDON — Prudential, the British insurer trying to buy A.I.A., the Asian life insurance business of the American International Group, postponed the start of its rights issue Wednesday because Britain’s financial regulator needed more time to test the capital ratios of the combined group.

Prudential said it still expected to complete the deal in the third quarter. The insurer expected to raise $21 billion through the rights issue to pay for the $35.5 billion takeover of A.I.A., which would be the biggest transaction ever for the 162-year-old company.

The company had intended to publish the prospectus of the issue and meet with investors Wednesday in preparation for an investor vote on the share sale this month. But it said it was delaying the release until it could resolve talks with the Financial Services Authority, the British financial regulator, about the combined company’s capital position. It also postponed releasing its quarterly report.

“Up until 7 o’clock this morning, people were expecting the rights news to hit the market,” said Paul Mumford, a fund manager at Cavendish Asset Management, which holds about £2.5 million ($3.8 million) in Prudential shares. “Clearly, there’s some sort of formula that needs to be satisfied.”

Prudential said the talks revolved around the “capital position” of the combined company based on a European Union rule that requires a certain solvency ratio for insurance companies.
173 2010-05-06 It’s striking that this report emerges not from the fringe but from the mission control of mainstream scientific and medical thinking, the President’s Cancer Panel. Established in 1971, this is a group of three distinguished experts who review America’s cancer program and report directly to the president.

One of the seats is now vacant, but the panel members who joined in this report are Dr. LaSalle Leffall Jr., an oncologist and professor of surgery at Howard University, and Dr. Margaret Kripke, an immunologist at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in . Both were originally appointed to the panel by former President .

“We wanted to let people know that we’re concerned, and that they should be concerned,” Professor Leffall told me.

The report blames weak laws, lax enforcement and fragmented authority, as well as the existing regulatory presumption that chemicals are safe unless strong evidence emerges to the contrary.

“Only a few hundred of the more than 80,000 chemicals in use in the have been tested for safety,” the report says. It adds: “Many known or suspected carcinogens are completely unregulated.”

Industry may howl. The food industry has already been fighting legislation in the Senate backed by Dianne Feinstein of California that would ban , commonly found in plastics and better known as BPA, from food and beverage containers.

Studies of BPA have raised alarm bells for decades, and the evidence is still complex and open to debate. That’s life: In the real world, regulatory decisions usually must be made with ambiguous and conflicting data. The panel’s point is that we should be prudent in such situations, rather than recklessly approving chemicals of uncertain effect.

The President’s Cancer Panel report will give a boost to ’s efforts. It may also help the prospects of the Safe Chemicals Act, backed by Senator and several colleagues, to improve the safety of chemicals on the market.

Some 41 percent of Americans will be diagnosed with cancer at some point in their lives, and they include Democrats and Republicans alike. Protecting ourselves and our children from toxins should be an effort that both parties can get behind — if enough members of Congress are willing to put the public interest ahead of corporate interests.

One reason for concern is that some cancers are becoming more common, particularly in children. We don’t know why that is, but the proliferation of chemicals in water, foods, air and household products is widely suspected as a factor. I’m hoping the President’s Cancer Panel report will shine a stronger spotlight on environmental causes of health problems — not only cancer, but perhaps also , and .

This is not to say that chemicals are evil, and in many cases the evidence against a particular substance is balanced by other studies that are exonerating. To help people manage the uncertainty prudently, the report has a section of recommendations for individuals:

¶Particularly when pregnant and when children are small, choose foods, toys and products with fewer endocrine disruptors or other toxins. (Information about products is at or .)

¶For those whose jobs may expose them to chemicals, remove shoes when entering the house and wash work clothes separately from the rest of the laundry.

¶Store water in glass or stainless steel containers, or in plastics that don’t contain BPA or phthalates (chemicals used to soften plastics). Microwave food in ceramic or glass containers.

¶Give preference to food grown without , chemical fertilizers and growth hormones. Avoid meats that are cooked well-done.

¶Check radon levels in your home. Radon is a natural source of radiation linked to cancer.
174 2010-05-06 “It is not really about money,” said Timothy Congdon, an economist and professed euro skeptic who foresees an exodus of savings from banks on Europe’s periphery to Germany as doubts build about these countries’ staying power in the Eurozone. “It is about how much pain the people in periphery can stand in order to keep this thing going. Once the confidence is gone, and Greeks and Spaniards move their deposits to Frankfurt, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, and the whole thing implodes.”

Officials throughout Europe continue to say that the plan for Greece is sufficient and there is no need for a broader aid proposal or a formal debt restructuring in any afflicted countries. Investors, though, continue to push down the euro, which fell to $1.28 on Wednesday, a significant sign of eroding confidence.

The traditional way to combat unemployment in a recession is to expand the money supply. Such a step puts downward pressure on interest rates and makes capital more plentiful for businesses and consumers alike, spurring economic growth.

Mr. Congdon said recent figures indicate that even after deflationary pressures in Spain and Ireland, and the broader effect of the Greek crisis on credit-starved banks in Europe, there had been no growth in the European Central Bank’s money supply.

This is proof enough, he contends, that the central bank remains under the influence of Germany, which firmly opposes this type of debt monetization, one that has been aggressively deployed in the United States and Britain to combat the recession.

As for the I.M.F., its ambitious managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, has been eager to present the fund as a potential savior for Europe. This is in spite of a postwar track record of providing a specific treatment of fiscal austerity and currency devaluation only when asked. So far, the fund has not shown the type of flexible, multination solution investors now say is warranted.

And even if the fund were called upon to address Europe’s broader debt crisis, doubts remain as to whether it has sufficient funds to do the job properly.

Representative Mark Steven Kirk, Republican of Illinois, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, which oversees financing to the I.M.F., estimates that a bailout of Spain could cost as much as $600 billion. Citing research from the Congressional Research Service, he says the fund has only $268 billion to lend.

With a 17 percent share of the international fund, the United States is the largest shareholder and financial contributor. Given the frustrations after the rescue of its financial institutions, and their subsequent landmark profits, there would seem to be scant appetite in the United States for increasing its support.

But there may be a deeper problem. The classic methodology that the fund uses in such situations — harsh austerity leavened with a currency devaluation — may not be fully applied in this instance. Greece alone does not control the euro, nor does Portugal or Spain.

According to Desmond Lachman, an economist and a former staff member in the fund’s policy review department, it is this dilemma that makes the fund’s job in Europe nearly impossible — especially in light of the 2 trillion euros of outstanding debt in the troubled peripheral economies.

Mr. Lachman argues that currency devaluations are a crucial balancing component to every harsh austerity program because they can kick-start exports and growth, thus diluting the pain of public spending cuts.

But with Greece and other Eurozone economies having a fixed currency, this option is unavailable, forcing the fund to compensate with even deeper austerity measures that prolong recessions and spark the type of social anger that came to characterize the fund’s controversial programs in Southeast Asia in the late 1990s.

For Greece to meet the fund’s target of a budget deficit of 4 percent to 6 percent of economic output in 2014, the government will need to find savings of 13.5 percent of its total output, according to an analysis by Barclays Capital. Such a turnaround has little precedent in past restructuring efforts in Western Europe and will be all the more difficult given the depth of the recession and the inability of Greece to devalue.

Some analysts wonder if the ever-sliding euro could give Greece and Europe the devaluation and the competitive boost it so desperately needs — or whether it will again be too little, too late.

Greece is not the only country that must survive brutal spending cuts and maintain a fixed currency regime. The economies of both Latvia, as part of an I.M.F. program, and Lithuania, on its own, have shrunk by more than 10 percent as a result of deep pullbacks in government spending.

Mr. Lachman says that when the I.M.F. came to the rescue of Latvia, which also has a fixed currency, staffers with the Fund recommended that the Latvian lat be allowed to float to ease the pain of the budget cuts.

“I know that the staffers were very unhappy with the program — they believed it would be impossible to achieve an adjustment in Latvia without moving the exchange rate,” Mr. Lachman said. “But the European Commission felt that if Latvia moved its rate, there would be contagion in Europe — so they put the pressure on.”

So far, neither Latvia nor Lithuania has been overwhelmed with the type of protests now occurring regularly in Athens.

But for Greece, where unions are powerful and already gearing up to oppose the government, not having the luxury to devalue the currency will make it all the harder for the fund’s program to succeed.
175 2010-05-06 KAREN E. SEIGER’S love of markets began when she worked in international aid in Africa, Latin America and Haiti. “In places like Mozambique, markets were the only place to shop,” she said. Now stateside, Ms. Seiger has turned her passion into a new guide called “Markets of New York City: A Guide to the Best Artisan, Farmer, Food and Flea Markets.” Last week, Ms. Seiger was at The Market NYC, also known as the Young Designers Market, an incubator for fresh talent at St. Patrick’s Old Cathedral Church in NoLIta. While there, she chatted with Wendel Johnston (at left), who attaches hoodies to vintage blazers, a process known as upcycling. “I love the designers who do what they do so brilliantly and with such a passion,” she said. The book, to be released on May 11, will be available at Idlewild Books, 12 West 19th Street (near Fifth Avenue), (212) 414-8888; idlewildbooks.com and amazon.com, $16.95.
176 2010-05-06 After President Obama rallied the charge for weeks for tough new rules on Wall Street, the strong push by liberal Democrats is forcing the administration to prevent the bill from getting too tough. It has also shifted the lobbying strategy for financial companies, putting them squarely on the defensive.

Some of the liberals view the financial regulatory legislation as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to slap handcuffs on big banks that they have long viewed as greedy.

“I have been a reformer and a watchdog all of my life,” Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, said in an impassioned floor speech. “I have a deep suspicion of how big banks treat the little people and what they do with the little people’s money.”

“We bailed out the whales,” Ms. Mikulski continued. “We bailed out the sharks, and we have left the people in the community, the little minnows, to swim upstream and be on their own.” She added, “Now is the opportunity to pass real financial reform.”

On Tuesday, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat, announced that he would support the Brown-Kaufman proposal, which would require some of Wall Street’s heaviest hitters, including Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, to shrink in size. On Wednesday, the majority leader, Harry Reid, called the proposal “intriguing.”

White House officials noted that the administration supported some of the liberal amendments, though perhaps not in the precise form in which they are being offered, and would have ample opportunity to shape the final regulatory package when the Senate bill was melded with the version adopted by the House of Representatives last December.

But in a preview of the legislative pirouettes that the administration may yet have to perform, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, signaled in Congressional testimony on Tuesday that the White House would work to scale back a provision by Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, that would require big banks to spin off most of their lucrative derivatives business.

Mrs. Lincoln, who is facing a difficult re-election campaign this year including a primary challenge by a more liberal Democrat, put forward a much tougher restriction on derivatives than the White House had anticipated.

In response to a question, Mr. Geithner said he was not prepared to take a formal position on Mrs. Lincoln’s proposal but he said, “You would not make the system more stable by taking functions that are integral and central to banking and separating and putting them somewhere else. That will create a less stable system.”

Another case in point is the proposal by Mr. Sanders, a self-described socialist, who is feeling bullish about his amendment requiring a public audit of the Fed. Mr. Sanders’s idea is opposed by the Fed and the White House, which view it as an encroachment on the central bank’s traditional independence.

Conservative Republicans like David Vitter of Louisiana also support the idea, and Mr. Sanders says he believes he can win the 60 votes needed to attach his proposal to the bill.

That, in turn, has the White House and the banking committee chairman, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, scrounging for ideas for a so-called side-by-side amendment — an alternate proposal on the Fed that would give senators something to support while offering them cover to vote down the Sanders measure.

The Senate on Wednesday approved the first amendments to the bill, including one that represented a deal between Mr. Dodd, and Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, intended to prevent future taxpayer-financed bailouts of failed banks.

But while that proposal was approved by a vote of 93 to 5, some liberals said it did not go far enough. And the decision by Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, to join four conservative Republicans in opposition to the amendment underscored the potential for cooperation of the left and the right in the days ahead.

Other proposals that could win bipartisan support is one that would impose the so-called Volcker Rule, barring banks from proprietary trading. Another would reinstate the Glass-Steagall Act, approved after the Great Depression, which maintained a firewall between commercial banking and investment banking until Congress repealed it in 1999.

Mr. Kaufman said that he was motivated not by populist politics, but by a desire to protect American markets from increased competition overseas. “I am not coming at this as a populist,” he said. “I am going at this as, ‘How do we protect our capital markets?’ ” He added, “God does not guarantee that the U.S. be the center of all capital markets.”

Other senators acknowledged that they were driven by years of conviction that tougher rules were needed for big banks and Wall Street.

“It is time that we pull the sharks out of the tank,” said Ms. Mikulski, who is one of six senators still in office who voted against repealing Glass-Steagall in 1999. “Make sure the whales do not crush the little guy, and make sure that the minnows get a chance and that we have an economy that is swimming.”
177 2010-05-06 Gary Cruz, an interior designer, is offering 20 percent off his new collection of hand-knotted Tibetan rugs through May 30 (the 8-by-10-foot Times Red wool-and-silk rug, above left, regularly $6,400, is $5,120). Information: (212) 243-3250 or garycruzstudio.com.

All samples are 40 to 60 percent off at Clodagh Design’s moving sale, through May 20 (a Squish sofa, originally $12,000, is $4,000; the Urban Bookcase, regularly $3,602, is $2,161): 670 Broadway (Great Jones Street), (212) 780-5300 or clodaghcollection.com.

Housing Works’ Design on a Dime event opens tonight with a preview party, with merchandise 50 to 70 percent off; tickets are $150 at the door, at housingworks.org or at (347) 473-7457. Design on a Dime continues Friday and Saturday at the Metropolitan Pavilion, 125 West 18th Street (Sixth Avenue).
178 2010-05-06 WASHINGTON — The Senate on Wednesday approved two amendments to the financial regulatory bill that both Democrats and Republicans claimed would end the prospect of taxpayer-financed bailouts for companies deemed “too big to fail.”

The votes broke a logjam that had paralyzed the Senate floor for much of the last week, and Senate leaders said they were working on an agreement that would allow debate on the regulatory legislation to proceed at a quicker pace.

By a vote of 93 to 5, the Senate approved an amendment by Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Banking Committee, which was the result of weeks of negotiations with Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat and banking committee chairman who is the legislation’s primary sponsor.

Central to that agreement were changes that addressed taxpayer bailouts of banks and investment companies that had gambled on the future of the housing market. Both parties had said they wanted to prevent such bailouts, which generated widespread anger among the public even as they stabilized the financial system.

But there was disagreement over how to prevent companies from becoming “too big to fail” so that their rescue would be regarded as critical to preserving that nation’s financial system.
179 2010-05-06 AVIATION security is getting less cumbersome, but more intrusive.

In 2009, 99.5 percent of passengers waited less than 20 minutes, according to the Transportation Security Administration, and more than 85 percent waited less than 10 minutes. In 2007, a bad year, 96.9 percent waited less than 20 minutes. Lines are moving faster partly because passengers now know the drill — they empty their pockets, take off their shoes and put their toiletries in resealable bags without needing to be told — and partly because screeners have gotten faster at identifying and dealing with objects that look suspicious on X-ray, specialists say.

The fastest approach to speeding passengers through an airport checkpoint may be a future technology that sees through passengers’ clothes, but many people object to the routine use of a technology that undresses passengers through imaging. The T.S.A. already uses such scanners, which require a traveler to stand in a booth with arms raised. Security experts hope for a walk-through process instead.

Scrutiny is getting tighter in other ways as well. People lining up to go through a checkpoint are being observed more closely — by security agents with psychological training, to help spot people whose behavior suggests they are up to no good.

An approach that offered frequent travelers a path to the head of the line was dropped last year, when a company called Verified Identity Pass abruptly closed. Among the reasons was that the number of passengers willing to pay $100 to $200 a year to avoid long lines was never more than a few hundred thousand, while the planners had anticipated millions. A company that bought the database of the original program hopes to revive it in the fall.

On the one hand, Roger Cohen, the president of the Regional Airline Association, said, the lines were not so bad, and he let his membership in the Verified Identity Pass program lapse before the company went bankrupt. Changes like having passengers check in and obtain boarding passes at automated kiosks or by computer from home have helped ease congestion, he added.
180 2010-05-06 Ms. Howell, who writes a business travel blog called the Road Warriorette (roadwarriorette.com), describes herself as “a better person and certainly a better employee,” when she practices yoga while on her business trips. “I’m better able to focus on the task at hand,” she said.

“Research has shown that those who practice yoga and Pilates have improved sleep quality,” said Michele Olson, an exercise physiologist at Auburn University-Montgomery in Alabama. “That’s a big plus for travelers.”

“If you’re sitting for hours on a plane, your hip flexors and hamstrings and other muscles shorten, and we know that can lead to back problems,” Dr. Olson says. “Yoga, because it involves a lot of moves and positions that lengthen those muscles, can be very beneficial in combating joint stiffness at the hip joint and preventing back problems.”

Christopher Berger, an exercise physiologist at the University of Pittsburgh, is leading a task force for the American College of Sports Medicine called “Exercise Is Medicine on the Fly,” designed to promote physical activity among travelers and airport employees.

“Since 9/11, we have very long lines, unpredictable searches and more demands on people,” he said. “There’s certainly psychological stress associated with that. One of our goals for this task force is to get people to use airports as places to blow off that steam.”

Some major American airports do seem to be trying to offer passengers more opportunities to get blood flowing instead of boiling. Detroit Metropolitan Airport, for example, has a marked one-mile walking trail on the airport grounds, and so-called Reflection Rooms in each of its two main terminals — one 720 square feet, the other 357 square feet — where yoga and meditation can be comfortably practiced.

Beryl Bender Birch, a yoga teacher and author of “Beyond Power Yoga” and “Boomer Yoga,” suggested this sequence of three stretches for business travelers.

SEATED FORWARD BEND (relieves stress in the neck, lessons tensions in the hips and lower back caused by lengthy sitting)

Inhale, stretch your arms out in front of you. Fold your hands and interlace your fingers, then exhale and stretch your arms up overhead. Keeping your fingers interlaced, reverse your hands, so your palms are facing up. Arch your back, press your ribcage out and your buttocks forward, tighten your belly, straighten out your legs and point your toes. Feel the shins stretch as the toes point. Look up and back. Take three deep breaths with your mouth closed. Then inhale and release the whole stretch on an exhale. Repeat.

SEATED BACK STRETCH (stretches the back of your body)

Grab your knees with your hands. On an exhalation, pull against your knees with your hands, curl forward, rounding your spine and pushing your back into the back of your seat (make sure the seat-back tray in front of you is up). Drop your head forward and press your chin into your chest. Pull your shoulders up around your ears and round them forward, tighten the belly, pull your heels back toward the bottom of your seat and lift your toes. Feel the stretch all the way from your shoulders to your feet. Repeat.

Put your right ankle on your left knee in a cross-legged position. Inhale deeply and grab your right knee with your left hand. Lean forward slightly and take hold of the arm rest to your right with your right hand, then exhale deeply and twist as far as you can to the right. Inhale again and as you exhale, pull with your left hand and reach your right arm up in the air. Push your right shoulder back, and look back over your right shoulder. Pull your belly in and take three big conscious breaths with your mouth closed. Repeat.
181 2010-05-06 Q. If the credit markets were functioning the way they should, would there still be a place for On Deck?

A. There’s been trouble in credit on Main Streets for decades. In 2006, when we launched the company and liquidity was everywhere, over five million Main Street small businesses were declined for credit because of a low personal credit score. Several million of those have the cash-flow stability in their businesses to be able to service a loan, but the existing system doesn’t detect that.

Q. What information does On Deck look for?

A. The full picture. What cash is coming in, what cash is going out? What is the pattern and stability of their customer activity? How diversified is their customer base? The fundamental building blocks are their online banking information, their payment processing information, and their accounting information — 60 percent of our users today have QuickBooks.

Q. Do you continue to collect data about businesses after they have paid off their loans?

A. If they ask us to. Because they then are credit-ready the next time they need capital.

Q. Is this like revolving credit, then, or a credit card?

A. No. It’s very important that when a small business borrows for the purpose of some type of equipment replacement, inventory or marketing that they pay down the capital in the time period that they are using the money. Otherwise, they won’t be able to borrow again the next time.

A lot of people think if you’ve purchased a refrigeration unit that has a five-year lifespan, then you should have a five-year loan. But that’s the wrong way to look at it. The question is: what’s the next big-ticket purchase and when is that going to come up?

Q. But the interest rate you charge is pretty high, right?

A. The average right now is in the low 20s. It’s consistently below 30 percent.

Q. How much of that does On Deck keep?

A. Actually, the way we designed the program, businesses pay us a fee of $500 and up to act as a virtual director of finance. One of the advantages that we have is that, since we validate all of the information electronically, we are able to share with the business owners where their strengths and weaknesses are and provide a significant amount of what would be called technical assistance. They pay us for the On Deck service, and then we pass through the cost of the capital from the market to the borrower.

Q. What might a business learn from you?

A. From a cash-flow standpoint, just as an example, we’re providing them with ranking information — where they stand in comparison to similar businesses in their industry. And also when it looks like the rate at which their cash is going out is greater than the rate at which the cash is coming in.

Q. Couldn’t they just look at their checking account to see whether the cash going out is greater than the cash coming in?

A. The business owner may not have really studied, on an ongoing basis, the cash-flow trends in their business, and they’re also not aware of at which point the cash-flow profile of their business might concern a source of capital.

Q. Studies show that a business is more likely to fail if it has more credit card debt, owing to the high interest rate. But On Deck’s interest rates are often higher still. What does that say about the outlook for your customers?

A. Our businesses have on average a million dollars of revenue, and what you and I are talking about right now is a $2,000 difference, if that, at the max, on a $30,000 loan. So everyone needs to stop talking about optical interest rates on short-duration, small-dollar transactions, because it is resulting in businesses not getting access to capital that they can much more than afford.

Q. But a lot of these businesses are going to be low-margin businesses, where every thousand dollars is a lot of money.

A. We’re working with businesses that have a significant amount of cash flow, and they wouldn’t be qualified for our program if they didn’t have it.

Q. How often do your borrowers default?

A.. Toward the tail end of 2008, we had a peak in the loss performance of the portfolio. But it’s never crossed 10 percent, and typically it operates well below that.

Q. Payday lenders and credit card lenders often say that their loans are expensive because the borrowers are risky, and the cost of their loans reflects that risk. Why are your loans so expensive?

A. There is a misperception about the risk, but in order to dislodge capital from underlying capital sources, the pricing of the risk is in line with their requirements.

Q. You clearly have a higher loss rate than banks do on commercial loans. What’s the misperception?

A. We’ve got large pockets of businesses that consistently show very low loss rates; we’ve got other business groups in the middle and others that show higher loss rates. The On Deck system is helping to parse out the different populations of businesses, and they will be able to access lower and lower-cost capital as there’s more history and more businesses in the system.

Q. Presumably, if the loans weren’t risky, you wouldn’t need to collect a payment every day.

A. The daily automated system of collection provides a few different benefits, one of which is to reduce the risk of serving this marketplace. It also makes it easier for the business, and it also helps the business get out of debt faster so that it can take on the next challenge.

Q. Where do you get the capital to lend out?

A. We have a series of family offices, institutions and hedge funds that provide capital. We’ve created the pipe for them to be able to reach the small borrowers that they’ve never been able to reach before.

Q. It seems what you’re talking about is a transfer of wealth from poor people to wealthy people. Isn’t there a way to find different sources of capital?

A. One of our objectives is to create a sustainable and scalable availability of capital for Main Street. If we had gone and gotten a $5 million grant, we’d have tapped out 1,700 small businesses ago. We didn’t want to do that. We wanted to solve this problem once and for all.
182 2010-05-06 “There’s a form of financial Russian roulette that Bear Stearns was playing along with other investment banks,” Mr. Angelides said.

The panel was appointed by Congress to diagnose the causes of the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, and it has been holding a series of hearings. It is due to deliver a report to lawmakers and the White House by Dec. 15.

Congress is already working on a bill to overhaul financial regulation, but Mr. Angelides has said there will still be scope for more reforms, including possible changes to mortgage financing.

On Thursday, the commission is scheduled to hear from former Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the current Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, on financial firms and markets falling outside the traditional bank regulatory structure.

Mr. Cayne’s admission over risk-taking was a departure from the general thrust of testimony by himself and four other Bear Stearns executives. They said the firm’s collapse was beyond their control: a wave of rumors and loss of confidence that overwhelmed Bear’s risk management models and drained its liquidity in a matter of days.

“The market’s loss of confidence, even though it was unjustified and irrational, became a self-fulfilling prophecy,” Mr. Cayne said.

Similar market fears later in 2008 led to the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the reorganization of other major investment banks.

Mr. Cayne’s successor as chief, Alan Schwartz, told the panel he believed the Securities and Exchange Commission did investigate whether market players were manipulating Bear’s stock. But Mr. Schwartz said he did not know whether the S.E.C. could separate who had started the rumors against the bank and who was responding to the rumors.

“In my heart, I believe something was going on,” he said.

The executives were pressed over whether the bank’s leverage level and lack of foresight on a looming collapse of the United States mortgage market made it the first major victim of the financial crisis.

About a month before its collapse, Bear had about $12.5 billion in loans with either deficient or no documentation — more than the firm’s total equity, Mr. Angelides said.

“It seems like there were a lot of warnings signs, a lot of red and yellow lights going off,” he said.
183 2010-05-06 Howard Silverblatt, index analyst for Standard & Poor’s, said some traders were beginning to look ahead to the latest unemployment numbers. The report, to be released on Friday, is expected to show that the economy added 189,000 jobs in April and that the unemployment rate held steady at 9.7 percent.

Treasury prices rose as interest rates declined for a second day. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32, to 100 22/32, and the yield fell to 3.54 percent from 3.59 percent late Tuesday.

In Europe, the FTSE 100 index in London settled 1.28 percent lower, the CAC 40 in Paris fell 1.44 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt lost 0.81 percent.

Among the worries in Europe is the possibility that Spain, a country with a weak economy that nonetheless dwarfs Greece’s in size, may come under pressure. If that happens, Europe could face a banking crisis similar to the months right after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008.

Andrew Garthwaite, a strategist at Credit Suisse, wrote in a research report that European banks held up to $1.3 trillion of Greek, Spanish and Portuguese debt that was at risk.

In Berlin, Chancellor Angela Merkel hinted at such fears as she defended her decision to support the Greek bailout before Parliament, which was expected to vote on Friday. Germany is contributing the bulk of the money among euro zone countries: 22.4 billion euros in loans over three years.

The rescue plan is “about nothing less than the future of Europe and the future of Germany in Europe,” Mrs. Merkel told lawmakers, adding that action was needed to help prevent “a chain reaction that would contaminate the markets.”

As for Portugal, the credit rating agency Moody’s said on Wednesday that in the event of a new downgrade, the country’s ratings “would fall by one, or at most two, notches” — meaning they would retain an investment grade.

The review reflected “the recent deterioration of Portugal’s public finances as well as the economy’s long-term growth challenges,” Moody’s said. It also expressed some confidence in Lisbon, adding that the “the government’s debt is neither unsustainable nor unbearable.”

But anxiety was evident even before Moody’s made its announcement. Portugal sold 500 million euros of six-month Treasury bills at an interest rate of 2.955 percent on Wednesday, about four times the 0.739 percent rate in March for a similar offering.

The gap between the yield on longer-term debt of Greece, Portugal and other weakened countries and that of comparable German debt also widened. The yield on the benchmark Greek government bond reached 10 percent, while yields on comparable Portuguese debt increased to 5.8 percent. Spanish and Irish bond yields also rose. Spain remains the biggest concern. Despite the political factors, the I.M.F. and the European Union were able to raise the funds to support Greece without much difficulty. But a bailout of Spain could cost as much as $600 billion, according to estimates by Representative Mark Steven Kirk, Republican of Illinois, who serves on the committee that oversees American financing to the monetary fund. That is far more than the monetary fund has available to lend.
184 2010-05-06 Anyone with fond memories of Lite Brite will instantly recognize iBrite, a $1.99 iPad app that lets you make a picture using colored dots.     Instead of jabbing plastic pegs through black paper to create a picture of lighted dots, you use a slide...
185 2010-05-06 NELLISSEN--Clifford H.,died May 3, 2010. Visiting hours are Thursday, May 6th from 4-8pm in the Nazare Memorial Home, 403 Ridge Road, Lyndhurst, NJ. Funeral May, Friday May 7th at 10am in St. Michael's Church, Lyndhurst. Interment Holy Cross Cemet...
186 2010-05-07 Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, has voiced some concerns about Senator Blanche Lincoln’s proposal to regulate the derivatives market much more tightly, saying that he is not in favor of forcing banks to spin off their deriv...
187 2010-05-07 The organization has struggled to raise money after disclosing several questionable expenses....
188 2010-05-07 Wynton Marsalis's Manhattan apartment is a haven for musicians and other characters, including a young trumpeter from Rochester who has now made a name for himself....
189 2010-05-07 Tailing David Chang during his hosting duties at Luckyrice's "Night Market."...
190 2010-05-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
191 2010-05-07 Candidates, ads spar over outsourcing and free trade. Can you have one without the other?...
192 2010-05-07 The north end of Times Square was evacuated for more than 90 minutes after the police received reports of a suspicious package. It turned out to be a canvas tote bag containing bottled water....
193 2010-05-07 A mother seeks advice from readers who have had to wait for their babies to come home....
194 2010-05-07 A benefit is held for a beloved if little-heard musician from New Zealand....
195 2010-05-07 Faced with accusations of securities fraud and conflicts of interest, Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, asserted Friday that the firm was committed to its clients and said it would establish a committee to monitor its busin...
196 2010-05-07 Since the downturn began in December 2007, the economy has shed, on net, about 5.6 percent of its nonfarm payroll jobs....
197 2010-05-07 The new Galerie BSL will treat industrial design as art and offer limited-edition pieces of clothing....
198 2010-05-07 It still amazes me that after a phone call and a couple of e-mails people will send me a large amount of money for an item that no one has ever seen. But they do....
199 2010-05-07 An economist explains how companies create "value" and distribute it among various stakeholders....
200 2010-05-07 Stocks slid again Friday in Europe after sharp falls in Asia, as policy makers around the globe sought to calm nervous investors who fear that Greece's debt crisis will spread within Europe and beyond....
201 2010-05-07 The Senate on Thursday rejected an effort by liberal Democrats to break up some of the biggest banks, defeating an amendment to financial regulatory legislation that would have imposed new limits on the size and scope of financial companies, The N...
202 2010-05-07 The bailout of America's failed housing finance giants, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, is taking on Greek proportions, Breakingviews says....
203 2010-05-07 A golden opportunity slips through Viswanthan Anand's hands....
204 2010-05-07 The American International Group is turning to Citigroup and Bank of America to replace Goldman Sachs as the main corporate adviser as the insurer reorganizes....
205 2010-05-07 Stocks in Asia were lower Friday after steep falls overnight in New York, amid fears that Greece's debt crisis will spread within Europe and beyond....
206 2010-05-07 A German paper releases recordings disclosing the turbulent final hours in Copenhagen as world leaders debated a climate accord....
207 2010-05-07 A lawsuit Mr. Greene filed asserts that the men’s wills and wishes were not honored and that their relationship was not treated equitably because they were a same-sex couple. The county has said there was a concern about domestic violence, although no criminal charges were pursued. A civil trial over the county’s actions is scheduled to begin July 16.

When news of the lawsuit emerged last month, it grabbed headlines, and gay rights advocates — including the National Center of Lesbian Rights, which has added its legal resources to the case — said it was a textbook example of discrimination against same-sex couples.

Ms. Dennis said, “Because they were gay, the county was able to do things they would not be able to do to a married couple.”

After all, how often are married heterosexual couples separated against their will?

But if Mr. Greene is to become a poster boy for legalizing same-sex marriage, he is an unwitting one. In one of his rare interviews, he did not refer to himself as gay. Having come from a generation when one’s homosexuality was hidden for fear of arrest or rebuke, he speaks in euphemisms.

“Just because my friend was 10 years older than me and fell down in the driveway,” Mr. Greene said. “They have to make a big deal out of it.”

He beamed as he flipped through an album of old photographs, black and whites of handsome athletic men in taut bathing suits on the beach. Yes, they were more than just friends, the pictures said.

“We weren’t a married couple,” Mr. Greene corrected. “Why are you making a big deal out of this? We were just roommates.”

Ms. Dennis said Mr. Greene, for the most part, remained “closeted” about his orientation, adding, “This is a very private man who wanted to have a very quiet life with his partner and his cats.”

Jannette Biggerstaff, 76, a close friend of the couple for decades, said Mr. Greene came from an age where “you disguised that were gay; you hid it.”

“He could not admit that he was gay, could he?” she said.

Losing Mr. Scull, their pets, and a lifetime of belongings have left Mr. Greene “an absolute shell of the person I knew three years ago,” Ms. Biggerstaff said. “He has absolutely been terrorized. He was subject to a situation that I don’t think many people would be able to withstand.”

Ms. Dennis said Mr. Greene, who moved out of the nursing home about a year ago, sometimes wandered around Guerneville, asking passers-by if they had seen his truck, the one the county confiscated and sold, or Mr. Scull. Then he remembers.

His finger is wrapped in a large bandage. He knows the tip of was cut off, but cannot recall how it happened. His apartment is neat, with a miniature Christmas tree, fully decorated, by the door.

Mr. Greene said he had never heard of the same-sex-marriage debate or Proposition 8, the referendum that outlawed such marriages. He was surprised to learn that his case was of interest to gay rights advocates.

But when asked about what the county had done to him, he was instantly engaged, and the anger and fear returned.

“I was trash” to them, he said. “I’m going to end up in the Dumpster.”
208 2010-05-07 The bailout of America’s failed housing finance giants is taking on Greek proportions. On Wednesday, Freddie Mac asked the Treasury for an additional $10.6 billion after posting first-quarter losses. Together, Freddie and its cousin Fannie Mae have drawn $136.5 billion from Treasury’s unlimited equity line since they were seized in September 2008. The European and International Monetary Fund rescue package for Greece, one that was supposed to shock and awe international markets, comes in at the same kind of figure, around $139.7 billion.

The tragedy, as far as taxpayers in the United States are concerned, is that Fannie and Freddie will most likely need much more capital in coming years. High unemployment and the shaky housing market all but ensure more losses for the two agencies responsible for guaranteeing a majority of mortgages.

As wards of the state, it is even harder for the companies to return to profitability than it would be otherwise. Loan modification programs and other initiatives to reduce the burdens felt by homeowners are hardly moneymaking ventures for lenders. Fannie and Freddie also can’t sell assets to stop the hemorrhaging, since unloading too many home loans from their huge investment portfolios would send mortgage rates higher.

Moreover, the housing finance giants are saddled with a 10 percent dividend on any funds drawn from the Treasury. That’s more than $13 billion annually and counting. Such a penalty made sense when the government’s conservatorship of the two companies looked temporary. Nearly two years later, it seems more like a troublesome drag on recovery. Greece, by comparison, will pay around 5 percent on its emergency financing.

Despite this, Washington continues to dither. Last month, the government asked for public comment on what to do with Fannie and Freddie. Last year, it promised to deliver a plan by February 2010. A minimum requirement is a hard deadline for deciding whether to privatize them, nationalize them or wind them down. Setting one is long overdue. In the meantime, Treasury should lower the dividend on its bailout funds. Otherwise it risks forcing its two charges to dig even deeper holes for themselves.

Has Chinese tightening claimed a scalp? Swire Pacific, one of Hong Kong’s oldest conglomerates, withdrew the $3 billion listing of its property business on Thursday, a day before it was due to price. That is a clear vote of no confidence in something — and probably in a few things.
209 2010-05-07 A federal judge in Manhattan on Thursday ruled that Chevron could subpoena footage from a documentary about the pollution of the Amazon rainforests of Ecuador and the oil company’s involvement.

Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of United States District Court said the director, Joe Berlinger, would have to turn over more than 600 hours of footage from his documentary “Crude.” The film, which was released last year, chronicles the Ecuadoreans who sued Texaco (now owned by Chevron), saying the operations of the companies’ oil field at Lago Agrio contaminated their water.

Chevron, which is pursuing an international treaty arbitration related to the lawsuit and is seeking to have the litigation dismissed, said Mr. Berlinger’s footage could help the company.

Lawyers for Mr. Berlinger argued that his footage was protected by his privilege as an investigative journalist, and that turning over the film would violate confidentiality agreements with his subjects as well as his First Amendment rights.

In siding with Chevron, Judge Kaplan wrote that Mr. Berlinger had been unable to produce evidence that any of his filmed material was subject to any confidentiality agreements with his sources, and that the release forms the filmmaker used with his subjects gave him “carte blanche to use all of the footage in his production.”

Judge Kaplan cited the maxim of the former Justice Louis D. Brandeis that “sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants,” and wrote, “Review of Berlinger’s outtakes will contribute to the goal of seeing not only that justice is done, but that it appears to be done.”
210 2010-05-07 Leslie Hewitt aspires to make photographs that are both personal and social, flat and sculptural, archival and insistently contemporary. That’s quite a tightrope walk, and in her solo at the Kitchen, which includes work from the last two years, she’s still finding her balance.

The most engaging and accessible works belong to a series called “Midday”: color photographs of stacked and wall-mounted objects, including books, striped fabric, vintage snapshots, an orange and a piece of plywood. The prints themselves rest on the floor, in sculptural wooden frames, extending the picture-within-a-picture conceit into three-dimensional space.

As is often the case in Ms. Hewitt’s art, some of the photographed props date from the mid-to-late 1960s. (She also has work in “After 1968,” at the Bronx Museum of Art.) One is the book “Manchild in the Promised Land,”Claude Brown’s autobiographical novel about growing up in Harlem. In a diverting two-screen film installation made in collaboration with Bradford Young, Ms. Hewitt translates Brown’s unsparing accounts of violence and desperation into a series of silent, fragmentary and blurred cityscapes.

Ms. Hewitt and many of the curators who are drawn to her art like to invoke big ideas, from 17th-century Dutch still lifes to the “double consciousness” of W. E. B. DuBois. Not all of them come across without the help of checklists and wall texts. And sometimes you feel as if Ms. Hewitt were asking too much of photography, even conceptual photography: can her still lifes really accommodate both the cynicism of the so-called pictures generation and the nostalgia for the civil rights era of her own younger generation?

But her art has an auspicious degree of subtlety and sophistication, even where it’s full of contradictions. KAREN ROSENBERG
211 2010-05-07 The report looks at contaminants from a variety of sources: industry, agriculture, air and water, medical imaging and contaminated military sites. It also considers natural hazards, like radon gas in homes and arsenic in drinking water. The report concludes, “At this time, we do not know how much environmental exposures influence cancer risk.”

Dr. Michael Thun, an epidemiologist from the cancer society, said in an online statement that the report was “unbalanced by its implication that pollution is the major cause of cancer,” and had presented an unproven theory — that environmentally caused cases are grossly underestimated — as if it were a fact.

The cancer society estimates that about 6 percent of all cancers in the United States — 34,000 cases a year — are related to environmental causes (4 percent from occupational exposures, 2 percent from the community or other settings).

Suggesting that the risk is much higher, when there is no proof, may divert attention from things that are much bigger causes of cancer, like smoking, Dr. Thun said in an interview.

“If we could get rid of tobacco, we could get rid of 30 percent of cancer deaths,” he said, adding that poor nutrition, obesity and lack of exercise are also greater contributors to cancer risk than pollution.

But Dr. Thun said the cancer society shared the panel’s concerns about people’s exposure to so many chemicals, the lack of information about chemicals, the vulnerability of children and the radiation risks from medical imaging tests.

The chairman of the president’s panel, Dr. LaSalle D. Leffall Jr. of Howard University, said the panel stood by the report.

“This is an evenhanded approach, and an evenhanded report,” Dr. Leffall said. “We didn’t make statements that should not be made.”

He acknowledged that it was impossible to specify just how many cancers were environmentally caused, because not enough research had been done, but he said he was confident that when the research was done, it would confirm the panel’s assertion that the problem had been grossly underestimated.

Despite the uncertainties, the panel recommended more research and stronger regulation to protect public health.

The report also mentions things that people can do themselves to lower their risks. The measures include these:

¶Protecting children by choosing foods, house and garden products, toys, medicines and medical tests that will minimize exposure to toxic substances.

¶Filtering tap water, and storing water in stainless steel, glass or other containers to avoid exposure to BPA and other plastic components that some studies have linked to health problems.

¶Buying produce grown without pesticides or chemical fertilizers, or washing it thoroughly to remove them.

¶Buying meat free of antibiotics and added hormones, and avoiding processed, charred and well-done meat.

The panel normally has three members, appointed by the president. Currently there are only two: Dr. Leffall and Dr. Margaret L. Kripke, a professor emerita from the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Both were originally appointed by President George W. Bush.

Over two years, Dr. Leffall and Dr. Kripke held meetings and heard presentations from academic and government scientists, industry representatives and members of advocacy groups and the public.
212 2010-05-07 Re “Fairy Godmother Needed, Even With Aid for College” (news article, April 30):

The inadequacy of financial aid packages came home to me recently when a student told me that she could not take my course because the course packet was too expensive. I told her the packet was on reserve at the university library, but she found that inadequate, and I don’t blame her.

Many universities spend huge amounts on athletics and on inflated salaries for “superstar” professors. Why not divert that money toward financial aid packages that enable students to choose courses on solely academic grounds?

The writer is a professor of philosophy at Brown University.
213 2010-05-07 There’s an elegiac poignancy in James Allen Smith’s “Floored,” a documentary about the changing face of the Chicago futures exchanges. Open-outcry trading — the practice of calling out buy and sell orders in soybeans and pork bellies from the floor (the pit) — has declined, like print media, a victim of computer culture and the urgent hunger for instant new information. As electronic trading spreads, and traders work in front of lifeless, antiseptic monitors, a generation of outcry traders finds itself increasingly obsolete. (By around 2008, only hog and cattle futures were trading primarily the old-fashioned way.)

Many younger traders, of course, are hip to the new technology, but “Floored” isn’t interested in them; it’s the old-schoolers on the way out who are its focus. The stories of this dying breed are fascinating.

Among them is that of Mike Walsh, a foulmouthed, barrel-chested floor trader with a big house and a taste for hunting big game in Africa; Kenny Ford, a gruff 51-year-old vigorously but vainly opposed to e-trading; and Jeff Ansani, who took a colossal loss in one trade in 1994 and is now a mere clerk and divorced father encouraging a son to enter the market but to learn computers too.

These are brawny, profane, beer-drinking, cigar-smoking men (for the most part), some prosperous, others breaking or broken. Their turf, much like Chicago itself, is tough and passionate: a trading floor, fast vanishing under their feet.

Directed by James Allen Smith; director of photography, Chris Baron; edited by Andrew McAllister; music by Stefan Scott Nelson; produced by Mr. Smith, Steve Prosniewski and Joseph Gibbons; released by TraderFilm. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 17 minutes. This film is not rated.
214 2010-05-07 “Size is not the appropriate restriction,” said Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and a member of the banking committee, who helped draft the regulatory bill. “The real question should be the level of inter-connectedness and the risk-taking we saw in the crisis of 2008.” Mr. Warner added, “The Dodd bill does provide ability for these banks to be broken up.”

Mr. Brown and Mr. Kaufman had hoped their measure would be approved on a gust of the populist, anti-Wall Street sentiment that has swept the country since the near collapse of the financial system and subsequent bank bailouts, including the government’s $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.

“Our amendment ends bailouts by ensuring that no Wall Street firm is so big or so reckless that if it fails, as it does, so does our economy,” Mr. Brown said in a floor speech pleading for support. “The bill we’re considering today is strong but it needs to be stronger.”

Moments before rejecting the Brown-Kaufman proposal, the Senate approved by voice vote an amendment by Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, to give the Commodity Futures Trading Commission more authority to crack down on manipulation of the commodities and derivatives markets.

Separately on Thursday, the Senate moved closer to approving a proposal to require a one-time audit of the Federal Reserve’s response to the financial crisis and to force the central bank to disclose the recipients of more than $2 trillion in aid, including the bailouts of big banks.

The proposal, by Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, gained momentum even as Republicans and Democrats delayed a vote on it until next week.

Despite the delay, the amendment by Mr. Sanders requiring the audit appeared to have enough support among senators in both parties to win adoption easily.

The White House and the Fed had opposed the original proposal by Mr. Sanders, which would have allowed additional audits of the Fed. A modified proposal from Mr. Sanders appeared to address those concerns, but it would still force the Fed to disclose information that it had maintained was confidential.

The proposal would require the federal Government Accountability Office to conduct a “one-time audit of all loans and other financial assistance provided during the period beginning on Dec. 1, 2007 and ending on the date of enactment of this Act” under a number of programs the Fed used to respond to the near collapse of the financial system.

The amendment states that the audit “not interfere with monetary policy,” addressing a concern raised by the Obama administration and the Fed.

Officials said the proposal would expand on changes made to the Fed in 1978, which subjected much of its operations to regular auditing by the accountability office but explicitly excluded monetary policy.

The audit sought by Mr. Sanders would scrutinize an alphabet soup of programs that injected liquidity into the markets, ranging from commercial paper to money market funds. Under the proposal, the accountability office will not question whether the loans should have been made but will focus on operational integrity and accounting practices.

The audit, however, would explore “whether the credit facility inappropriately favors one or more specific participants over other institutions eligible to utilize the facility” and “whether there were conflicts of interest with respect to the manner in which such facility was established or operated.”

The apparent compromise with the administration and the Fed would give Mr. Sanders and other critics of the central bank an opportunity to claim victory, while not breaking with the Fed’s insistence that its monetary decisions be sacrosanct and insulated from political influence.
215 2010-05-07 The news comes as Goldman executives prepare to meet with shareholders on Friday at the bank’s annual meeting. Goldman’s chairman and chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, will confront shareholders who are anxious over the S.E.C. case and a continuing criminal investigation into the bank’s mortgage trading unit.

In what some characterize as a referendum on Mr. Blankfein, shareholders will also vote whether to separate the roles of chairman and chief executive. Many corporations, including major banks, have separated those roles to improve corporate governance.

While A.I.G. is the first company that is known to have canceled major work with Goldman, European officials and some local officials in the United States have also said they are reconsidering their relationships with the bank. Several shareholders have filed suits against Goldman and its board and executives, saying they should have disclosed the S.E.C. investigation earlier.

Goldman executives have told analysts that the bank’s business has not suffered since the case. The bank’s most recent quarterly profit — $3.3 billion — was a huge success by almost any standard, and Goldman officials said the results were proof that they were doing right by their clients.

Still, Goldman’s share price has fallen about 20 percent since the S.E.C. complaint was announced.

An A.I.G. spokeswoman declined to comment. Bank of America and Citigroup did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

A.I.G. met with its two new advisers on Thursday, according to the people with knowledge of the situation. The issue at hand is how A.I.G. can sell off parts of its business to help it return government bailout money while still preserving valuable units that will be part of a surviving company. Once involved in practically every insurance business, A.I.G. is trying to redefine its role in the industry.

The company’s relationship with Goldman dates back decades. A.I.G.’s former chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, had a long relationship with Goldman’s leaders. A.I.G. and Goldman briefly considered merging, in the late 1990s.

But this relationship proved disastrous for A.I.G. in the mortgage crisis. A.I.G. insured some $20 billion of mortgage securities for Goldman, including seven similar to the deal at the center of the S.E.C. case, known as Abacus 2007-AC1, though it did not insure that specific deal.

In 2007, Goldman put on a negative bet against housing — what its chief financial officer, David A. Viniar, called “the big short” — and the bank issued aggressive demands for A.I.G. to put up collateral for some of its trades with Goldman. Those demands from Goldman and later other banks contributed to A.I.G.’s liquidity crisis and eventually led to a government bailout.

After the government stepped in, Goldman was among the largest recipients of money from A.I.G. when the insurance company paid its counterparties 100 cents on the dollar to end contracts tied to mortgage investments.

A.I.G. has been through a series of executive changes since its collateral battle with Goldman, and the insurance giant continued to hire Goldman for certain assignments, like its recent sales of its Asian unit, A.I.A., as well as Alico, its overseas life and health insurance business.

Earlier this year, A.I.G. heard pitches from various banks on its overall strategy. It indicated to several parties that Goldman had won that business. Goldman had not begun significant work on A.I.G.’s strategy.

Citigroup also worked with A.I.G. on its sales of A.I.A. and Alico, and Bank of America has been helping the insurance company with some financing. But the change last week was a step up in both of their roles to fill the gap left by Goldman.

Goldman’s employees, top to bottom, have been reassuring clients in recent weeks to try to retain their business. On Wednesday, Mr. Blankfein held a conference call with wealthy individual clients whose savings are managed by the bank.

Still, last week the Teachers’ Retirement System of Oklahoma warned Goldman’s asset management division that it was “on alert” and that the state pension might stop working with Goldman because of the S.E.C. accusations.
216 2010-05-07 The victory put the Suns ahead, 2-0, in the Western Conference semifinals, a surprising position for a team that at the start of the season was expected by many to miss the playoffs for a second consecutive year.

The resurgence of the Suns is mirrored in Stoudemire, who returned from surgery for a detached retina that prematurely ended his 2008-9 season with the desire to become a better all-around player.

“He wants to be thought of in the same breath as Kevin Garnett and guys like that,” said Alvin Gentry, who took over as the Suns’ coach last year just before Stoudemire’s injury. “So I said, well, you’re going to really have to improve your defense. Kevin Garnett guards the toughest guy every night. Tim Duncan guards the toughest guy every night.”

Such signs of maturity are coming at the right time for Stoudemire, who is a five-time All-Star at 27 but has nevertheless been dogged throughout his career by questions about his work ethic as well as his health.

Whether Stoudemire opts out or not, his contract situation will put the spotlight this summer squarely on the Suns’ majority partner, Robert Sarver.

Under Sarver’s watch, the Suns have allowed Joe Johnson to leave as a free agent, traded Shawn Marion when it became clear he would not be re-signed and sent Shaquille O’Neal to Cleveland after a half-season. They have also drafted Rajon Rondo and Rudy Fernandez, and sold them on draft night to Boston and Portland.

The Suns did sign Steve Nash, who could have become a free agent this summer, to a two-year, $22 million extension last July, but $6 million was deferred.

Even if Stoudemire does not opt out, he will still be looking for a long-term extension, or he will be a free agent next year.

“Maybe it’s making it a little harder for them,” Stoudemire said. “It’s always going to be 50-50. I’m not sure what’s going to happen, we’ll just have to wait until this summer. But I’m not focused on that right now.”

In each of the last three seasons, Stoudemire has been the subject of trade speculation. In the winter, much of it focused on whether he would be sent to Cleveland to team with James, to Miami as a partner for Wade, or even to San Antonio to team up in the frontcourt with Duncan.

At this year’s All-Star Game, Stoudemire said that the annual trade rumors bothered him.

“I don’t understand why,” he told reporters in February. “It’s not being explained to me why every year there’s always trade talk with me being involved. It’s a little difficult to deal with. They never really explain why the trade talk is coming, why they want to trade me. I’ve done a lot of work in the community. I’ve been trouble-free forever, so I just don’t understand.”

Although Stoudemire and Gentry each maintain that he has been consistently good this season, others have noted that Stoudemire’s game took a leap once the trade deadline passed on Feb. 17. After the All-Star break, Stoudemire averaged 26 points and 9 rebounds and the Suns were 23-6, vaulting to third in the Western Conference.

“Once the trade deadline passed, he focused on getting his team to the playoffs and getting a higher seed,” Richardson said. “It’s kind of hard. It seems like every year his name is in trades, but I think he knows that the only thing you can control is what happens on the court.”

Although the 37-year-old Grant Hill has turned back the clock, Jason Richardson is a 3-point threat, and role players like Jared Dudley and Channing Frye have emerged, the foundation of the Suns’ league-leading offense remains Nash and Stoudemire.

“If you take Karl Malone away from John Stockton, would John Stockton be John Stockton?” Gentry said. “We have two guys that really feed off each other. I said to both of them they’re parasitic players — they feed off each other. Steve makes Amar’e look great and Amar’e makes Steve look great, and what they do is make the game so much easier because the concentration is so much on those guys that it opens the game for everyone else.”

So, why hasn’t he received a long-term deal?

“Well, that’s going to happen this summer,” Gentry said. “We’d like for it to be here. Robert is a guy who wants to win, and I think we’ll do everything possible to keep Amar’e. Obviously, we want him back. I’m sure, like anybody else in that situation, he’ll explore his options, but I think he understands what he means to our team.”
217 2010-05-07 Many questions were left unanswered even hours after the end of the trading day. Who or what was the culprit? Why did markets spin out of control so rapidly? What needs to be done to prevent this from happening again?

The and the said they were examining the cause of the unusual trading activity.

, chairwoman of the S.E.C., and , the head of the C.F.T.C., held conference calls with overseers of the exchanges who were reviewing trading tapes from the day.

One official said they identified “a huge, anomalous, unexplained surge in selling, it looks like in ,” about 2:45 p.m. The source remained unknown, but that jolt apparently set off trading based on computer algorithms, which in turn rippled across indexes and spiraled out of control.

Many firms have computers that are programmed to automatically place buy or sell orders based on a variety of things that happen in the markets. Some of the simplest triggers are set off when a stock drops or rises a certain percent in the trading day, or when an index moves a specific amount.

But these orders can have a cascading effect. For example, if enough programs place sell orders when the overall market is down, say, 4 percent in a single day, those orders could push the market down even more — and set off programs that do not kick in until the market is down 5 percent, which in turn can have the effect of pushing stocks down even more.

Some circuit breakers do exist, a legacy of the reforms made following the 1987 stock market crash, but they only kick in after a huge drop — and only at certain hours. Before 2 p.m., a 10 percent drop in the Dow causes New York Stock Exchange to halt trading for one hour. Between 2 p.m. and 2:30 p.m., the pause shrinks to a half-hour and after 2:30, there is no halt in trading.

If there is a 20 percent drop, trading stops for two hours before 1 p.m. and by one hour between 1 and 2 p.m. After 2 p.m., the market closes.

Glitches in individual stocks have happened before — what was different Thursday was the scale of the problem. In April 2009, shares of , a small biotech company, dived by more than 50 percent in less than two minutes, just before a presentation by Dendreon executives, Mr. Angel said.

Trading was halted on the Nasdaq, where Dendreon is listed, but there was no news as it turned out, Mr. Angel said, and when trading resumed the stock returned to its previous levels. “It took a human two minutes to discover something was wrong and halt trading,” he said.

What happened Thursday was different because it moved hundreds of stocks sharply at the same time, many of them blue chips that form the foundation of individual investors portfolios as well as major indexes like the Dow and the & Poor’s 500-stock index.

The near-instantaneous swings left brokers dumbfounded. Dermott W. Clancy, who runs a New York Stock Exchange broker, said Thursday was one of the five worst days he has seen in 24 years in the business. When the market dropped across all indexes in a matter of minutes, customers were calling him nonstop.

“They’re calling saying ‘Is there something I’m missing? Is there somebody valuing these securities at this level? Is there some news in the marketplace I’m not aware of?’ ” he said.

The answer — that it all started with an apparent error — infuriated Mr. Clancy. “The market was never down one thousand points,” he said. “ should never have traded at $39. But a lot of people lost money as if the prices were meant to drop.”

For a short while, traders started to distrust what they were seeing.

“There was no pricing mechanism,” Mr. Clancy said. “There was nothing. No one knew what anything was worth. You didn’t know where to buy a stock or sell a stock.”
218 2010-05-07 But others say a ban on foreign-currency loans would be counterproductive, because it would cut off a source of capital crucial for growth.

Developing countries in Europe need to create conditions for local-currency lending to flourish, including low inflation, said Erik Berglof, chief economist for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

“Regulation is part of the policy mix,” Mr. Berglof said. “But if you do it when you’re still in recession, you can do more harm than good.”

Call it hair-of-the-dog economics. For countries to start growing again, businesses and consumers need the same kind of credit that bit them in the first place. And bite them, it did. Gross domestic product in Hungary fell 6.3 percent last year, while in Romania it dropped 7.1 percent, in part because of the instability caused by foreign-currency lending.

Output in Latvia tumbled 18 percent after its leaders imposed severe austerity measures to avoid a currency devaluation that would have been disastrous for foreign-currency borrowers.

Loan defaults rose, but not as much as feared. For example, nonperforming loans at Erste Bank grew to 8.5 percent in Eastern Europe at the end of March from 7.8 percent at the end of December. By comparison, bad loans in Erste Bank’s home country, Austria, fell to 6.3 percent, from 6.4 percent in that period.

Erste is the third-biggest lender in the region, after UniCredit, based in Milan, and Raiffeisen International, based in Vienna.

After the rescue, local currencies recovered much of their value, taking pressure off borrowers. Poland and the Czech Republic felt the stress of foreign-currency lending as well, Mr. Berglof said. But they weathered the crisis much better and have emerged from recession. Yet for many borrowers, the benefits of a loan denominated in euros are still compelling.

Loans denominated in the currencies of Hungary or Romania carry much higher interest rates. The higher rates are a result of higher inflation than in Western Europe and imprudent fiscal policies by national governments.

In Hungary, payments on a typical mortgage of 7.5 million forints, or about $34,000, would come to about 85,000 forints a month. The average monthly salary in Hungary is about 200,000 forints.

A loan tied to euros would cost the equivalent of 76,000 forints, or more than 10 percent less, according to data from Erste Bank.

Demand for foreign-currency loans seems to be holding steady.

In Hungary, foreign-currency loans slipped to 63 percent of all loans at the end of 2009, from 68 percent in the first quarter of the year. But they still dominate.

Most of the decline was in loans denominated in more exotic currencies like the yen, which have all but disappeared from the market. Euro-based loans actually rose in the fourth quarter, according to data from the Hungarian central bank.

The risk for holders of euro loans remains. If the local currency loses value, payments rise accordingly. That is what happened last year; the forint lost more than a quarter of its value against the euro from July 2008 to March 2009.

“Customers learned at their own cost that, yes, currencies can move,” said Laszlo Olah, president of the Hungarian Venture Capital Association.

The effects were felt by several industries. Car sales fell by half in Hungary last year and by half again so far this year, according to the Hungarian Vehicle Importers Association. Many dealers suffered twice from the risks of foreign-currency lending. The payments on their small-business loans soared just as many customers were struggling with payments and as prices of imported cars were rising in local-currency terms.

“The exchange rate loss could reach 30 or 40 percent, which they could not realize from sales,” said Peter Erdelyi, president of the importers association.

Hungarian regulators have since intervened to limit foreign-currency lending.

“You can do foreign-currency lending in a responsible way and a nonresponsible way,” said Bernhard Spalt, the chief risk officer at Erste Bank. “We will continue to do foreign-exchange lending in a responsible way.”

UniCredit said in a statement that it had always taken “a prudent, not aggressive” approach to foreign-currency lending and required loan applicants to have a special advisory session to ensure that they understood risks.

Raiffeisen International, known for its willingness to invest in markets like Kosovo, has stopped making foreign-currency loans in Ukraine but continues to offer them in other countries, including Hungary and Romania.

In the meantime, the local and European Union authorities are trying to create a more robust market for local-currency loans. There are signs that forint lending is rising after the Hungarian central bank steadily cut the benchmark interest rate by more than half since 2008, to 5.25 percent. The cuts affect forint loans, making them more competitive with euro credit.

European institutions and central banks are also trying to encourage some of the other conditions for local-currency lending, like a vibrant bond market. Banks need to be able to issue long-term bonds to cover long-term loans like mortgages.

“Now there is a real opportunity to take some important steps,” Mr. Berglof said.
219 2010-05-07 “Surveillance is an art, not a science,” a former law enforcement official said. “People think it is like it is on TV or the movies — the cops set up across from the house, and if the bad guy gets out, they are 50 feet away, they make a U-turn and follow him. That is not real life.”

For officers, of course, the trouble with following a suspect is obvious: play it too tight or get too close, and they can be “made,” or exposed; play it too loose, and they can lose their target.

Add the dynamics of environment, and the degree of difficulty increases: wide-open farmland, noisy city streets or exurban sprawl is each an enemy to a police detective or a federal agent tying to blend in, ghostlike.

So, too, is a street in Bridgeport, one full of bodegas and people gathering in front of their houses — and one with an apartment building with a tiny back alley for cars, but not agents looking to hide.

“Surveillance is hard work,” said James K. Kallstrom, a former assistant director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in charge of the New York division who initiated the first specialized surveillance team in the 1980s, a system copied across the F.B.I.’s 56 field offices in later years.

The lapse, despite Mr. Shahzad’s ultimate capture, put something of a disheartening twist on an otherwise fast-moving and successful investigation.

When asked if the F.B.I. was responsible for the surveillance lapse, and what, exactly had led to it, Special Agent Richard Kolko, an F.B.I. spokesman in New York, said, “We do not discuss specific operations.”

But he emphasized that when it came to surveillance work, the F.B.I., nationwide, used teams of “armed special agents” and “highly trained professional support” personnel, who are full-time employees. The former, who work under the Special Operations Group, handle criminal cases in which suspects are considered dangerous, and the latter, assigned to the Special Surveillance Group, handle cases deemed less risky.

The decision not to immediately arrest Mr. Shahzad might have been colored by several factors. Despite having placed him on the “no-fly” list at 12:20 p.m. on Monday, prosecutors and agents still were not sure whether he was the suspected bomber or an associate. In addition, they might have thought they lacked probable cause to arrest him.

Pasquale J. D’Amuro, a former chief of the New York F.B.I. office, offered another reason for waiting: the desire to let things play out a bit.

“I would want to know who else he is meeting with, are there other people involved in this or are there other devices that may be set and going off,” he said. “The big thing you have to find out is, are there other events that you want to stop.”

On “The Charlie Rose Show” on Tuesday night, the New York City police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, said that in the Times Square car bomb investigation, Mr. Shahzad was not immediately arrested because “probable cause” was needed.

“At that time,” he said, “there was not enough to make the arrest when they initially started the surveillance.”

When pressed, he added: “I think while he’s under surveillance what you’re trying to do is build up a case or build up enough information to get probable cause to make an arrest. There are a lot of other avenues.”

Andrew C. McCarthy, who was the lead prosecutor in the Southern District of New York in the case of Omar Abdel Rahman in the 1990s, said the tensions between prosecutors and agents were palpable in those days.

The agents, he said, worried about public safety. The prosecutors wanted to ensure they could make a convincing case.

“The agents are going to be blamed if something terrible happens and people get killed,” he said, “and the prosecutors are going to be blamed if the other something terrible happens, which is you don’t get enough evidence and as a result people get acquitted.”

Several current and former officials said that when it came to surveillance, the more tools, the better. Sets of cars are useful, so they can be arranged to prepare for a target’s sudden shift in direction. Agents posted on various corners or streets, connected by radio, can move in and out and trade off observations.

“You’ve got to build layers of surveillance around the target,” said Christopher T. Voss, a retired F.B.I. agent who conducted surveillance for three years as part of his assignment to the Joint Terrorist Task Force in New York. “You need to place people at the primary routes of departure. And sometimes you’re in a situation where you can’t put a lot of people on it because you’re going to be seen.”
220 2010-05-07 Credit: Holly Pickett for The New York Times
221 2010-05-07 After 16 years of presenting film, art, fashion, music and parties, Gen Art, a showcase devoted to young talent and young audiences with branches in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, has folded, a victim of the financial downturn. “After struggling for the past 18 months since the economic crisis, Gen Art has finally succumbed to the recession,” its founders, the brothers Ian and Stefan Gerard, wrote in a letter sent out late Wednesday and posted on the Gen Art Web site, genart.org. “We have now halted all operations, have let go all of our amazing staff, and shuttered the business,” they wrote, adding that they hoped Gen Art “in some small way was as close to your heart — as it was ours.” With 80 percent of its revenue coming from corporate sponsorship, Gen Art was hit hard by the recession, Ian Gerard said in an interview on Thursday. After the fall of 2008 “we were losing money hand over fist,” he said. A $350,000 sponsorship deal with “a major financial institution” fell through at the last minute, in late March, and new investors could not be found quickly enough. “We had cash flow for about four weeks, and four weeks was just not enough for us to bridge that gap with the debt that we were already carrying,” Mr. Gerard said.
222 2010-05-07 There were times during the recital the German bass-baritone Thomas Quasthoff presented at Carnegie Hall on Wednesday night when you wanted to put an arm around his shoulders and assure him that everything would be all right. Not that there were problems with his performance: anything but. Mr. Quasthoff is, to put it bluntly, one of the greatest vocal artists now performing, and Wednesday’s concert indicated that he is at the pinnacle of his powers.

The cause for apprehension was in the program Mr. Quasthoff presented with the pianist Justus Zeyen, a sequence of songs by Schubert, Brahms and the Swiss composer Frank Martin. The concert had no title, but much of the material suggested a theme: Life is hard, and then you die. (And oh, yes, as a partial subtext: Get yourself right with God.) Confronted with bleakness, terror, rage and resignation in such concentration, you couldn’t avoid a bit of worry.

I’m mostly kidding about the concern, and I’d like to think that Mr. Quasthoff would understand. In sharp contrast to the gravity of the songs, between them he projected an easygoing levity. After applause followed each of four Schubert songs, Mr. Quasthoff politely requested that no one clap during the Martin cycle. “At the end it would be most welcome,” he added. Similar winks, nods and banter punctuated the rest of the concert, extending into the encores.

Schubert being a familiar commodity, you could easily appreciate the depth of penetrating consideration Mr. Quasthoff brought to “Prometheus,” an 1819 Goethe setting. His delivery, in German, was accusatory, wrathful, heroic and venomous by turns. Even without the printed English translation provided, you could follow the narrative arc without difficulty.

Technically Mr. Quasthoff’s performance was flawless, with heartily booming low notes, a beautifully secure upper range and immaculate diction. Similar qualities came in a philosophical “Grenzen der Menschheit” (“Limitations of Mankind”), a hair-raising “Erlkönig” (“The Erl King”) and an elegantly resigned “Im Frühling” (“In Spring”). Mr. Zeyen’s accompaniments were stylish, energetic and eminently sympathetic.

Martin based his splendid, underperformed 1944 cycle “Sechs Monologe aus Jedermann” (“Six Monologues From Everyman”) on texts from a play by Hugo von Hofmannsthal. Textually elegant and harmonically pungent, the songs benefited from Mr. Quasthoff’s keen, passionate advocacy.

Late Brahms, rich and strange, made up the second half of the concert. The Five Songs (Op. 94) offered melancholy ruminations on growing old; the Four Serious Songs (Op. 121), composed when Brahms learned that his close friend Clara Schumann had suffered a stroke, opened with skepticism and ended with dawning charity and acceptance.
223 2010-05-07 “Every collection reaches a pinnacle,” said Leonard A. Lauder, emeritus chairman of the Whitney. “When Emily first started buying contemporary art, the artists were young, and many of those that she supported are now household names.”

The gift includes examples of some of the biggest names in American art. There are 44 works by Mr. Johns, for instance, including the first painting in his “Catenary” series; two by de Kooning, a 1952 “Woman”drawing and a 1987 painting; 18 by Rauschenberg, from 1950 to 1991; four by James Rosenquist, including the mural-size “House of Fire II” from 1982; and six by Mr. Ruscha, from 1965 to 2002. There are also 19 works by Glenn Ligon, who will be the subject of a retrospective at the museum in 2011, including one of his first Richard Pryor paintings.

This is not Mrs. Landau’s first gift to the Whitney. Over the years she has either helped pay for acquisitions or promised works of art to the institution, including a large-scale painting by Cy Twombly and “The Act of Letting a Person Into Your Home” (1983), a painting by Mr. Ruscha.

“There’s an enormous symmetry to this gift,” said Brooke Garber Neidich, co-chairwoman of the Whitney. “Emily collected artists early in their career, and the Whitney does the same thing. She was comfortable at the museum because we are a risk-taking institution. And she has always been adventurous.”

You no longer have be someone important to get a key to the city, at least not this summer. The New York artist Paul Ramírez Jonas likes engaging the public in his interventions. Together with Creative Time, a nonprofit organization that presents art around the city, and the office of the mayor, he has come up with “Key to the City.”

From June 3 to June 27, a kiosk in Times Square will give out 35,000 free keys that recipients can then bestow on friends and family. The keys will unlock a host of mysterious events including small exhibitions or provide access to little-known, otherwise off-limits spaces in New York. It is a scavenger hunt involving 20 sites in all five boroughs, like a boxing gym in Brooklyn, a community garden in Staten Island and the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in Manhattan.

The keys will unlock steel gates and padlocks, security booths and secret doors, and what will be hidden behind them is yet to be revealed. Each participant will receive a map to the sites.

This isn’t the first time Mr. Ramírez Jonas has used keys in his work. Five years ago he distributed 1,000 that opened the gates to a tiny park in Cambridge, Mass. He also mailed 5,000 artist-designed keys to Cambridge households, stamped with phrases like “Copy Me,” encouraging people to make duplicates to increase access to the park. And in 2008 as part of the São Paulo Biennale, Mr. Ramírez Jonas arranged for members of the public to receive keys to the front door of the exhibition’s pavilion. Each recipient was required to leave behind a copy of one of their own keys.

The New York project was like “creating a portrait of the city,” Mr. Ramírez Jonas said in a telephone interview. To pick the sites, he explained, he sat down with a map and made a list of different kinds of experiences that make up a city. “It was like being an urban planner,” he added.

Nato Thompson, chief curator of Creative Time, said the custom-made keys themselves were little sculptures. “I don’t think people will ever get rid of them,” he said.

The Gagosian Gallery — with spaces in New York, London, Los Angeles, Rome and soon in Paris — has an advantage over the competition. It can offer artists and their estates a kind of international presence no other dealer can. It comes as no surprise then that Gagosian was selected to represent the estate of Robert Rauschenberg, the prolific artist who died in 2008.

Competition was stiff, with many major dealers throwing their hats in the ring, including the Pace Gallery, which had represented Rauschenberg for the last 15 years.

“We are planning a Rauschenberg exhibition in Chelsea this fall,” Mr. Gagosian said.
224 2010-05-07 A bad day in the stock market turned into one of the most terrifying moments in Wall Street history on Thursday with a brief 1,000-point plunge that recalled the panic of 2008.

It lasted just 16 minutes but left Wall Street experts and ordinary investors alike struggling to come to grips with what had happened — and fearful of where the markets might go from here.

At least part of the sell-off appeared to be linked to trader error, perhaps an incorrect order routed through one of the nation’s exchanges. Many of those trades may be reversed so investors do not lose money on questionable transactions.

But the speed and scale of the plunge — the largest intraday decline on record — seemed to feed fears that the financial troubles gripping Europe were at last reaching across the Atlantic. Amid the rout, new signs of stress emerged in the credit markets. European banks seemed to be growing wary of lending to each other, suggesting the debt crisis was entering a more dangerous phase.

Traders and Washington policy makers struggled to keep up as the Dow Jones industrial average fell 1,000 points shortly after 2:30 p.m. and then mostly rebounded in a matter of minutes. For a moment, the sell-off seemed to overwhelm computer and human systems alike, and some traders began referring grimly to the day as “Black Thursday.”

But in the end, Thursday was not as black as it had seemed. After briefly sinking below 10,000, the Dow ended down 347.80, or 3.2 percent, at 10,520.32. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 37.75 points, or 3.24 percent, to close at 1,128.15, and the Nasdaq was down 82.65 points, or 3.44 percent, at 2,319.64.

But up and down Wall Street, and across the nation, many investors were dumbstruck. Experts groped for explanations as blue-chip stocks like Procter & Gamble, Philip Morris and Accenture plunged. At one point, Accenture fell more than 90 percent to a penny. P.& G. plunged to $39.37 from more than $60 within minutes.

The crisis in Greece, high-speed computer program trading, the debate over regulatory reform in Washington, talk of errant trades — all were pointed to as possible catalysts. But most agreed the plunge would not have been as bad had the markets not already been on edge over the debt crisis in Europe.

“There is a recognition that the Greek crisis has morphed into not only a European crisis but is going global,” said Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, the money manager.

On the trading floor of the New York Stock Exchange, traders shouted or watched open-mouthed as the screens lighted up with plummeting prices and as phones rang off the hook. “It was almost like ‘The Twilight Zone.’ ” said Theodore R. Aronson of Aronson, Johnson & Ortiz, a money management firm in Philadelphia.

Wall Street managers wandered their trading floors, trying to calm their people and figure out what was going on. They began to notice wild movements in stocks like P.& G. and Philip Morris. Many traders said computer program trades accelerated the slide as market indexes fell through crucial levels.

In Washington, Treasury officials began combing market tapes for answers. By the evening they still had not gotten to the bottom of it, but they discovered some aberrations — market blips — in trading coming out of Chicago.

The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, was returning to the Treasury about 2 p.m. from the Capitol when he saw on his BlackBerry that the market was down 3 percent. He called the Treasury’s market room, which constantly monitors financial exchanges; officials there theorized that the cause was Greece’s and Europe’s financial woes.

Minutes later in the Treasury hallway, Mr. Geithner looked again at his BlackBerry and saw that the market was down nearly 9 percent. He told colleagues it had to be a mistake.

Mr. Geithner immediately called the market room and then the Federal Reserve. He held a conference call with Fed officials and Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. About 3:15, Mr. Geithner walked to the Oval Office to brief President Obama.

Next Mr. Geithner spoke with European central bankers. After the markets closed, at 4:15 and again at 5:45, he joined conference calls with the heads of the Fed, the New York Fed, the S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; the calls were expected to continue into the evening.

The Group of 7 industrial nations’ ministers and governors, including Mr. Geithner, plan a conference call at 7:30 a.m. Friday Eastern time.

As of about 6 p.m., all the officials knew was that there had been what one called “a huge, anomalous, unexplained surge in selling, it looks like in Chicago, at about 2:45.” The source remained unknown, but it had apparently set off algorithmic trading strategies, which in turn rippled across everything, pushing trading out of whack and feeding on itself — until it started to reverse.

Federal officials fielded rumors that the culprit was a single stock, a single institution or execution system, a $16 billion trade that should have been $16 million. But they did not know the truth.

What happens to the day’s market losers will depend on the nature of the cause and whether it can be identified. That is a question for the S.E.C. The Nasdaq market said in the evening that it would cancel all trades in hundreds of stocks whose prices had swung wildly between 2:40 p.m. and 3 p.m.

As Wall Street reeled, anchors on CNBC, Bloomberg and the Fox Business Network turned their attention to the Dow.

When the Dow was down more than 900 points and the CNBC anchor Erin Burnett observed that the P.& G. stock had dropped 25 percent, Jim Cramer, the former hedge fund trader and the host of “Mad Money,” seemed to calm the conversation a bit by basically saying, “Buy, buy, buy.”

“If that stock is there, you just go and buy it,” he said of P.& G. “That is not a real price. Just go buy Procter & Gamble.”

The day’s uncertainty pushed the euro to its lowest level against the dollar in 14 months. It slipped to $1.2529 at one point before closing at $1.2602. The dollar’s rise, and the mounting fear of a slowdown in global growth, sent commodities prices lower. Crude oil fell $2.86 to settle at $77.16 a barrel.

By the close, when calm was restored, the focus was on working out what had happened.

The S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said they were reviewing “unusual trading activity.” But already markets were turning attention back to Europe — whether German lawmakers would approve the Greek bailout on Friday, whether warning signals would flash brighter, whether the euro zone would stay together, or whether this was a precursor of more gyrations to come.
225 2010-05-07 WASHINGTON (AP) — Productivity posted a better-than-expected gain in the first quarter, while labor costs dropped more sharply than expected, the Labor Department said Thursday.

The department reported that productivity grew at an annual rate of 3.6 percent in the first quarter, better than the 2.5 percent increase economists had expected.

Unit labor costs dropped at an annual rate of 1.6 percent, a bigger decline than the 0.7 percent forecast. It was the third consecutive quarterly decline, underscoring how much a severe recession had sidelined wage pressures.

The economy has been growing since last summer but companies have been reluctant to rehire workers, choosing instead to push their slimmed-down work forces to produce more.

That has translated into a sharp rise in productivity, which grew at annual rates of 7.6 percent, 7.8 percent and 6.3 percent respectively in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009.

The 3.6 percent rise in productivity for the first three months of this year was a drop from those rates as companies approached the limit of how much they could expand output without hiring more workers.
226 2010-05-07 PARIS —After two successive days of restrictions, the British and Irish authorities reopened their airspace to all flights on Thursday as a plume of ash from a volcano in Iceland drifted over the northern Atlantic overnight.

Airports in western Scotland, Ireland and Northern Ireland that had been closed for most of the day on Wednesday began to reopen at about 4 a.m. local time. All restrictions had been lifted by about 10 a.m., the authorities said.

Forecast maps published by the Volcanic Ash Advisory Center in London showed the cloud had moved entirely offshore by Thursday morning. Pilots were being advised to avoid the densest part of the cloud in an area to the west of Ireland where parts of the plume had risen to elevations as high as 32,000 feet.

A total of around 550 flights were cancelled on Tuesday and Wednesday, to Eurocontrol, the agency in Brussels charged with coordinating European air traffic management. That represented a small fraction of the roughly 58,000 scheduled flights over the two-day period.

Andrew Haines, the chief executive of Britain’s Civil Aviation Authority said late Wednesday that periodic ash clouds were likely to disrupt air traffic in the area “for the foreseeable future” as it was still not yet known what concentrations of ash in the atmosphere were safe to fly through.

“The CAA is continuing to lead international efforts to develop more detailed scientific understanding of the situation to minimise disruption without compromising passenger safety,” Mr. Haines said in a statement.
227 2010-05-07 Neanderthals mated with some modern humans after all and left their imprint in the human genome, a team of biologists has reported in the first detailed analysis of the Neanderthal genetic sequence.      The biologists, led by Svante Paabo of the ...
228 2010-05-07 WASHINGTON -- Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary who led the Bush administration's response to the 2008 financial crisis, on Thursday endorsed calls for greater scrutiny and regulation of capital markets.      In testimony to the ...
229 2010-05-08 Frank Stronach and his assortment of Magna companies were in the news Saturday....
230 2010-05-08 The former Alabama and N.F.L. linebacker Keith McCants was arrested for on suspicion of trying to buy drugs at a hotel in Mobile, Ala., the latest in a string of legal problems for him.

McCants, 42, was charged with attempting to commit a crime involving a controlled substance and with use or possession of drug paraphernalia. He was a first-round pick, fourth over all, in the 1990 N.F.L. draft.
231 2010-05-08 Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund billionaire accused of insider trading, sought on Friday to dismiss the government’s most powerful evidence against him: thousands of wiretapped conversations between him and his family, friends and associates. Lawyers for Mr. Rajaratnam argued that the wiretaps violated federal statutes governing the use of surveillance techniques. A spokeswoman for the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York declined to comment.
232 2010-05-08 Here in Mamaroneck, N.Y., where I live, about 850 appeals were filed last year, compared with an average of 350, said the town assessor, Susan M. Thomas. The grievance period for this year starts in June.

And many of my friends and neighbors say they have responded to those direct-mail offers to lower their property taxes — and have been thrilled by the results.

One friend, who asked not to be named because he did not want everyone in town knowing his financial information, paid $1.3 million for his home. Because it was newly rebuilt, the tax had doubled to $24,000 when the house was sold.

He called Joseph H. Picone, one of the many people who offer to do the paperwork to reduce taxes, and after several months, he learned he had received an 11 percent tax cut. Mr. Picone will take 50 percent of the first-year savings and 40 percent of the second year’s savings.

My friend suggested that I try it, saying, “I hope you’re as happy as I am.”

Over the last few years, many more people have gotten into the business of offering to appeal property taxes for a percentage of the discounts. Caryn Luntz, on the other hand, runs Westchester Real Property Tax Reduction, and has been doing this for 17 years. Last year, she filed about 400 grievances, and she estimated that she won reductions 90 to 95 percent of the time.

“Last year was a phenomenal year,” she said.

This year, however, as she faces more competition, she figures she will file no more than 250 grievances.

Ms. Luntz requests 85 percent of the first year’s savings, but she warned that even if she appeared to charge more than some others, she asks only for an additional $30 court filing fee on top of the contingency.

“I do my own appraisals,” she said. “Some others might charge you for an appraisal, and that can run you hundreds of dollars.”

But the process is so simple that homeowners shouldn’t pay anyone to do it, said Peter Sepp, executive vice president of the National Taxpayers Union, a nonprofit group based in Alexandria., Va., that works for lower taxes and smaller government.

“The advice we tend to give is to approach this as if you were arguing a parking ticket,” Mr. Sepp said. “Get the facts and evidence. You need to show errors or irregularities.” It is very rare that your property tax will go up if you appeal, he said.

Getting access to your property record varies by town, but in my town it is remarkably simple. I went to the assessor’s office, asked for the assessor’s card and got it within a minute. The card is really two worksheets, with a photo of my house, the list of previous owners, and details indicating that we have seven rooms, roof shingles, plaster interior and hardwood floors. Yup, that’s our house.

The first step is getting that record and seeing if anything is obviously amiss — more bedrooms listed than you have, say, or larger square footage than is accurate.

Even though the process has gotten easier with more information online, Mr. Sepp said, in most places only about 5 percent of homeowners go through the grievance process. His organization offers information on its Web site, www.ntu.org, about how to appeal your assessment yourself.

Besides getting your property, or assessor’s, card, make sure you learn the deadlines for filing grievances and appeals (all that information should be readily available through your town), find at least five other comparable properties to measure your taxes against and do not give up if your initial grievance does not work. And make sure you pay your tax bill while the appeal is in process. If you win, you can get a retroactive refund or credit.

Of course, for all those homeowners overjoyed to have their property taxes lowered, there are county officials who worry about the economic impact. Two surveys completed last year by the National Association of Counties found that 76 percent of large urban counties and 52 percent of small and midsize counties said falling property tax revenue was significantly affecting their budgets.

In addition, municipalities have to spend more money as more grievances and appeals roll in.

After a state-ordered revaluation of homes in 2006 in Lakewood, N.J. — a state with notoriously high property taxes — appeals by homeowners climbed from an average of 100 to a high of 4,500 last year, said Ed Seeger Jr., the town’s tax assessor.

The administrative costs of handling such appeals ran into the tens of thousands of dollars, he said. Besides Mr. Seeger, a town lawyer must be present at every appeal.

“Last year we spent approximately 30 days in appeals,” Mr. Seeger said.

In response to the flood of appeals, the township reassessed the property values last year, and this year appeals fell to 700. A reassessment, unlike a revaluation, does not necessarily involve on-site inspections, Mr. Seeger said.

In Cobb County, property values will be down 9 to 11 percent from last year. That will affect the budget, Mr. Hogsed said, but it’s not clear yet how.

“I don’t think people see the connection between lower taxes and services the county offers,” he said. “As a property owner, I see what’s going on in the market, but as a member of government staff, I also see the impact on budget.”

So will we appeal our property tax? Well, it’s high, but doesn’t seem much different from our neighbors’. For now, we’ll set aside those generous offers to help reduce our taxes. But I won’t throw them out. After all, there’s always next year.
233 2010-05-08 The lack of clarity about which European banks are most at risk in debt-ridden countries has prompted banks to avoid making short-term loans to one another, threatening a repeat of the tight credit markets that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008.

Overnight interbank lending rates soared Friday, though rates were still well below Lehman levels. And the cost of insuring debt issued by European banks approached that seen at the height of the financial crisis.

In response, representatives of the European Central Bank held a conference call with commercial bankers on Friday to discuss risk, according to a person with knowledge of the talks who was not authorized to discuss them with the news media. The central bank would not comment.

European leaders also agreed late Friday to take steps to address the growing debt crisis in Europe and to provide aid to Greece.

Though doubts have risen about the creditworthiness of large economies like Spain and Italy, most investors say they do not believe either country will default, said Stefan Kolek, a debt analyst at UniCredit in Munich. Rather, the risk is that government austerity programs provoke double-dip recessions.

Banks that have lent money to businesses in the region might then see a surge in nonperforming loans, analysts said, and would be more reluctant to lend elsewhere.

“The risk is that the periphery pulls down the rest of Europe,” Mr. Kolek said. “That’s not our main scenario, but the risk is there.”

Signs of a tight credit market already are being seen. This week has been the slowest for the issuance of corporate debt since May 1990, with just $2.5 billion of global investment grade corporate debt brought to the market, according to Thomson Reuters.

Investors took little notice Friday of tentative indications that the European economy was improving over all. German industrial production rose 4 percent in March, raising expectations that the economy grew modestly in the first quarter of 2010. Analysts will be watching closely Wednesday when the European Union reports growth for the first quarter.

The automaker Daimler said Friday that it would return all its German factories to full-time production in June, a month earlier than planned. Since last May 96,000 workers have put in shortened shifts, with corresponding pay cuts.

Daimler’s rival BMW said Wednesday that sales had increased recently even in Portugal and Spain. “Markets are developing better than expected,” BMW’s chief executive, Norbert Reithofer, said in a conference call.

But Mr. Weinberg of High Frequency Economics said a tight credit market could crush the still-fragile recovery.

“Don’t get excited about those numbers,” he said, referring to the German economic news. “This credit crunch just takes all these risks that already exist and cubes them.”
234 2010-05-08 In the latest maneuver in a longstanding affair as tense as any courtroom case (and just as drawn out), the producers of the David Mamet play “Race” said on Friday that its Broadway production would remain open through Aug. 21, but that three of its key cast members would not stick around that long. David Alan Grier, top right, who on Tuesday was nominated for a Tony Award as a supporting actor for his role as the lawyer Henry Brown, will depart the show after its performance on June 13 — the day of the Tony Awards ceremony — as will his co-star Kerry Washington, center, who plays the law firm’s new recruit Susan. James Spader, left, who plays the lawyer Jack Lawson, will give his final performance on June 20. No replacements were announced for these roles. “Race,” which is at the Ethel Barrymore Theater, was Mr. Mamet’s Broadway debut as a director but he was not nominated for a Tony in that category and the show was not nominated for best play.
235 2010-05-08 But two years later, the government set another price for natural gas from the same field — a price 79 percent higher. For both brothers, billions of dollars hung in the balance. And so did the question of India’s sovereignty over its natural resources.

Friday, the Supreme Court tilted the billions in Mukesh’s favor, because Anil’s company will be forced to pay a higher price for the gas. The government, in turn, will get much more in royalties.

Anil, who last year accused his brother’s company of “trying every trick in the book, and apparently several outside of the book” to get out of the natural gas contract, was subdued after the verdict, leaving the courtroom without saying a word.

Representatives of Mukesh Ambani’s company did not respond to requests for comment.

Shares of Mukesh’s company ended 2.3 percent higher in Bombay trading, while shares in Anil’s Reliance Natural Resources shed nearly 23 percent of their value, reflecting investor fears that the ruling could set back the company’s plans to build two large power plants.

But the ruling also established that the government has final say over India’s natural resources.

Justice P. Sathasivam, one of three ruling on the case, said in court Friday that Mukesh’s Reliance Industries, India’s largest private company, did not have an “absolute right” over the gas, and that the price was subject to government approval.

In a 268-page judgment, the justices defended the Indian government’s right to protect its natural resources.

For some power-strapped Indian businesses and consumers, the decision may ultimately provide relief. The court gave the Ambani brothers a deadline of mid-August to hammer out a gas supply agreement, subject to government review, that will bring fuel to a 7,800-megawatt power plant that Anil’s company owns. The plant will add about 5 percent to the nation’s power generation capacity.

And yet, the judgment may have created more wariness among foreign investors interested in India’s natural gas reserves, according to lawyers who deal with international contracts.

The decision says “the government has the right to tell investors how to price,” said Michael Polkinghorne, a partner with White & Case in Paris who heads the contract disputes practice.

India’s energy industry currently falls far short of meeting the country’s energy needs. The country imports about 70 percent of the oil it uses, blackouts are common even in the capital and some areas have just a few hours of electricity a day.

But the country has sizable coal and natural gas reserves, and the government has been trying to solicit bids from foreign energy companies to exploit them. So far, though, international interest has been lukewarm, in part because of questions about profit sharing with the government and other companies.

Anil Ambani and his supporters had argued that the government should not interfere in private contracts. Mukesh Ambani and the Ministry of Petroleum countered that natural gas was a national asset, and private contracts should not supersede public policy.

Hitesh Jain, a partner at ALMT Legal in Mumbai, said the dispute could have been avoided had the contract between the brothers included a clause that would allow one side to protect the other if the government later set a different price for the gas.

Foreign companies that do business in India often include “change of law clauses” in their contracts, he said.

In his opinion for the court, one of the three judges, B. Sudershan Reddy, wrote that the brothers’ agreement was “a private pact between the members of the Ambani family” and therefore was not legally binding upon the government.

Lawyers who have been following the case said that the ruling’s specific reference to the family nature of the agreement was an indication that the court might not intend to overturn other legal contracts between publicly traded companies.

Investors and energy companies considering deals in India’s power industry and natural gas fields should “look at this as a stand-alone case,” said Akshay Jaitly, a partner with the law firm Trilegal.
236 2010-05-08 Mrs. Merkel won passage of the legislation to support Greece despite several members of her party’s breaking ranks and voting against it. She has been roundly criticized by bailout opponents for what they deem a giveaway to the irresponsible Greeks, which is the majority opinion in Germany.

She has also been criticized by supporters for delaying the rescue and, in their view, fueling instability in the financial markets, raising the bailout’s price tag. Adding to her concerns, a group of academics on Friday challenged the constitutionality of the bailout before the country’s highest court, in Karlsruhe.

As she meets with European leaders in Brussels on Friday night, Mrs. Merkel must hope that the election in North Rhine-Westphalia remains focused on local issues like education and does not become the occasion when popular anger boils over. A loss in the state, Germany’s most populous, would not just damage her politically, but could also cost her governing coalition its majority in the upper house of Parliament, making it difficult for her economic agenda.

In recent polls, the left-leaning bloc of the Social Democrats and the Green Party has edged ahead of the conservative team of the Christian Democrats and the Free Democrats, Mrs. Merkel’s ruling coalition on the federal level.

“I’ve lived in this state for 20 years and I’ve never seen the people so concerned about the future, about the economic and the social situation,” said Franz Lehner, professor of applied social science at the Ruhr University of Bochum. “The capability to survive of these cities is really at stake.”

As an unseasonably frigid rain fell Thursday in Bochum, Dirk Schmidt, 35, a local party leader for Mrs. Merkel’s conservative coalition, campaigned for a seat in the state Legislature at the Hannibal shopping center. He was greeted with support from party members, but also some derision.

“The party disappointed me once with the east,” an old man pushing a shopping cart shouted as one of Mr. Schmidt’s campaign workers offered him a flier. “I won’t pay a cent for the Greeks.”

Bochum’s Nokia cellphone factory picked up stakes two years ago and moved to Romania, with more than 2,000 jobs melting away in its wake. The carmaker Opel, which once employed 25,000 people in the city, today provides work for around 5,000 people, jobs that are also in jeopardy as Opel’s corporate parent, General Motors, restructures its subsidiary.

Unemployment is 10.2 percent in Bochum, lower than in nearby Essen or Dortmund, but well above the national rate of 8.1 percent. “You wouldn’t believe how many old people, normally dressed, are collecting bottles in front of the train station,” said Johannes Henke, 40, a taxi driver standing under a shopping center overhang to stay out of the rain.

Like municipalities throughout the Ruhr, the city government is in deep fiscal trouble. According to Paul Aschenbrenner, the Bochum city director, the city was $1.8 billion in debt, or $4,700 for each resident. The government has been forced to cut municipal jobs, raise fees at music schools and reduce hours and increase prices at sports facilities.

Yet last year the city paid $11.6 million to help with projects in the former East Germany, part of the $290 million it has paid since the fall of the Berlin Wall, Mr. Aschenbrenner said.

Christian Haardt, a Bochum City Council member from Mrs. Merkel’s party and also a candidate in the state election, stood on the bridge over University Street this week, handing out coffee in orange C.D.U., or Christian Democratic Union, cups to students on their way to classes. “Many people, myself included, are making a fist in their pockets,” said Mr. Haardt, who has had to answer constituent e-mail messages asking why Germany is paying for Greece.

“And we’re barely able to fill potholes,” he said with a sigh.
237 2010-05-08 The Finnish cellphone maker Nokia Corporation said on Friday that it had extended its patent-infringement claims against Apple to include the new iPad.

The latest complaint, filed in United States District Court in Madison, Wis., follows other lawsuits by Nokia claiming that a broad swath of Apple products violate Nokia patents. Nokia says the disputed technologies help reduce the size and cost of electronic gadgets. Apple has already responded with its own infringement claims against Nokia.

Apple has also sued the HTC Corporation of Taiwan, one of the leading producers of cellphones that run on Google’s Android software, a potential challenger to Apple’s popular iPhone. Apple says HTC’s Android phones violate iPhone patents.

Nokia’s latest lawsuit is aimed at the iPhone and the iPad 3G, the version of the device that can connect to the Web using cellphone networks. Nokia said the gadgets infringe five patents related to technology that makes voice and data communications more efficient, allowing the devices to be more compact.

An Apple spokesman, Steve Dowling, declined to comment on the new case but said the company had already filed a countersuit in December to earlier claims by Nokia. Apple claims Nokia is infringing on 13 of its patents, saying the company chose to “copy the iPhone” to recapture its share of the high-end phone market.
238 2010-05-08 On Thursday evening, Joey Pero walked past Lincoln Center and stepped into the lobby of a luxury high-rise apartment building on West 66th Street and told the doorman, ''We're here to see Wynton.''     Mr. Pero, a 29-year-old, Juilliard-educated t...
239 2010-05-08 On Thursday evening, Joey Pero walked past Lincoln Center and stepped into the lobby of a luxury high-rise apartment building on West 66th Street and told the doorman, ''We're here to see Wynton.''     Mr. Pero, a 29-year-old, Juilliard-educated t...
240 2010-05-09 Chelsea clinched its third Premier League title in six years on Sunday with an 8-0 dismantling of visiting Wigan....
241 2010-05-09 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
242 2010-05-09 Did the relative rarity of oil rig blowouts lead to a sense of complacency?...
243 2010-05-09 Peter M. Douglas, the executive director of the California Coastal commission -- who helped write the law it enforces, is worried that state budget measures will make enforcement more difficult. Plus other highlights from Sunday's Bay Area pages....
244 2010-05-09 The New York area remained under a wind advisory early Sunday morning after a day of winds greater than 20 miles per hour caused inconvenience and frustration around the region, especially for travelers. The National Weather Service measured gusts of up to 38 m.p.h. in Central Park as a low-pressure system traveled toward the St. Lawrence River Valley.

Passengers on flights departing Kennedy Airport on Saturday evening faced delays of around an hour because of the wind, and fallen wires shut down New Jersey Transit trains along the Northeast Corridor for several hours.

A spokeswoman for Consolidated Edison said a “majority” of outages that left more than 8,000 customers without power on Saturday evening could be attributed to the wind, with Staten Island and Westchester County taking the hardest hit. More than 4,600 lost electric service on Long Island, as well as thousands in New Jersey.

Broadway was closed briefly near Columbus Circle at around 5:15 p.m. on Saturday after debris fell off a building and hit a Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus. The police said there were no injuries in that incident, nor did there to appear to be any other injuries in the city related to the wind.

For the most part, the gusts, which were expected to subside by 11 a.m. Sunday, made being outside on an otherwise radiant spring day intermittently difficult. At the Crafts in Chelsea fair on West 21st Street, the wind projected twigs at handmade ceramic vases and sent decoupage Mother’s Day cards whirling onto the asphalt, nearly spoiling the wares.
245 2010-05-09 The Chicago Housing Authority is preparing to open its family housing wait list for the first time in more than a decade. The city uses the list, which has been closed since 1999, to fill vacancies in its nearly 10,000 rental units designated for family housing, said Kellie O'Connell-Miller, a spokeswoman for the housing authority.

A lottery to select 40,000 families for placement on the wait list will be conducted this summer after a four-week registration period from June 14 to July 9. Registration will be entirely online at CHAwaitlist.org.

Ms. O'Connell-Miller said the agency expected nearly 1,000 units to become available this year.

The lottery will probably create an active wait list of five to seven years, she said, depending on the rate of turnover in existing public housing properties and the development of new ones.
246 2010-05-09 The case involved a family in Paraguay whose son had been tortured to death by the police in the capital, Asunción. The police chief there eventually moved to Brooklyn and was soon followed by the victim’s sister, who filed suit. A federal appeals court in New York ruled on June 30, 1980, that the family had a right to sue for damages, setting a precedent that has been upheld in similar cases.

On the same day as the Filártiga decision, however, Ms. Copelon lost a case she had argued before the United States Supreme Court. In that case, Harris v. McRae, the court voted 5 to 4 to uphold the Hyde Amendment, a legislative provision restricting the use of federal money to pay for abortions.

Those two cases turned Ms. Copelon’s attention toward international human rights as a way to protect women. At the CUNY law school, which she had joined when it opened in 1983, she was a founder of the International Women’s Human Rights Clinic and the Women’s Caucus for Gender Justice.

Working with her students, she filed amicus briefs in cases before the International Criminal Tribunals for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia that contributed to recognition in international law of rape as a crime of genocide and torture.

Until then, Ms. Copelon told The New York Times in 2002, “rape was considered a kind of collateral damage” and “seen as part of the unpreventable, fundamental culture of war.”

Born in New Haven on Sept. 15, 1944, Rhonda Copelon was the only child of Herman and Katherine Copelon. She graduated from Bryn Mawr in 1966 with a degree in history and political science and received her law degree from Yale four years later. Her marriage to David Schoenbrod ended in divorce. She has no immediate survivors.

Reached at her home in Paraguay on Friday, Dolly Filártiga, who came to the United States to bring the case against the police chief who tortured her brother, said Ms. Copelon “was a pillar for me all the years I was going through the whole thing.”

“I never knew how important the case would become,” she added. “The Filártiga principle has won so many other cases.”
247 2010-05-09 Chris Mason made 23 saves, and Steve Stamkos, Rene Bourque and Matt Duchene each had a goal and an assist to help the 24-time champion Canada beat Italy, 5-1, in its world hockey championship opener in Mannheim, Germany.
248 2010-05-09 “Any day of the week, the offices look like there has just been an outbreak of anthrax,” said David Weinsoff, a public interest lawyer in the Bay Area.

Pending complaints include problems like blocked access to public beaches, illegally filled wetlands and the construction of homes, swimming pools and even golf courses without the required permits.

The new budget could effectively cap the commission’s annual legal expenses, which Mr. Douglas said could force him to choose between pursuing violators and making further budget cuts to underwrite legal action.

Moreover, he said, the commission for the first time would have to get the approval for new litigation from the governor’s Office of Finance, effectively giving politicians a “veto power” over its actions.

Linda Likar, an international sustainability consultant and former World Bank economist who has studied the commission, argued that the potential cut in legal support was “a pernicious way” to weaken the agency.

But Aaron McLear, a spokesman for Mr. Schwarzenegger, said the proposal was intended to apply to several other agencies, too, including the State Lands Commission.

And Norbert Dall, a land-use consultant in Sacramento who frequently works with the commission, said that while he thought the agency was “ridiculously underfunded,” he did not object to spending limits for what he characterized as unessential litigation.

The controversy is emblematic of Mr. Douglas’s long stint as executive director. While his many admirers depict him as an environmental hero, critics suggest that he needs to pick his battles.

“Few people in California have made as many enemies as Douglas,” The Capitol Weekly noted recently.

State Senator Denise Moreno Ducheny, a Democrat who is chairwoman of the budget committee, said of Mr. Douglas: “He often doesn’t choose to work with people. He just wants to tell you, which doesn’t make him a lot of friends.”

Mr. Douglas in many ways personifies the spirit of the early years of the grass-roots environmental movement that helped give birth to the Coastal Commission via a statewide voters’ referendum. With a graying beard and a bolo tie, he calls himself a “radical pagan heretic,” and he has been known to interrupt drives along the coast to stand in front of bulldozers operating without a permit.

His values reflect those embraced by his home county, Marin, including a reverence for natural landscapes and functioning farmland — and an antipathy toward development that might alter them.

His powers of endurance, both personal and professional, are legendary. Born in Berlin, he fled the Nazis with his family when he was a child. In 2006, two years after recovering from Stage 4 cancer, Mr. Douglas set a match to a pile of dead leaves he had doused with gasoline, setting off an explosion that sent him flying. He has recovered from the serious burns.

Mr. Douglas is strongly identified with his agency in part because he was a co-author of both the ballot initiative that created it and the 1976 law making the agency permanent.

The quasi-judicial agency is uniquely powerful, with a jurisdiction that overlaps those of city, state and federal authorities, and uniquely independent. The governor, State Senate and State Assembly each appoint one-third of the commission members. Mr. Douglas serves at their pleasure.

During his tenure, the commission has moved forcefully on several fronts of its mandate, which includes limiting coastal construction, ensuring public access to beaches and having a say in the regulation of offshore drilling.

Over the years, commission actions have helped create thousands of acres of parklands and public trails and preserve much of Highway 1 as a two-lane road weaving through farmland, rocks and empty dunes.

Steve Blank, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who serves on the commission, called Mr. Douglas “the world’s best bureaucratic street fighter.”

Yet Mr. Dall and others argue that he has picked unnecessary fights with small property owners at the expense of broader planning to avert erosion and haphazard development.

A San Mateo County Superior Court judge ruled last month that the commission had acted unlawfully in insisting that a Half Moon Bay resident who was seeking a permit to build a 6,500-square-foot house on agricultural land devote most of the 140 surrounding acres to farming or grazing.

“They were out of line,” said the owner, Dan Sterling, adding that his children would have been prevented from ever subdividing the property.

Mr. Douglas countered that the commission might appeal the judge’s ruling, adding that “it would be foolish of us” to allow conversion of agricultural land at a time of increasing concerns about local food supplies.

Mr. Douglas’s most consistent opposition has come from the conservative Pacific Legal Foundation, which has spent an average of $500,000 annually in recent years on what it calls its Coastal Land Rights Project. The foundation, based in Sacramento, accuses the agency of violating property owners’ rights and unconstitutionally confiscating their assets by insisting on unreasonable concessions in return for development rights.

Among other cases, the foundation is backing an appeal to the California Supreme Court by a Gualala community group frustrated in its effort to stage a 15-minute fireworks display on the Sonoma County coastline. Mr. Douglas said the fireworks would have scared away nesting birds.

Two lawyers affiliated with the foundation appear in a new documentary-style movie “Sins of Commission,” which was written and directed by Richard Oshen. The film, which has not been distributed, features a long line of frustrated lawyers, real estate agents, architects and property owners, and portrays the commission as an all-powerful enforcer that can “strike the fear of God” into property owners.

In light of the commission’s personnel issues, however, some environmental groups find such depictions off base. “If you’re a developer, the risk of enforcement is similar to winning the Lotto,” said Mark Gold, president of Heal the Bay, a Santa Monica group.

Mr. Douglas said he was not troubled by controversy. (“I follow the law, and it’s a very strong law,” he said.) Nor does he have plans to stop. The job has no mandatory retirement age, and there is no obvious successor in the wings — a state of affairs that worries some supporters.

“Once he’s gone, this commission will implode in the blink of an eye,” Mr. Blank said, “and all we’ll be talking about is the color of the concrete used to pave over what’s left of the coast.”
249 2010-05-09 “I suppose the decision is a help, but it’s not all that much of one,” said Mr. Bogle, creator of the first index mutual funds and perhaps the pre-eminent advocate of low-cost investing. “The court decision just isn’t very coherent.”

On the positive side, he said, the ruling on March 30 in Jones v. Harris gave the Supreme Court’s imprimatur to a benchmark for fees that has long been opposed by the mutual fund industry. In a unanimous decision written by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., the court said that when retail mutual fund directors bargained with advisers to set rates, they should make comparisons with “relevant” fees paid by “different types of clients” — including institutional investors like pension funds, as well as independent mutual funds.

Harris Associates, the Chicago investment adviser, was the defendant in the case, which has been sent back to lower courts for adjudication. Harris said that comparisons between pension funds and mutual funds were invalid. In a brief filed in support of Harris, Fidelity Management and Research derided attempts to make “apples-to-oranges comparisons between fees paid by mutual funds and those paid by institutional clients, such as pension funds.”

The I.C.I., representing the industry, has taken that position for many years, citing research supporting its position, but the court rejected it.

The plaintiffs — investors in Oakmark funds advised by Harris — pointed to research finding that pension funds typically pay about half the rate charged to retail mutual funds for equivalent services.

Even when mutual funds are much larger than individual pension funds and when portfolios set up for the two types of funds are “essentially the same,” economies of scale are not passed along sufficiently to the retail consumer, said Mr. Bogle, who filed a brief supporting the plaintiffs. The disparity between institutional and retail fees is even greater in sheer dollars than when measured by the expense ratios or basis points that the asset management business typically prefers.

One study, for example, compared public pension funds with mutual funds using similar investment strategies. The mutual funds had average assets of $1.3 billion, compared with $443 million for the pension funds, yet the mutual funds paid investment advisory fees of 0.56 percent, twice that of the pension funds. In raw dollars, the mutual funds paid six times as much, on average — $7.28 million compared with $1.2 million.

“We’re just talking about the investment advisory fees paid by the two types of funds, not about fees for mailings of brochures, or phone calls, or anything else, so they are directly comparable,” said John P. Freeman, professor emeritus at the University of South Carolina and a co-author of that study.

In its ruling, however, the Supreme Court did not acknowledge the significance of the total dollars paid to advisers. Furthermore, it upheld a series of principles enshrined more than 20 years ago that set a very high bar for investors.

Under those so-called Gartenberg principles, Justice Alito wrote, mutual fund directors have breached their “fiduciary duty” only when an adviser’s fee is “so disproportionately large that it bears no reasonable relationship to the services rendered and could not have been the product of arm’s length bargaining.”

Under this guideline, there hasn’t been a single trial verdict in investors’ favor. Several lawyers said that the court had made investors’ burden lighter but that it might still not be easy to prevail.

IN a statement, Paul Schott, the president of the I.C.I., said that by embracing Gartenberg, the new ruling “brings stability and certainty” to mutual fund managers, directors and investors.

“This standard has well served the interests of funds and fund shareholders, who have seen their cost of investing fall by half in the last 20 years,” he said.

Of course, whether fees have fallen or risen depends on how you do the counting. By Mr. Bogle’s reckoning, fees have fallen sharply for investors who have put their money into index funds, but that’s about it.

The issue is complex and important, and I’ll be returning to it in future columns.
250 2010-05-09 The company’s inventory of foreclosed properties rose from 29,145 units at the end of March 2009 to almost 54,000 units this year. Perhaps most troubling, Freddie’s nonperforming assets almost doubled, rising to $115 billion from $62 billion.

When Freddie sells properties, either before or after foreclosure, it generates losses of 39 percent, on average.

There is a bright spot: new delinquencies were fewer in number than in the quarter ended Dec. 31.

Freddie Mac said the main reason for its disastrous quarter was an accounting change that required it to bring back onto its books $1.5 trillion in assets and liabilities that it had been keeping off of its balance sheet.

NONE of the grim numbers at Freddie are surprising, really, given that it and Fannie have pretty much been the only games in town of late for anyone interested in getting a mortgage. The problem for taxpayers, of course, is that the company’s future doesn’t look much different from its recent past.

Indeed, Freddie warned that its credit losses were likely to continue rising throughout 2010. Among the reasons for this dour outlook was the substantial number of borrowers in Freddie’s portfolio that currently owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth.

Even as its business suffers through a sour real estate market, Freddie must pay hefty cash dividends on the preferred stock the government holds. After it receives the additional $10.6 billion it needs from taxpayers, dividends owed to Treasury will total $6.2 billion a year. This amount, the company said, “exceeds our annual historical earnings in most periods.”

In spite of these difficulties, Freddie and Fannie are nowhere to be seen in the various financial reform efforts under discussion on Capitol Hill. Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, offered a vague comment to Congress last March, that after some unspecified reform effort someday in the future, the companies “will not exist in the same form as they did in the past.”

Fannie and Freddie, lest you’ve forgotten, have been longstanding kingpins in the housing market, buying mortgages from banks that issue them so the banks could turn around and lend even more. After both companies overindulged in the lucrative but riskier end of home loans, they nearly collapsed, prompting the federal rescue. Since then, the government has continued to use the firms as mortgage buyers of last resort, to help stabilize a housing market that is still deeply troubled.

To some, the current silence on what to do about Freddie and Fannie is deafening — as is the lack of chatter about Freddie’s disastrous report last week.

“I don’t understand why people are not talking about it,” said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, referring to Freddie’s losses. “It seems to me the most fundamental question is, have they on an ongoing basis been paying too much for loans even since they went into conservatorship?”

Michael L. Cosgrove, a Freddie spokesman, declined to discuss what the company pays for the mortgages it buys. “We are supporting the market by providing liquidity,” he said. “And we have longstanding relationships with all the major mortgage lenders across the country. We’re in the business of buying loans, and we are one of the few sources of liquidity available.”

But Mr. Baker’s question gets to the heart of the conflicting roles that Freddie and Fannie are being asked to play today. On the one hand, the companies are charged with supporting the mortgage market by buying loans from banks and other lenders. At the same time, they must work to minimize credit losses to make sure the billions that taxpayers have poured into the firms don’t disappear.

Freddie acknowledged these dueling goals in its quarterly report. “Certain changes to our business objectives and strategies are designed to provide support for the mortgage market in a manner that serves our public mission and other nonfinancial objectives, but may not contribute to profitability,” it noted. Freddie said that its regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, has advised it that “minimizing our credit losses is our central goal and that we will be limited to continuing our existing core business activities and taking actions necessary to advance the goals of the conservatorship.”

Mr. Baker’s concern that Freddie may be racking up losses by overpaying for mortgages derives from his suspicion that the government might be encouraging it to do so as a way to bolster the operations of mortgage lenders.

That would make Fannie’s and Freddie’s mortgage-buying yet another backdoor bailout of the nation’s banks, Mr. Baker said, and could explain the government’s reluctance to include them in the reform efforts now being so hotly debated in Washington.

“If they are deliberately paying too much for mortgages to support the banks,” Mr. Baker said, “the government wants them to be in a position to keep doing that, and that would mean not doing anything about their status until further down the road.”

It’s no surprise that the government doesn’t want to acknowledge the soaring taxpayer costs associated with these mortgage zombies. The truth about Fannie and Freddie has always been hard to come by in Washington, and huge piles of money seem to circulate silently around both firms.

REMEMBER last Christmas Eve? That’s when the Treasury quietly decided to remove the $400 billion limit on federal borrowings available to Fannie and Freddie through 2012.

That stealth move didn’t engender much confidence in either the companies or their government guardian.

But because taxpayers own Freddie and Fannie, we should know more about their buying habits, as Mr. Baker points out. Unfortunately, if the government’s past actions are any indication of what we can expect, then don’t hold your breath waiting for the facts.
251 2010-05-09 The much-discussed “stock market” — with its connotation of a single entity — is a misnomer. Investors can buy and sell stocks through about 50 markets in the United States. Most of the trades are placed through computer networks, at the direction of computer programs, and orders are routed automatically to the market offering the best price.

It is a system that sometimes spins out of control if the computerized sellers cannot find enough buyers. Last year, on April 28, 2009, the stock price of Dendreon, a Seattle biotechnology company, plunged 69 percent in 70 seconds before trading was halted. When trading resumed the next day, most of the loss was instantly erased.

The same pattern unfolded Thursday, as shares in companies including Procter & Gamble fell precipitously.

Because such declines can reflect a temporary shortage of buyers rather than a permanent loss of value, some of the markets impose “circuit breakers” that pause trading to protect sellers from taking unnecessary losses. The New York Stock Exchange, for example, briefly suspended trading in some shares on Thursday, then slowed the pace of trading to give sellers a better chance to find buyers.

But experts say such safeguards make sense only if they are applied uniformly. When the New York exchange suspended trading Thursday, sellers simply moved to other exchanges with fewer restrictions. In some cases, the supply of buyers on those exchanges already had been exhausted, causing the computerized trading programs to offer shares at lower and lower prices. Some of the resulting downward spirals ended at one penny.

“When the New York Stock Exchange went into slow motion, a system designed to stabilize trading actually backfired in practice,” said James J. Angel, a professor at Georgetown University who studies financial markets. “No exchange should have an independent circuit breaker.”

The S.E.C., which oversees the nation’s equity markets, requires a suspension in trading only in the event of a broad market collapse, defined as a drop of at least 10 percent in the Dow Jones industrial average, which is based on the share prices of 30 large American companies.

Other countries, like Germany, impose similar circuit breakers on trading in shares of any individual company that has a similar drop, but the S.E.C. has never done so. A former S.E.C. official said the possibility had been discussed in recent years, but “I don’t think there was quite the urgency to deal with it.”

The S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a joint statement on Friday that the issue now had their attention.

“We are scrutinizing the extent to which disparate trading conventions and rules across various markets may have contributed to the spike in volatility,” the statement said. “This is inconsistent with the effective functioning of our capital markets and we will make whatever structural or other changes are needed.”

Early this year, the S.E.C. also began a broad review of equity markets, including whether computerized trading is properly regulated.

The heads of several of the largest electronic exchanges said Friday that they would support industrywide rules for breaking free falls.

But there are other ideas to keeping computerized markets in check. Lawrence E. Harris, a finance professor at the University of Southern California, said regulators should simply require all sellers to specify a minimum price below which they do not want to complete the sale of their shares. Market orders, placed at the best available price, can be too risky in the fast-moving age of electronic trading.

On Thursday, some sellers placed orders that were not fulfilled until prices had plunged as low as a penny a share. If sellers had placed “limit orders” instead, those transactions would not have happened, Professor Harris said.

“Electronic exchanges in most other countries only accept limit orders,” said Professor Harris, a former S.E.C. chief economist. “Without any mechanisms to stop the market, we just had stocks falling through the ice.”

But Rafi Reguer, a spokesman for the electronic exchange Direct Edge, said retail investors liked market orders because limit orders could be rejected, forcing the seller to try again, in some cases at a lower price.

“Sometimes what people value is the certainty of execution,” Mr. Reguer said.

Experts also note that the value of limit orders can be subverted if investors routinely set unrealistically low limits, to avoid the inconvenience of having their orders rejected.

The BATS Exchange, a large electronic exchange based near Kansas City, rejects orders if the price would be more than 5 percent or 50 cents away from the last completed transaction.

During the market panic on Thursday, between 2:40 and 3 p.m., BATS prevented more than 47.6 million orders from executing — more than 95 percent of all orders during that period, according to Randy Williams, a spokesman for the company.
252 2010-05-09 There’s one, over by the entrance, and there’s another, just below the banner — video cameras, installed by private companies to survey the public spectacle of Times Square. I would not have seen the countless electronic eyes had Christopher Falkenberg, the president of a firm called Insite Security, not pointed them out. But I felt pretty sure those cameras had a clear view of me.

Start looking for them and they really are everywhere: the New York Police Department cameras, which announce themselves with bright insignia; a cluster of three orbs, hanging like fruit outside Blue Fin on West 47th Street and Broadway; a pair of glass spheres stacked outside the across the street. Staring into one, I was startled to see something staring back: a lens swiveling toward me for a better view.

In Times Square, perhaps more than any other place in the city, our movements are being recorded a hundred different ways: from a few stories up the side of the building, from inside the plate glass of the branch, as we pass through the turnstiles of a subway station, at the point of purchase in seemingly every store. While the search was still on for the driver of that smoking , one of the Police Department’s first moves was to review footage from cameras between 51st and 34th Streets — all 82 of them. And those are just the cameras the city owns.

Cities — New York in particular, and Times Square most of all — used to be places to lose yourself in the thrilling anonymity of a crowd, to find yourself reflected in the eyes of strangers. Of course, no one really disappears now; we all leave a trace. But as urban legends go it remains a powerful one. It’s hard to adjust to the idea that cities — New York in particular, and Times Square most of all — are now places where unseen watchers can monitor your every move.

The bomb scare was a stark reminder of the risks New Yorkers take every day and of the crucial role that cameras can play in the first few hours after a crime. But is Times Square ready for its close-up? Am I?
253 2010-05-09 Emily Beth Grant, the daughter of Madeleine Rudel Grant and Jeffrey S. Grant of New York, was married Saturday evening to Scott Matthew Werthamer, the son of Marilyn F. Werthamer and Rony Werthamer of Pikesville, Md. Rabbi Richard J. Jacobs officiated at Tribeca Rooftop, an event space in New York.

The bride, 26, is a vice president in New York for Wesley, Brown & Bartle, a recruiting firm, where she works on marketing and executive placement. She graduated cum laude from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y.

Her father retired as the president of worldwide programming for MediaVest, a New York unit of the Publicis Groupe, the French advertising and marketing company. He has also been an executive producer of made-for-television movies. His projects have included “Having Our Say: The Delany Sisters’ First 100 Years” (1999) for CBS and “Secrets of the Mountain,” last month on NBC.

The bride’s mother retired as an independent fine art appraiser in Scarsdale, N.Y., and later in Manhattan.

The bride is the granddaughter of the opera conductor Julius Rudel.

The bridegroom, 29, is a vice president in New York for the hedge fund division of the Fortress Investment Group, where he deals with investor relations and raising capital for managed funds. He graduated cum laude from George Washington University.
254 2010-05-09 I miss my Filofax datebook, with its six rings and dark red leather binder. I had a green one first, with a calendar that cast each week across two cream-colored pages. Back then, at age 30, I was not busy enough to need a whole page per day, which some Filofax calendars provide, but far too busy, or so I liked to imagine, to fit a week’s activities on a single page. I left that green one in a taxi and replaced it with a red one. Old reddie is still around, with my life during half of 2007 memorialized. Even when I started half-heartedly to use iCal, ’s personal-calendar program for the Mac, I lugged around the Filofax in case I needed — I don’t know — the address book? The dry-measure equivalent for “bushel”? The dialing code for ? The size conversions for tailors (“Glove sizes are the same in every country”)? The centigrade temperature in Accra in May?

Something, surely. Carrying a Filofax, with all the inserts that came standard with it, made me feel substantial, cliquish and secretive. British. Like a person who keeps close at hand many bankers’ private lines and Mandarin phrases and measurements for handmade shoes. The apparatus of the Filofax circumscribed and elevated my identity. It also liberated my imagination by allowing for such elegant expression of it; various sketches and coded notes-to-self, in blue ink, pervade the pages of the 2007 book. When I had time on a train or at , I used to make lists, often plans for self-improvement.

Google Calendar, the online scheduling tool that I turned to after iCal, does none of this for me. I share mine with my husband, whose calendar is now superimposed on mine, so that we can sync up our trips, meetings and doctors’ appointments. I find plenty of room for error and irritation in the entering of appointments and synching of devices. My appointments — or “events,” as Google Calendar calls them — are also freighted with reminders, so much so that the many e-mail prompts it sends me in the days before an event sometimes eclipse the event itself.

But I rely on the e-mail reminders because I dislike consulting the calendar itself. It shows, by default, a week per screen and requires, when I’m on my laptop, that I scroll down if I want to see the hours after noon. I find I’m not close to busy enough to pack those long hours with events. At a glance, then, my week looks like a wide gray sea with the odd piece of flotsam in it. It does not look — as did the Filofax week, which always had some things furiously circled or underscored like “deadline” or “birthday!!!!” — like a manuscript, a memoir, a diary.

As a committed user of the BlackBerry, Kindle, and World Wide Web, I rarely get nostalgic for print — for broadsheets or magazines or even books. So I surprised myself by bridling at ’s boast, when introducing the Apple in January, that the device has “a great calendar.” It never occurred to me that people liked digital calendars; these things lack personality, except as nags. As I discovered after trying the iPad, what Jobs must have meant was that you can get a horizontal view of the iPad calendar to see a whole week, no scrolling. You can also tap on an event to see it up close. As on the , you can also send information from an e-mail invitation straight to the calendar, and tap the name of a location noted on the calendar to bring up Google Maps, which promptly shows you where to go. I’m not sure all that “at your service” is personality, or maybe it’s the personality known as officious.
255 2010-05-09 The Great Depression did not have too many silver linings, but it did change the way Americans thought about education, clearly for the better. In 1930, only 30 percent of teenagers graduated from high school. By 1940, after a decade in which there often was nothing better to do than stay in school, the number had jumped to 50 percent. The Depression didn’t just make Americans tougher. It made them smarter.

In the years that followed, these newly skilled workers helped create an economic colossus. They were the factory workers, office clerks and managers who built up General Motors, U.S. Steel, R.C.A. and I.B.M. So when our own Great Recession began more than two years ago, it was reasonable to hope that something similar, if less extreme, might take place.

In a historical echo, the share of young adults in recent years who graduated from college happened to be about 30 percent. By any serious reckoning, that number was too low. The gap between the pay of college graduates and everyone else has grown sharply over the last three decades, reaching a new all-time high last year, which suggests that workers with a degree are too scarce a resource. There may indeed be a natural ceiling on how many college graduates a society should produce, but the United States does not appear close to it.

A deep recession has the potential to change that. It can keep people in school, or drive them back to school, in two main ways. First, it reduces the opportunity cost — to use the technical term — of attending college. When times are tough, you are less likely to be missing out on a good $20-an-hour job by being in class. Second, a recession can serve as a wake-up, as Cecilia Rouse, a Princeton economist on leave to work in the White House, puts it. Because job losses and reductions in hours tend to fall disproportionately on less-educated workers, a downturn reminds people of a degree’s value.

The good news is that this dynamic seems to be playing out once again. The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that the share of new high-school graduates enrolled in college rose to 70.1 percent last fall. That was up from 67.2 percent in 2007 and a new record. And an analysis by the Pew Research Center has found the increase happening overwhelmingly at community colleges, which tend to educate working-class and poor students, the very groups that have been left behind. Northampton Community College in Bethlehem, Pa., has dealt with the crush by holding classes in empty mall stores and church basements, according to the publication Community College Week. Fresno City College, in California, now has an enrollment of more than 25,000 students but just 3,000 parking spaces.
256 2010-05-09 In Posner’s eyes, we are living through a second depression. The root causes were a failure of monetary policy (the Fed kept its short-term interest rate too low between 2001 and 2004), a failure of regulatory oversight (the Federal Reserve and the S.E.C. were “asleep at the switch”) and a failure of intellectual rigor (economists claimed that the enlightened self-interest of bankers and shareholders would suffice to prevent such a crisis).

After the crisis began, matters were made much worse by the “colossal blunder” of allowing Lehman Brothers to fail. Happily, successive administrations responded by running huge fiscal deficits, a Keynesian remedy of which Posner wholeheartedly approves. Unhappily, the public became distracted by “demagoguery about executive salaries and perks,” which were not themselves a cause of the crisis. Worse, Congress began prematurely legislating to increase financial regulation, forgetting that “anything that limits the rights of creditors causes them to raise interest rates, thereby reducing economic activity.”

By directing their fire at bankers, Posner suggests, legislators want us to forget that among “the major culprits in our present economic distress” have been “government officials.” Moreover, the new regulations being discussed in Congress are tending to increase uncertainty in financial markets, another drag on recovery. More and more, the question is whether or not the United States is actually “governable” — hence “the crisis of capitalist democracy.”

A  born-again Keynesian who remains an ardent opponent of big government, Posner may remind some readers of the two-headed pushmi-pullyu in the Doctor Dolittle books. On the wickedness of Greenspan and the greatness of Keynes he sounds like Paul Krugman’s doppelgänger. But facing the other way on the fallibility of regulators is Posner’s free-market Chicago head, which is scathing about attempts to police executive compensation, skeptical about the value of a new consumer protection agency and anxious about spiraling fiscal deficits and the risk of future inflation. For Posner, the American system of government is “cumbersome, clotted, ­competence-­challenged, even rather shady.” He confesses himself “perplexed by how government . . . has managed to escape most of the blame for our current economic state.” Well, maybe because his fellow Keynesians have relentlessly lauded government as the solution.

In his defense, Posner can cite Keynes’s letter to President Roosevelt, published in December 1933, which explicitly warned that “even wise and necessary reform may, in some respects, impede and complicate recovery. For it will upset the confidence of the business world and weaken their existing motives to action, before you have had time to put other motives in their place.” This is the essence of Posner’s argument here. “Ambitious reforms are premature,” he concludes, “pending a rigorous inquiry into the causes of the depression.” Rather than hastily drafted thousand-page-long legislative measures, he would like to see an executive commission similar to the 9/11 commission to establish what those causes were.

Otherwise, we should apply lessons that have already been learned in the realm of counterterrorism. We need more rotation of senior personnel among government financial agencies; better funding of those agencies; more pooling of intelligence between those agencies.

“The Crisis of Capitalist Democracy” has been written in haste, and it shows. Characteristically, Posner has not just one but two blogs and too much of this book reads as if it first saw the light of day online. But the trouble with blogging is that the more you blog, the less you read. Since he is not an economist, Posner cannot afford to take as many shortcuts as he does. The result is that confusions occasionally creep in, for example about what exactly constitutes a bank’s capital and how exactly bank leverage (the ratio of liabilities to capital) was regulated before the crisis.

Most perplexing of all, the ­small- ­government Keynesian calls for a flurry of reforms as half-baked as anything in the current bills before Congress: end the S.E.C. certification of certain credit rating agencies as “Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Agencies”; tie bank capital requirements to the business cycle, so that they rise in good times; and restore the Glass-Steagall Act that separated commercial and investment banking during the Depression. This last suggestion is especially strange as Posner must know that the preservation of Glass-Steagall would have done nothing whatever to alter the behavior of the men running Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers or A.I.G.

Posner makes it clear that he understands the risks the United States now faces as the crisis of private finance continues its metamorphosis into a crisis of public finance: an exploding debt relative to gross domestic product; larger risk premiums as investors prepare for higher inflation or a weaker dollar; rising interest rates; a greater share of tax revenues going for interest payments; a diminishing share of resources available for national security as opposed to Social Security. “As an economic power,” Posner concludes, “we may go the way of the British Empire.” Indeed. It seems not to have struck the judge that British decline and the rise of Keynesianism went hand in hand.
257 2010-05-09 The best chapter in “Trials of the Diaspora” concerns the cavalcade of anti-Semitism in English literature, with its monuments in Chaucer’s “Prioress’s Tale,” Shakespeare’s “Merchant of Venice”and Dickens’s “Oliver Twist.”My only criticism of Julius is that he somewhat under­plays the ultimate viciousness both of Shylock and of Shakespeare’s gratuitous invention of the enforced conversion, which was no part of the pound-of-flesh tradition. As an old-fashioned bardo­lator, I am hurt when I contemplate the real harm Shakespeare has done to the Jews for some four centuries now. No representation of a Jew in literature ever will surpass Shylock in power, negative eloquence and persuasiveness. A “perplexed unhappiness” is the sensitive response of Julius, but I would urge him to go further. Shakespeare, still competing with the ghost of Christopher Marlowe, implicitly contrasts Shylock with Barabas, the Jew of Malta in Marlowe’s tragic farce. I enjoy telling my students: let us contaminate the two plays with one another. Imagine Shylock declaiming: “Sometimes I go about and poison wells” while Barabas intones: “If you prick us, do we not bleed?” It is Shakespeare’s continuing triumph over Marlowe that such an exchange will not work. Shylock is darker and deeper forever.

For Julius, “The Merchant of Venice”is both an anti-Semitic play and a representation of anti-Semitism. I dispute the latter: the humanizing of Shylock only increases his monstrosity. Who can doubt that he would have slaughtered Antonio if only he could? But I like a fine summary by Julius: “Shylock is an Englishman’s Jew — wicked, malignant but ultimately conquerable.”

Dickens created the second most memorable Jew in his superb Fagin. There is no third figure to compete with Shylock and Fagin, not even Joyce’s Poldy Bloom, whose Jewishness is disputable anyway, marvelous as he is.

How does one estimate the lasting harm done by Shakespeare’s and Dickens’s egregious Jews? Himself a usurer, Shakespeare must have known how much he had invested in Shylock. Is that why he punishes the Jew with such ignoble humiliation? The zest of Dickens for his urban apocalypses burned through his own humane sense of fairness. Yet nothing mitigates the destructiveness of the portraits of Shylock and Fagin.

The greatness of Shakespeare and of Dickens renders their anti-Semitic masterpieces more troublesome than the litany of lesser but frequently estimable traducers: Thomas Nashe, Daniel Defoe, Rudyard Kipling, H. G. Wells, G. K. Chesterton, Hilaire Belloc, Wyndham Lewis, down to the contemporary poet Tom Paulin and the dramatist Caryl Churchill. Ezra Pound scarcely can be blamed upon the English, and T. S. Eliot, despite his conversion in citizenship and faith, remains an American phenomenon, a monument to a past illness, a literary malaise now largely vanished.

I am grateful to Julius for his calm balance, and I do not ask him to be Philip Roth rather than himself. There is an English passion for the grotesque, of which Shylock and Fagin are among the triumphs. American literary anti-Semitism is now sparse indeed. The new English (and Continental) anti-Semitism is hatred for Israel, which among all the nations is declared to be illegitimate. The United States remains almost free of this disease, and any current writer would not be tolerated for portraits like those of Hemingway’s Robert Cohn in “The Sun Also Rises,”Scott Fitzgerald’s Wolfsheim in “The Great Gatsby”or the several Jewish males who are Willa Cather’s villains. This is hardly to congratulate ourselves, but to point out that the United States, despite bigots left and right, does not encourage the genteel anti-Semitism that is woven into the English academic and literary world.

Early in this book, Julius links anti-­Semitism to sadism. He might have done even more with this, since sado­masochism is something of an English vice, and is so much a school-experience of the upper social class. And yet his chapter on “The Mentality of Modern English Anti-­Semitism” shrewdly relates bullying to the puzzle of what appears to be an incessant prejudice, never to be dispelled.

At his frequent best, Julius refreshes by a mordant tonality, as when he catalogs the types of English anti-Semites. The height of his argument comes where his book will be most controversial: his comprehensive account of the newest English anti-Semitism.

To protest the policies of the Israeli government actually can be regarded as true philo-Semitism, but to disallow the existence of the Jewish state is another matter. Of the nearly 200 recognized nation-states in the world today, something like at least half are more reprehensible than even the worst aspects of Israel’s policy toward the Palestinians. A curious blindness informs the shifting standards of current English anti-Zionism.

I admire Julius for the level tone with which he discusses this sanctimonious intelligentsia, who really will not rest until Israel is destroyed.

I end by wondering at the extraordinary moral strength of Anthony Julius. He concludes by observing: “Anti-Semitism is a sewer.” As he has shown, the genteel and self-righteous “new anti-Semitism” of so many English academic and literary contemporaries emanates from that immemorial stench.
258 2010-05-09 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
259 2010-05-09 In the spring of 1942, the Russian-born novelist Irène Némirovsky, then living in France, began to suspect that her recent conversion to Roman Catholicism was unlikely to exempt her from Hitler ’s plans for the Jews. Already considering her works-in-progress “posthumous,” she jotted this entry in her notebook: “Try to do as many discussions and things as possible . . . that may interest people in ’52 or 2052.”

In fact, that revival of interest occurred roughly midway between those dates, and more than 60 years after Némirovsky’s death at Auschwitz. In 2004, her novel “Suite Française” — the manuscript had survived in a suitcase kept by her daughter — was published for the first time and went on to become an international best seller. Divided into two sections, one dealing with its French characters’ flight into the countryside to escape the German invasion, the other with small-town tensions under the occupation, the novel inspired comparisons to Camus and Tolstoy, and reached a wide audience moved by its tragic yet triumphant publication history and its portrait of a population reeling from a violent insult to its sense of security and identity. But when the book’s success inspired a parallel interest in Némirovsky’s life, the story that emerged was rather more complex. Although admired and famous in her own time, she was the author of several anti-Semitic novels as well as a regular contributor to xenophobic and racist French journals.

These controversial aspects of her career may be responsible for the impression conveyed by Olivier Philipponnat and Patrick Lienhardt’s “Life of Irène Némirovsky,” which seems not so much written as transcribed from one of those French talk shows in which the participants convene to argue and shout and wave their arms. You can’t entirely blame the book’s translator, Euan Cameron, for the overwrought, ungrammatical text; the clichés (“For Grasset was not born yesterday: the ‘novel that spelled money’ had the wind behind it”), mixed metaphors and infelicitous word choices (a rough draft is described as “born of an impatient womb, brimming with outlines, dead ends, changes of direction and false starts”); or for the frequency with which a sentence’s meaning is obscured by nearly impenetrable convolution.

Ultimately, though, the effort of reading pays off, partly because Némirovsky’s life raises so many intriguing questions and partly because the sheer weirdness of her biographers’ method tells us so much (some of it unintentional) about France’s continuing efforts to deal with its anti-­Semitic past — and with the residue of anti-Semitism that still remains, in far more places than the bombast of ultra-right-wing politicians.

The book opens on an Auschwitz-bound transport. The authors have little new to add to the story of Némirovsky’s last days, aside from a mystifying generalization about the transit camp at Pithiviers: “The French police put in charge of guarding the camp are not bad men. Just disciplinarians.” The preface ends with what are presumably Némirovsky’s reflections before her death from typhus, at 39: “ ‘And so,’ she thinks, ‘I regret nothing. I have been happy.’ ” But the punctilious reader of endnotes will discern that this is actually a quotation from her 1940 novel, “The Dogs and the Wolves.” Philipponnat and Lienhardt seem uninterested in the line between autobiographical fiction and historical fact, presenting passages of fictional dialogue as if they were actual conversations. The confusion this occasions only grows when, later on, they write that Némirovsky herself “discouraged these simplistic parallels,” claiming that “I have certainly made use of real-life aspects, but sparsely.”

Still, the authors manage to put many pieces of the Némirovsky puzzle together, even if some of them appear to have come from another puzzle. Her father was a banker struggling to balance his love for gambling with his career in finance, her mother a vain, competitive monster given to flaunting her adulterous affairs. Moving from Kiev to Odessa and then St. Peters­burg, the family summered in France and provided Irène with everything but parental affection. After evading successive onslaughts of anti-Semitic violence, the Némirovskys left Russia in 1918; they came to rest in France when Irène was 16.
260 2010-05-09 “Alain, who had had the idea for a long time, envisioned someone famous writing a score, and following babies from 1 to 3 to create a kind of baby music video,” Mr. Balmès, in New York for the film’s opening, said the other day over breakfast at a Midtown hotel. “That’s exactly the opposite of the sort of thing I do. But the more we spoke, the more I could envision a different treatment of the original idea, a treatment that was much more compatible to me.”

But even when both men were on the same page, executing their vision proved to be a hard and complex undertaking, a cinematic Rubik’s Cube involving four continents, shifting time zones and daunting logistical challenges. This was partly because filming took place in such diverse and sometimes remote locations, but also because so much depended on serendipity, on being present, with cameras rolling, to record perfect, telling moments.

“We wanted to be there the first time certain things happened,” Mr. Balmès said, “the first time each baby heard music or started to walk. We were hoping for small miracles. Because you cannot set up babies. You have to wait, and watch, and make sure you’re in the right place at the right time.”

The filmmakers’ first task was narrowing the list of possible locations to four countries that, in their opinion, reflected very different points on the continuum between tradition and modernity. Then came the task of choosing a family in each country, a selection made while the mothers were still pregnant. Although the babies are the undisputed stars of the film, with adults making only cameo appearances, a major challenge was finding families that were comfortable with having a filmmaker virtually join the household for the course of more than a year.

“We checked out 15 or 20 families in each country, and it’s crazy, but we got the right families,” said Mr. Chabat, the father of three children. “We were really lucky.” And the star qualities of the babies who ended up in the film? “We were thrilled,” he said. “But really, there are no bad babies.”

Mr. Balmès, whose duties included choosing the babies to be focused on, also has three children, the youngest of whom, Romain, was born about the same time as the subjects of his film. For a brief moment Mr. Balmès contemplated using Romain as one of those subjects, but his wife quickly rejected that idea: “Absolutely no way, she told me.”

Filming involved 400 days, spread over nearly two years, with travel that had Mr. Balmès, who did nearly all the camera work himself, leapfrogging around the globe. There followed nearly two years of editing to compress 400 hours of film into a work that captures memorable moments in the development of the four babies.

For Mr. Balmès a major appeal of the project, which makes use only of images, without narration or dialogue, had to do with his own feelings about documentary film.

“This is the most real documentary I’ve ever done, the closest I’ve ever gotten to pure documentary,” he said. “Most documentaries are produced like feature films, and that kills its specificity. But with this one there was no voice-over, no script. It’s just real life.”

Some images will be intensely familiar to American audiences, especially those from Tokyo and San Francisco that involve circle activities and lots of clapping and singing. Others will leave them frantically leafing through Dr. Spock, trying to find out if it’s really O.K. to bathe a baby in a metal tub from which a wandering goat comes by to drink.

But however parents react to the various child-rearing practices depicted on screen, Mr. Balmès said he hopes that audiences will not dismiss the subject matter as trivial, or of interest only to those viewers counting the days until they become pregnant.

“When people see the film,” he said, “we hope they’ll realize that it’s not just about babies. It’s about being a human being in the world.

“For a newborn baby everything is a great adventure. When they suddenly manage to stand upright, it’s so amazing, you want to cheer and clap. It’s the ultimate Indiana Jones moment. The audience says, ‘Yeah!’ Even though it’s just a baby standing.”
261 2010-05-09 ON the industrial outskirts of Casablanca, Morocco, feral dogs roam the grounds of an abandoned meatpacking plant. Today, the sprawling factory, still replete with dangling meat hooks and blood-stained floors, is the unlikely venue for Casablanca’s largest independent art exhibition space, Les Transculturelles des Abattoirs, or the Transcultural Slaughterhouse, which has featured unusual site-specific pieces: sets of sculptured feet placed side by side on the ground, for instance, and faces pasted directly on the white tiles lining the space’s walls.

The transformation was made possible in 2009 when Casablanca’s mayor, Mohamed Sajid, warded off eager commercial developers and placed the 215,000-square-foot complex (rue Jaafar el Barmaki Avenue, Aïn-Sebaa Hay Mohammedi; 212-526-51-58-29; casamemoire.org) in the hands of Casamémoire — a nonprofit architectural preservation society — with help from the city’s nascent arts community. The move was a testament to the emerging importance of Casablanca’s cultural sector, as were the openings, over the last two years, of a stable of contemporary art galleries across the city.

Nestled amid the street peddlers and roaring diesel engines that clog Casablanca’s boulevards is the nearly two-year-old Galerie Atelier 21 (21 rue Abou Mahassine Arrouyani; 212-522-98-17-85; atelier21.ma). For Aziz Daki, the gallery’s co-owner and an art historian, the city’s mushrooming art scene is a reflection of the cultural interests of King Mohammed VI, an enthusiastic collector. “His passion for the arts has been one of the inspirations for what is now a growing group of Morocco-based collectors,” said Mr. Daki, whose gallery represents 14 Moroccan contemporary artists. “He really is one of our art world’s most important role models.”

The years since the 1999 transition from the relatively repressive reign of King Hassan II to the more tolerant and economically savvy regime of his son, King Mohammed VI, have meant big business for entrepreneurs like Youssef Falaky, a co-owner of the six-month-old Matisse Gallery (2 rue de la Convention, Quartier Racine; 212-522-94-49-99), a spinoff of a location in Marrakesh. “Before the death of Hassan II, people were living in the dark,” he said. “No one wanted to look rich. But now people are spending, and that has meant more investments in the art market.”

Hassan Hajjaj, an artist who splits his time between his native Morocco and London, was one of the first artists featured in Matisse’s Casablanca space. “Casablanca has its own special flavor,” said Mr. Hajjaj, whose work updates stereotypical Orientalist imagery with an almost Andy Warhol Pop Art flair. “The city is at that stage where there are a lot of hungry people that need spaces to show. It’s a big, chaotic city. But good things are growing out of it.”

Myriem Berrada Sounni, 29, who owns the 11-month-old Loft Art Gallery (13 rue Al Kaissi, Triangle d’Or; 212-522-94-47-65; loftartgallery.net) with her 26-year-old sister, Yasmine, said the city’s art scene has gone mainstream. “At the opening of our last exhibit we had ministers and presidents of banks,” she said. During a recent visit to the gallery, little red dots signaling a sale could be found next to nearly every painting on its pristine white walls. “In Casablanca,” she said, “art galleries are now a place for people to see and be seen.”
262 2010-05-09 “Philosophers, authors, artists always came here, but it was usually to the upper valley,” said Ladina Florineth, owner of Villa Flor, a charming seven-room hotel that opened last summer in a renovated patrician house in the town of S-chanf. “Now people are discovering the lower part, which is becoming more important for those who want something authentic,” she said.

While St. Moritz has hosted famous art world names like Beuys, Warhol and Schnabel, the Lower Engadine has started to attract its share. Two years ago, Eva Presenhuber, a Zurich-based blue-chip gallerist, built a sculptural holiday house in Vnà. The Pritzker Prize-winning architect Peter Zumthor was apparently so taken with Tschlin, a tiny village on the Lower Engadine’s eastern edge, that he designed a hotel for it. The hotel didn’t come to fruition, but the Swiss curator and art-world star Hans Ulrich Obrist plans to establish an archive and artist’s residency in the same town.

And the enigmatic, peripatetic artist Not Vital (pronounced “note vee-TAL”), a native of the region, owns several properties that display his own sculptures and works by other artists. On the western edge of Sent, where he was born, he spearheaded a hilly outdoor sculpture garden called Parkin Not dal Mot. In nearby Ardez, he runs a foundation that displays art and makes a mission of collecting and archiving books and publications written in Romansh.

Despite all this, the Lower Engadine has so far escaped overdevelopment largely because of its inaccessibility. Old traditions abound. There are those intriguing inscriptions, called sgraffiti, etched into the thick-walled buildings, a decorative custom imported from nearby Italy in the 16th century. There are even farmers who still share their houses with livestock. And then there’s the landscape. “This valley’s rugged beauty, its shifts from warm to cold, dark to light, attracts creative people looking for contemplation,” said Hans Schmid, a local hotelier.

Mr. Schmid would know: he gave up a job as culture director of the Swiss canton of St. Gallen to run Hotel Piz Linard, which opened in a historic building in 2007. Standing pink and pretty on the village square of Lavin, it has become a cultural draw for both locals and visitors, hosting a mix of weekend concerts, film screenings and exhibitions.

Other hotels also cater to culture vultures yearning for both quality and authenticity: In Vnà, a village of 70 residents, a few entrepreneurial locals established a foundation in 2004 to renovate the town’s cultural center, a building that had fallen into disuse. In 2008 the center became Hotel Piz Tschütta, which now hosts recitals and offers a charming restaurant and guest rooms. Beyond the building, more rooms are dispersed throughout the village.

Then there’s the glamorous Hotel Castell — a fortress atop a mountain overlooking Zuoz. Built in 1912, it reopened in 2004, with the art collector Ruedi Bechtler as a primary shareholder, and the Swiss art dealer couple Iwan and Manuela Wirth as additional partners.

Now packed with works by some of today’s biggest artists, Castell is like a contemporary art center with an Alpine backdrop. Highlights include James Turrell’s “Skyspace Piz Uter,” from 2006, a cylindrical, chapel-like space on the hotel grounds. And at the curved red bar designed by Pipilotti Rist, bottle labels display the Swiss artist’s video projections.

Castell is also a site for a late-summer event called St. Moritz Art Masters, in its third year, which now spills into the Lower Engadine with a series of art walks, talks and exhibitions.

In Tschlin, Markus Miessen, a Berlin-based architect, is collaborating with Mr. Obrist on yet another new art venue. “We researched the whole area, driving around, and these villages are really birds’ nests,” he said, explaining a plan to use the town’s vacant school building and a farmhouse to house Mr. Obrist’s vast archive and create the artist’s residency. “We wanted to find a place that was difficult to reach, so the fellows wouldn’t just be passing through,” Mr. Miessen said. (Located on a frighteningly steep road at more than 5,000 feet above sea level, Tschlin is a town that few just pass through.)

Ms. Presenhuber, the Zurich-based gallery owner, made a somewhat unlikely comparison. “The area is like Montauk in the 1970s,” she said. “First artists and people without so much money settled there. Now, 30 or 40 years later, it’s hyped. I think the Lower Engadine will be the same way in 10 or 20 years.”

IF YOU GO

HOW TO GET THERE

The closest major airport is Zurich. Continental and American fly nonstop from Newark and Kennedy, respectively, with fares starting at about $630 for travel in May, according to a recent online search. The Rhaetian Railway train travels to Scuol, the Lower Engadine’s capital, and allows car transport on portions of the route. (Once you’re there, it’s easiest to explore the area by car.)

For killer views, excellent contemporary art, hiking, fine dining and a soothing, huge hammam, there’s Hotel Castell (Via Castell; 41-81-851-52-53; hotelcastell.ch) in Zuoz. Rooms start at 230 Swiss francs, or $208 at 1.07 Swiss francs to the dollar.

Piz Linard (Plazza Gronda; 41-81-862-26-26; pizlinard.ch) overlooks the village square in Lavin. Individually designed by various artist teams, its 15 guest rooms include unusual features like a freestanding wooden bathtub. Rooms from 240 francs, including breakfast and a four-course dinner.

The seven rooms at Villa Flor (Somvih 19, S-chanf; 41-81-851-22-30; villaflor.ch) are carefully curated mini-suites. Artworks from the owner’s collection are scattered throughout the private and public spaces. Rooms start at 190 francs.

In Vnà, Piz Tschütta (Bügl Grond; 41-81-860-12-12; hotelvna.ch) offers nine spacious rooms in its cultural center and five additional rooms scattered throughout the village. The restaurant serves tasty international and local dishes. Rooms start at 85 francs.

In Scuol, the year-old, 36-room GuardaVal (Vi 383; 41-81-861-09-09; guardaval-scuol.ch) offers free access to the town’s thermal baths. Rooms from 115 francs per person per night (summer season).
263 2010-05-09 LEDOGAR--Stephen J.,left us on May 3, 2010. Beloved of all his family, tireless and passionate worker for his country, avid cyclist, U.S. Navy pilot, possessed of great decency and a memorable sense of humor. Foreign Service officer in U.S. Dept. ...
264 2010-05-09 LEDOGAR--Stephen J.,left us on May 3, 2010. Beloved of all his family, tireless and passionate worker for his country, avid cyclist, U.S. Navy pilot, possessed of great decency and a memorable sense of humor. Foreign Service officer in U.S. Dept. ...
265 2010-05-09 WEXLER--Melissa A. 5/9/58-9/12/81. Missy, we miss you more each year. Love, Mommy Arline Joachim, Eddie, Sheri, Larry....
266 2010-05-09 If there were ever an indicator that Berlin has outgrown its image as untamed bohemian playground, this might be it. Soho House Berlin, a 40-room hotel and private club aimed at the young and affluent, is set to open on May 10 in Mitte, a district...
267 2010-05-09 SeaWorld is offering a way to save money on admission and help finance wildlife conservation.     Until Dec. 31, visitors who purchase a full-price adult ticket to SeaWorld parks in Orlando ($78.95), San Diego ($69) or San Antonio ($58.99) can get...
268 2010-05-09 McCORD--Robert Reed. My wonderful husband and very best friend died April 28, 2010. He was generous and loving, and lived his life with goodness and great wit. Contributions can be made in his memory to harlemrbi.org, which he cared deeply about. ...
269 2010-05-09 After only a couple of months with Nissan North America, the marketing executive Joel Ewanick is headed for Detroit to help with the rebuilding of General Motors brands. Mr. Ewanick has been named vice president for  United States marketing, effec...
270 2010-05-10 Table-top gaming, the mayors of Foursquare and clipping text top the reading list....
271 2010-05-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
272 2010-05-10 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, wants all the markets to use circuit breakers to prevent a repeat of last week's wild trading in which the Dow Jones industrial average fell hundreds of points in minutes....
273 2010-05-10 Shares in the Moody's Corporation remained down on Monday after the firm disclosed late on Friday that it received notice of a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation over its credit-rating policies....
274 2010-05-10 Federal regulators said Monday that the major stock exchanges had agreed in principle to a uniformed system that would allow for a controlled slowdown during volatile trading....
275 2010-05-10 The Chronicle of Higher Education shadows one applicant for the Class of 2014, and his family, as they sift a range of financial aid offers....
276 2010-05-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
277 2010-05-10 The musical is expected to open sometime in the 2010-11 season....
278 2010-05-10 Thomson Reuters doesn't own a business cable network and with its new offering of online video, they may not have to....
279 2010-05-10 Peg Fitzpatrick joined the Star Group, Philadelphia, in a new post, managing partner, heading the agency’s financial services division. She had run her own marketing company, PMG, Blue Bell, Pa., and before that worked for media companies like Cox Enterprises and Gannett.

David Fleck joined IMVU, Palo Alto, Calif., as vice president for marketing. He succeeds Jeff Titterton, who left to join Zoosk, San Francisco, as vice president for marketing. Mr. Fleck had been vice president for marketing and business development at Second Life, part of Linden Lab.

Kevin Flynn joined Rosetta as partner and managing director of its new Toronto office. He had been senior vice president for client strategy and engagement at MacLaren MRM, Toronto, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Matthew Frankel joined the New York office of Current Media in a new post, senior vice president for corporate communications. He had most recently been senior vice president for corporate communications at AOL, New York.

Steve Haber joined Ames Scullin O’Hara, Atlanta, in a new post, director for brand and digital planning. He had been senior account director at Macquarium, Atlanta.

Tim Hanlon joined Catalyst S&F, San Francisco, as a partner, opening a Chicago office for the agency. He had been executive vice president and managing director at VivaKi Ventures, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Troy Hitch joined Barefoot Proximity, Cincinnati, as vice president and creative director. He had been executive creative director at Big Fat Brain, Covington, Ky., and also created a popular and successful video clip for My Damn Channel with a title that cannot be repeated here; a paraphrase would be “You Stink at Photoshop.”

Hotel Veritas, a new hotel in Cambridge, Mass., named Proverb, Boston, as its agency of record. Billings were not disclosed.

Ryan Jordan joined Van Wyck & Van Wyck, New York, to lead a new brand experience division as director for brand experience. He had most recently been creative director at Harrison & Shriftman, New York.

Jonathan Kish joined MRM Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, executive vice president of strategy for the East region, composed of offices in Detroit, New York and Princeton, N.J. He had most recently been group vice president for strategy at the Tel Aviv, Israel, office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, also part of the McCann Worldgroup.

David Lawlor joined La Comunidad, Miami, in a new post, director for media services and connections planning. He had worked for agencies like Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners, and Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group.

Thomas O’Brien joined the National Focus division of Focus 360, New York, as Midwest regional manager, to open an office in Birmingham, Mich., that will serve the Chicago, Detroit and Ohio markets. He had been regional director for the Midwest region at Westwood One Radio Networks.

Florence Peyre, vice president for business and corporate development at Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S., New York, was promoted to a new post, vice president for emerging platforms. Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S. is part of Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S., a unit of the Lagardère Active division of Lagardère.

John Piccone joined Simulmedia, New York, in a new post, vice president for sales. He had been senior vice president for business development and sales strategy at Healthination, New York.

RMG Networks, San Francisco, signed a multiyear sales agreement with Delta Air Lines for placements in the airline’s in-flight video network, promotions onboard flights and media properties in airport lounges. Financial terms were not disclosed. The In-Flight Entertainment Network of RMG already works with airlines like Continental, Frontier and JetBlue. RMG is owned by National CineMedia and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.

Eric Robertson joined the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of Havas, in a new post, senior vice president and global corporate communications director. He had been senior manager for corporate communications at R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Gordon Robertson joined Brunner, Pittsburgh, in a new post, vice president and group creative director. He had most recently been senior vice president and executive creative director at Marc USA, Pittsburgh.

Sugarman Law Firm, Boston, selected Strategis, Boston, as its first agency of record. Billings were not disclosed.

Rob Thorsen rejoined the New York office of Mother in a new post, global business director, reporting to the London headquarters as well as the New York office. He had been executive vice president and senior director at BBDO New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, which he joined in 2007 from Mother.

Joe Vitale joined Roska Healthcare, Montgomeryville, Pa., as part of a staff expansion. He had been a creative director at D.i.D., Fort Washington, Pa. The other hires include Jenni Crawford and Paul Segal, senior copywriters and Kimberly Clotman, account director on Bristol-Myers Squibb.
280 2010-05-10 Also on the agenda are hearings on the Gulf oil spill, as senators also begin scrutinizing President Obama's expected pick for the Supreme Court....
281 2010-05-10 When it comes to hiring, letting friendship trump the needs of your business can be a sure way to damage both....
282 2010-05-10 The two largest U.S. stock exchange operators, NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group, called a truce and issued a joint statement on Sunday, pledging to co-operate to get to the bottom of last week's dramatic stock market plunge, Reuters reported....
283 2010-05-10 Chinese premier Wen Jiabao said that his country will support actions to help Greece overcome its sovereign debt crisis, state media reported Monday, according to Reuters....
284 2010-05-10 All of the chatter about financial reform overlooks Freddie Mac's horrific first quarter, and its warning that credit losses are likely to keep growing this year, Gretchen Morgenson writes in her latest column for The New York Times....
285 2010-05-10 Analysts and investors have begun to focus on the risks to European banks if severe budget cuts by debt-ridden countries freeze credit markets and cause a double-dip recession, The New York Times reported....
286 2010-05-10 The five largest U.S. banks, which dominate the derivatives business, have dispatched trade groups, paid lobbyists and their own executives to convince senators that excluding banks from the business would make markets less safe....
287 2010-05-10 Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region rallied early on Monday, and the beleaguered euro firmed against other leading currencies, after European leaders agreed to a giant rescue package in a bid to contain the snowballing worries about the debt ...
288 2010-05-10 In 1993, Mr. Ledogar was the chief American negotiator when the Chemical Weapons Convention, which outlaws the production, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons and calls for their destruction, was signed. As of last year, 188 nations had ratified the treaty.

While working on the chemical weapons ban, Mr. Ledogar was also head of the American delegation to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. In that capacity he became one of the primary drafters of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on Sept. 10, 1996, it called for the prohibition of all nuclear explosions in all environments, for both military and civilian purposes. So far, 151 nations have ratified the treaty, and 31 others — including the United States — have signed but not ratified it.

Stephen Joseph Ledogar was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 14, 1929, one of four children of Edward and Margaret Ledogar. Besides his daughter, he is survived by his wife, the former Marcia Hubert; a son, Charles; a sister, Anne Leyden; two brothers, Edward and Robert; and three grandchildren.

Mr. Ledogar enrolled at Fordham University in 1949 under a Naval Reserve Officers Training program. But two years later he went on active duty as a Navy pilot. He completed his bachelor’s degree at Fordham in 1954, then received a law degree there in 1958.

He joined the Foreign Service in 1959. After postings in Canada and Italy, the State Department, in 1965, sent him to Vietnam, where he administered pacification programs. From 1969 to 1972 he was press spokesman for the American delegation at the Paris peace talks. The resulting accord, signed on Jan. 27, 1973, ended direct United States military involvement in the Vietnam War.

Three years after helping draft the nuclear test ban treaty, Mr. Ledogar went before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1999 to urge its ratification. Saying he was “a strong believer in nuclear deterrence,” he asked, “What if the United States chooses not to ratify this treaty?

“I am not given to hyperbole,” he continued, “but I believe it is not an exaggeration to say that there will be jubilation among our foes and despair among our friends. Iran, Iraq, North Korea and other states that harbor nuclear aspirations surely will feel the constraints loosening. Our allies and friends will feel deserted and betrayed. The global nuclear nonproliferation regime will be endangered.”

Three months ago, President Obama said he would revive efforts to have the Senate ratify the treaty.
289 2010-05-10 This word has appeared in 31 Times articles over the past year....
290 2010-05-10 Jaromir Jagr set up three goals to help the Czech Republic cruise past France, 6-2, in their opening game of the world championship in Cologne, Germany. Jiri Novotny added a goal and two assists for the Czechs, who are looking for their first world title since 2005.
291 2010-05-10 WASHINGTON — President Obama nominated Solicitor General Elena Kagan as the nation’s 112th justice, choosing his own chief advocate before the Supreme Court to join it in ruling on cases critical to his view of the country’s future.

After a monthlong search, Mr. Obama informed Ms. Kagan and his advisers on Sunday of his choice to succeed the retiring Justice John Paul Stevens.

In settling on Ms. Kagan, the president chose a well-regarded 50-year-old lawyer who served as a staff member in all three branches of government and was the first woman to be dean of Harvard Law School. If confirmed, she would be the youngest member and the third woman on the current court, but the first justice in nearly four decades without any prior judicial experience.

That lack of time on the bench may both help and hurt her confirmation prospects, allowing critics to question whether she is truly qualified while denying them a lengthy judicial paper trail filled with ammunition for attacks. As solicitor general, Ms. Kagan has represented the government before the Supreme Court for the past year, but her own views are to a large extent a matter of supposition.

Perhaps as a result, some on both sides of the ideological aisle are suspicious of her. Liberals dislike her support for strong executive power and her outreach to conservatives while running the law school. Activists on the right have attacked her for briefly barring military recruiters from a campus facility because the ban on openly gay men and lesbians serving in the military violated the school’s anti-discrimination policy.

Replacing Justice Stevens with Ms. Kagan presumably would not alter the broad ideological balance on the court, but her relative youth means that she could have an influence on the court for decades to come, underscoring the stakes involved.

In making his second nomination in as many years, Mr. Obama was not looking for a liberal firebrand as much as a persuasive leader who could attract the swing vote of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy and counter what the president sees as the rightward direction of the court under Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. Particularly since the Citizens United decision invalidating on free speech grounds the restrictions on corporate spending in elections, Mr. Obama has publicly criticized the court, even during his State of the Union address with justices in the audience.

As he presses an ambitious agenda expanding the reach of government, Mr. Obama has come to worry that a conservative Supreme Court could become an obstacle down the road, aides said. It is conceivable that the Roberts court could eventually hear challenges to aspects of Mr. Obama’s health care program or to other policies like restrictions on carbon emissions and counterterrorism practices.

Critics have been pre-emptively attacking her in the days leading up to the president’s announcement. Paul Campos, a law professor at the University of Colorado, Boulder, writing on The Daily Beast, compared her to Harriet E. Miers, whose nomination by President George W. Bush collapsed amid an uprising among conservatives who considered her unqualified and not demonstrably committed to their judicial philosophy.

M. Edward Whelan III, president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center in Washington, wrote on National Review’s Web site that even Ms. Kagan’s nonjudicial experience was inadequate. “Kagan may well have less experience relevant to the work of being a justice than any entering justice in decades,” Mr. Whelan wrote.

Ms. Kagan defended her experience during confirmation hearings as solicitor general last year. “I bring up a lifetime of learning and study of the law, and particularly of the constitutional and administrative law issues that form the core of the court’s docket,” she testified. “I think I bring up some of the communications skills that has made me — I’m just going to say it — a famously excellent teacher.”

Ms. Kagan was one of Mr. Obama’s runners-up last year when he nominated Sonia Sotomayor to the court, and she was always considered the front-runner this year. The president also interviewed three other candidates, all federal appeals court judges: Merrick B. Garland of Washington, Diane P. Wood of Chicago and Sidney R. Thomas of Montana.

Ms. Kagan had several advantages from the beginning that made her the most obvious choice. For one, she works for Mr. Obama, who has been impressed with her intelligence and legal capacity, aides said, and she worked for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. when he was a senator. For another, she is the youngest of the four finalists, meaning she would most likely have the longest tenure as a justice.

Ms. Kagan was also confirmed by the Senate just last year, albeit with 31 no votes, making it harder for Republicans who voted for her in 2009 to vote against her in 2010.

The president can also say he reached beyond the so-called “judicial monastery,” although picking a solicitor general and former Harvard law dean hardly reaches outside the Ivy League, East Coast legal elite. And her confirmation would allow Mr. Obama to build on his appointment of Justice Sotomayor by bringing the number of women on the court to its highest ever (three, with Justice Sotomayor and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg).

Moreover, in his selection of finalists, Mr. Obama effectively framed the choice so that he could seemingly take the middle road by picking Ms. Kagan, who correctly or not was viewed as ideologically between Judge Wood on the left and Judge Garland in the center.

Judge Garland was widely seen as the most likely alternative to Ms. Kagan and the one most likely to win easy confirmation. Well respected on both sides of the aisle, he had a number of conservatives publicly calling him the best they could hope for from a Democratic president. Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, a Republican member of the Judiciary Committee, privately made clear to the president that he considered Judge Garland a good choice, according to people briefed on their conversations.

But Mr. Obama ultimately opted to save Judge Garland for when he faces a more hostile Senate and needs a nominee with more Republican support. Democrats expect to lose seats in this fall’s election, so if another Supreme Court seat comes open next year and Mr. Obama has a substantially thinner margin in the Senate than he has today, Judge Garland would be an obvious choice.

As for Ms. Kagan, strategists on both sides anticipate a fight over her confirmation but not necessarily an all-out war. The White House hopes the Senate Judiciary Committee can hold hearings before July 4, but some Congressional aides were skeptical. Either way, Democrats want Ms. Kagan confirmed by the August recess so she can join the court for the start of its new term in October.

A New Yorker who grew up in Manhattan, Ms. Kagan earned degrees from Princeton, Oxford and Harvard Law School, worked briefly in private practice, clerked for Justice Thurgood Marshall, served as a Senate staff member and worked as a White House lawyer and domestic policy aide under President Bill Clinton. She was nominated for an appeals court judgeship in 1999, but the Senate never voted on her nomination.

She has been a trailblazer along the way, not only as the first woman to run Harvard Law School but also as the first woman to serve as solicitor general. Her inexperience as a judge makes her a rarity in modern times, but until the 1970s many Supreme Court justices came from outside the judiciary, including senators, governors, cabinet secretaries and even a former president.

If the Senate confirms Ms. Kagan, who is Jewish, the Supreme Court for the first time will have no Protestant members. In that case, the court would be composed of six justices who are Catholic and three who are Jewish. It also would mean that every member of the court had studied law at Harvard or Yale.

Like her former boss, Justice Marshall, who was the last solicitor general to go directly to the Supreme Court, Ms. Kagan may be forced to recuse herself during her early time on the bench because of her participation in a number of cases coming before the justices. Tom Goldstein, publisher of ScotusBlog, a Web site that follows the court, estimated that she would have to sit out on 13 to 15 matters. Mr. Whelan argued that it would be significantly more than that.
292 2010-05-10 HAMBURG, Germany (Reuters) — Boeing is on track to deliver its first 787 Dreamliner, which will compete with the A350 jet made by Airbus, the company’s head of commercial airplanes said this weekend.

Boeing is due to deliver the first 787 to All Nippon Airways this year.

“Testing is going well. If there are no unexpected discoveries, we’ll be on track,” said James F. Albaugh, president and chief executive of Boeing Commercial Airplanes.

Production was delayed five times in three years, and the first flight was postponed six times, because of a shortage of bolts, faulty design and a two-month factory strike.

Some market experts have said the delivery schedule for the Dreamliner, which made its first test flight in December after two years of delays, is too ambitious. Boeing has already received more than 850 orders for the plane.

Boeing and its rival Airbus were hurt in 2009 by fewer orders for planes as carriers around the world grappled with falling travel demand in a sagging economy. But a recovering economy and brighter outlook for airlines point to a stronger 2010.
293 2010-05-10 The provision that would prohibit banks from trading derivatives has alarmed the industry because it strikes at the combination of commercial banking and Wall Street trading that defines the modern industry.

By one count the five banks together have mustered more than 130 registered lobbyists, including 40 former Senate staff members and one retired senator, Trent Lott. The list includes former staff members for the Senate majority and minority leaders, the chairmen and ranking members of the banking and finance committees, and more than 15 other senators. In the first quarter, the banks spent $6.1 million on lobbying.

Bankers and Congressional aides say the provision is likely to be weakened or removed, in part because the Obama administration and leading Democrats are concerned that it would diminish oversight of the derivatives marketplace. But the bankers and aides also agree that the focus on derivatives has increased the chances that other controversial proposals will pass, including a ban on “proprietary trading,” or trading in their own accounts.

“A lot of oxygen has been burned here in talking about where we are on derivatives,” said Rob Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, a trade and lobbying group for 19 of the nation’s largest financial institutions.

Derivatives are contracts whose value is determined by something else. Trading in derivatives is dominated by the nation’s five largest banks, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo. Most deals are done in private, making it difficult to compare prices or identify problems.

The financial legislation proposed by the Obama administration and passed by the House would require most derivatives to trade on public exchanges, in the belief that a transparent marketplace will be safer and cheaper. The scope of the exchange trading requirement has been the focus of the debate for months. Opponents argue that the bill would limit the industry’s ability to customize derivatives to match the needs of clients.

Then the chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, dropped a bombshell in April, introducing language that would require banks to choose between trading in derivatives and remaining under federal protection.

The government’s umbrella, including deposit insurance, allows banks to raise money at lower cost than other financial institutions. Mrs. Lincoln said the bill would help to ensure that banks use that cheap money for traditional activities like lending.

The financial industry says that derivatives are a valuable product used by more than 95 percent of Fortune 1000 companies to hedge against risks, including price changes.

“These swaps have become standard bank products. The proper response would be to recognize that the markets have evolved and there’s been innovation and they need to be regulated by bank regulators rather than pretending that they’re not integral to the system,” said Daniel F. C. Crowley, a partner at the K&L Gates law firm and an industry lobbyist.

The change could cost the industry a lot of money. Banks reported $22.6 billion in derivatives revenue in 2009, according to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

Banking executives were caught flat-footed by Mrs. Lincoln’s provision, and many are still seething. One senior executive at a major financial institution, speaking on condition of anonymity so he could talk frankly, said the idea was “irresponsible” and the details revealed a basic ignorance about the financial industry.

The executive, who said he had spoken with several senators in recent days, said the industry now was simply trying to get a hearing. “We’re on the outside, knocking on the window and saying, ‘Hey, listen to us just a little bit,’ ” the executive said.

Mr. Strupp says he tries to explain to senators and aides that they should not be too hasty in blaming derivatives for the financial crisis. He often refers to how one of the first interest-rate swaps from the early 1980s has become a common kind of derivative that protects companies against changes in interest rates. He says he still tells that story on Capitol Hill as part of a broader effort to explain how a complicated and often-misunderstood category of financial products grew up and became important to the broader economy.

“I talk to people about why they should be careful about impairing the use of derivatives,” Mr. Strupp said.

The Senate has proved to be a difficult audience. When Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, released a draft of the financial legislation in November, Mr. Strupp and his clients drew up a list of roughly 30 problems that the industry had with the proposals. About two dozen of those provisions remain in the bill.

But the industry has gained important allies in its opposition to the Lincoln provisions. Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, has expressed concern about the impact on regulation of derivatives trading. And on Thursday, Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said in a letter to crucial senators that the proposed ban on proprietary trading, which the administration has called the “Volcker rule,” was sufficient to address the most worrisome kinds of derivatives trading.

“The provision of derivatives by commercial banks to their customers in the usual course of a banking relationship should not be prohibited,” Mr. Volcker wrote.

Opponents of the Lincoln provisions still must persuade senators to vote for a change that could be portrayed as softening the financial legislation. Only Republicans have expressed public opposition. Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, with Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee and Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, introduced an amendment on Friday to remove the Lincoln language from the bill.

The challenge, said one lobbyist, is that senators may not support Mrs. Lincoln’s language, but they have political problems with opposing it because of the public’s anger at Wall Street.
294 2010-05-10 Insurers and employers agree that the law prohibits them from setting numerical limits on hospital inpatient days and outpatient visits for mental health services if they do not impose such limits on other types of medical care.

But insurers say the Obama administration went overboard when it tried to regulate “nonquantitative treatment limits.” These include the techniques used by insurers to manage care, the criteria for selection of health care providers and the rates at which they are paid.

The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, Aetna and other insurers have urged the federal government to drop this aspect of the rules. The purpose of the law was to ensure parity in benefits for patients, not “parity in provider reimbursement,” said Justine Handelman, executive director of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.

But Carol A. McDaid, a lobbyist for a coalition of mental health advocates, said, “Patients are not getting access to mental health care because many insurers are not paying enough to cover the cost of services.”

This may have three consequences for patients and their families, advocates say. Patients may be unable to find mental health experts in their health plan’s network of providers. If they go outside the network, they typically pay more. And if they cannot afford it, they may not receive treatment at all.

The American Psychiatric Association said that nonquantitative treatment limits, though less visible than limits on the number of doctor visits or hospital days, could be more insidious.

Dr. James H. Scully Jr., chief executive of the association, said some insurers had tried to “circumvent the law” by “imposing new requirements for prior authorization and the submission of treatment plans for mental health services where there were no comparable requirements on the medical-surgical side.”

Insurers strenuously object to one provision of the rules that requires them to maintain a single deductible for all medical and mental health services combined. This is a significant departure from the industry’s current practice of separate deductibles.

As a result of the change, insurers say, many mental health patients will face higher out-of-pocket costs because the combined deductible will almost surely be higher than the current one for mental health services alone.

But in a letter to the administration last week, leading House Democrats said Mr. Obama was right to prohibit separate deductibles. The law, they said, was adopted to end such inappropriate distinctions between medical and mental health care services.

A number of companies like Aetna, Magellan Health Services and ValueOptions specialize in managing mental health benefits.

In issuing the new rules, the Obama administration praised the work of such companies, saying they increased the use of mental health care while holding down costs.

But Pamela B. Greenberg, president of the Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness, which represents these companies, said the new rules would “hamstring” their ability to use the tools that have proved effective in managing mental health benefits.

In a suit over the rules, Magellan and other companies said the concept of nonquantitative limits was “boundless and ill defined” and would reach virtually every policy and procedure used to manage mental health benefits.

One premise of the law is that mental illnesses often have a biological basis and can be treated as effectively as many physical ailments. But insurers say it is impossible to use the same techniques in managing the treatment of colon cancer and schizophrenia, or heart failure and major depression.
295 2010-05-10 Each side is sending four senior members to the meetings. The Conservative team comprises William Hague, the party’s foreign affairs spokesman; George Osborne, its treasury spokesman; Oliver Letwin, chairman of the policy review committee; and Ed Llewellyn, Mr. Cameron’s chief of staff. The Liberal Democrats’ team is made up of Chris Huhne, the party’s home affairs spokesman; David Laws, its spokesman for home and families; Andrew Stunell, a former deputy party chairman; and Danny Alexander, Mr. Clegg’s chief of staff.

Sunday’s meeting broke up in the late afternoon. Mr. Hague emerged to say that the group had had “good” discussions on “political reform, economic issues and reduction of the deficit, banking reform, civil liberties,” and environmental issues.

Perhaps to reassure jittery financial markets, which could react unhappily on Monday morning to continued signs of political instability, Mr. Hague stressed that “we are agreed that a central part of any agreement that we make will be economic stability and the reduction of the budget deficit.” Mr. Alexander made similar remarks, describing the talks as “good.” The two sides planned to meet again within 24 hours.

Mr. Clegg and Mr. Cameron spoke by telephone on Sunday. In a surprise move, Mr. Brown slipped out the back of Downing Street for a meeting with Mr. Clegg at the foreign office. Both sides described it as “amicable,” but no details emerged.

Government officials drew up contingency plans several weeks ago for the current situation, a so-called hung Parliament. The plans call for the sitting prime minister, Mr. Brown, to remain in office until he or another party leader gathers enough support to lead a government. Mr. Brown has made it clear that he hopes Labour can reach a deal with the Liberal Democrats, but that possibility looks increasingly remote. “I think it would look very, very shabby for us to be seen hanging on to the doorknob of No. 10,” a Labour member of Parliament, Malcolm Wicks, told the Press Association news service.

Mr. Brown is under some pressure to resign as party leader. But party stalwarts said he was doing the right thing by staying put, at least for now.

A former Labour cabinet secretary, Lord Turnbull, said that Mr. Brown was not a “squatter” in Downing Street. “The worst thing he could have done would have been to have huffed off to the palace saying, ‘I’m off,’ and we would have had no prime minister at all,” he told reporters.

Demonstrating that it was business as usual, sort of, Alistair Darling, the Labour chancellor of the Exchequer, met in Brussels on Sunday with the finance ministers of other European countries to discuss how to help the crisis-plagued euro.

“What we will not do and what we can’t do is to provide support for the euro,” Mr. Darling said. “That has got to be for those countries that use the euro.”

The outcome of negotiations between the Liberal Democrats and Conservatives is by no means certain. The parties have starkly opposing views on several issues, including Europe, immigration and taxation. But it is electoral reform that has raised the most passion among grass-roots supporters.

Liberal Democrats feel they have been penalized by the current voting system, in which candidates with the most votes in individual districts win parliamentary seats, regardless of how well other candidates did. Under this system, candidates from parties whose support is spread across the country, like the Liberal Democrats, win fewer seats.

The Liberal Democrats favor a form of proportional representation. The Conservatives have made it clear they think the current system is fair.

Among Liberal Democrat supporters, about 2,000 people rallied in London on Saturday in support of proportional representation More than 5,000 people joined a “Don’t Do It Nick!!” Facebook group. More than 36,000 people have signed a “Take Back Parliament” petition on the Internet. On Sunday, the Twitter campaign continued to build steam, with those who back proportional representation raising thousands of pounds in a matter of hours to buy advertising space in The Times of London on Monday.

While Mr. Clegg faces pressure from his party’s left wing not to give in on voting reform, Mr. Cameron faces pressure from critics on the right wing of his party not to cede ground to the Liberal Democrats.

“Mr. Cameron has dissipated a 20 percent lead in the polls, he has love-bombed the Lib Dems and said he is the heir to Blair,” Lord Tebbit, an elder statesman of the Conservative right, was quoted as saying in The Mail on Sunday, referring to former Prime Minister Tony Blair. “That wasn’t helpful in winning the election.”

Mr. Cameron should stick to his party’s positions, said Lord Tebbit, long a critic of Mr. Cameron, adding, “If he was pushed around by a minor party into abandoning things in the Conservative manifesto, it would be daft.”
296 2010-05-10 ¶Humana, Louisville, Ky., consolidated its national advertising and marketing assignments and awarded them to agencies owned by the Omnicom Group, New York. Humana, which spent $61.8 million to advertise in major media last year, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, plans to spend $100 million this year, Adweek.com reported. Among the Omnicom agencies that will work with Humana are Interbrand, a brand and corporate identity agency; PHD, which specializes in media services; and Rapp, which specializes in direct marketing. Humana did not provide information about the agencies with which it previously worked.

¶The United States Office of National Drug Control Policy, Washington, kept the New York office of DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its agency of record for the national youth antidrug media campaign. Adweek.com estimated spending last year at $50 million. The decision came after a mandated review and gives the agency another five-year contract to handle the assignment. DraftFCB New York was also awarded the duties for managing the campaign’s Web site (abovetheinfluence.com) and social media initiatives. Fleishman-Hillard, part of the Omnicom Group, previously managed the Web site.

¶ConocoPhillips, Houston, named the Los Angeles office of KSL Media to handle the media planning and buying business for its motor fuel brands. The assignment, with spending estimated at $16 million, had been handled by FKM, Houston.

¶Omni Hotels and Resorts, Irving, Tex., selected AvreaFoster, Dallas, part of the Omnicom Group, as agency of record for its 45 North American properties. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by another Omnicom agency, TracyLocke. AvreaFoster will work with Asher Media, Dallas, which handles ad placement in traditional media, and Affect Strategies, New York, which will lead new media efforts.

¶Baby Magic, part of Naterra International, Dallas, chose the Richards Group, Dallas, to handle its brand advertising account. Billings were not disclosed. The hiring of Richards comes after the acquisition of Baby Magic by Naterra, which also sells products under the All That Glitters and Tree Hut brand names.
297 2010-05-10 LOS ANGELES  Hollywood is hoping that a barrage of sequels, newly increased ticket prices and the 3-D boom will power its crucial summer season, which kicked off this weekend, to a record $5 billion in North American ticket sales.

It’s an optimistic forecast  last summer’s total was about $4.25 billion  but one that veteran box office analysts think is within reach, especially given the performance of “Iron Man 2,” which opened in domestic theaters with a superhuman $133.6 million in sales.

That result, on par with blockbusters like “Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest,” positions “Iron Man 2” to become one of the highest-grossing motion pictures of the year. In its first 12 days of release overseas, “Iron Man 2” has sold about $194 million, giving the movie an overall total so far of $327.6 million, according to Hollywood.com, which compiles box office statistics.

“Iron Man 2,” which stars Robert Downey Jr. as the brilliant but emotionally damaged industrialist Tony Stark and Mickey Rourke as his nemesis, cost about $170 million to make and had an estimated global marketing budget of about $150 million. Marvel Studios, a division of the Walt Disney Company, produced the movie. Paramount Pictures distributed it for an 8 percent slice of the revenue.

“Audiences are responding to the continued unexpected nature of this franchise, whether it’s the darker places we take Tony in this film, a fantastic new villain  we didn’t pull back in any way from the spirit of the first movie,” said Kevin Feige, president of Marvel.

Exit polls were hugely positive  in contrast to some critical reviews, which were less rapturous. Rob Moore, Paramount’s vice chairman, said, “The results confirm what we always knew: people love this franchise.”

The first “Iron Man,” which was released in May 2008, sold $98.6 million in its first weekend and $318.4 million total. Worldwide, “Iron Man” sold $585.1 million. Its success played a starring role in Disney’s decision to buy Marvel for $4 billion last August.

Now Hollywood must keep up the momentum. The summer season, which runs from early May through Labor Day, typically accounts for 40 percent of annual box office receipts. To successfully navigate this high-stakes period, studios rely in part on audience flow from weekend to weekend; trailers that play with “Iron Man 2” will send people back to theaters and so on until, Hollywood hopes, a degree of habit kicks in.

So big-budget movies will roll out like lumbering parade floats. Next up is Ridley Scott’s “Robin Hood,” followed by “Shrek Forever After,” followed by “Sex and the City 2.”

“People always ask how this summer will be different, but they’re never that different  it’s a formula,” said Paul Dergarabedian, president of Hollywood.com’s box office division. “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.”

This summer, sequels are expected to be the biggest draws. In addition to new installments of “Iron Man,” “Shrek” and “Sex and the City,” there are “Toy Story 3” and “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse.” Most of the other offerings are based on best-selling video games (“Prince of Persia”) or books (“Eat Pray Love”).

One interesting weekend to watch, at least from a box office perspective, will be Memorial Day, when “Sex and the City 2” from Warner Brothers and Disney’s expensive “Prince of Persia” go head to head. The success of Disney’s offering will largely depend on luring female moviegoers  it’s one reason the sensitive Jake Gyllenhaal was cast in the title role instead of a traditional action star  but “Sex and the City 2” will be a formidable opponent. The first “Sex and the City” was an unexpected powerhouse, bringing in more than $415 million.

Another unusual weekend arrives on June 11, when two remakes of hits from the 1980s are released: Sony’s “Karate Kid,” starring Jackie Chan and Will Smith’s son Jaden, and 20th Century Fox’s big-screen adaptation of “The A-Team,” which stars Liam Neeson and Bradley Cooper, among others.

Of course, there are risks. “The Sorcerer’s Apprentice,” which Disney plans to release on July 16, is a live-action fantasy starring Nicolas Cage as a master sorcerer who recruits an everyday dude (Jay Baruchel). Box office watchers say it’s unclear at this point who this extravaganza, based in part on the famous broomstick sequence from “Fantasia,” is for. Little kids? Action fans? Both?

Analysts are also keeping a close eye on “Killers,” an action comedy starring Katherine Heigl and Ashton Kutcher that arrives from Lionsgate on June 4. Although Ms. Heigl has a powerful box office track record, this film is one of the most expensive for this boutique studio with a budget of about $70 million and faces competition a few weeks later from “Knight and Day,” another action comedy but with bigger stars (Cameron Diaz and Tom Cruise).

Every summer has a sleeper, and Mr. Dergarabedian’s bet for this year is Christopher Nolan’s “Inception,” a complex science-fiction thriller starring Leonardo DiCaprio that arrives on July 16. “At that point people may have some sequel fatigue,” Mr. Dergarabedian said. But it’s a little difficult to think of one of Mr. Nolan’s films as a sleeper, at this point. His previous one, “The Dark Knight,” not only was the biggest box office draw of 2008, but also holds the record for an opening weekend, more than $158 million.

For the next few days, however, the movie capital’s attention will remain on “Iron Man 2,” whose opening ranks fifth on the all-time list. One question: How much money did Marvel leave on the table by choosing to forgo a hasty conversion to 3-D? Some analysts estimated that 3-D screenings could have increased the movie’s opening-weekend total by as much as $20 million. In general, tickets for 3-D engagements carry an added fee of $3 to $5.

In March, theater chains lifted prices as much as 25 percent, with 3-D tickets in places like New York City and Los Angeles now costing about $20.

Second place for this weekend went to “A Nightmare on Elm Street” (Warner Brothers) with $9.2 million for a new total of $48.5 million, according to Hollywood.com. “How to Train Your Dragon” (DreamWorks Animation) was third with about $6.8 million for a new total of $201.1 million, while “Date Night” (Fox) was fourth with $5.3 million ($80.9 million total).

“The Back-Up Plan” from CBS Films was fifth with about $4.3 million ($29.4 million).
298 2010-05-11 “The Immaculate Conception of Little Dizzle” is like “Clerks” reimagined by William S. Burroughs. Looking as if it were devised on acid and executed on mushrooms, this imaginative debut feature from the Seattle artist and filmmaker David Russo finds meaning in cleaning and life in dead ends.

An idiosyncratic pondering on the soul-sucking limbo of cubicle careers, the story follows Dory (Marshall Allman), a data-entry drone in Seattle who abandons his computer to join a free-range crew of janitor-philosophers. But after snacking on chemically enhanced cookies from the offices of a product-research company, the male members of the crew, led by the aspiring artist O C (a splendid Vince Vieluf), discover that they have more to worry about than hallucinations and intestinal distress.

Juxtaposing white-collar callousness with brown-collar invisibility, Mr. Russo — who worked as a janitor for 11 years — picks at society’s pecking order with inventive zeal. Throwaway jokes and eccentric visual effects (including a trippy sequence by the Dutch animator Rosto) propel a story that weaves faith, creation and cruddy commodes into a psychedelic riff on sex roles and class structure. In the background, a group of musicians collectively known as Awesome lives up to its name.

Off the wall yet completely intelligible, “Immaculate Conception” mines existential commentary from toilet humor. “There’s also toilet sadness, toilet triumph, toilet a lot of things,” O C points out to curious patrons at a show of his bathroom-centric art. A janitor ought to know.

THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION OF LITTLE DIZZLE

Written and directed by David Russo; director of photography, Neil Holcomb; edited by Billy McMillin; music by Awesome; production designer, Christopher Swenson; costumes by Rebecca Luke; produced by Peggy Case; released by Tribeca Film. At the Tribeca Cinemas, 54 Varick Street, at Laight Street. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Marshall Allman (Dory), Natasha Lyonne (Tracy), Tania Raymonde (Ethyl), Tygh Runyan (Methyl), Matt Smith (Gary) and Vince Vieluf (O C).
299 2010-05-11 The distinctive voices of Vincent Gallo and Juliette Lewis emerge from the lead characters in “Metropia” but provide no comfort: Tarik Saleh’s dystopian vision of a depleted, smog-engulfed, financially collapsed Europe in the year 2024 seems a touch too close to home. In any case, the real star here is the film’s eerily unsettling animation, a digitally manipulated photomontage that makes everyone look almost human — in a heavily medicated, genetically suspect kind of way.

The film’s paranoid centerpiece is Roger (wonderfully voiced by Mr. Gallo), a Swedish call-center worker consumed by suspicions. His girlfriend may be cheating, his thoughts may be monitored, and the government-mandated subway system may be part of a sinister international conspiracy. A dandruff-shampoo model and the bellybutton of a Hello Kitty doll will play crucial roles in Roger’s (if not the audience’s) gradual enlightenment; if only the voice in his head would stop telling him what to do.

With nods to Orwell, Kafka and the work of Terry Gilliam (particularly “Brazil”), Mr. Saleh, a former graffiti artist, paints the power of advertising and the omnipotence of multinationals in subterranean hues. Moldy greens and funereal grays coat the screen; saucer-eyed faces float in the blackness of underground rooms and tunnels. Visually and conceptually oppressive, the film is a seamless match of form and content. But that very synchronicity is also its main problem, exerting a near-tyrannical hold on atmosphere and stifling the film’s ability to move.

Technically innovative but narratively moribund, “Metropia” is all stasis and shadows. Perhaps Mr. Saleh could have listened to a lighter voice.

Directed by Tarik Saleh; written by Mr. Saleh, Stig Larsson and Fredrik Edin; animation director, Christian Ryltenius; lead animator, Isak Gjertsen; music by Krister Linder; art director, Martin Hultman; produced by Kristina Aberg; released by Tribeca Film. At the Tribeca Cinemas, 54 Varick Street, at Laight Street. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH THE VOICES OF: Vincent Gallo (Roger), Stellan Skarsgard (Ralph), Udo Kier (Ivan Bahn), Alexander Skarsgard (Stefan) and Juliette Lewis (Nina).
300 2010-05-11 We know or can speculate more about Neanderthals than ever before, including why they disappeared....
301 2010-05-11 One of Johns' iconic paintings is the star of Tuesday night's auction at Christie's....
302 2010-05-11 "The Pitmen Painters" and "Good People," a new collaboration between David Lindsay-Abaire and Daniel Sullivan, will be presented by the theater company on Broadway....
303 2010-05-11 Lesson Plan | Considering the qualities and role of Supreme Court justices and the reasons for supporting and/or opposing the nomination of Elena Kagan to the Court....
304 2010-05-11 The amendment would require the scrutinizing of some $2 trillion in emergency lending the Fed gave to banks....
305 2010-05-11 More on health care alternatives and Bob Bennett's unhappy fate....
306 2010-05-11 Hedge funds posted modest gains in April, with the HFN Hedge Fund Aggregate Index rising 1.55 percent....
307 2010-05-11 The number of unemployed workers per job opening barely changed from February to March, when the ratio was 5.57 jobless workers for each available position....
308 2010-05-11 England Manager Fabio Capello drafted Jamie Carragher out of international retirement for the World Cup while Italy Manager Marcello Lippi jettisoned two veteran strikers in favor of the New Jersey-born Giuseppe Rossi....
309 2010-05-11 Airline travelers hoping to use frequent-flier miles to get better seats need to have a calculator handy while reading the fine print....
310 2010-05-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
311 2010-05-11 Ways to upload photos to Flickr....
312 2010-05-11 A lot of small-business owners are paranoid about having competitors in their business groups, but aren't those the people you want to hear from most?...
313 2010-05-11 Insurer Liberty Mutual Group said Monday its subsidiary Liberty Mutual Agency planned to raise $100 million with an initial public offering, The Associated Press reported....
314 2010-05-11 The wave of relief that swept global stock markets after the announcement of a giant European bailout package fizzled in the Asia-Pacific region by Tuesday, as markets erased earlier gains on worries that the measures would not be enough to contai...
315 2010-05-11 Despite the nearly $1 trillion aid package assembled by the European Union, euro doubters on both sides of the Atlantic were unbowed on Monday -- and preparing to make new wagers against the currency....
316 2010-05-11 Use the photo and related article to answer basic news questions.
317 2010-05-11 The European Union’s rescue package for the euro sent battered bank shares in Europe soaring on Monday.

Even so, there was much less of an effect on the rates at which banks lend to one another in the money markets, a sign that confidence in the financial sector remains fragile.

Interbank rates remain low compared with the carnage of autumn 2008, when markets nearly ground to a halt after Lehman Brothers collapsed.

Central banks eventually restored confidence and brought rates to heel by flooding the market with liquidity and by buying asset-backed securities for which private-sector buyers had largely disappeared.

But they started to rise again over the last couple of weeks as banks became nervous about how their counterparties might be affected if, for example, Greece, Spain or Portugal defaulted on their sovereign debts. Shares in European banks declined sharply over the same period.
318 2010-05-11 Markets rebound after European leaders and major central banks announced an array of emergency lending measures....
319 2010-05-11 Their skepticism was reflected in the currency markets, where, after an initial surge, the euro quickly fell back. After rising against the dollar from just under $1.28 to nearly $1.31 in the early hours after the package was announced, the currency slipped back to close not far from where it started.

The initial increase was spurred as investors who sold the euro short, wagering that it would fall, rushed to cover those positions and lock in profits.

“We expected a short-lived bounce,” Mr. Krygier said. “There was definitely an element of a short squeeze in the rebound.”

Indeed, by the time markets opened in the United States, and American hedge funds entered the market, the euro’s rally began to flag.

Traders said many of the big hedge funds that have been bearish on the euro saw Monday’s initial move higher as a blip, and are counting on further euro weakness. Since hitting a high of $1.51 late last year, the euro has been in a steady decline.

Central banks and sovereign wealth funds, which have actually been diversifying their holdings and adding euros recently, remain a strong counterweight to those who expect more weakness.

But the volume of negative bets against the euro has mounted sharply in the last few weeks. The selling pressure intensified last Thursday and Friday amid fear that the European Central Bank would fail to ride to the rescue.

As of last Friday, investors had built up record short positions in the euro, according to public data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

Euro bears argue that the huge budget deficits most European governments are groaning under will not be fixed by the package, and could actually get worse because of the hundreds of billions of dollars governments will have to borrow to finance the rescue.

Nor does the new plan address more fundamental structural problems like rigid labor markets and low productivity, said Marco Annunziata, chief economist for UniCredit.

“It was crucial to stop the panic, and this package has done it, but it doesn’t solve the longer-term problems which are slowly undermining the value of the euro,” Mr. Annunziata said. “If you’re not competitive, you can’t generate economic growth.”

The crisis in Greece, which was sparked by fears that the country would be unable to borrow the money it needed to pay its bills and cover its deficit, threatened to spread to Portugal and Spain last week.

All three countries have borrowed heavily but are either in recession or growing very slowly, which leaves them little maneuvering room to cut spending or raise taxes.

For the moment, the fear of contagion, a mass exodus from assets across borders, seems to have passed.

“This is not an unambiguous positive signal for the euro, but it does limit the risk for contagion,” said Todd Elmer, a Citigroup currency strategist.

In any case, a weak euro does bring some benefits to the 16 countries on the Continent that use it.

Most significant, it makes exports more affordable on world markets, enhancing the ability of European companies to sell their goods in major markets like North America and Asia.

It is also a boon for tourism, because European vacations become cheaper for visitors from the United States and elsewhere. Tourism is a crucial economic sector in several of the more troubled countries on the Mediterranean rim, like Spain and Greece.

One worry that is likely to get more attention in the coming days is the still-yawning spread between bonds from Germany, Europe’s strongest economy, and those of Greece, Portugal and other shaky markets in the euro zone.

As of Monday’s close, Greek bonds yielded nearly 7 percent more than comparable German securities, while Portuguese debt was 2.35 percent higher.

“We have a tremendous amount of debt outstanding, a tremendous amount on the way, and some pretty bad-looking fiscal deficits out there,” said Bill Prophet, a Deutsche Bank rates strategist. “The market is not completely convinced that the bailout is going to solve all these problems.”
320 2010-05-11 DETROIT — All those spring training games desensitized them. The Yankees played the Detroit Tigers so often that by Monday night, when the game actually meant something, the sight of Johnny Damon wearing the Old English D no longer jarred them. It looked normal. He looked normal, his new Mohawk notwithstanding.

And then came the fifth inning of the Tigers’ 5-4 victory, when Damon turned on a first-pitch fastball from Sergio Mitre and crushed it into the right-field stands. Comerica Park erupted, and so did his new teammates, but not his old ones, who for the first time this season glimpsed the player they remember — and, perhaps, could still use.

“Johnny, he likes playing in games like this,” Derek Jeter said. “I’m sure he’s probably feeling pretty good on the other side. We’ve seen him do it against us before, we’ve seen him do it for us. It’s really not surprising.”

The Yankees (21-10), sluggish early, scored twice in the eighth but had a rally snuffed by a superb sliding catch by Magglio Ordonez. Jose Valverde overpowered them in the ninth, striking out Nick Swisher, Mark Teixeira and Alex Rodriguez for the save.

In the off-season, the Yankees moved on from Damon, swiftly and decisively, by acquiring two players, Curtis Granderson and Nick Johnson, to help replace him. Neither made the trip here. They are on the disabled list, and they were not hitting well when they got hurt. Damon’s .412 on-base percentage might have fit snugly into the No. 2 slot in the Yankees’ lineup, but he has no regrets.

“No, that’s not what I’m about,” Damon said. “I think my career shows people who I am and what I’m about, what I do on and off the field. I don’t need a single game for that to be dictated. It’s one game, but I think my career speaks for itself.”
321 2010-05-11 In 1993, Mr. Ledogar was the chief American negotiator when the Chemical Weapons Convention, which outlaws the production, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons and calls for their destruction, was signed. As of last year, 188 nations had ratified the treaty.

While working on the chemical weapons ban, Mr. Ledogar was also head of the American delegation to the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva. In that capacity he became one of the primary drafters of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on Sept. 10, 1996, it called for the prohibition of all nuclear explosions in all environments, for both military and civilian purposes. So far, 151 nations have ratified the treaty, and 31 others — including the United States — have signed but not ratified it.

Stephen Joseph Ledogar was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 14, 1929, one of four children of Edward and Margaret Ledogar. Besides his daughter, he is survived by his wife, the former Marcia Hubert; a son, Charles; a sister, Anne Leyden; two brothers, Edward and Robert; and three grandchildren.

Mr. Ledogar enrolled at Fordham University in 1949 under a Naval Reserve Officers Training program. But two years later he went on active duty as a Navy pilot. He completed his bachelor’s degree at Fordham in 1954, then received a law degree there in 1958.

He joined the Foreign Service in 1959. After postings in Canada and Italy, the State Department, in 1965, sent him to Vietnam, where he administered pacification programs. From 1969 to 1972 he was press spokesman for the American delegation at the Paris peace talks. The resulting accord, signed on Jan. 27, 1973, ended direct United States military involvement in the Vietnam War.

Three years after helping draft the nuclear test ban treaty, Mr. Ledogar went before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1999 to urge its ratification. Saying he was “a strong believer in nuclear deterrence,” he asked, “What if the United States chooses not to ratify this treaty?

“I am not given to hyperbole,” he continued, “but I believe it is not an exaggeration to say that there will be jubilation among our foes and despair among our friends. Iran, Iraq, North Korea and other states that harbor nuclear aspirations surely will feel the constraints loosening. Our allies and friends will feel deserted and betrayed. The global nuclear nonproliferation regime will be endangered.”

Three months ago, President Obama said he would revive efforts to have the Senate ratify the treaty.
322 2010-05-11 The only other segment of business travel that was hit as hard as luxury hotels during the downturn was the private jet industry, where sales plummeted after a period of record profits. The luxury hotel business went through a similar trajectory in recent years. The business aviation industry has also begun to recover in recent months.

Data provided by Marriott showed the recent change of fortune at Ritz-Carlton. In March, Ritz-Carlton hotels in North America reported a 15.7 percent rise in revenue per available room over March 2009, which is the best measurement of a hotel’s performance, following a 7.6 percent increase in February. In January, the measurement was down 2.4 percent.

“We’re not where we were, but we’ve certainly come a long way back,” Mr. Cooper said.

“We were preparing ourselves for a very long haul in late ’08, really preparing ourselves that this was going to be relatively long and drawn out,” he said. Part of the rebound is being driven by robust luxury leisure travel, which, he said, is now “back to where it was two years ago.”

In the depths of the business travel slump, luxury hotels promoted themselves to high-end leisure travelers, many of whom still had money and were not as affected as corporations by public perceptions about spending. Meanwhile, luxury hotels did something they had been loath to do in past recessions: they aggressively discounted room rates, often through package deals that, for example, offered three nights for the price of two. Even now, discounts are still widely available at most luxury hotels.

Bjorn Hanson, a clinical professor at the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, said recently that as travel demand picked up, the hotel industry faced “permanent structural change,” with much greater consumer and corporate emphasis on value. The big question at luxury hotels is whether they can ever recover the pricing power they had before the recession.

Most brand hotels are overseen by the big chains, but owned by entrepreneurs who actually build the properties. In expensive new luxury properties, these owners, in particular, have been struggling to manage debt and pay operating costs while maintaining service at a luxury level.

The big question luxury hotel operators like Ritz-Carlton face is whether room rates and related revenue from restaurants, meetings services and other hotel sources will recover to the record levels that preceded the recession. Smith Travel Research predicts that luxury hotel occupancy will rise 4.2 percent by the end of the year, but with a 3.7 percent decline in average room rates and only a minuscule increase in per-room revenue.

Mr. Cooper wouldn’t be pinned down on the question, except to say that “pricing power” is returning strongly in New York, Tokyo, Beijing, London and other world business capitals.

But, he added: “The consumer is much less brand-conscious. They’re looking beneath the brand, under the tag, and asking, ‘Is this good value for me?’ — whether it’s a handbag or a hotel.”
323 2010-05-11 WASHINGTON — David Axelrod, the top White House political adviser, said Monday that President Obama was amenable to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.’s call for a new law allowing interrogators to question terrorism suspects for lengthy periods without informing them of their rights.

In an interview on CNN, Mr. Axelrod said Mr. Obama was “open to looking at” changing the Miranda rule, which generally bans prosecutors from using as evidence statements made by suspects in custody before they have been warned that they have a right to remain silent and to consult a lawyer. “There may be some things that have to be done,” Mr. Axelrod said. “Certainly we’re willing to talk to Congress about that. But they would be in the area of adjustments, not a wholesale revision.”

Mr. Axlerod’s comments came a day after Mr. Holder called for Congress to enact legislation that would carve out a new exception to the Miranda rule. It comes from a landmark 1966 Supreme Court decision that is intended to ensure that confessions are not coerced, consistent with the Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.

While it is virtually certain that the White House knew about and approved of Mr. Holder’s policy proposal before he made it on Sunday, the remarks by Mr. Axelrod provided a stronger public link between the idea, which has drawn fire from civil libertarian groups, and Mr. Obama himself.

Over the past year, Republicans have sharply criticized the Obama administration for treating some terrorism suspects — including United States citizens arrested on United States soil, like Faisal Shahzad, the man accused of attempting to detonate a car bomb in Times Square this month — as criminal defendants rather than as military detainees under wartime rules.

Conservatives have long disliked the Miranda ruling, and its use in terrorism cases has been especially controversial because of worries that the warning might interrupt the flow of an interrogation, prompting a suspect to stop providing information that could disrupt a future attack.
324 2010-05-11 The Cowboys and Rams swapped underachieving former first-round picks, with offensive tackle Alex Barron going to Dallas and linebacker Bobby Carpenter to St. Louis. Carpenter, the 18th overall pick in 2006, made only two starts in four seasons for the Cowboys. Barron was the 19th pick of the 2005 draft and has made 74 starts for St. Louis but has been a disappointment. The Rams drafted Rodger Saffold of Indiana to open the second round of this year’s draft and could start him at one tackle opposite Jason Smith, the second overall pick last year.
325 2010-05-11 Europe’s leaders stared into the abyss and finally decided to act. The nearly $1 trillion bailout package, arranged over the weekend, is intended to head off Greece’s default and stop the crisis from dragging under other weak economies — Portugal, Spain, Ireland and Italy are all vulnerable.

The European and American markets celebrated on Monday. The CAC-40 index in Paris rose almost 10 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.9 percent. It was certainly the right thing to do. Coupled with the European Central Bank’s promise to buy bonds from stricken European countries, it arrested the financial turmoil — at least for now.

There is good reason to question whether even these steps will be enough. The strategy’s biggest weakness is that it assumes that badly hobbled countries, starting with Greece, can regain their ability to service their debts by slashing their budget deficits.

These economies are already struggling; some are still caught in recession. The International Monetary Fund expects Greece’s economy to shrink by 2 percent this year and by 1 percent in 2011. Overly harsh budget cuts will make the situation worse — making it even harder for Greece, and others that request the bailout, to honor their debts.

Greece, which got its own bailout of around $140 billion last week, definitely overspent and must cut a budget deficit that has now reached 13.6 percent of its gross domestic product. The bailout plan negotiated with the European Union and the I.M.F. calls for Greece to reduce that deficit to less than 3 percent of G.D.P. by 2014 — an adjustment equal to one-tenth of its economy. At the same time, it is supposed to remain current on all of its debt service payments. It is hard to see how that is fiscally possible.
326 2010-05-11 The Bloomberg administration has been far more stingy than Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani’s was in granting tax breaks to corporations threatening to leave New York. It has also worked to strengthen the penalties for companies that violate job-retention agreements.

Under the terms of its deal with Pfizer, the city will seek to recover double the $12 million in tax breaks that the company ultimately used if Pfizer eliminates more than 450 jobs, said David Lombino, a spokesman for the city’s Economic Development Corporation.

Pfizer bought another major pharmaceutical firm, Wyeth, last year in a $68 billion deal. Last week, Pfizer reported better than expected earnings in the first quarter of the year.

“A reduction in Pfizer’s New York City work force resulting from their merger and restructuring would of course be disappointing,” Mr. Lombino said. “But we’re encouraged that they are choosing to maintain their global headquarters here and will continue to employ thousands of New Yorkers.”

Mr. Lombino said the city had recaptured $48 million since 2002 from 85 companies that did not live up to the terms of their deals. The city also could have demanded that Metropolitan Life repay $24 million, or double the tax break it received in 2001 when it announced it was moving employees to Queens. After the company moved some workers back to Manhattan, officials settled for $5 million in 2008 and a promise from MetLife to keep 1,750 employees in New York City.

Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, acknowledged that the company had talked to the city about repaying the tax benefits. She said she did not know the exact number of jobs that would be cut, or moved to other offices. A government official who had been briefed on the company’s plans, but who declined to be named because he was not authorized to reveal them, said that between 800 and 1,400 jobs would leave the city.

“It’s all a part of consolidating our footprints in buildings we own,” Ms. Campion said. “We’re moving a number of our people to other Pfizer locations” in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

Pfizer will move its remaining workers into adjoining buildings at 239 and 219 East 42nd Street.

Pfizer was in the midst of buying Pharmacia for $60 billion in 2003 when Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Bloomberg held a news conference with company officials. They announced that Pfizer would invest $1 billion in New York City over 15 years, buy and renovate the building at 685 Third Avenue, create 2,000 jobs and retain 5,500 workers in New York.

In return, the city and the state provided the company with tax breaks and other incentives worth up to $47 million, although it used only $12 million. Pfizer’s New York City payroll reached a high of 6,500 in June 2005, according to city officials, but has declined ever since. In 2008, the company closed its longtime manufacturing plant in Brooklyn. That same year, the city ended the tax breaks because of low employment levels and forced the company to return $2.7 million in benefits.
327 2010-05-11 A federal judge in Manhattan declined on Monday to dismiss charges against a man accused in a terrorism case whose lawyers claimed his rights were violated when he was tortured in secret jails run by the Central Intelligence Agency.

The defendant, Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, has been charged with conspiring in the 1998 bombings of two American embassies in East Africa. The attacks, which were carried out by Al Qaeda, killed 224 people. Mr. Ghailani later worked as a bodyguard for Osama bin Laden, the authorities have said.

After Mr. Ghailani was captured in 2004, he was held in the C.I.A.’s so-called black sites until 2006, when he was transferred to the naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Last year, he became the first Guantánamo detainee moved into the civilian court system for trial.

Although details of his treatment while in C.I.A. custody are classified, he has said in court papers that he was subjected to cruel “enhanced interrogation techniques.” His lawyers say that his treatment was unquestionably “torture,” and argued that the techniques were so “shocking to our traditional sense of justice” that charges should be dismissed on grounds of “outrageous governmental conduct.”

“Indeed, while it is rare to find a case that is ‘so outrageous’ to warrant the ultimate sanction of dismissal,” his lawyers wrote, “if this is not such a case, then what is?”
328 2010-05-11 The crown represents the days that prices don’t move very much. It is high because most days are like that. On those calm days, holders cannot lose much money. The brim represents the days of big losses or gains. The further from the center of the crown, the bigger the loss or gain. The wider the brim, the more often the big moves occur.

The argument is about the shape of the hat brim. The standard model employed by banks — named for the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss — is one in which really bad days happen rarely and horrible days almost never.

How rarely? Well, in August 2007 David Viniar, the chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs, said, “We were seeing things that were 25 standard deviation moves, several days in a row.”

Standard deviations are a measure of the distance from the center of the hat, or, to use the common image in the trade, the length of the tail. If those days were really 25 standard deviations away, they would not be expected to come around in the lifetime of a billion universes.

But the 2007-style collapse had many precedents in the last few centuries, well within the life of this one universe.

The Gaussian model is too optimistic about market stability, because it uses an unrealistically high number for the key variable, the exponential rate of decay, known to its friends as alpha (not the alpha of performance measurement).

Gauss is at 2. If markets worked with an alpha of zero — known as the Cauchy distribution for its founder, Augustin-Louis Cauchy — the 2007 days would come around every 2.5 months. That is unrealistic in the other direction.

In 1962, the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot demonstrated that an alpha of 1.7 provided the best fit with a 100-year series of cotton prices.

More recent market history — the 1987 crash, the Long Term Capital Management debacle and the 2007-8 crisis — suggest big bad events occur about once a decade.

That goes better with an alpha of 0.5, the Pareto-Levy distribution. This is the model used by the Options Clearing Corporation to assess option trading counterparty risk for margin purposes.

The Clearing Corporation has no incentive to allow counterparty risk to build up. But for investment banks, more conservative measures of the chance of big market drops would reduce returns on capital, because they would have to put aside more capital to protect against the possibility.

The lure of maximizing trading positions, profits and bonuses in noncrash years could well distort the experts’ judgment. Indeed, one way to look at the exotic financial instruments that have proliferated in recent years is as a sort of statistical arbitrage.

If alpha were calculated correctly, the tails for portfolios of complex derivatives and the like would be fat and long — more gains in the good times and bigger losses in the bad — and more capital would be needed. But the measure that is actually used, the Gaussian alpha, hides the actual risk.

Regulators should get a better handle on that risk, but by using less Gauss and more Pareto-Levy. That would reduce the chance that a pretty predictable market blowup wrecks the entire financial system.
329 2010-05-11 The influential daily Süddeutsche Zeitung was among several that suggested that President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who canceled his own trip to Moscow because of the euro crisis, had claimed the spotlight from a dithering Mrs. Merkel. “Now she must live with the judgment that the rescue umbrella à la française could have been put together weeks ago, but she drove the price higher unnecessarily,” the paper said Monday.

Her supporters, and even some detractors, say the picture is more complex. They say Mrs. Merkel is a politician skilled in the art of the possible, who exercised patience to overcome difficult circumstances.

In this more sympathetic version, Mrs. Merkel helped raise the pressure on the Greek government to agree to tough but necessary cutbacks in public spending. At the same time, the resentment of average Germans yielded to fear for the stability of their currency, making last week’s rescue of Greece and Sunday night’s larger rescue package possible.

“I think Merkel was right in holding back, for domestic reasons to overcome the resistance and for external reasons to soften up the Greeks and others,” said Josef Joffe, editor of the German weekly Die Zeit. “Right now the morality play is, it’s her fault. I’m not her henchman, but on balance I think she did O.K., given what Germany’s underlying interests are.”

“If this works, we’ll look back two or three years from now and say, ‘Look what an ingenious woman she is,’ ” Mr. Joffe said.

In the short term, attention remains focused on Mrs. Merkel’s setbacks. Her Christian Democrats fell more than 10 percentage points in North Rhine-Westphalia’s state election on Sunday, compared with the last vote there in 2005. While the party clung to the largest share of the vote in the state, its 7.7 percentage-point advantage over its left-wing rivals, the Social Democrats, shrank to 0.1 percentage point.

The Christian Democrats lost their ruling coalition in the state with the pro-business Free Democrats, and as a result effective control of the upper house of Parliament, where each of Germany’s 16 states is represented.

“We suffered — and there’s no talking our way around it — a bitter defeat,” Mrs. Merkel said at a party news conference on Monday, the morning after the election. She said that planned tax cuts would have to be abandoned.

But she quickly shifted her attention to the legislation needed to pass Germany’s share of the nearly $1 trillion emergency rescue fund.

She said her cabinet would meet Tuesday to approve the measure, saying it was necessary to ensure the stability of the common euro currency, but also “to protect the money of our German citizens.”

Daniela Schwarzer, expert on European Union affairs at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin, said that the larger rescue fund could be easier to sell to the German public than the Greek bailout was, because of the public disapproval in Germany at what was seen as the irresponsible spending of the Greeks.

“I expect the public perception of the next round is that there is contagion to others and they are victims of the financial markets,” Ms. Schwarzer said. “This could be a new story to sell the big umbrella that is being put into place.”

While Mrs. Merkel may win passage of the stability package, the loss of control of the upper house of Parliament would have long-reaching consequences for her, according to Mr. Joffe of Die Zeit. As a result, all major legislative initiatives will require the approval of opposition parties, a recipe for gridlock that will hamstring her at home and beyond Germany’s borders.

“The country destined to take the leadership mantle in Europe will not be able to don it,” Mr. Joffe said. “She will not be able to lead, even if she wanted to.”
330 2010-05-11 Tiger Woods insisted Monday that there was no connection between the neck injury that prompted him to withdraw from the Players Championship on Sunday and the injuries he sustained in the car accident in November that unraveled his image. He also called his schedule “up in the air” and said he did not know if he would be able to play in the United States Open in June.

Woods, speaking at a news conference at Aronimink Golf Club in Newtown Square, Pa., to promote the AT&T National, said that the injury was causing pain and spasms in his neck and that it flared up during his comeback from a five-month hiatus.

“One of the reasons why I think this thing flared up is because I wasn’t conditioned to it,” Woods said at the news conference. “I had been away from the game for such a long time and came back and ramped up really quickly in order to try and play the Masters. The body wasn’t quite ready for that.”

He said he would know more about the injury after a magnetic resonance imaging test, which he said would take place when he returned home to Orlando, Fla.

Apparently, Woods will have to solve his injury problems without the help of his swing coach Hank Haney, who told the Golf Channel that he had resigned. Woods had said at the news conference that he was not going to fire Haney, as had been widely speculated.
331 2010-05-11 This remarkably tedious new novel by Martin Amis is a sort of messy improvisation on Boccaccio’s 14th-century collection of tales known as “The Decameron,” which concerned a group of young people spending an interlude together in an Italian villa and explored the varieties and disappointments of love. Jane Smiley tried something similar in her tiresome 2007 novel, “Ten Days in the Hills,” and in “The Pregnant Widow,” Mr. Amis makes many of the same mistakes she did — most notably, assuming that readers will be interested in a bunch of spoiled, self-absorbed twits, who natter on endlessly about their desires and resentments and body parts.

Mr. Amis’s 1976 novel, “Dead Babies,” used a similar mise-en-scène (“Widow” moves the setting from an English country house to an Italian castle), and a comparison between the two only serves to underscore the shortcomings of this new book, which sorely lacks its predecessor’s snap, crackle and fizz.

Whereas the author’s early works, like “Dead Babies” and “The Rachel Papers,” were animated by a satiric gift for social observation and a deliciously black wit, this novel tackles the same themes — sex and identity and coming of age — with weary determination, and lacquers them all with pompous, inanely rococo meditations about the nature of art and truth. (“Recently when he was out in the street, he used to think: Beauty is gone. He soon moved forward from this position, and thought, Beauty never was — there never was any.”)

At the same time, “Pregnant Widow” lacks both the emotional wisdom and historical ambition of Mr. Amis’s last novel, the powerful and deeply affecting “House of Meetings,” which tackled the daunting subject of Stalin’s labor camps and the mental costs of survival.

The subject of “Widow” is a small one: the interactions of a dozen young people during a vacation idyll in the Italian countryside, though Mr. Amis works hard to try to inflate its importance, suggesting that his story is actually an allegory about the baby boom generation and the psychological fallout of the 1970s sexual revolution. Mr. Amis’s musings about this era tend to be overly familiar, or dubious and reductive. Is it really a revelation that many boomers are narcissistic, card-carrying members of the “Me Generation”? Can the changing sexual mores brought about by the pill and the women’s movement really be summed up as “girls acting like boys”?

As for Mr. Amis’s hapless hero, Keith Nearing, we’re told at the start that he was ruined for 25 years by what happened during that summer of 1970, that he paid a huge price for those events. This portentous observation — like Keith’s repeated asides that something terrible happened to his sister Violet — is meant to grab the reader’s attention and propel the narrative forward, but it turns out to be self-dramatizing hyperbole on Mr. Amis’s part. In fact, the deliberately withheld secrets littered throughout this book only serve to underscore the lame storytelling and its reliance on cheap tricks.
332 2010-05-11 LONDON — The Bank of England decided Monday to hold steady on monetary policy after last week’s election failed to give any party a governing majority and the recent turmoil in European markets remained a fresh memory.

The central bank left its benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, where it has been since March 2009. It also decided to leave unchanged its program of buying government bonds and other assets to revive the economy. That program currently stands at £200 billion, or $296 billion.

“Now is not the time to change monetary policy with heightened political uncertainty and the fallout from the Greek crisis both threats to still fragile longer-term growth prospects,” said Howard Archer, chief British economist at IHS Global Insight in London.

In a brief statement accompanying the decision, the bank provided no further comment on its policies or the economy.

Leaders of Britain’s three largest political parties met over the weekend and again Monday to discuss the possibility of forming a coalition government.
333 2010-05-11 A state law in California requires hospitals to maintain certain minimal levels of nurses on duty. Now a study suggests that the requirement may be saving lives.

The study, published online last month by the journal Health Services Research, compares the outcomes of 1.1 million general surgery patients in 2005-6 in more than 800 hospitals in three states — California, where nurses in medical-surgical units are limited to five patients at a time; and New Jersey and Pennsylvania, where nurses’ patient loads averaged more than six.

Researchers concluded that 225 hospital deaths in New Jersey, or 13.9 percent of all deaths in general surgery, and 200 deaths in Pennsylvania, or 10.6 percent, could have been averted with rules similar to California’s.

The lead author, Linda H. Aiken, a registered nurse, acknowledged that the analysis did not prove that the California rules improved patients’ outcomes. But she said it was the most likely explanation.

“Nurses are the surveillance system right at the bedside; they are the first to see something and mobilize a rescue,” said Dr. Aiken, professor of nursing and director of the Center for Health Outcomes and Policy Research at University of Pennsylvania.

The researchers also surveyed more than 22,000 nurses and reported that those in California were less likely than nurses in the other states to say they were dissatisfied with their job or planned to leave the profession.
334 2010-05-11 Young women who rely on hormonal birth control like the pill are at significantly higher risk for sexual dysfunction than those who use nonhormonal methods, a German study suggests.

The researchers, who questioned more than 1,000 students at six German medical schools, found that one-third of them experienced one or more forms of sexual problems associated with desire, arousal, lubrication, orgasm, satisfaction or pain. The study appeared in the May 4 issue of The Journal of Sexual Medicine.

Students who used hormonal contraception had the lowest overall sexual function scores, and they had lower scores on desire and arousal compared with those not using any birth control or those using nonhormonal methods.

The highest scores were among those using nonhormonal contraceptives. The lowest were among users of non-oral hormonal contraceptives like injected formulas or birth control patches.

An author of the paper, Dr. Alfred O. Mück, a professor of endocrinology at University Women’s Hospital of Tübingen in Germany, suggested that contraceptive hormones might reduce circulating levels of testosterone, which is needed to stimulate sexual desire and regulate genital blood flow.

But, he added, “The biological mechanisms remain unclear so far.”
335 2010-05-11 The rebound was reminiscent of the reaction by investors to the United States government’s plan, in September 2008, to buy up hundreds of billions of dollars worth of distressed mortgages. It was Washington’s initial attempt to shore up banks that had been hobbled by the credit crisis, and it sent stock and credit markets sharply higher.

After rallies in Asia and Europe on Monday, Wall Street was primed for a rowdy opening. Traders said they returned to their desks early on Monday and were deluged with orders. Phones rang nonstop. Market strategists held conference calls with institutional investors and reset their portfolios. Treasuries sold, the financial sector rallied, and market indexes jumped.

“We were busy at 6:30, already busy trading,” Mr. Conroy said, adding, “Normally there would be just a couple of orders, but this morning, multiply that exponentially.”

Tom di Galoma, the United States head of fixed-income rates trading for Guggenheim Partners, said the day started with a string of phone calls as investors measured the effect of the plan.

“There has been a tremendous amount of conference calls with customers related to what we think the plan actually does for the market place,” he said. “Spreads are tightening in the corporate bond market, and people are taking more risk in equities.”

That sentiment was reflected in the credit markets, where the cost of insuring against default on both European government debt and banks fell sharply, after rising steadily for weeks. So did the yield premium that investors demand on Greek, Spanish and Portuguese debt, suggesting that investors were less fearful of default.

Referring to the market turmoil on Thursday, he added: “I still think people are in a state of shock because of what happened last week.” The rally in the United States was preceded by renewed market confidence in Europe, where shares jumped on word of the nearly $1 trillion support package from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, which was followed by a pledge by the European Central Bank to intervene in the bond markets. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, rose 10.35 percent. The FTSE 100 index in London increased 5.16 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris climbed 9.66 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt 5.3 percent.

As traders returned to riskier investments, gold and bond prices tumbled. Crude oil settled up $1.69, at $76.80 a barrel in New York. The Treasury’s 10-year note fell 30/32, to 100 22/32. The yield rose to 3.54 percent from 3.43 percent.

The moves also took the pressure off the euro, which bounced back from 14-month lows. The 16-nation currency jumped above the $1.30 barrier for the first time in a week before settling back to $1.2804 in trading in New York.

Some investors said they were still waiting on the sidelines, fearful that European leaders had just papered over the growing problems in Greece, Portugal and Spain, using new debt to cover old debt.

“At least for the moment it puts aside any concerns,” said one cautious investor, Marc Harris, co-head of global research at RBC Capital Markets.

Officials involved in the rescue said they were relieved by the market’s reaction.

“We wouldn’t want to make too much of one day’s response, but it looks like the involvement of the I.M.F. and the final approval of this joint program — Greek, European, I.M.F. — has had a very sharply positive impact on markets,” John P. Lipsky, the first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said Monday in a conference call with reporters.

Justin Golden, a senior strategist for Macro Risk Advisors, said he and colleagues worked through the night on Sunday, calling clients and exchanging messages on a chat system to try to make sense of the European announcement and to gauge how it would affect stocks and options prices. The last time they worked through the night was in January, when news of Greece’s troubles emerged.

On Monday, he was glued to the screen early to get a sense for how the euro, specifically, would respond because United States equities investors had recently been taking their guidance from the currency.

Some analysts had said the European Central Bank had missed an opportunity to take bold action last Thursday, so the size, if not the action, was a real surprise.

“I think that is pretty typical for the E.C.B.,” Mr. Golden said. “Apparently they tend to downplay what they are working on and are a little less quick to the trigger.”

He said the size of the bailout had been a surprise. “We are calling it a financial bazooka,” he said.
336 2010-05-11 Foreign scholars of Chinese law said it was rare for lawyers to have their licenses permanently revoked over a disruption-of-court charge. The two lawyers said they never disrupted the trial of Mr. Yang and said the judge badly mishandled the case in court.

The punishments of Ms. Liu and Mr. Tang are part of a sweeping crackdown on human rights lawyers. In May 2009, judicial authorities withheld a stamp from the licenses of 53 lawyers in Beijing that the lawyers needed to keep practicing. Ms. Liu and Mr. Tang were among the 53, and while some of the lawyers eventually got the stamp, Ms. Liu and Mr. Tang did not. Still, they managed to hold on to their licenses.

In July 2009, the government shut down the offices of Gongmeng, a prominent legal research organization in Beijing. Also known as the Open Constitution Initiative, lawyers at Gongmeng had been taking on increasingly controversial projects, including representing parents whose children died from tainted milk and putting out a report that questioned the central government’s policies in Tibet. Mr. Tang and Ms. Liu had done some work with Gongmeng.

“They’re afraid of the human rights lawyers who work,” Mr. Tang said on Monday of the decision to revoke the licenses. “It’s revenge for what we have done. It’s to scare our friends who are doing the same things. It has a chilling effect on them.”

Representing Mr. Yang was one of the riskiest cases the two lawyers could have taken on. In 1999, after Mr. Yang’s followers staged a silent protest and surrounded Zhongnanhai, the Chinese leadership’s compound in Beijing, the Falun Gong movement was branded an “evil cult” and was banned. Practitioners said they were quickly subjected to imprisonment and torture.

Mr. Tang said that in China there is no possibility for a just hearing in any court on Falun Gong or about issues involving China’s territorial sovereignty, meaning cases involving Tibet, Xinjiang and Taiwan.

“Independence issues and the Falun Gong — if you were to be a lawyer for that, they want you to do it their way, to act out a part in their theater,” he said.

He added: “If you cannot protect the rights of the people, the most basic rights, then why do you even exist as a lawyer? The entire profession might as well be extinct.”
337 2010-05-11 Europe's leaders stared into the abyss and finally decided to act. The nearly $1 trillion bailout package, arranged over the weekend, is intended to head off Greece's default and stop the crisis from dragging under other weak economies -- Portugal...
338 2010-05-12 And the Nominees Should Be . . .

The theater critics of The New York Times make their Tony Award choices.
339 2010-05-12 Is it wiser to buy a Wi-Fi iPad and a MiFi mobile hotspot device instead of paying $129 more for an iPad 3G?...
340 2010-05-12 Naral Pro-Choice America's political action committee endorses Joe Sestak less than a week before his primary with Arlen Specter....
341 2010-05-12 Spending time in an 85-pound bomb squad suit is no fun, even when there's no bomb....
342 2010-05-12 The media investor Haim Saban said that he had bought back the rights to his biggest franchise, "Power Rangers," from The Walt Disney Company, and had licensed the show to Nickelodeon, the children's cable channel owned by Viacom....
343 2010-05-12 The letter, sent by the International Documentary Association and signed by filmmakers including Alex Gibney, Michael Moore, D.A. Pennebaker, Barbara Kopple, Davis Guggenheim and Louie Psihoyos, objected to a judge's ruling that Chevron could subp...
344 2010-05-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
345 2010-05-12 While past champions Richard Petty and Junior Johnson appeared at the grand opening ceremonies on Tuesday, more recent champions, like Jimmie Johnson and Jeff Gordon, were noticeably absent....
346 2010-05-12 HTC, the Taiwanese electronics manufacturer, filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission, claiming Apple infringed on five HTC patents....
347 2010-05-12 The new museum is part of an effort to display government-owned art beyond the big museums of Paris....
348 2010-05-12 ATO Pictures, the New York-based independent film production company co-founded in 2002 by the musician Dave Matthews, is becoming a movie distributor, the company said on Wednesday....
349 2010-05-12 The rental car company will offer the electric vehicle in the United States and Europe beginning early next year....
350 2010-05-12 A Nickelodeon Web site wins a Boston organization's award for being the worst toy of the year....
351 2010-05-12 Asking colleges how many students who received letters of admission responded by sending in tuition deposits....
352 2010-05-12 Over the years, Consolidated has come up with a green way to print just about anything -- except money....
353 2010-05-12 A selection of stories of interest to residents of the Bay Area....
354 2010-05-12 Would we be happier if our net worth was public information?...
355 2010-05-12 The Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig and a group of creditors led by hedge fund Monarch Alternative Capital are reportedly playing a game of hardball over the hamstrung sale of the Texas Rangers....
356 2010-05-12 The Tuesday data showed that retail sales climbed 18.5 percent in April, and the People’s Bank of China said that domestic banks had issued about 774 billion renminbi in new loans, or about $113 billion. In March, banks issued about 510 billion renminbi in such loans.

Industrial production and fixed-asset investment — two main measures of growth — each slowed slightly in April from their pace in March but remained robust, growing 17.8 and 25.6 percent from a year earlier.

The new statistics are fueling a debate among economists about whether China’s economy is a bubble about to burst or the engine of sustained global growth.

Many economists credit Beijing with managing its growth relatively well over the last year. But Chinese officials have expressed serious concern in recent months about soaring property prices and the threat they pose to the economy and social stability.

For months, the government has been introducing new measures aimed at taming the property market, like requiring home owners to make larger down payments. It has also raised the prospect of introducing property taxes.

But prices have continued to rise at a spectacular pace. In April, for instance, the government said home prices in 70 large and medium-size Chinese cities had risen 12.8 percent, climbing for the 11th consecutive month.

“They’ve just announced several property measures, so we’ll probably see a little correction in prices in May,” said Wang Qian, an analyst at JPMorgan.

Also of concern is the consumer price index, which rose 2.8 percent in April — indicating greater inflationary pressure. Banks have already been told to put more reserves aside, which should reduce money available for lending, and slow thus purchases.

Analysts say the government is facing the delicate task of reining in property prices without undermining an important driver of economic growth.

The Shanghai composite index has tumbled 19 percent this year (after an 80 percent jump in 2009) amid fears that the government’s steps to cool the economy will clip profits. The index is down more than 20 percent from its peak in November.

But the rest of the economy seems oblivious. In April, China sold about 1.1 million passenger cars — 32 percent more than in the same month a year earlier.

And on Monday, the government said it had recorded a $1.7 billion trade surplus for April, rebounding from a monthly trade deficit of $7.2 billion in March — the first such deficit the country had recorded in years.

Beijing is under growing pressure from the United States and the European Union to allow its currency to appreciate. American and European officials have complained that China is keeping its currency artificially weak, making its exports more competitive and harming competitors trying to climb out of the recession.

After letting the renminbi appreciate gradually against the dollar from 2005 to 2008, the Chinese government has kept the currency at about 6.83 to the dollar since July 2008.

But recently, Chinese officials signaled that the government could allow the currency to appreciate soon.

Many analysts expect that to begin within weeks — especially since the American secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, are scheduled to visit China this month for the so-called Strategic Economic Dialogue.

“It may happen by then,” Ms. Wang said. “The trade numbers for China showed a surplus in April again, and so it seems the fundamentals are right for appreciation to happen.”
357 2010-05-12 The exchanges show how even the nomination of someone who is considered likely to be confirmed can still reshape the electoral landscape. It is the first Supreme Court nomination in a midterm election cycle since 1994.

While some Republicans said they hoped the Supreme Court battle did not become so volatile that it overshadowed issues of the economy and jobs, party leaders said the nomination fight could be a galvanizing force for conservative voters.

“It’s a powerful reminder of how many seats we have in the Senate is important,” Ron Nehring, chairman of the California Republican Party, said in an interview Tuesday. “It also will raise a steady stream of issues that will be of great importance to many voters.”

The rise of Tea Party advocates, accompanied by protesters across the country waving copies of the Constitution as they demonstrate, underscores the degree to which voters could be aroused by debate at the confirmation hearings over interpreting the Constitution.

Democrats said they would mount an aggressive defense of Ms. Kagan that would neutralize any impact on the campaign season and maybe turn the confirmation proceedings to their advantage.

The White House, along with the Democratic National Committee, has created a 24-hour war room. Not an hour went by on Tuesday when the forces advocating on Ms. Kagan’s behalf did not fire off an e-mail statement or a video intended to either correct the record or call out their opponents.

“I have no doubt that Republicans want to gin it up for their base, but at the end of the day I think they are going to see a nominee who has the ability, the intellectual stamina and the right temperament to be on the court,” said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.

Republicans say the import of a Supreme Court nomination could help them over all by consuming Senate time and attention, depriving Democrats of the chance to achieve other legislative victories.

“A Supreme Court nomination always stops things around here,” said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate. “It takes up most of the space for two or three months.”

He and several other Republicans pointed to the military recruitment issue as a potential obstacle to Ms. Kagan winning Republican votes. It not only allows Republicans to declare their support for the military but it also could conceivably be used against Democrats running in more conservative states — Senators Michael Bennet in Colorado and Blanche Lincoln in Arkansas, for instance — putting them on the spot over whether they agree with Ms. Kagan’s view on recruiting.

Rob Jesmer, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said the idea of blocking recruiters from Harvard would not make sense to most Americans. “We are fighting two wars, and we can’t have people go recruit the best and the brightest?” he said. “It is elitist.”

Democrats say that Ms. Kagan’s views are being misconstrued and that she was mainly enforcing an existing ban while taking steps on her own to foster contact between Harvard and military recruiters.

“Her staunchest supporters are former military officers who are there at the Harvard Law School,” said Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, an Army veteran and West Point graduate who invited Ms. Kagan to speak at the military academy. “She just wowed them.”

With other issues likely to surface, the confirmation battle adds one more element to an unsettled climate. While Republicans said they believed they stood to benefit from the fight, they also do not want it to overtake other topics.

Gentry Collins, political director of the Republican National Committee, said Tuesday that the hearings could temporarily become an issue in the midterm elections, but that most voters were more concerned about the economy and unemployment.

“People are worried about their jobs,” Mr. Collins said.
358 2010-05-12 Mr. Cuomo is seeking damages and penalties from the three defendants. It also seeks to bar Mr. Simon and Mr. Wohl from working as investment advisers. Representatives for Ivy, Mr. Simon and Mr. Wohl said they would contest the charges.

The lawsuit is the latest to emerge after the dissolution of Mr. Madoff’s multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme, the largest in American history. Mr. Cuomo has also sued a hedge fund manager, J. Ezra Merkin, who lost more than $1 billion in investor money in Mr. Madoff’s scheme.

Bank of New York acquired Ivy, a fund of funds, in 2000. Ivy said that Mr. Cuomo’s charges were tied to a “legacy nondiscretionary” side business whose clients were investment advisers in charge of their own clients’ money. Ivy is winding down its main fund-of-funds business.

As far back as 1997, Ivy had discovered apparent holes in Mr. Madoff’s stated investment strategy, according to the lawsuit. Among them were analyses that show the volume of outstanding options tied to the Standard & Poor’s 100-stock index supported only half of the assets Mr. Madoff had under management.

“This is a clear example of our inability to make sense of Madoff’s strategy, and one where his trades for our accounts are inconsistent with the independent information that is available to us,” one Ivy internal memo read.

Yet Mr. Simon and Mr. Wohl chose not to disclose to clients their suspicions. In 1999, Ivy sent a letter to clients saying it had “no reason to believe there is anything improper in the Madoff operation.”

And from 1998 to 2004, the firm said its only concern about Mr. Madoff was an “ability to manage what must be an enormous pool of capital with such consistently outstanding results,” the complaint said. Representatives for Mr. Simon and Mr. Wohl said the two had repeatedly warned clients to reduce their exposure to Mr. Madoff, only to be ignored.

In a letter to one client sent in 2000 and provided by a lawyer for Mr. Simon, the executive wrote, “Despite Madoff’s stellar record, we continue to be concerned by his unwillingness to be fully forthcoming about capital under management and other aspects of his business, and we reiterate our strong recommendation that the outsized allocations to this strategy be reduced.”

A spokeswoman for Mr. Wohl added that at no time did he know or conclude that Mr. Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme.
359 2010-05-12 Moments after the trade, individual shares traded on markets around the country started to drop sharply, and regulators are looking at whether the trade in the futures market could have been a catalyst for the spiral.

Mr. Gensler emphasized that regulators were continuing to search for the causes of the brief panic and were likely to find other trades that could also have contributed to the plunge.

In singling out the trade in the Standard & Poor’s e-mini futures contract, however, regulators are suggesting they view that trading activity as critical to understanding the sequence of events that erased more than 600 points from the Dow Jones industrial average in minutes on May 6.

As stock markets began to decline, regulators say they believe, other factors came into play that accelerated the fall, including the absence of circuit breakers on several electronic exchanges even as the New York Stock Exchange’s own circuit breakers kicked in.

Three rival exchanges stopped routing trades to the exchange’s electronic market after they perceived technical problems there. Market experts say they believe this prompted high-frequency computer traders, who account for a vast swath of trading, to withdraw from the market.

Mr. Gensler and Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, both emphasized on Tuesday that their agencies’ investigations had not yet settled on a single cause of Thursday’s volatile trading and that numerous factors could have contributed. Their comments were in testimony prepared for the House Capital Markets Subcommittee.

“Ultimately, we may learn that the extraordinary disruption in trading, however it may have been triggered, was the result of a confluence of events,” Ms. Schapiro said, “which, taken together, exacerbated what already had been a down day and led to an extraordinarily steep price drop and recovery. However, we are not prepared at this time to draw that conclusion.”

Mr. Gensler’s comments about the potential cause were the most pointed of any regulator in the five days since the markets suffered what Ms. Schapiro called a “profoundly disappointing and troubling” break in the stock market’s stability and integrity.

For now, both regulators said that they had largely ruled out several other potential causes that had been widely discussed since Thursday, including erroneous or so-called fat finger trades, unusual trading in Procter & Gamble stock, and hacker or terrorist activity.

The regulators’ testimony provided the first official timeline of the events that preceded the mini-crash.

At the time the futures trader entered the market at 2:32 p.m. Eastern time on Thursday, stock prices had already fallen significantly. The Dow Jones industrial average was down by about 1.5 percent by 2 p.m., Ms. Schapiro said, and Mr. Gensler noted that in the next 24 minutes, several closed-end mutual funds, which trade on stock exchanges in a manner similar to stocks, fell by 50 percent or more.

Shortly after the futures trader began entering sell orders at 2:32, “the market decline began to steepen,” Ms. Schapiro said. By 2:42, the Dow was down 3.9 percent. Then, the bottom fell out, with the Dow diving nearly 5.5 percent in the next five minutes, before rebounding by about 5 percent in the next minute and a half.

“Our preliminary analysis shows that this precipitous decline in stocks, and the subsequent recovery, followed very closely the drop and recovery in the value of the e-mini S.& P. 500 future, which tracks the normal relationship between futures and stock prices for the broader market,” Ms. Schapiro said.

She cautioned against drawing too direct a conclusion, however. “It must be recognized, however, that the fact that stocks prices follow futures prices chronologically does not demonstrate what may have triggered the price movements,” she said.

Mr. Gensler also pointed to several factors in the market for individual stocks that could have led to the market’s decline, including the overall turbulence in the global economy, particularly in Europe, which had made traders edgy.

The two agencies said Tuesday that they would form a joint committee of academics, market participants and former regulators to address regulatory questions raised by last Thursday’s market turmoil.

Ms. Schapiro said the S.E.C. had issued several subpoenas to unidentified people or entities to help gather information related to the market crash. She said regulators needed the subpoenas to gather information from nonregulated entities, a group that would include some hedge funds.

Ms. Schapiro said the enormous increase in trading volume in recent years was complicating efforts to draw clear conclusions about the plunge.

When a special commission examined the market crash of 1987, for example, investigators looked at a day when trading on the New York Stock Exchange totaled about 600 million shares. Last Thursday, 10.3 billion shares of stocks listed on the exchange changed hands.

Ms. Schapiro said the S.E.C. had already begun to examine whether high-frequency traders, whose computer-driven systems trade millions of shares of stocks daily, should be subjected to stricter trading rules to protect market integrity and quality.

The evolution of electronic stock markets in recent years has resulted in high-frequency traders taking over many of the market functions previously filled by stock exchange specialists and market makers who provided the bulk of stock market liquidity, Ms. Schapiro said.

The major stock exchanges also testified to the subcommittee on Tuesday, with each generally pointing fingers at the others.

In its testimony, the Nasdaq exchange pointed to technical problems related to the New York Stock Exchange’s electronic trading system called Arca.

During the market chaos this caused three exchanges to stop routing orders to the New York Stock Exchange because of what they saw as slowness in response times or unreliable quotes being posted by the exchange.

The New York Stock Exchange says there was no problem with its technology. But market experts said the decision by the exchange’s rivals — Nasdaq, BATS Trading and CBOE — to make that move added to the nervousness of high-frequency traders who abruptly withdrew from the market.

“The normal stabilizers were pushed out by the systems glitches,” said James J. Angel, a professor at Georgetown University who studies financial markets.
360 2010-05-12 Nonetheless, a host of businesses are chipping away at Microsoft either by offering free versions or by recommending to clients that they buy fewer copies of Office. “I think Office has run away from its users,” said David Girouard, the president of Google’s business software group. “Every company ought to have a few copies of it, but it has nothing to do with what most people need.”

Users of the new version of Office will be able to share and work on the same documents and presentations over the Internet rather than e-mailing files back and forth to each other. Microsoft has created a way for people to flip from the PC to online versions of Office to give users the best of both worlds.

If many of those functions sound familiar, it is because Google, Adobe and smaller companies like Zoho have been giving away Web-based apps that do much the same thing. But the rival products have hardly made a dent in the sales of Office — a product used by 500 million people.

Over the last three years, Microsoft’s share of the office software market has remained static at 94 percent, according to the research firm Gartner. Adobe ranks second in office software revenue with almost 4 percent of the market, leaving scraps for about eight other companies. Microsoft’s business software group brought in $19 billion last year.

The vast size of this productivity empire and the software’s growing complexity has made Office a popular target for Microsoft’s competitors over the years. Rivals like I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems, now part of Oracle, have backed a free productivity package called OpenOffice that performs most of the functions found in Office. About 25 million people have signed up for Google Apps, the company’s online suite of software that is similar to Microsoft’s business products.

According to analysts, Microsoft still has little to worry about. It has benefited from linking features in Office to other business software products in the company’s arsenal and as a result, has been able to coax customers into large, unified upgrades. Numerous Wall Street analysts expect that strategy to pay off well for Microsoft this year. Many large companies skipped over previous versions of Microsoft’s Windows operating system software and continue to rely on four- to five-year-old computers. Analysts expect that these customers will finally upgrade their machines and software, particularly after Windows 7, released last year, received favorable reviews.

“I think we will see this refresh cycle kick in over the summer,” said Mr. Williams, the software analyst. “It is going to be big and matter a whole lot.”

Jason Lieblich sees that as an opportunity. Mr. Lieblich has started a company called Exoprise Systems that will soon begin selling software that monitors computers to see what types of products workers use and how they use them. It will then guide customers away from traditional applications like Microsoft Office to cheaper online alternatives.

“Office is a great product, but it is quite complicated and people aren’t really taking advantage of the software,” Mr. Lieblich said.

Mr. Elop put in his vote for a mostly Microsoft future, knocking the idea promoted by Google that companies use both Office and Google Apps side by side.

“It clearly shows their lack of maturity and lack of understanding for the business market,” said Mr. Elop, the Microsoft executive. “Companies don’t want to mix their technology.”
361 2010-05-12 The farm has sold horses as stallion prospects, too, even though WinStar stands seven studs of its own and considers them the core of its business. In 2007, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum’s Darley America reportedly offered more than $30 million to stand the 2007 Haskell Invitational champion Any Given Saturday. He was sold in a heartbeat.

“We’ve sold six Grade 1 winners because you can’t keep them all because costs are high and we need to generate cash,” Cauthen said.

When Casner and Troutt purchased what was then Prestonwood Farm in Versailles, Ky., 10 years ago, they not only wanted to win the Derby and every other big race but also wanted to build a commercial breeding and racing operation that would rival Coolmore and Darley.

Casner and Troutt met 37 years ago at the old Ak-Sar-Ben racetrack in Omaha, where Casner was a trainer and Troutt owned some claiming horses. They struck up a friendship, which led to a series of business endeavors, not all of them successful, until they landed in the long-distance telephone business just as it was becoming deregulated.

Building Excel Communications into a multibillion-dollar company took their attention away from the horse business but eventually paid huge dividends. They went public in 1996, merged into Bell Canada and became wealthy. Still, Casner and Troutt did not have what appears to be the bottomless pockets that Sheik Mohammed and Coolmore often dig into.

“We were heavily involved in horses in our youth,” said Casner, who grew up in El Paso and as a teenager began galloping horses at Sunland Park in New Mexico. “We learned how not to do this business, and that was at the low end of the game. We also knew that horses are volatile and fragile commodities, and losing money is no fun. So we needed to be profitable to survive. We are not a folly; this is not a plaything.”

The bluegrass of Central Kentucky is littered with the burnt cash and trampled dreams of wealthy people from other industries who thought they were smarter than everyone else. Most horsemen thought Casner and Troutt would join the many others. Instead, the pair hired the best and the brightest for every facet of their business.

Cauthen, for example, whose brother Steve swept the Triple Crown in 1978 aboard Affirmed, is a lawyer by trade who has worked for Hall of Fame trainers, sales companies and breeding farms.

“They put a terrific team together from top to bottom,” said Dan Rosenberg, the former president of Three Chimneys Farm and now an industry consultant. “They made a commitment to expend resources, and they did not stop and go, stop and go, and change courses like others have done. You also need some luck in the breeding and racing business, and they have had some luck.”

Casner’s and Troutt’s first stroke of good fortune came with the purchase of Prestonwood — a smallish stallion named Distorted Humor whose runners had yet to hit the racetrack. When they did, in 2002, they were fast and won enough to make Distorted Humor the leading freshman sire.

In 2003, after one of his sons bred by WinStar — Funny Cide — captured the Derby and the Preakness, Distorted Humor became not only a popular stallion but also an expensive one. He once stood for $300,000 a mating, a number that was cut to $100,000 recently but remains near the top of the market.

Distorted Humor’s offspring have won 86 stakes races and more than $66 million. The woeful horse economy, however, has led to slashed prices in all areas of the industry.

Luck intervened again in 2006 when Cauthen and his team decided to pay $160,000 at the Keeneland November mixed sale auction for a mare named Super Charger, a daughter of A.P. Indy in foal to Maria’s Mon.

“We’re always looking for new blood,” Cauthen said. “We don’t want our herd to get stagnant.”

Now Super Saver is conservatively worth $12 million to $15 million — he not only has a Derby victory but also regal bloodlines.

Those numbers will rise substantially if he wins the Preakness and could reach $40 million if he sweeps the Triple Crown.

So is there a spot on WinStar’s stallion roster waiting for him?

“We’d love and hope that he would come home,” Cauthen said. “But we’re going to have to take seriously any and all offers that we can’t refuse. That’s how you make a profit in this business.”
362 2010-05-12 New analysis of a student’s audio recording from the shootings in which four student were killed at Kent State University in 1970 shows that Ohio National Guard troops received orders to fire into a crowd of unarmed students, according to two audio forensics experts. Six seconds before shots were fired, a National Guard officer is heard giving the command “All right, prepare to fire,” said Stuart Allen, one of the experts involved. The Cleveland Plain Dealer, which obtained a copy of the tape, asked Mr. Allen and a colleague to review it. The Ohio National Guard declined to comment. Terry Strubbe, the man who made the recording, disagrees with Mr. Allen’s findings. “It was a really bad recording,” Mr. Allen said. “It’s pure mud.”
363 2010-05-12 Bill Yosses, White House pastry chef, comes up with this snack....
364 2010-05-12 Midfielder Stuart Holden, Davies’s closest friend on the team, was invited to participate in his first World Cup training camp after he recovered from a fractured fibula and appeared as a substitute Sunday in Bolton’s last English Premier League game of the season.

The 30 players named to the preliminary roster will report to training camp Monday in Princeton, N.J., and will play two exhibitions before June 1, when Bradley must winnow the team to the 23 players he will take to South Africa.

Bradley had said that he was eager to settle on his team and begin preparations for the Americans’ first game, against England on June 12 in Rustenburg. But questions over the readiness of some of his players prolonged his decision.

Tim Howard is the No. 1 choice at goalkeeper.

Onyewu will probably be paired with Carlos Bocanegra, the captain, or DeMerit in central defense. Steve Cherundolo is the likely starter at right fullback, but there is a hole at left back. Bradley could move Bocanegra outside, or he could call on Jonathan Spector, who can play on either flank.

Bradley’s midfield corps illustrates the priority he places on versatility. Clint Dempsey and Landon Donovan, two of the team’s most creative players, can play as forwards or on the wing. Michael Bradley, the coach’s son, is capable of playing as a holding midfielder and scoring goals. Maurice Edu can back up Ricardo Clark as a defensive midfielder, or drop into the backline, where he played for the United States Olympic team at the 2008 Beijing Games.

DaMarcus Beasley, who played in the 2002 and 2006 World Cups but has struggled to earn playing time in Scotland this season for Rangers, was also called in to camp.

Without Davies, Bradley enlisted a collection of forwards, including Jozy Altidore and two internationally untested strikers: Edson Buddle of the Los Angeles Galaxy and Herculez Gomez, an American who plays for Puebla in Mexico.

Among the stars who will miss the World Cup are Ronaldinho, a three-time FIFA world player of the year, who was excluded from the Brazil roster; Luca Toni, Francesco Totti and Alessandro Del Piero, who were not picked by Italy, the defending champion; and Argentina’s Javier Zanetti and Esteban Cambiasso, who both play for Inter Milan.

Two other players from the United States were named to World Cup rosters: the New Jersey-born Giuseppe Rossi was selected for Italy, and Neven Subotic, who grew up in Utah, will play for Serbia, where he was born.
365 2010-05-12 Later on Tuesday, the Senate voted by 63 to 36 to require the Treasury Department to study the prospect of ending the federal conservatorship of the government-sponsored mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

The Democrats put forward the amendment as an alternative to a proposal by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, that sought to end the government’s involvement with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and potentially put them out of business within five years. Republicans denounced the proposed study as accomplishing nothing.

The lack of provisions related to the mortgage giants in the broader bill has become a point of contention for the Republicans who say that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were at the heart of the collapse in the housing market that led to the financial crisis.

They have used the debate to highlight how Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue to lose tens of billions of dollars at taxpayer expense. Fannie Mae on Monday requested an additional $8.4 billion in taxpayer assistance and Freddie Mac last week asked for an additional $10.6 billion.

The federal government has already contributed $137.5 billion to the mortgage giants since taking control of them in August 2008. Meanwhile, Michael J. Williams, the chief executive of Fannie Mae, was paid $6.68 million in salary and bonuses for 2009, even as the institution lost more than $74 billion. The bonus money is being paid this year, including a $581,000 disbursement in March, according to regulatory filings.

“This amendment that we’ll take up will end the taxpayer-backed conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, by putting in place an orderly transition period and eventually requiring them to operate without government subsidies on a level playing field with their private-sector competitors,” Mr. McCain said at a news conference before his amendment was defeated.

“We are not saying that Freddie and Fannie have to go out of business,” he said. “We are saying we want them to be a business that is on a level playing field with other private sector competitors.”

Democrats, however, note that few private sector competitors are left, and that Fannie and Freddie now supply a vast majority of mortgage financing in the United States.

The Senate on Tuesday also adopted an amendment sponsored by Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, requiring that more than $180 billion in bailout money repaid to the Treasury under the Troubled Asset Relief Program be used to reduce the federal deficit rather than toward more bailouts or new spending.

The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said on Tuesday that he wanted to finish work on the legislation this week. But Mr. Reid lacks the 60 votes needed to end debate, and the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said that he thought the bill required two more weeks of work.

“This is a very, very important bill, and there are many legitimate amendments,” Mr. McConnell said.

Mr. Sanders said his amendment would bring long overdue scrutiny to the Fed.

“At a time when the Federal Reserve has provided the largest taxpayer bailout in the history of the world, the largest financial institutions in this country, trillion-dollar institutions, the Sanders amendment makes it clear that the Fed can no longer operate in the kind of secrecy that it has operated in forever,” he said in a floor speech.

Critics of the more aggressive audit provision approved by the House said that it could infringe on the Fed’s independence and interfere with its ability to set monetary policy.

Mr. Sanders and other supporters rejected those assertions and said they were providing sufficient safeguards to protect the central bank’s integrity.

The House bill, which was approved in December, included a proposal sponsored by one of the most conservative lawmakers, Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, and one of the most liberal, Representative Alan Grayson, Democrat of Florida.

Their proposal would allow audits by the Government Accountability Office of every item on the Fed’s balance sheet, and they said the Senate version would not go far enough.

“While it is better than no audit at all, it guts the spirit of a truly meaningful audit of the most crucial transactions of the Fed,” Mr. Paul wrote on his Web site.
366 2010-05-12 LONDON — Britain ’s Conservatives returned to power on Tuesday after 13 years in opposition when David Cameron , who has built his future on a claim to have recast the party of Margaret Thatcher for a new century as more compassionate and less class-bound, took over as prime minister from Labour’s Gordon Brown .

Five days after a general election that left the Conservatives 20 seats short of a majority, Mr. Cameron, 43, cobbled together an awkward alliance with the Liberal Democrats to form the first coalition government since World War II.

The strength of that partnership will be tested immediately by the financial crisis facing Europe and Britain’s high levels of debt, which will call for deep and unpopular spending cuts. The new government will be under pressure to act swiftly to appease restive markets, which have threatened to batter the pound and downgrade Britain’s debt unless bold measures are taken.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrats’ leader, will be deputy prime minister. The Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are far apart on many issues, from immigration to relations with Europe, and full details on what each conceded will not be public until Wednesday. But aides to Mr. Clegg said the Liberal Democrats would have five ministers in the new government, including Vince Cable, a former oil economist who has called for sharp spending cuts. The Liberal Democrats’ prized issue of electoral reform would be put to a voter referendum, though in its least far-reaching form.

The transfer of power took place with the swiftness characteristic of Britain’s parliamentary system. Less than 75 minutes after Mr. Brown fast-forwarded events by an earlier-than-expected resignation announcement at a lectern in Downing Street, Mr. Cameron stood at the same lectern as Britain’s new leader. In between, both men had met with Queen Elizabeth II to make the transfer formal.

Mr. Cameron has spoken of Britain’s need to undergo “an age of austerity” to try to shrink a $240 billion black hole in the government’s annual accounts, largely a result of prodigious levels of deficit spending by Labour during the global recession of the past two years. In his Downing Street remarks, he made clear that fiscal toughness would be a hallmark of his government.

“We are going to have hard and difficult things to do,” he said.

But the new prime minister also struck a note that echoed the inaugural address of one of his political heroes, President John F. Kennedy. He asked fellow Britons to turn their backs on a culture of selfishness, indiscipline and reliance on state benefits that Labour’s Conservative critics have depicted as characteristic of its years in power.

“And I want to help build a more responsible society in Britain — one where we don’t just ask ‘What are my entitlements?’ but ‘What are my responsibilities?’ ” Mr. Cameron said, “One where we don’t just ask ‘What am owed?’ but ‘What can I give?’ ”

He also used a brief tribute to Mr. Brown to sketch the compassionate ideals he outlined in the campaign, in an effort to remold his party from the no-nonsense, free-market, stridently anti-Soviet beliefs that drove Lady Thatcher’s 11 years in office.

“Compared with 10 years ago, this country is more open at home, and more compassionate abroad,” Mr. Cameron said, attributing much of the credit for the changes to Mr. Brown.

Mr. Brown served 10 years as chancellor of the Exchequer in the government of Prime Minister Tony Blair after the landslide that brought Labour to power in 1997, then succeeded Mr. Blair when he left office in 2007.

Even before Mr. Cameron went to Buckingham Palace to accept Queen Elizabeth II’s invitation to form a government, speculation centered on how long the pact with the Liberal Democrats would last. The party, which emerged in 1988 from a merger between a Labour breakaway group called the Social Democrats and the old Liberal Party, remains an often fractious mix of two competing traditions, with an older left-of-center group and a younger group around Mr. Clegg that is seen as more centrist and focused on issues of economic fairness, ecological responsibility and human rights.

Many Conservatives said they doubted that the Liberal Democrats could hold to the pledges they were believed to have made to the Conservatives, especially on measures to cut the government deficit and to introduce new discipline to Britain’s prodigiously expensive welfare state.

But some analysts said they expected Mr. Cameron to concentrate for a year on measures to stabilize the economy, husbanding ties with the Liberal Democrats as he goes. Aides to the new prime minister said Mr. Clegg had agreed to an austerity package that would be softened by Conservative concessions on issues at the heart of the Liberal Democrats’ election campaign, including relief for the poorest taxpayers and abandonment of a Conservative pledge to eliminate inheritance taxes on any estate valued at less than $1.5 million. But after that, these analysts said, Mr. Cameron might be tempted to call a new election in a bid to win a majority.

Minutes after stepping into 10 Downing Street, which serves prime ministers as office and home, Mr. Cameron took his first congratulatory telephone call as Britain’s new leader from President Obama, who invited him and his wife, Samantha, to visit Washington in June.
367 2010-05-12 Benedict, who has been criticized for not acting aggressively enough against allegations of abuse as archbishop of and later as the head of a powerful Vatican office, said, “Attacks on the pope and the church come not only from outside the church, but the suffering of the church comes from inside the church, from sin that exists inside the church.”

His remarks were at once aimed inside the church — a warning to clerics that crimes would not be tolerated — and outside, indicating for the first time since the abuse crisis had swelled in that he personally understood the depth of the problem. The issue has revealed an ancient institution wrestling with modernity and brought to light an internal culture clash between traditionalists who have valued protecting priests and bishops above all else, and others seeking more transparency.

Benedict’s remarks on Tuesday were the latest in a series of responses by the Vatican to contend with the crisis.

In March, he issued a strong letter to Irish Catholics reeling from reports of systemic sexual abuse in Catholic institutions, but the letter emphasized forgiveness for the perpetrators as much as sympathy for the victims.

Benedict met privately with victims of sexual abuse on a brief trip to last month, and last week the Vatican took control of the Legionaries of Christ, a powerful religious order whose founder was found to have abused seminarians and fathered several children.

But every step forward seemed to be undercut by other Vatican officials, who at turns blamed the media or perceived enemies of the church for the sexual abuse crisis. Most notable among these officials was Cardinal , a former Vatican secretary of state and dean of the College of Cardinals. On Easter, Cardinal Sodano dismissed criticism of the pope as “petty gossip,” words that offended many victims.

“The theory is that popes are insulated from understanding public perceptions of the church; it’s their aides who have to correct” a problem, Mr. Allen said. “Here, it’s the aides who have created the problem.”

Benedict’s remarks on Tuesday appeared to show that the pope himself would now be dictating the message.

“Today we see in a really terrifying way that the greatest persecution of the church does not come from the enemies outside, but is born from the sin in the church,” the pope said.

“The church has a profound need to relearn penance, to accept purification, to learn on the one hand forgiveness but also the necessity of justice,” he added.

The Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, characteristically played down the idea that the pope’s remarks on sexual abuse represented a change in his thinking. “I would insist on the fact that the pope didn’t change gears,” Father Lombardi said at a news conference late Tuesday.

He said that the pope had expressed his thoughts more deeply in his letter to Irish Catholics, but acknowledged that on Tuesday the pope expressed himself with more “density and clarity” than he had in recent days. The pope, he said, was “more clear and explicit in the way in which he lives and sees the spiritual meaning of this situation of the church with the scandal of pedophilia.”

The crisis has raised questions about how Benedict handled sexual abuse as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith at the Vatican, and as archbishop in Munich in 1980 when a pedophile priest was moved to his diocese for treatment.

The pope landed in on Tuesday to begin a trip aimed at underscoring several themes of his papacy: the threat posed by secularism in Europe, the tension between faith and reason, and the role of ethics in economics.

Markets are jittery about Portugal’s prospects of bringing its debt and deficit under control. En route to Lisbon, Benedict told reporters that the financial crisis and the threat to the euro were opportunities to reintroduce a “moral dimension” to economics.

Benedict is also expected to emphasize the church’s stance on social issues. A largely Catholic country, Portugal legalized in 2007 and its Socialist majority Parliament approved a bill to legalize same-sex marriage earlier this year, which the president of Portugal has not yet signed into law.

On Wednesday, the pope is expected to travel to the pilgrim shrine of Fátima on the 10th anniversary of the beatification of two of the three shepherd children who say they saw a vision of the Virgin Mary there in 1917. credited the Virgin of Fátima with saving him from an assassination attempt in 1981 on the anniversary of the apparition.

Tradition has it that the Virgin revealed three secrets to the children, which the Vatican acknowledged in 1930. The first was a vision of hell, which some interpreted to predict the end of World War I and the start of World War II. The second told of the rise and fall of communism and included an appeal for the conversion of .

In 2000, Benedict, then Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, oversaw the Vatican’s revelation of the famous third secret of Fátima, after years in which it had developed a feverish cult status for some Catholics.

Disclosing the secret in 2000, Cardinal Sodano, then the Vatican secretary of state, said that the third vision was of a “bishop clothed in white,” the pope, who makes his way through a field of martyrs, which the Vatican interpreted as prefiguring the assassination attempt on John Paul by Mehmet Ali Agca, a Turkish gunman.
368 2010-05-13 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
369 2010-05-13 John McCain's new ad tries to show he is tough on illegal immigration, but some aren't buying it....
370 2010-05-13 For his first foray into Europe, Daniel Boulud has opened a Bar Boulud outpost in the Mandarin Oriental Hyde Park in London....
371 2010-05-13 The fight over Flash multimedia software took a new turn with an advertising campaign from Adobe....
372 2010-05-13 Air Products and Chemicals, the industrial gases company, is seeking to acquire its rival Airgas....
373 2010-05-13 Both rappers announced that they would be doing two big concerts together....
374 2010-05-13 Internet ads brought in $5.9 billion in the first quarter of 2010, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau....
375 2010-05-13 The White House is limiting, if not blocking, access to the family of the Supreme Court nominee....
376 2010-05-13 As Swiss lawmakers lock horns over a bill to resolve a tax dispute between UBS and Washington, changes are ahead for the country's pre-eminent financial sector....
377 2010-05-13 The move is another sign of a loosening of restrictions on visas issued to Cuban performers....
378 2010-05-13 Charles Isherwood on what happens when premium seating stands in the way of actually getting a seat....
379 2010-05-13 The Environmental Protection Agency has issued a final rule addressing permits for greenhouse gas emissions by stationary sources like power plants....
380 2010-05-13 Paul Ehrlich, the biologist and professor of population studies at Stanford University, discusses his latest work....
381 2010-05-13 The soul food restaurant will reopen in a larger location around the corner from its old spot, with a full bar....
382 2010-05-13 Also in the Morning Buzz: cuts from Washington to the city's terror-fighting budget; a high-school fashion show featuring clothes made from everything but fabric; a pastor who tends to ailing ministers; and other regional news....
383 2010-05-13 Louis Bacon, who topped the list of the U.K.'s richest hedge fund managers in 2010, is apparently none too pleased with European lawmakers moves to increase regulatory oversight of the hedge fund industry....
384 2010-05-13 A selection of stories of interest to residents of the Bay Area....
385 2010-05-13 Thursday | Today's idea: The Tea Party is becoming a network for aspiring female candidates who are forgoing the male-dominated major parties, an article says. "The conservative mama bear has become a fully operational, effective political archety...
386 2010-05-13 The British insurer is raising funds to finance its $35.5 billion takeover of American International Group's Asian life insurance arm, AIA....
387 2010-05-13 Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region on Thursday solidified a rally that had spread in Europe and the United States during the previous session amid positive economic and corporate data....
388 2010-05-13 That Ed Whitacre, who rebuilt AT&T from the Ma Bell breakup, now appears to be considering doing the same at General Motors, is troubling on many levels, Breakingviews says....
389 2010-05-13 Express, the clothing chain, priced shares in its initial public offering below the expected range on Wednesday, Reuters reported....
390 2010-05-13 Ed Whitacre just can’t seem to help himself. The executive who rebuilt AT&T from the Ma Bell breakup now appears to be considering doing the same at General Motors. The carmaker he leads, which is 61 percent owned by the government, is weighing a return to the finance business, possibly by acquiring its former unit, GMAC. Such recidivism is troubling on many levels.

The worry that Mr. Whitacre would return to his empire-building ways was the primary knock against his suitability for the job in January. In his previous gig, Mr. Whitacre cobbled together a telecoms juggernaut out of SBC, one of the regional Bell operating companies created by the government-mandated diaspora of the old AT&T.

Yet G.M.’s challenge was not to recreate its past footprint à la AT&T but to slim it down. While G.M. jettisoned or pledged to shutter some of its smaller distractions, including Saab, Pontiac, Hummer and Saturn, it retained its biggest, Europe’s Opel.

That decision might have been defensible based on the remuneration G.M. would have received, the automotive technology it would have transferred and the prospect that it could turn this leg of its core car business around. But that would not be the case for a return to banking, even one focused on financing car purchases.

For one, it’s a clear case of mission drift. G.M. has yet to repay the government for its $50 billion conversion of loans into a majority stake. G.M. executives might argue that boomeranging into auto financing makes G.M.’s equity more appealing, thus paving the way for a more robust initial public offering of stock in the company.
391 2010-05-13 John Wolyniec scored once in each half and the Red Bulls beat the visiting New England Revolution, 3-0, in the second round of the U.S Open Cup. Wolyniec followed up a blocked shot to score in the 36th minute and scored again in the 64th minute. The Red Bulls advance to face the Colorado Rapids on May 26 at Red Bull Arena.

¶Diego Forlán scored his second goal of the game with four minutes left in overtime, giving Atlético Madrid a 2-1 victory over Fulham in the first Europa League final. The Europa League, the successor to the UEFA Cup, is Europe’s No. 2 club competition behind the Champions League. europa
392 2010-05-13 Rob McConnell, a jazz trombonist, composer and arranger who led one of the few successful big bands to emerge in the 1960s, died on May 1 in Toronto, where he lived. He was 75.

The cause was cancer, said his wife, Anne Gibson.

Mr. McConnell’s ensemble, the Boss Brass, was unusual in several ways. For one thing, it was a critical and financial success despite being formed in 1968, long after the heyday of big bands had ended. For another, it was based in Canada, a country better known as the birthplace of jazz musicians who gained fame elsewhere.

The instrumentation of the Boss Brass was uncommon as well. Unlike virtually every other big band in the annals of jazz, its original configuration consisted entirely of trumpets, trombones, French horns and a rhythm section, but no saxophones. Mr. McConnell later added a five-piece saxophone section, giving his ensemble yet another distinction by making it considerably bigger than the average big band.

Mr. McConnell and the Boss Brass recorded prolifically, mostly for the Concord Jazz label, and were probably best known for the two albums they made with the singer Mel Tormé. Mr. McConnell won the last of his three Grammy Awards in 1996 for his arrangement of “I Get a Kick Out of You” on his second collaboration with Tormé, “Velvet & Brass.”

Robert Murray Gordon McConnell was born in London, Ontario, on Feb. 14, 1935, and was a busy studio musician and arranger in Canada before forming the Boss Brass. In 1997 he broke up that band and formed a 10-piece ensemble, with which he continued to work until 2006. The Boss Brass briefly reunited in 2008; its last concert was at the Toronto Jazz Festival on July 1, 2009 — Canada Day.

Mr. McConnell’s first wife, the former Margaret Bowman, died in 2005. In addition to Ms. Gibson, he is survived by a son, Brian; two daughters, Jennifer Vaandering and Robin McConnell; a brother, Dan; a sister, Marion Bienvenue; and seven grandchildren.
393 2010-05-13 If it is found that BP was grossly negligent or broke federal safety regulations, there is no limit to what it must pay.

Insurance companies are likely to pay some costs, and BP’s contractors could also face claims. Those contractors include Transocean, the rig’s operator; Halliburton, the company responsible for cementing the well; and Cameron International, the maker of the blowout preventer, a device designed to shut off a well.

Q How much could all these costs add up to?

A Estimates vary greatly, especially because oil continues to gush from the well and most of it has not yet reached shore.

Morningstar, an investment research firm, has estimated that the environmental cleanup, payments to businesses like hotels that have suffered losses and other regulatory and legal liabilities could exceed $4 billion. According to the Insurance Information Institute, companies with exposure to liabilities are insured for losses totaling about $1.4 billion.

Q Will taxpayers end up paying the bill?

A BP says the leaseholders will pay cleanup costs and all legitimate damage claims.

The Obama administration says it is determined to make BP pay the entire cost of the accident. The company earns billions of dollars in profits every year, so even a multibillion-dollar tab would not cripple it.

“The U.S. government will seek to recoup every penny that it can from BP and its partners in the Deepwater Horizon project,” predicted Robert Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute. “There will be no tax dollars whatsoever that subsidize the payment insurers will make to parties involved in the Deepwater Horizon project.”

Q A number of sea turtles and dolphins have been found dead along the gulf coast. Is this related to the spill or the use of chemical dispersants being used to clean up the area?

A So far, the deaths of 18 birds, 6 dolphins, and 87 sea turtles have been reported to the authorities as possibly related to the spill.

It is normal for a certain number of animals to wash up dead on beaches. This time of year, for example, dolphins can run into trouble when they come into shallower waters to have their calves.

In the case of sea turtles, Dave Westerholm of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said that there was no external evidence of oil on the animals but that full autopsies had not yet been completed. As for the dolphins, Jane Lubchenco of NOAA said the government was still in “the discovery phase.”

Q How much dispersant has been used so far?

A More than 400,000 gallons of dispersant have been applied to the spill, already far exceeding the volume of chemicals used to control other spills in the United States. “I think it’s fair to say that when it comes to this volume, we’re in uncharted waters,” said Lisa P. Jackson, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
394 2010-05-13 “When there’s equality of sacrifice, there’s got to be equality of gain,” Mr. King said during a speech to executives and analysts this week. “We just want to make sure when things turn around we share in the upside.”

Mr. King’s muscle flexing is bound to be popular with his rank and file, but it comes at a delicate time. Some of the carmakers are just getting their footing back, and during much of the crisis, critics have portrayed his union as a major hindrance to Detroit’s ability to compete with foreign rivals.

There is also the difficult task of navigating volatile public sentiments about the $62 billion in taxpayer money given to G.M. and Chrysler.

“The bankruptcies were structured to protect the union interests at the expense of the creditors and investors,” said Paul Kersey, director of labor policy at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, a conservative research group in Midland, Mich. “So I don’t see there being a whole lot of public support for them pursuing a restoration of the concessions.”

That might be one reason that Mr. King, the nominee to succeed the retiring Ron Gettelfinger next month, is trying to frame the union’s position around the issue of equality. He said that while U.A.W. members had agreed to give up pay and benefits in recent years, the quality of the vehicles they built have improved amid many plant closings and uncertainty about their future.

“They’re making it quite clear that they don’t want an upstairs-downstairs kind of industry where Champagne is poured in the boardrooms but the U.A.W. members are largely excluded from the festivities,” said Harley Shaiken, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who specializes in labor relations.

The U.A.W. already is upset with Ford, which was the only one of the three big Detroit automakers to avoid bankruptcy. Ford remains publicly held and took no government loans.

Ford has been profitable for four consecutive quarters, and this year has restored some compensation for salaried workers, including merit pay increases, tuition reimbursement and matching contributions to retirement accounts.

Mr. King, currently a U.A.W. vice president in charge of the union’s work force at Ford, said the union has filed grievances on the matter, accusing Ford of violating its U.A.W. contract.

“We had an understanding about equality of sacrifice,” Mr. King told reporters after his speech this week. “None of that, in my view of what the contract is, should have happened without our membership getting the same thing.”

A Ford spokeswoman, Marcey Evans, said Wednesday that the company was honoring its contract and said any increases in pay or benefits for hourly workers would need to be negotiated. The cuts that affected salaried workers were made with “a commitment that the company would reinstate them as business conditions allowed,” she said.

Ford did not issue merit-based raises in 2007 and 2009. Tuition reimbursement was suspended in 2008, and 401(k) matches were halted in 2009. Some benefits for salaried workers, including bonuses, have yet to be reinstated.

Ford told workers the merit pay increases this year will average about 3 percent of their pay.

Ms. Evans said that this year Ford gave profit-sharing checks averaging $450 to all of its union workers, in accordance with a formula dictated by the contract. The checks were based on Ford’s 2009 earnings of $2.7 billion. Workers would get larger checks next year if the company, which earned $2.09 billion in the first quarter, meets its profit forecast for 2010.

Mr. King said that the two sides are close to resolving “one piece” of the grievances but that the issue could go to arbitration soon.

Ms. Evans and Mr. King each said it was too early to discuss what either party planned to request during next year’s negotiations. “The economic situation at that time will have a huge impact,” Mr. King said.

Another complicating factor is that the U.A.W. will enter the contract talks as part owners of both G.M. and Chrysler through a union-controlled trust fund. The fund, which took over liability for retiree health care coverage this year, has a 17.5 percent stake in G.M. and is the majority owner of Chrysler, holding 55 percent.

“The U.A.W. has a powerful incentive to act responsibly,” Professor Shaiken said. “They want to see competitive companies, but competitive companies that they share in — not where the competitiveness comes at their expense.”
395 2010-05-13 George Searle, LimeWire’s chief executive, said in a statement that “LimeWire remains committed to developing innovative products and services for the end-user and to working with the entire music industry, including the major labels, to achieve this mission.”

The case was the first piracy lawsuit brought against a distributor of file-sharing software since a Supreme Court ruling in 2005 against Grokster. In that ruling, the courts found that technology companies could be sued for copyright infringement on the grounds that they encouraged customers to steal music and movies over the Internet.

Many online file-sharing services had closed shortly after Napster, which popularized file sharing over the Internet, shut down in 2001 after a music industry lawsuit. But LimeWire, which was founded in June 2000, continued to operate and grew to one of the most popular services.

Other popular file-sharing technologies have since been developed, including BitTorrent.

Jonathan Zittrain, a professor at Harvard Law School and co-founder of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, said the ruling showed how slowly the court system moved compared with the pace of change on the Internet.

But he said the ruling should be a warning to sites that were trying to profit, in part, by marketing their service as one that allowed illegal sharing.

“If you’re coming real close to flying the Jolly Roger as a business, you can expect to be in legal trouble,” Professor Zittrain said.

Professor Zittrain said that the ruling did not appear to consider the technology itself as illegal, only the promoting and encouraging of illegal uses of that technology, which is consistent with the precedent established by the Supreme Court’s Grokster opinion.

Eric Garland, the chief executive of BigChampagne, a company that tracks file sharing, said that the legal victory would provide fodder for the music industry’s public relations campaign against piracy, but expected that the practical repercussions would be limited.

“There’s no necessary connection between these legal decisions and the fact that the Internet leaks like a sieve,” Mr. Garland said. “What you shouldn’t expect to see is some seismic shift in file-sharing habits as you did when Napster was shuttered.”

Mr. Marks said that while many other sites existed that allowed illegal file sharing, he said he hoped the ruling would help drive people to legal sites, like the iTunes Store.

“The result we want is to have a viable commercial marketplace,” Mr. Marks said. “That requires enforcement and letting people know what’s legal and what’s not.”
396 2010-05-13 With summer almost here, the time to stock up on hostess gifts is now. But when that urge to impose upon your friends with country houses is upon you, you need not trouble yourself with shopping. Today, the MoMA Design Store unveils “Destination: Portugal,” a line of more than 100 new products from that country, including tableware and serving pieces.

Portugal is one of the world’s major producers of cork, and since cork is now being used less often in wine and Champagne bottles, some Portuguese designers are featuring the material in their works. One example is the Whistler Cork Spice Rack, above, which sells for $75 and was created by the designer Francisco Vieira Martins. What’s especially nice about this spice rack is there are so many containers; by the time the hostess has finished unwrapping each one and filling it with condiments for your morning French toast, you will be happily ensconced by the pool. Information: (800) 851-4509 or momastore.org.
397 2010-05-13 A woman who was left paralyzed from an E. coli infection after eating tainted hamburger has reached a settlement with the agribusiness giant Cargill Inc. The settlement was announced Wednesday by Stephanie Smith of Cold Spring and Cargill. The terms were confidential, but both sides said the settlement would provide for Ms. Smith’s care throughout her life. A statement said Cargill acknowledged responsibility when it first learned of her injuries and had provided financial help to her and her family. Ms. Smith, a former children’s dance instructor, was the subject of a New York Times article that spurred Congress to consider tougher food safety laws and was the centerpiece of a body of work that won a Pulitzer Prize this year.
398 2010-05-13 Pop quiz: Which is longer, the United States Constitution or Facebook’s Privacy Policy?

If you guessed the latter, you’re right. Facebook’s Privacy Policy is 5,830 words long; the United States Constitution, without any of its amendments, is a concise 4,543 words.

Facebook, one of the most popular social networks in the world, has more than 400 million registered people on its Web site. Half of these users log in to the service every day, the company says, and users spend 500 billion minutes on the site each month.

But in recent months, Facebook has revised its privacy policy to require users to opt out if they wish to keep information private, making most of that information public by default. Some personal data is now being shared with third-party Web sites.

As a result, the company has come under a blitz from privacy groups, government officials and its own users, who complain that the new policy is bewildering and the new opt-out settings too time-consuming to figure out and use.

“There are always trade-offs between providing comprehensive and precise granular controls and offering simple tools that may be broad and blunt,” said Elliot Schrage, vice president for public policy at Facebook. “We have tried to offer the most comprehensive and detailed controls and comprehensive and detailed information about them.”
399 2010-05-13 LOS ANGELES — Club Penguin, the subscription-based online community acquired by the Walt Disney Company in 2007, has failed to meet profit targets that were tied to $350 million in payouts to the Web site’s creators.

Disney’s purchase of Club Penguin was valued at $700 million, with half of the total paid up front and half coming in two payments based on unspecified growth thresholds. Disney disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing last May that Club Penguin had missed the first target. On Wednesday, the company confirmed that the Web site did not meet the second one.

The upshot is that a smartly structured deal prevented Disney from overpaying for a high-flying Web business that became tangled in the economic downturn. The question now is whether the site can regain its momentum as consumer spending loosens up, and by how much the targets were missed.

Club Penguin, where members pay $5.95 a month to dress penguin characters and play games, is stumbling — at least on the surface. The site attracted about six million unique visitors in April, a 10 percent decline from the same month a year earlier, according to the marketing research firm comScore. In March, it suffered a 7 percent drop, to about 6.7 million.

But Disney says those numbers are incorrect, citing internal estimates that show a 20 percent year-on-year increase in unique visitors. Moreover, Disney argues that traffic does not matter because it sells no advertising on the site. What does count are paying subscribers, the number of which has continued to grow quickly, according to Lane Merrifield, a co-founder of Club Penguin who is now partly responsible for strategy and operations at Disney’s online division.
400 2010-05-13 Though no two groups are exactly alike, the rules tend to work the same way: The first girl to post a dress gets to wear it, and girls coming from other schools or younger grades are expected to defer to seniors. And no “Mean Girls” antics here: negative or unsupportive comments are generally frowned upon (at least online); enthusiastic comments (“I loveee it!”) and repeated clicks of the “like” button are encouraged.

The groups have become commonplace in recent years, specifically to avert the sort of crisis that has befallen Ms. Dong. In the age of “Who Wore It Better?” in Us magazine, there are few fashion faux pas more mortifying for a high school girl than showing up at the prom wearing the same dress as someone else (and maybe not wearing it as well).

“You’re paying how many hundreds of dollars to look nice?” said Lauren Wagner, 18, a classmate of Ms. Dong who created her school’s Don’t Steal My Dress group. “You want to look original and pretty — and you don’t want to be standing next to someone in a picture wearing the same dress.”

To girls who came of age with Facebook and “haul videos,” the groups are an intuitive extension of the social networking experience. They help relieve some of the anxiety of a night when judgments run high, while giving them a chance to “ooh” and “aah” collectively over pretty clothes.

To cultural observers, the groups are a sign of the increasing red carpetization of the prom, a tradition that didn’t always revolve around fashion.

“Brands and labels have become more important in mainstream pop culture, with ‘Project Runway’ and all these different fashion shows and the Style Channel,” said Lauren Sherman, editor of Fashionista.com. “And there’s just so much more available. Girls this season have the chance to get a Zac Posen dress at Target. If I could have gotten a Zac Posen dress at Target, I would have.”

Ms. Sherman recalled wearing a Laundry dress bought from a discount store to her prom. “At my school it wasn’t a big deal,” she said. “If two girls wore the same dress it was like, ‘Oh, let’s take a picture together.’ ”

The shift is not lost on the students themselves. Christine Shaffer, a senior at Glenelg High School in Glenelg, Md., started a Don’t Steal My Dress group for her school and still marvels at the expense some classmates go to.

“I know a girl who spent $700 on her dress,” said Ms. Shaffer, who is wearing a Tony Bowls floral-print gown to her prom on Saturday. “It’s really crazy. People get their hair and nails done, and prom tickets are $50 to begin with. But wearing the same dress is definitely the biggest issue.”

It is hard to know how many Don’t Steal My Dress groups exist, as most are marked private to keep out dates and other lurkers. But evidence suggests they have been around for at least a few years. Several students who created groups for this year’s proms say they got the idea from last year’s class, and a search of Facebook finds a handful of Don’t Steal My Dress sites dating back to the social networking stone age: 2007. (Facebook first opened its membership to anyone over 13 in 2006.)

The concept shows signs of evolving as well: There are now similar groups for graduations and homecomings.

For the record, Ms. Wagner of Yorktown High School plans to wear a green Bari Jay dress with gold trim. She has no reason to believe anyone else will do the same.

But Ms. Dong, it seems, will not have that luxury. That other girl with the white BCBG gown? “She said when she bought her dress she stopped looking at the group, and said she already got the dress altered and couldn’t return it,” Ms. Dong said.

She added, “My friends are flipping out like, ‘Oh my God, you have to be so mean to her, she can’t do that.’ ”

Ms. Dong herself was willing to forgive — up to a point. “She asked if she could come on the same bus as us,” Ms. Dong said. “The girl in charge of the bus was like, ‘No, you can’t be on our bus. Are you crazy?’ ”
401 2010-05-13 The Pompidou Center in Paris — home to France’s National Museum of Modern Art — opened the doors on Wednesday to its first provincial branch, in Metz, a small city 170 miles east of Paris. The new museum, above, which cost $89 million, according to the Pompidou Center, is part of an effort to expand the display of government-owned art beyond Paris’s large museums. With no permanent collection, Pompidou-Metz will depend on loans from the mother house and other institutions. Its first show, “Chefs-d’Oeuvre?,” is meant to trace the meaning of masterpieces from the Middle Ages through much of the 20th century. The museum’s building, designed by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban and his French associate Jean de Gastines, has a curving and asymmetrical pagoda-like roof topped by a spire and punctured by upper galleries that stick out like airport pods.
402 2010-05-13 The center, a nonprofit civil and human rights organization financed by donors and foundations, and other critics of the tactic like to note that a gun buyback program conducted by the police at several churches one day in January yielded 1,186 guns.

Police officials, for their part, vigorously praise the stop-and-frisk policy as a cornerstone of their efforts to suppress crime. The stops led to 34,000 arrests and the seizing of more than 6,000 weapons other than guns, according to the center’s analysis.

The police officials argue that the widespread use of the tactic has forced criminals to keep their guns at home and allowed the department to bank thousands of names in a database for detectives to mine in fighting future crimes.

Besides better reporting, the surge in the number of stops, they said, is also a byproduct of flooding high-crime areas with more officers, a strategy for a force with a shrinking headcount.

“These are not unconstitutional,” Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, said of the stops. “We are saving lives, and we are preventing crime.”

According to the analysis of the 2009 raw data by the Center for Constitutional Rights, nearly 490,000 blacks and Latinos were stopped by the police on the streets last year, compared with 53,000 whites.

But once stopped, the arrest rates were virtually the same. Whites were arrested in slightly more than 6 percent of the stops, blacks in slightly fewer than 6 percent. About 1.7 percent of whites who were stopped were found to have a weapon, while 1.1 percent of blacks were found with one.

Given that, some experts who have studied stop-and-frisk data over the last several years say that what prompts an officer’s suspicion for a stop, and the discretion used, are important.

In examining the stated reasons for the stops, as checked off by police officers on department forms, the center found that about 15 percent of the stops last year cited “fits a relevant description.” Officers can check off more than one reason, but in nearly half the stops, the category called “furtive movements” was cited. Nearly 30 percent of stops cited a category called “casing a victim or location”; nearly 19 percent cited a catchall category of “other.”

“These stats suggest that racial disparities in who gets stopped has more to do with officer bias and discretion than with crime rates, which is what the Police Department argues,” said Darius Charney, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights.

Mr. Browne, the department spokesman, said stop-and-frisk data was “examined in great detail,” in 2007 by the RAND Corporation, “which found no racial profiling.” He said the stops mirrored crime — that while a large percentage of the stops involved blacks, an even larger percentage of violent crimes involved suspects described as black by their victims.

The work by the Center for Constitutional Rights is the latest in a series of examinations of the police tactic defined by a decision from decades ago, Terry v. , which permitted officers to detain someone briefly based on “reasonable suspicion,” a threshold lower than the probable cause necessary for a formal arrest.

The issue exploded in New York after Mr. Diallo’s killing, when those who protested the shooting contended there was a pattern of racial profiling in stop and frisks. A study in 1999 by , then the state’s attorney general, found that blacks and Hispanics were disproportionately stopped in relation to their involvement in crime and their share of the city’s population.

In 2001, the city enacted a law requiring the police to provide quarterly reports about the raw data to the City Council and settled a lawsuit, also brought by the constitutional rights group, requiring that plaintiffs be given more valuable raw data.

Reporting by the police has recently become more regular. On April 30, Mr. Browne said that in 2010 there were 149,299 stops through March 31, about 13 percent fewer than in the first quarter of 2009. So far, he said, the stops yielded 186 guns.

As the numbers come out, analysts and academics pore over them to gauge effectiveness.

In March, researchers from the Center on Race, Crime and Justice at said that more data and “increased public discussion of this controversial policing practice” were essential.

“If the public does not have access to the data, in a format that allows the experts to identify important trends, then it harms the public discourse,” said , the executive director of the , which successfully sued to get the raw data. “And that is precisely the situation that we are in.”

Particularly vexing to Jeffrey A. Fagan, a professor of law at who studied the issue for Mr. Spitzer, is that few can say what happens once the “11 or 12 percent” of street stops that lead to an arrest or summons get to court.

“Are these cases that stand up?” he said. “Do they result in convictions?”

Professor Fagan said it was impossible to tell what dent in crime the tactic had made. Christopher T. Dunn of the civil liberties group said there was no proof it had. Crime has gone down steadily since 1991, but, he said, “stop and frisk exploded in 2004.”

But Heather Mac Donald, a research fellow at the Manhattan Institute who has spoken to police officials about the tactic, said there was no question it had an effect on crime. She said that great disparities existed in who committed crime in New York and that the police fought crime where it was highest, in mostly minority neighborhoods.

“Where are they supposed to go?” she asked.

Ms. Mac Donald echoed Mr. Browne, who said the police were confident the tactic was stopping crime before it occurred.

Mr. Browne took issue with the constitutional rights group’s conclusions about the numbers of arrests or gun the street stops yield, saying, “762 guns can do a lot of damage.” He said taking guns from people in the street was different from accepting their surrender from “moms and grandmothers.”

And he laid out the logic of the stops: More police are sent to higher crime areas, where criminals and victims live; more suspicious activity is associated with that crime, so there are more opportunities for officers to observe suspicious behavior as a result.

John A. Eterno, a former city police captain who worked to computerize the department’s stop-and-frisk data before he retired in 2004, said the tactic could be effective in pushing down crime. But Dr. Eterno, now an associate dean of criminal justice at Molloy College, said retired commanders had spoken of the pressures to reflect their use of stop and frisk in CompStat, the department’s computerized crime-tracking system.

“My take is that this has become more like a ‘throw a wide net and see what you can find’ kind of thing,” he said. “I don’t see it as targeted enforcement, especially when you see numbers that we are talking about.”

The Center for Constitutional Rights also studied poststop outcomes.

It found that officers frisked more people in 2009 than a year earlier but that the rate of frisks for blacks and Latinos was much higher than it was for whites. It found that the police used force in 24 percent of stops — drawing a weapon, say, or throwing people to the ground. The police used force in 19 percent of the stops involving whites but in 27 percent of stops against Latinos and in 25 percent of those involving blacks.

Mr. Charney of the Center for Constitutional Rights said the disparities in the use of force, compared with the numbers of arrests and summonses and of weapons and contraband seized, was something that “the police have not really explained to the public.”
403 2010-05-13 This looks like a lot of salad to squeeze between two hamburger buns — but persist. Once you wrap the sandwich, the salad will compress. It makes a beautiful and delicious lunch, and it keeps well. If you can find jarred sweet, thin-fleshed red piquillo peppers, use them. But regular roasted red peppers will suffice, too.

1/4 teaspoon Dijon mustard, plus extra for the bread

2 roasted red piquillo peppers, or 1 small red bell pepper, roasted, seeded and cut in wide strips

2 whole wheat or whole wheat sesame hamburger buns

1. Whisk together the lemon juice, salt, pepper, garlic, mustard and olive oil.

2. Place the spinach in a bowl, and toss with the dressing to coat thoroughly.

3. Spread a little mustard over the bottom half of each hamburger bun. Spread half the goat cheese over each bottom bun and the other half over the top buns. Make a layer of half the spinach salad on the bottom buns. Press down, and layer the roasted pepper over the spinach. Layer the remaining spinach salad over the peppers, and top with the other half of the hamburger buns. Press down and wrap tightly in plastic. Allow to sit for 10 to 15 minutes, or for several hours in the refrigerator, before eating.

Advance preparation: This will keep for a day in the refrigerator.

Nutritional information per sandwich: 430 calories; 22 grams fat; 6 grams saturated fat; 13 milligrams cholesterol; 45 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 635 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 15 grams protein
404 2010-05-13 I have been introduced to a woman named Marilyn Jones who owns Consolidated Printing in Chicago. She has been credited with being a pioneer in the ''green'' printing industry. As a matter of fact, Debra Jacobson of the Printer's National Environme...
405 2010-05-14 Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said he’s concerned that the euro area may break up after the Greek fiscal crisis that sparked an unprecedented bailout by the region’s members....
406 2010-05-14 Goldman Sachs on Friday named the members of the business standards committee that Lloyd C. Blankfein, the firm's chief executive, promised after Goldman was accused of securities fraud and its legal problems deepened....
407 2010-05-14 More technology deals are on the way as the industry recovers from the recession, but Microsoft is not poised to make a big deal soon, its chief financial officer said Friday....
408 2010-05-14 Wisdom, insights and random observations from this weekend's Arts & Leisure section....
409 2010-05-14 Numbers that describe food trends and farmers' markets in the Bay Area, from national and nonprofit sources....
410 2010-05-14 After losing a grueling battle to make same-sex marriage in New York legal, a gay rights organization regroups....
411 2010-05-14 New figures show that, in all, 21,819 drivers overcharged passengers a total of 286,000 times....
412 2010-05-14 Some professional investors are tiptoeing back into stocks. Do you plan to join them?...
413 2010-05-14 Verdura Golf and Spa Resort, a luxury resort from the Rocco Forte Collection, opened on the southwest coast of Sicily....
414 2010-05-14 Eric Asimov discusses the wines of the new wine bar, the Tangled Vine....
415 2010-05-14 Links from around the Web....
416 2010-05-14 Richard X. Bove, the banking analyst at Rochdale Securities, downgraded the Swiss banks UBS and Credit Suisse to "neutral" from "buy" on Friday, citing "a deteriorating situation in Europe's financial community" for the cut....
417 2010-05-14 Parents whose children have serious reactions to certain foods soon discover that food allergies are a financial burden as well....
418 2010-05-14 We would like to buy or lease some of the common space in our condominium, specifically the end of the hallway where we have connected two apartments. Is this possible?...
419 2010-05-14 The agency said it has 234 complaints including two reports of accidents, although no injuries....
420 2010-05-14 A word cloud illustrates the arguments Adobe and Apple are making in their debate over Flash and the iPhone and iPad....
421 2010-05-14 There were no surprises on Thursday as Air Products and Chemicals began its long-awaited campaign to unseat directors on Airgas's board, The Deal Professor writes....
422 2010-05-14 Mitch Smith, winner of the 2010 Win a Trip with Nick contest, meets two students who are about his age in a small Congolese village....
423 2010-05-14 Dealbook reports that EMI will not go into default....
424 2010-05-14 EMI said on Friday it has received confirmation that its owner, Terra Firma, has raised enough money to help the music company avoid defaulting on its Citigroup loans....
425 2010-05-14 European lawmakers are gearing up to push through legislation that would increase regulatory oversight of the hedge fund industry, despite pleas from Britain's new government to hold off on a vote, The Financial Times reported....
426 2010-05-14 I'm not spinning my story to try to scare people. I'm trying to present a viewpoint that I haven't seen very often in the business press....
427 2010-05-14 Former Lehman Brothers Asia executives, who headed the bank's structured products division and its syndicate business, have launched their maiden hedge fund investing in distressed structured credit assets, Oracle Capital, Reuters reported....
428 2010-05-14 The beleaguered euro touched a new 14-month low on Friday, and global stocks were mostly lower, amid lingering nervousness about the state of Europe's finances and the pace of the global recovery....
429 2010-05-14 Companies are offering shares of initial public offerings at lower prices than had been expected because investors are demanding discounts as stock markets trade wildly, The Associated Press reported....
430 2010-05-14 A distress sale that took place at Phillips de Pury, the third-place auction house, on Thursday night was a reminder that, despite some recent strong showings, in the art world the ghosts of the recession have not yet been fully exorcised....
431 2010-05-14 Stock prices tumbled on Thursday, with most of the declines coming late in the day, led by a drop in banking and technology shares....
432 2010-05-14 Automobiles, which will be increasingly connected to the Internet in the near future, could be vulnerable to hackers just as computers are now, two teams of computer scientists are warning in a paper to be presented next week.

The scientists say that they were able to remotely control braking and other functions, and that the car industry was running the risk of repeating the security mistakes of the PC industry.

“We demonstrate the ability to adversarially control a wide range of automotive functions and completely ignore driver input — including disabling the brakes, selectively braking individual wheels on demand, stopping the engine, and so on,” they wrote in the report, “Experimental Security Analysis of a Modern Automobile.”

In the paper, which will be presented at a computer security conference next week in Oakland, Calif., computer security specialists at the University of Washington and the University of California, San Diego, report that while modern cars have extensive safety engineering in the design of their computer control systems, little thought has been given to the potential threat of hackers who may want to take over the networks that increasingly control modern cars.

“We noticed the extent to which automobiles were becoming computerized,” said Stefan Savage, a computer scientist at U.C.S.D. who was a member of one of two groups that have been studying the electronic control units of two different cars to look for network vulnerabilities that could be exploited by a potential attacker. “We found ourselves thinking we should try to get in front of this before it suddenly becomes an issue.”
433 2010-05-14 After watching millions and millions of dollars being casually spent on Warhols and Rauschenbergs, Picassos, Calders and Johnses at the spring art auctions of the last two weeks, it might seem that the money troubles of the recent past were little more than a bad dream. But a distress sale that took place at Phillips de Pury, the third-place auction house, on Thursday night was a reminder that the ghosts of the recession have not been fully exorcised.

The auction’s first 22 works — primarily by trendy artists like Richard Prince, Takashi Murakami and Marc Newson — were from the collection of Halsey Minor, the technology entrepreneur and co-founder of CNET, who was a big spender for the last decade, buying high-end art and contemporary designer furniture.

Now he is being forced to sell the spoils of shopping sprees past. The proceeds of the Phillips sale — ordered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York — are to be used to pay a $21.6 million delinquent loan to ML Private Finance L.L.C., an affiliate of Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch.

To compete with Christie’s, which also tried to get the property for sale, Phillips agreed to give 8 percent of the buyer’s premium back to ML Private Finance, according to court papers. Phillips also published a separate catalog of the collection with an admiring essay in which Mr. Minor is interviewed about collecting and says, “It is my mission to collect only the best.”

His best went up on the block on Thursday night and the auction drew an impressive crowd that packed Phillips’s Chelsea salesroom — a makeshift space with a concrete floor and views of a car wash, the Hudson River and the West Side Highway. Many seasoned collectors showed up, including the Miami collector Donald Rubell; Jane Holzer, the New York socialite who was known as Baby Jane Holzer when she was a regular in Andy Warhol’s entourage in the 1960s; the hedge fund manager David Ganek; the Chicago collector Stefan T. Edlis; and the fashion designer Marc Jacobs. But curiously, almost none ever raised a paddle.
434 2010-05-14 Mr. Kelly’s campaign will be a litmus test for how these privacy issues resonate with the public in the political arena, and also for other executives who may consider running for public office rate the strengths and vulnerabilities of a background in social media companies.

In Mr. Kelly’s case, the office he is seeking throws the questions into particularly high relief.

“The irony here is that he’s running for A.G., which presumably among other things is supposed to protect privacy and civil liberties,” said Larry Gerston, a political science professor at San Jose State University, “and he comes from an environment that opens all that stuff up.”

In many ways, Mr. Kelly typifies the youth and ambition that characterize the start-up culture. A 39-year-old, Harvard-educated lawyer, he worked during his 20s as an aide in Bill Clinton’s presidential campaign and later moved back home to Silicon Valley to advise start-ups on privacy and intellectual property law.

In 2005, he began his job as general counsel and chief privacy officer at Facebook, where he was quickly given the task of sorting out privacy and security concerns for the site’s rapidly increasing user base, which grew to 400 million earlier this year, from 5.5 million in 2005.

Mr. Kelly has often made the case that his work prepared him for being attorney general, saying in an interview that he was grateful to “work on these issues as the Internet was moving in a different direction.”

Much of that work involved collaborating with privacy regulators, including a nationwide group of attorneys general and officials overseas, to establish safeguards related to privacy and sexual predators.

Those issues overlap with the responsibility of the California attorney general’s office, which also investigates identity theft and can influence policy related to online crime — concerns Facebook has dealt with firsthand.

The company was notably humbled in 2007, when an undercover investigation by Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York found that the site lagged in responding to complaints about sexual predators and failed to filter pornographic content, despite making claims to the contrary.

During the sting operation, the investigators crafted a suggestive conversation between a fake sexual predator and a fake 13-year-old girl, and then, acting as the girl’s mother, filed complaints about the exchange. It took Facebook at least 10 days to respond.

Mr. Cuomo’s office filed a subpoena and warned that the company could face charges of consumer fraud for exaggerating the effectiveness of its security measures.

Facebook settled the case within three weeks, agreeing to speed its response time for complaints about sexual content and harassment. Mr. Cuomo praised its cooperation, as did advocacy groups with a stake in the issue.

In an interview, Mr. Kelly acknowledged that Facebook’s transformation from college curiosity to worldwide phenomenon left the company sometimes struggling to address problems.

“With the rapid growth,” he said, “we were actually frustrated at times with the level of response to the complaints we had.”

Still, he has framed the case as a victory, highlighting Facebook’s quick reaction and subsequent collaboration with Mr. Cuomo’s office to design laws making it easier to track and regulate sex offenders online.

Victims rights groups involved in the issue gave Facebook credit as well, emphasizing the company’s response rather than its failure to prevent the incidents in the first place.

In recent weeks, Mr. Kelly’s opponents — particularly the campaign of Kamala Harris, San Francisco’s district attorney — have questioned whether Mr. Kelly has implicitly acknowledged vulnerabilities by distancing himself from his role in Facebook’s major privacy decisions, a contention the Kelly campaign denies. Mr. Kelly has styled his profession as “attorney/businessman” on the ballot and in recent months has favored more general titles like “legal counsel” in press releases and political ads when describing his duties at Facebook, rather than “chief privacy officer,” which he often used earlier in the campaign.

Mr. Kelly said the shift reflected the campaign’s efforts to align his public descriptions with his official ballot designation. Ballot designations cannot contain company names and are typically limited to three words, which would prohibit a title like “Facebook chief privacy officer.”

Lawsuits and public complaints about Facebook’s privacy changes have made headlines for years, and this campaign season has been no different.

Last month, several United States senators, including Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, sent a letter to Facebook expressing concerns over how new developments at the company could expose users’ personal data to third-party Web sites without the users’ consent.

The Kelly campaign pivoted quickly, releasing a statement to separate the candidate from the controversy.

“Facebook’s recent changes to its privacy policy and practices with regard to data sharing occurred after I left the company,” Mr. Kelly’s statement read. “I strongly encourage Facebook to structure all its programs to allow Facebook users to give permission before their information is shared with third parties.”

Even during Mr. Kelly’s tenure, Facebook was no stranger to privacy controversies, both in the United States and abroad.

Last summer, for example, Canada’s privacy commissioner, Jennifer Stoddart, raised concerns over how the site shared personal information.

“It’s clear that privacy issues are top of mind for Facebook,” Ms. Stoddart said in a July 2009 statement, “and yet we found serious privacy gaps in the way the site operates.”

Mr. Kelly said many of the complaints Facebook had received about privacy reflected a disconnect between the privacy views of regulators and those of the company.

Regulators, he said, often see privacy as tantamount to secrecy, arguing that personal information should be closed. Facebook’s philosophy, and his own, is that sharing some information is beneficial as long as it is properly controlled.

“There are quite a number of regulators around the world who don’t have that perspective,” Mr. Kelly said.
435 2010-05-14 The United Nations General Assembly elected 14 new members to the Human Rights Council on Thursday, including several countries accused of human rights violations. Dozens of human rights organizations criticized the selection of Libya, Angola, Malaysia, Thailand and Uganda. The American ambassador, Susan E. Rice, expressed “regret” that a number of countries with “problematic” records had gained seats. Washington still views the council as “flawed,” she said, but will stay on it to help shape its agenda.
436 2010-05-14 These are widely seen as steps Kenya must take if it is to avoid a repeat of the political and ethnic bloodshed set off by the disputed election in 2007. The abortion question, though a contentious social issue here, has not been part of that reform agenda.

In April, the Kenyan government passed a proposed new constitution, and it will be put to a yes-or-no referendum later this year. So far, polls show the public is firmly behind it.

The proposed new constitution, which curtails the sweeping powers of Kenya’s presidency and addresses questions about dual citizenship and other issues, may not be as pro-abortion as many of its critics contend. It still outlaws abortion, which is currently illegal under Kenya’s current penal code, though it spells out exceptions if “in the opinion of a trained health professional, there is need for emergency treatment, or the life or health of the mother is in danger, or if permitted by any other written law.”

Those caveats have set off an intense debate, with American groups on both sides of the abortion issue weighing in and sending representatives to Kenya. Abortion opponents complain that the new constitution allows “abortion on demand,” while abortion rights adherents, concerned about the thousands of Kenyan women who die each year in secretive, botched operations, think the constitution is too weak on the issue. They wanted stronger protections and are upset that the constitution says, “The life of a person begins at conception” — a clause that was included in a late version of the draft after bitter debate.

The American Embassy here, one of the biggest in Africa, has tried to walk a fine line, financing a voter registration drive and urging Kenyans to pass a new constitution, but saying it has not told Kenyans specifically how to vote in the coming referendum.

Yet public statements by the generally outspoken ambassador, Michael E. Ranneberger, leave little doubt about his preference. “The government of the United States welcomes Parliament’s overwhelming approval of Kenya’s harmonized draft constitution,” he said in April. “Unity in support of the draft will bring the Kenyan people together.”

Pronouncements like these apparently caught the eye of three Republican members of Congress: Christopher H. Smith of New Jersey; Darrell Issa of California; and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida.

The three wrote a letter on May 6 to auditors at the State Department, the United States Agency for International Development and the Government Accountability Office, saying that “the Obama administration’s advocacy in support of Kenya’s proposed constitution may constitute a serious violation of the Siljander Amendment.” The little-known amendment, named after a former Michigan congressman, Mark D. Siljander, prohibits foreign aid from being used to lobby for or against abortion.

The letter says that the new constitution would “enshrine a new constitutional right to abortion” and “dramatically change Kenya’s abortion law.”

But many people closely following the constitution say the new constitution is actually more restrictive on abortion than the one it would replace.

“The proposed constitution,” said Yash Pal Ghai, a constitutional scholar in Nairobi who has helped write constitutions for several countries, is “about as hard on abortion as you can get.”

Some analysts fear that vested interests in Kenya that are threatened by the constitution for other reasons, including owners of large property who may have acquired their land illegally and are worried about new laws meant to correct this, may be using the abortion issue as cover.

“It’s just become a rallying point of opposition,” Mr. Ghai said.
437 2010-05-14 In the past few years, farmers’ markets have had a resurgence in the Bay Area and across the United States as consumers seek both a way to connect with their meals and an alternative to large grocery chains. The generation of “going green” wants to know where its food comes from, how long it is in transit and what techniques are used to grow it — information individuals can get from their grower but not from their local chain store. RACHEL GROSS

Numbers describing food trends and farmers’ markets in the Bay Area, from national and nonprofit sources:

12 Number of certified farmers’ markets in California in 1979.

540 Number of certified farmers’ markets in California today, one-third of which are in the Bay Area. There are 5,270 such markets in the United States.

5 Calories in a strawberry, according to the Department of Agriculture.

435 Fuel calories required to ship a strawberry from California to New York, according to the Department of Agriculture.

3,780 Pints of strawberries sold in four hours at the Mountain View market, on average, according to the California Farmers’ Markets Association.

768 Pints of blueberries sold daily at the Saratoga market, up from 216 pints in 2008.

58.4 Average age of the California farmer, reported by the federal Census Bureau in the latest census of agriculture. The average age nationwide is 56.
438 2010-05-14 The recession has dealt a devastating blow to the federal tax credit program that encourages investors and developers to build affordable housing across the United States. Unless Congress moves quickly to restructure the program, billions of dollars in investment will be lost, along with thousands of affordable housing units and tens of thousands of desperately needed construction jobs.

Created by Congress in 1986, the low-income housing tax credit is responsible for just about all of the affordable housing that gets built in this country. In a typical year, it finances 120,000 apartments, supports more than 100,000 jobs and pumps more than $1 billion in taxes and other revenue into local economies.

Demand for the credits dropped sharply at the start of the recession, when tax liabilities dropped. According to a study by the accounting firm Ernst & Young, private investment in the credits fell from a high of about $9 billion in 2006 to about $5.5 billion in 2008. Anecdotal evidence suggests that investment shrank by another $1 billion last year.

A Senate bill, recently introduced by Maria Cantwell, a Democrat of Washington, would get this important program back on its feet. It would boost investment by as much as $5 billion over the next few years by increasing the value of the credits and allowing investors more flexibility in using them.

Under current law, an investor who has no tax liability in the current year can apply the tax credit to the previous year’s tax bill. But that’s not much help in difficult times like these when profits may have been low in the previous year as well.

The Cantwell bill would reassure investors by allowing companies to apply the credit to tax returns filed as long as five years earlier. In exchange, the investors would be required to reinvest any resulting tax rebate in new tax credits. The bill would make housing tax credits as attractive as the less restrictive credits for investing in wind or solar power projects.

The bill would also extend an existing federal program that allows states to return unused tax credits to the Treasury in exchange for cash, which would help the states finance affordable housing projects.
439 2010-05-14 “Kagan’s performance as dean at Harvard raises doubts about her commitment to equality for traditionally disadvantaged groups,” Guy-Uriel Charles, a black law professor at Duke, wrote last month in an oft-cited post.

During roughly the same period that Ms. Kagan was at Harvard, Mr. Charles wrote, Yale Law School hired just 10 faculty members; 5 were women, and only one was a minority.

Ms. Kagan’s track record on diversity improved during the last year when she became solicitor general. In that office, she has hired six people — three women and three men (one white, one Asian and one Indian).

Lester K. Spence, a political scientist at Johns Hopkins University, wrote on theroot.com, a Web site devoted to black issues, that Ms. Kagan appeared to be more concerned with ideological diversity than with diversity of race or gender.

“President Obama wants us to support his choice not because she’s got a strong record, not even because she has a particularly visible record, but because he knows her,” Mr. Spence wrote. “I’m not buying it,” he added. “And even if Kagan ends up being the best justice this side of Thurgood Marshall, you shouldn’t either.”

After it was clear that Mr. Obama, the first black president, would nominate Ms. Kagan, several black women wrote to him saying they were disappointed that he had not nominated a black woman.

The women, who included Melanie Campbell of the National Coalition on Black Civic Participation, also said they wanted to learn more about Ms. Kagan’s record on civil rights.

The administration has been pushing back against any suggestion that Ms. Kagan has been insensitive on racial matters, as have some of her black supporters.

Ronald S. Sullivan, a black law professor whom Ms. Kagan recruited to Harvard, wrote on thegrio.com, another site devoted to black issues, that “no elite law school has done enough” with respect to minority hiring. But, he noted, her spurning of the Royall chair “was a significant statement made by the dean of one of the nation’s top law schools.“

And, he said, Ms. Kagan had expanded the clinical teaching program at Harvard so that “thousands of indigent and under-represented citizens received quality legal services that they otherwise would not have been able to afford.”

Randall L. Kennedy, another black professor at Harvard Law, also strongly defended Ms. Kagan’s hiring practices. He said in an article in The Huffington Post that no dean was solely responsible for hiring faculty, with each one requiring a majority if not a supermajority of votes. This, he said, gets to be a complicated proposition.

Still, he said, Ms. Kagan supported programs that have helped advance minorities, and she helped form a committee to identify promising racial minority candidates.

While she was dean, an average of about 30 percent of the entering classes were minorities, up from about 25 percent in the previous six years, according to a Harvard official.

One of Ms. Kagan’s strongest backers has been Charles J. Ogletree Jr., perhaps the most prominent black law professor at Harvard. He has noted in interviews and articles that she has been supportive of men and women of color among both students and faculty.

“If you look at her whole record, ” Mr. Ogletree said in an interview on Thursday with Essence.com, “I think it tells you that she worked diligently to make opportunities available for others. The questions about who she recommended and who was tenured are fair, and I think she’ll be able to respond to them.”
440 2010-05-14 WASHINGTON — The Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday approved the nomination of Goodwin Liu to be a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, sending him to the full Senate for consideration after a party-line vote of 12 Democrats in favor to 7 Republicans opposed.

Mr. Liu, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley, has drawn more Republican opposition than President Obama’s other appeals court nominees because he has been open in expressing strongly liberal political views, like support for affirmative action and same-sex marriage.

Conservatives also dislike Mr. Liu because he strongly criticized President George W. Bush’s Supreme Court appointees, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., as being too conservative. And they fear that Mr. Obama might later seek to elevate Mr. Liu, 39, to the Supreme Court, which has never had an Asian-American justice.

The vote followed a lengthy discussion in which Republicans criticized Mr. Liu and Democrats praised him, and both sides criticized each other over the handling of his nomination and those of other judicial nominees.

After the debate over Mr. Liu, the committee unanimously approved the nomination of Raymond Lohier Jr., a federal prosecutor in the Southern District of New York, to be a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York. That seat was vacated by Sonia Sotomayor when she joined the Supreme Court.

The committee also approved, without dissent, the nomination of Leonard P. Stark, a United States magistrate judge, to be a Federal District Court judge in Delaware.
441 2010-05-14 A national company that claims it can help people in trouble with the Internal Revenue Service has been misleading its clients, charging them hefty fees and failing to deliver on its promises, the Texas attorney general charged Thursday. The attorney general, Greg Abbott, said he was filing a civil law suit against Taxmasters Inc., a company based in Houston that advertises on cable television, claiming deceptive trade practices. The lawsuit says the company persuaded clients to pay thousands in fees through an Internet installment plan and told them that work would begin immediately on their cases. The clients later discovered that no action had been taken. A Taxmasters spokesman said the company would work with the state to resolve the complaints.
442 2010-05-14 One measure approved Thursday, sponsored by Senators George LeMieux, Republican of Florida and Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, would remove references to the credit agencies in major financial services laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

The proposal, which is intended to spur the government to find alternative rating methods, was approved by a vote of 61 to 38, with all 41 Republicans in favor and 37 Democrats and one independent opposed.

“We know that one of the main reasons why we had our financial debacle in 2008 was that credit agencies failed to do their jobs,” Mr. LeMieux said on the floor. “They put AAA stamps of approval on products that deserve no such stamp.”

“My amendment writes these organizations out of law,” Mr. LeMieux continued. “In a way, we’re looking here and saying the astrology that we relied upon in the past didn’t work. Let’s have some new and better astrology.”

Ms. Cantwell said, “It’s critical that these agencies like the F.D.I.C. and the Comptroller of the Currency come up with appropriate standards of creditworthiness and not rely on the monopoly of the rating agencies.”

The proposal by Mr. LeMieux and Ms. Cantwell is similar to language in the version of the financial regulatory legislation adopted by the House late last year.

And it would go further in clamping down on the rating agencies than another amendment, from Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, that aims to prevent conflicts of interest by randomly assigning ratings agencies to provide initial assessments.

Mr. Franken’s proposal was approved by a vote of 64 to 35.

Mr. Franken’s measure would create a board, overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission, that would make the assignments. Mr. Franken said his proposal would eliminate conflicts of interest and also allow smaller rating companies to compete against the major players.

“There is a staggering conflict of interest affecting the credit rating issue,” Mr. Franken said in a speech. “The way it works now, issuers of securities are paying for their credit ratings. They shop around for their ratings, selecting those agencies that tend to offer them the best ratings and threatening to stay away from rating agencies that are too tough on them.”

He added, “My amendment would call issuers to a credit rating agency that will give them their first rating on complex financial products. They would be assigned. That means an issuer will no longer be able to shop around for a rating.”

Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the primary author of the regulatory legislation, opposed both proposals on rating agencies.

In a statement, Standard & Poor’s said that Mr. Franken’s amendment could result in “unintended consequences.”

“Credit rating firms would have less incentive to compete with one another,” the company said. “This could lead to more homogenized rating opinions and, ultimately, deprive investors of valuable, differentiated opinions on credit risk.”

Moody’s, in another statement, said that it “supports the goals of enhancing the transparency and accountability of the ratings process, and we are hopeful that the final legislation will achieve these goals while avoiding unintended consequences for market participants.”

Because the two Senate amendments seem to conflict, lawmakers said, adjustments would have to be made when the bill was reconciled with the House version.

The amendment by Mr. Durbin would direct the Federal Reserve to set limits so that fees charged for credit and debit card transactions were “reasonable and proportional” to the cost of processing the charges.

It is unclear how much that would cut into the revenue of card issuers. The measure includes exemptions for all but the largest banks.

In a floor speech, Mr. Durbin said his amendment would protect businesses now paying 1 to 3 percent on credit or debit transactions. “I urge my colleagues, if they are listening to small businesses across America trying to survive, trying to add new employees, give them a helping hand,” he said.
443 2010-05-14 “It seemed appropriate,” she said.

Her obsession with engineering outfits involving latex bodysuits and plastic armor grew from there. She started limebarb eight years ago while in Columbia College for fashion design. At one point she was making about 100 garments a semester while her classmates averaged five, so she dropped out and started her business.

Despite a poor economy and a recent drop in sales of anime comic books, which Ms. Staples attributes more to Internet bootlegging than to a waning fan base, limebarb is weathering the recession.

“I think we’ve managed to do relatively well,” she said. “Because when people are stressed they want nothing more than escapism, and cosplay offers that, for sure.”

She said that lately more people have dropped out of payment plans or swapped their Princess Peach get-up for a car payment, but that has tended to weed out the less complex projects.

“We do fewer costumes for higher price,” Ms. Staples said. “Something that is obscure or really complicated, that is when people come to us.”

Translating someone’s fantasy into reality can be tricky.

“I feel like nerds can be some of the pickiest people ever because they love this character,” Ms. Staples said. “They love it. They identify with it. It’s their dream to be this thing, and if something is just a smidge off, that might be a big deal for them.”

Elsewhere in the studio, Jeff Harris, a 31-year-old part-time props specialist who describes himself as a more of a theater performer than anime nerd, is making armor to adorn a Power Ranger costume. “If it’s plastic, it comes to my department,” he said.

For the past few months, Mr. Harris has been working to build a mold for Power Ranger armor, a hot seller at limebarb. After a successful casting with urethane rubber and fiberglass, the armor stands alone, waiting to be painted. He is hoping the hard work pays off.

“If one guy orders it and really likes it, all the other Power Ranger geeks are going to come looking for us, too,” he said.

Other popular cosplay characters include “Princess Peach Nintendo stuff,” Mr. Harris said, as he pulled a dusty piece of Nintendo’s “Legend of Zelda” armor off the shelf.

In the sewing room, Tara Reich, 24, stitched a pair of black polyester sleeves for a Vocaloid character, a popular singing synthesizer software developed by the Yamaha Corporation. She said the development of Wonderflux, a plastic-like material that becomes soft and malleable when heated, and craft foam meant that “we can manipulate things like we never could before.”

On May 7, a week before Anime Central, Matt Leuck, 28, stopped by to pick up his costume of King Randor, the benevolent king in “Masters of the Universe.”

“I am an overall toy geek and an ’80s cartoon geek,” Mr. Leuck said, as Ms. Staples adjusted his golden crown. “I sell toys for a living, so I am, like, a big nerd.”

It is Mr. Leuck’s ninth year attending Anime Central, but his first time dressing up as a character.

“I figure if I’m going to get a costume I am going to invest in something well made,” he said of his $450 limebarb ensemble.

“I’m very happy,” Mr. Leuck said, giving the thumbs up.
444 2010-05-14 In August 2009, UBS agreed to disclose the names and accounts of 4,450 wealthy Americans suspected of evading taxes and to pay a $780 million fine, in return for the suspension of United States legal action. But in February, Switzerland’s top court said the deal violated Swiss law, prompting the Swiss government to seek retroactive approval from Parliament.

The Swiss are well aware of the stakes in the UBS case. Failure to back the settlement would probably reopen the lawsuit against UBS. The bank’s license to do business in the United States could be revoked. The bank expanded in the United States with its takeover of PaineWebber in 2000; about 37 percent of its employees are in the Americas.

“There could ultimately be collateral damage across the field if this is not passed,” said Martin Naville, chief executive of the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce in Zurich. “If push comes to shove and Switzerland is declared a tax haven in the U.S., it would be very negative for Switzerland. U.S. companies would have to leave.”

Switzerland is the host of regional operations for several American companies, including Yahoo, eBay, Caterpillar and Microsoft. American companies directly employ about 70,000 people in Switzerland.

Failure could also accelerate new tax cases against other Swiss banks, though Mr. Naville said “there is no indication for now that any other Swiss bank was behaving in the systematic way that UBS was in the United States.”

Not everyone in Switzerland is in favor of scrapping bank secrecy.

The largest group in Parliament, the nationalist Swiss People’s Party, plans to vote against the UBS bill, which it views as an infringement of national sovereignty.

But three other parties appear ready to offer the support needed to pass the bill, although they are still jockeying over details, members of Parliament said. In particular, the Social Democrats, the main center-left party, are trying to exchange support for government concessions to tighten rules on bonuses and bank supervision.

Both issues have resonated in placid Switzerland, where citizens have been shocked by recent bank payouts — especially after a government bailout of UBS last year.

“I believe that in the end there will be a majority in favor, because most M.P.’s are aware that there would be serious repercussions if it doesn’t go through,” said Manuel Ammann, director of the Swiss Institute of Banking and Finance at the University of St. Gallen.

The Swiss economy leans heavily on finance. About 195,000 people, or 5.8 percent of the work force, are employed in the financial sector, which pays 12 percent to 15 percent of all taxes and contributes almost 12 percent of national income, according to the Swiss Bankers’ Association.

The Swiss People’s Party has said it might seek a referendum to restore banking secrecy in the next few years, but prospects for success appear limited for now.

In parallel, Switzerland has now signed at least 18 treaties with its most important partners, which incorporate Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on exchanging information on tax evasion and fraud, provided there are formal requests based on credible information.

This has removed the country from a so-called gray list at the O.E.C.D.

The Swiss have said they will not cooperate with cases involving data theft, which recently has become something of a cottage industry. In Germany, governments have paid for computer data stolen from Swiss banks, which they then used to pursue tax cheats. The French last year received a disk containing information on thousands of clients of HSBC’s private banking business in Switzerland and have said they will use it to pursue investigations in France.

The Swiss banking sector still has significant strengths: a pool of experienced managers, linguistic skills, currency stability and low taxes.

But whether that will be enough to stanch a decline in assets managed is unclear.

In February, foreigners held 689 billion Swiss francs, or $621 billion, in securities in Swiss custody accounts, down from a recent peak of 1.04 trillion francs in 2007, before the financial crisis and a Group of 20 crackdown on tax havens, according to the Swiss National Bank.

Analysts point out that the figure has been stable since 2007, during a period of weakness in markets.

And despite its legal problems — and tens of billions in outflows over the last couple of years — UBS remains among the world’s largest asset managers, with more than $2.3 trillion under management.

“Switzerland remains very attractive for offshore wealth management, even in a fiscally transparent world,” Mr. Thevenoz said.
445 2010-05-14 As the regulators try to work their way out of this, there are several things to keep in mind:

1. Markets are utilities for investors. We used to think that utilities are natural monopolies, which should be regulated rather than competed with. Changing that view, and allowing lots of new markets that could compete with one another on the basis of cost and speed, required much better regulation, but it did not happen.

2. One of the most important functions of markets is price discovery. For most major stocks in the United States, that role used to be performed by the New York Stock Exchange, which, despite a lot of automation, remained under the dominance of actual people. An important goal of the new regulation must be to assure price discovery functions well.

3. Don’t blame the investors. There is apparently no evidence of a “fat finger” trader who ordered a sale of billions of shares, when he meant millions. But even if there were, the systems should have prevented chaos. They did not.

4. To have a functioning market, someone must provide liquidity. Maybe we need to go back to paying people and brokerage firms to do that.

In the old days — whether they were good or bad depends on your perspective — nothing like the May 6 follies could have happened to a stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Confronted with a large order imbalance, the Big Board halted trading and tried to sort it out. That might not prevent a stock from plunging, of course. But the delay gave time for cooler heads to leap in if they wished to do so.

In those days, the exchange had a monopoly on trading in stocks it listed. So it could delay without costing it any business.

Also in those days, commission costs were far higher than they are now. Big brokerage firms made markets in stocks for institutional investors, and charged them for it through commissions and, if the order was large or hard to place, through price discounts.

An institution that wanted to unload a large block of stock would call one of a handful of brokerage firms. If it wanted to get out fast, it knew that Goldman Sachs or Salomon Brothers or Morgan Stanley would agree to buy it without lining up customers to take the stock.

How big a discount the broker demanded would depend both on its assessment of the market and on the institution’s reputation. If an institution was known for sandbagging brokers, perhaps by selling on news that was not yet public, or by selling blocks simultaneously to several brokers, it would find that subsequent sales were much harder to pull off.

Now we have competition between exchanges and computers with programs aimed at allowing an institution to parcel out stock in small blocks, so no one knows it is unloading. Liquidity is largely provided by so-called high-frequency traders, who have their own superfast computers and models that are supposed to allow them to get in and out rapidly, making a small profit on almost every trade.

Costs of trading have collapsed, and volume has soared. Ms. Schapiro pointed out that the 1987 stock market crash produced trading of 600 million shares a day — a figure that seemed incredible at the time. On May 6, the number was 10.3 billion, much of it from those high-frequency traders who had no desire to own — or short — stock for any length of time.

Here is what appears to have happened on May 6.

First, prices fell for real reasons. But as the selling became worse, buyers became scarce. The Big Board started to invoke what it calls “liquidity replenishment points,” or L.R.P.’s. Those are not trading halts, as in the old days. The exchange could never hope to get away with them these days. But they are pauses, usually for a few seconds, intended to “facilitate more accurate price discovery and prevent the market from a sudden and significant move,” as Larry Leibowitz, the exchange’s chief operating officer, testified.

Such pauses, he said, “are analogous to taking the controls of a plane off auto-pilot during turbulence.”

Normally, such L.R.P.’s take place without anyone much noticing. But on May 6, there were many more of them than usual, and some lasted more than a minute. During that time other markets could see the Big Board bid, but they knew it might change. They could legally ignore it.

It seems likely that many of the high-frequency traders had programs that caused them to back away from making markets. Liquidity dried up just as stop-loss orders triggered more sales.

Other markets had no similar mechanism to slow things down. Those markets competed on the basis of speed.

“Orders in one stock directed to one market can now ricochet to other markets and trigger algorithmic executions in other stocks and derivatives in milliseconds,” Ms. Schapiro said.

Algorithms have been all the rage with institutions. A simple one might call for an order to sell a million shares of a stock to be executed in small blocks for as long as it took, providing that the total sold by that institution did not exceed a certain percentage of the volume.

So as more trades took place and drove the stock down, the algorithm would call for increasing the pace of selling. There was nothing in the algorithm to stop if the stock fell 50 percent in a few minutes.

None of that is news, by the way. In 2008, some Nasdaq stocks — among them Cisco and Charles Schwab — sold for a penny a share. Those trades were canceled with little public notice, and the S.E.C. did nothing to prevent future occurrences.

What should happen now?

First, the regulators need to impose order. At the least, they should make it much riskier for an exchange to route an order away from the New York Exchange when it has imposed a slow-trading delay. The other exchange would be required to have a person decide that was reasonable, and he or she would be subject to regulatory second-guessing. Or the commission could just halt all trading while the Big Board had an L.R.P. in place. Other exchanges that have listings, such as Nasdaq, would be required to develop similar mechanisms.

Second, the S.E.C. should consider whether Nasdaq needs to return to a system where brokers are required to make markets in stocks, as are Big Board “designated market makers,” which is what specialists are now called. Nasdaq used to require market makers to make markets. But as high-frequency traders came to dominate the market it relaxed the rules, allowing the “stub quotes” that let the market maker back away.

Third, the S.E.C. should return to the ideals of a “national market system.” The best argument for “dark pools,” in which some trades are executed without ever being exposed to the market, was that it was an innovative idea that might save a little money. That innovation now looks to be every bit as good an idea as the concept of synthetic collateralized debt obligations.

Finally, the S.E.C. needs to investigate whether brokers met their “best execution” responsibilities, and brokers need to compensate a lot of customers. (Whether the electronic exchanges should then compensate the brokers is an issue that could also be explored.)

The trades that were canceled were those in which the price was down at least 60 percent. But there were plenty of other stocks whose prices fell 30 percent because the market failed. If a brokerage firm sent an order to an exchange that executed it at an absurd price, then that firm did not live up to its obligations.

Granted, deciding the cutoff from absurd to not absurd will be arbitrary. But real investors deserve protection. Reputable brokers should make restitution without being ordered to do so. Other brokers should face S.E.C. enforcement actions. Wouldn’t it be nice if brokers started to announce voluntary restitution programs?

A retail investor who had put in a “stop loss” order to sell Procter & Gamble, but only if it fell below $50, had trusted no sale would happen unless a functioning market decided the company had lost that much value. It did not. Even at the worst of the panic, Procter traded at $56 or above on the Big Board. But on the electronic markets, it traded as low as $39.37.

It would be unfair to those who stepped up to buy to cancel any more trades. But such a retail investor deserves compensation from the brokerage firm that mishandled his or her order.

On the other hand, institutions and other traders that used their own algorithms, or that knowingly used brokerage-house algorithms that had no protection if markets went crazy, can suffer the consequences. They should have know what they were doing, even if they did not.
446 2010-05-14 New York City Opera has always prized the “people’s opera” image that it cultivated in its early days, and when an opportunity to extend that reputation arises, the company invariably takes it. In recent years City Opera has collaborated with the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem on a series of concerts devoted to excerpts from operas by black composers.

The latest offering, on Wednesday evening at the Schomburg Center, was an overview of Anthony Davis’s first opera, “X — The Life and Times of Malcolm X,” which had its premiere at City Opera in 1986. The company’s approach was similar to the one it took last year, when the subject was William Grant Still’s “Troubled Island”: excerpts from the work were sung, with a narrator filling in the action between arias and ensembles.

This revival of “X” was part of the center’s commemoration of the 45th anniversary of Malcolm X’s assassination, and the program included remarks by his daughter Ilyasah Shabazz, who spoke passionately about her father and grandparents, and their campaigns for justice and equal rights.

Mr. Davis’s opera, which has a libretto by his cousin, the poet Thulani Davis, based on a scenario by his brother, Christopher Davis, is in three acts that follow Malcolm X’s biography closely, from his parents’ home in Lansing, Mich., in 1931, on the night of his father’s death, to his own murder at the Audubon Ballroom in Harlem in 1965. Along the way the libretto touches on his stay with his half-sister Ella in Boston; his time in prison, where he met Elijah Muhammad and joined the Nation of Islam; his ministry in Harlem; and his pilgrimage to Mecca.

Cori Ellison’s deft narrative adaptation (delivered by Terrance McKnight) covered the essential biographical details and set up about an hour of vocal excerpts. There was no action to speak of, but Beth Greenberg, the stage director, moved the singers on and off the stage and into different configurations based on who was in each scene. Projected photographs traced Malcolm X’s path from his childhood as Malcolm Little to his final months as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz. And though the performance was basically live, with a cast of five singers supported on the piano by Bradley Moore, excerpts from a recording gave listeners a sense of how the music is meant to sound.

A fine group of singers took on the major roles and also performed as the chorus when one was required. Sidney Outlaw, a baritone with a deep, rich timbre, sang the title role with passion and dignity. Robert Mack put his attractive tenor to powerful use in the dual role of Street and Elijah, two strong influences (the first cynical, the second spiritual) on young Malcolm. Krysty Swann, a mezzo-soprano, brought an attractive, bluesy tinge to Ella’s music. And Marsha Thompson, the soprano who sang Louise (Malcolm’s mother) and Betty (his wife), and Juan José Ibarra, the baritone who sang Reginald (his brother), made solid contributions.
447 2010-05-14 Though the charges revolved around narcotics trafficking, the clear intent was to stamp out the violence that has taken a deadly toll in the city, which is about an hour north of Manhattan.

Newburgh, with a population of about 29,000, led the state in violent crimes per capita in 2008 and is on course to do so again this year. Gang violence has been responsible for all but 2 or 3 of the 16 homicides in the city in the last two and a half years, including 5 since January that have drawn the attention of Washington.

“I think it’s going to have a big effect,” said George C. Venizelos, acting assistant director in charge of the F.B.I.’s New York field office. “It’s going to take a dent out of two gangs.”

The Bloods and the Latin Kings are considered by law enforcement officials to be the most organized and dominant gangs in the city; the Bloods are the largest, with an estimated 160 members.

“Potentially we can take out a third of their membership,” Mr. Venizelos said of the Bloods.

At a news conference in White Plains, Mr. Bharara said the drug and gang problem in Newburgh had reached “crisis proportions.”

“The situation in Newburgh has, quite simply, become intolerable,” he said. He called the raid on Thursday “the most sweeping crackdown on gangs in the Hudson Valley that anyone can remember.”

“These gang members are not wannabes, but die-hard, lifelong gang members,” Mr. Bharara said.

“Today,” he added, “we tried to bring new hope to Newburgh.”

The indictments — one focusing on the Bloods, the other on the Latin Kings — paint a detailed and disturbing picture of Newburgh’s deeply entrenched gang culture.

According to the first indictment, the Bloods are broken into a number of subgroups, with names like Bounty Hunter Bloods, G-Shine and 9 Trey. Ranking members could and did call meetings of all the Newburgh Bloods. Attendance was mandatory.

At these meetings, ranking members organized their drug operations and ordered the assaults or murders of rival gang members who had invaded their territory, according to the indictment. They used code words: Members “referred to a person who had been targeted for an assault or murder as ‘food,’ or a ‘plate.’ ”

People were inducted into the gang in a process known as “bringing them home.” They brought in crack cocaine from Manhattan and the Bronx and often used minors to distribute the drugs, act as lookouts and carry weapons, the indictment states.

While the Bloods controlled the largely black northeast end of town, the Latin Kings’ territory included Benkard Avenue and William Street in the largely Hispanic southeast end, according to the second indictment.

Smaller in number, the Latin Kings held regular meetings and required their members to pay dues. Like the Bloods, they closely guarded their drug territory from outside dealers, except those willing to pay extortion fees known as rent, the indictment states.

Throughout the morning, bleary-eyed suspects in handcuffs, hair disheveled after being rousted out of bed, were fingerprinted and processed in a small gymnasium inside the armory.

Chief Eric A. Paolilli of the Newburgh Police Department called the raids remarkably uneventful for the number of people involved. Chief Paolilli said he welcomed the federal assistance that led the investigation.

At one apartment building in the southeast end, families looked out the upper floor windows as agents arrested a suspected Latin King from a lower floor.

“I knew it, I said it,” said one woman as she gave a play by play to an acquaintance on her cellphone. “They’re dealing drugs.”
448 2010-05-14 The department store Kohl’s said Thursday that quarterly profit rose 45 percent, but its executives were conservative in their forecasts for the rest of the year. Kohl’s shares declined 5.8 percent to $53.81.

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 113.96 points, or 1.05 percent, to 10,782.95, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 14.23 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,157.44. The Nasdaq composite declined 30.66 points, or 1.26 percent, to 2,394.36.

The Treasury’s 10-year note rose 13/32, to 99 24/32. The yield fell to 3.53 percent, from 3.57 percent late Wednesday.

Gold, which has been hitting records this week, fell $6.23 to close at $1,232.70. Oil prices also retreated, closing down $1.25 to $74.40 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, was little changed, while the FTSE 100 index in London rose 0.93 percent. In Paris, the CAC-40 declined 0.06 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt rose 1.1 percent.

The euro, started the week off with a bounce, after European finance ministers announced they were providing a financial support package of nearly $1 trillion for Greece and other weak euro zone economies. The news lifted the currency out of its doldrums, as it rose much as $1.309 on Monday in trading in New York.

But since then the currency has fallen by the wayside. The euro was trading at $1.2568 late Thursday in New York.

Analysts said that despite the extraordinary rescue package many questions remain, with worries about the safety of European debt continuing to put pressure on the currency. Will the member states associated with the loan guarantees remain committed? Will Greece and the other countries sustain austerity measures?

“There are as many questions as answers today,” said Rebecca Patterson, global head of the foreign exchange and commodities at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. “It is reasonable that there is not a ton of capital going into the euro area right now, and I think that is part of the reason the euro is falling.”

Many analysts say that simply adding to the debt of struggling euro zone countries does not get to the root of the crisis.

The European Central Bank said that it would buy bonds, a move analysts said simply transferred risk from private banks to the central bank.

“That raised eyebrows,” said Win Thin, a senior currency strategist for Brown Brothers Harriman. “Confidence in the euro has definitely dropped. There is nothing that makes you want to go the other way.”

This week, the Bank of England governor, Mervyn King, said the rescue package alone could not be the solution to Europe’s problems and that the euro zone needed tighter fiscal integration. And the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Paul A. Volcker, in a speech in London on Thursday, warned of “potential disintegration” of the currency.

But he said, without elaborating, “If you didn’t have the common currency you’d have bigger problems now.”

A successful future “requires changes to European economic policies,” Mr. Volcker said.

Ms. Patterson said that when she saw the news on Monday about the rescue package she was astonished that the Europeans would not also come out with measures in support of the euro, which has slipped about 17 percent since November.

“If they were going to mention it, what a perfect time,” she said. “I think they did not on purpose because they are actually pretty happy about it.”

A weaker euro could help support growth in Greece and other struggling states like Spain and Portugal that are experiencing deflationary pressures. It would also help large exporting countries, like Germany, she noted.

Mr. Thin said a weaker euro would help at the margin but it was not a substitute for the structural reforms that Greece, Spain and Portugal and other countries would need.

Besides Greece, two countries — Spain and Portugal — have taken steps to institute austerity programs. On Wednesday, Spain announced pay cuts of about 5 percent for civil servants — and 15 percent for government ministers — as well as other measures totaling about $19 billion. And on Thursday, officials in Portugal moved to impose wage cuts and tax increases as well as other cost-saving measures.
449 2010-05-14 The singer and songwriter Silvio Rodriguez, the Cuban artist who is probably most closely identified with the Cuban Revolution and Fidel Castro's half-century in power, has been granted a visa to perform in the United States for the first time in ...
450 2010-05-15 C-Crete Technologies takes the MIT 100k Entrepreneurship Competition with a new kind of lighter, stronger cement....
451 2010-05-15 In his Saturday address, the president urges passage of the financial regulatory legislation....
452 2010-05-15 Opera singers periodically lash out at directors and their productions, and now the Los Angeles Opera has taken its turn. Two performers in the company’s new “Ring” cycle, created by the visual artist and director Achim Freyer, have criticized the production as dangerous for the singers and of dubious artistic value. “This entire production has been a trying and difficult time,” the tenor John Treleaven was quoted as saying by The Los Angeles Times on Friday. He also said, “The character development that I bring to the part is almost expunged by this clownlike makeup.” Mr. Treleaven, who plays Siegfried, said he had suffered two minor injuries on the raked stage. The Times quoted Linda Watson, who sings Brünnhilde, as calling the set “the most dangerous stage I’ve been on in my entire career.” She added, “It takes years to be able to sing a ‘Ring’ and to just toss this all away — he doesn’t say it in words, but his gestures speak louder than words.” Christopher Koelsch, head of artistic planning for the company, said in a statement on Friday that the company “places the highest priority on safety in our onstage environment, and takes every precaution to prevent incidents” and that “we are proud of the overall work, as well as the contributions of each individual within it.” Individual operas in the $32 million production have been performed since last season, and the full cycle will be presented starting late this month as the centerpiece of a Wagner festival.
453 2010-05-15 You’d think so lately with each day bringing more news of unconscionable conservative tilts in the electorate, while the drumbeat of the Democrats’ supposed death march to November gets ever louder.

For example, a Wall Street Journal/NBC News survey released this week found that a majority of Americans supported ’s hostile new law, even as most allowed that the law is likely to lead to more discrimination against legal immigrants. Apparently, for some, there is an acceptable level of collateral damage.

A May 7 Gallup poll found that 42 percent of people wanted a nominee who would make the court more conservative, as opposed to only 27 percent who wanted a nominee who would make it more liberal. That was before was nominated. Afterward, 40 percent rated her as a good or excellent choice, but that was the lowest such rating in recent history, even 4 percentage points lower than ’s.

An Associated Press-GfK poll released this week found that a plurality of people still favor increasing drilling for oil and gas off the coasts even as an unprecedented natural disaster unfolds in the Gulf of Mexico. Environment be damned.

And Gallup released a poll on Friday entitled “The New Normal on Abortion: Americans More ‘Pro-Life.’ ” It buttressed the finding from last summer when, for the first time since the question began being asked in 1995, more people self-identified as “pro-life” than as “pro-choice.”

This string of bad news has only compounded an already palpable sense of loss and longing on the left, an enveloping fear of the inevitable: rejection. The right, and most importantly, the middle, unnerved by spending in a and unhinged by Obama in the White House, have not bought into the liberal vision of a new America. In fact, they’re increasingly weary of it, if not hostile to it.
454 2010-05-15 LOS ANGELES (AP) — The British recording company EMI Group said Friday that it had raised enough cash to fend off foreclosure by its main lender, Citigroup.

EMI, home of the Beatles, Lily Allen and Norah Jones, said that its owner, Terra Firma, the private equity company controlled by the financier Guy Hands, intended to invest additional money in EMI so the company could remain in compliance with the terms of its debt.

Charles Allen, the executive chairman of EMI Music, said in a statement that the commitment was “a vote of confidence in EMI from Terra Firma and its investors.”

The new financing comes after talks with rival music companies, including the Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment and the Warner Music Group, all failed in the last several months. EMI was seeking a partner to distribute its music in North America, which it hoped would raise enough cash to keep Citigroup at bay.

When those talks failed, Terra Firma had no choice but to inject more money into EMI. The funds artificially raised the company’s profit to keep it above the required percentage of debt. The money also can be used by the company in its operations.

Through September of last year, Terra Firma had already put £105 million ($154.8 million) into EMI to meet the loan ratio. It bought the company for £2.4 billion ($3.5 billion) in 2007.

While Mr. Hands and other investors can keep pouring in money, Terra Firma will have to fully repay the loan, now about £3.1 billion ($4.6 billion) — by 2015 or potentially lose the company to the bank.
455 2010-05-15 The Nvidia Corporation, a maker of graphics chips, reported better-than-expected results, but its sales forecast for the current quarter was below Wall Street’s target, and shares fell 12 percent. For the current quarter, Nvidia forecast that revenue would fall 3 to 5 percent from the previous period, implying sales of $950 million to $970 million. That compares with Wall Street’s estimate for revenue of $990 million. Nvidia released the results and the forecast late Thursday. Analysts said the sales forecast and Nvidia’s inventory level, which rose 17 percent, alarmed investors. Shares of Nvidia, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., fell $1.69, to $12.96 on Friday.
456 2010-05-15 Here are five possible outcomes. For simplicity’s sake, we considered only teams with sufficient salary-cap space.

Why it will happen James craves the spotlight and wants to become a global icon. There is no greater stage to promote himself, his brand and his business ventures. He will have immediate access to Wall Street. The Knicks have enough cap room to sign James and a second superstar, relieving some of the burden of carrying the team. James is fond of Coach Mike D’Antoni, a member of the Olympic team staff.

Why it won’t The Knicks have only four players under contract, and just two legitimate starters — Danilo Gallinari and Wilson Chandler. They haven’t had a winning season since 2000-1, when James was a sophomore in high school. It could take years to build a title contender. D’Antoni is an offensive whiz but has never been known for defense, which James values. The Manhattan media circus could wear him out.

ODDS 3-1. The Knicks have too much work to do.

Why it will happen Of all the teams with cap room, Chicago has the most talented and balanced roster: Derrick Rose, a blossoming star at point guard; Joakim Noah, a tenacious two-way big man; Luol Deng, a gifted wing scorer; Kirk Hinrich, a deft defender and shooter. With James, the Bulls could be instant contenders. He could also choose his own coach, since the position is vacant.

Why it won’t The Michael Jordan factor. For 12 years, every Bulls player has worked under Jordan’s shadow, trying to replicate his success. All have failed. The expectations for James would be astronomical. One title would not be enough. One three-peat might not even be enough. Failures would be magnified. Does he want to be compared with Jordan — perhaps the greatest player in N.B.A. history — at every turn?

Why it will happen With a new arena opening in Brooklyn in 2012, the Nets can offer James all of the benefits of New York without any of the Knicks’ baggage. They have star players at the two most critical positions — point guard (Devin Harris) and center (Brook Lopez) — and a high draft pick coming in June. Under the new owner Mikhail Prokhorov, a Russian billionaire, James will never have to worry about the team’s ability to acquire elite talent, or an elite coach. James is close to Jay-Z, the music mogul, who owns a share of the team.

Why it won’t The Nets will play the next two years in Newark — a vast improvement over East Rutherford, but a far cry from Manhattan. There is no guarantee that the Brooklyn arena, which has been delayed for years, will be ready by 2012. After Lopez and Harris, the roster is sketchy.

ODDS 5-1. Maybe James signs a three-year deal with the Cavs and revisits free agency in 2013.

Why it will happen James is close to Dwyane Wade, the Miami Heat star. They played brilliantly together as Olympic teammates and have mused about the possibility of joining forces in the N.B.A. Coach Erik Spoelstra has proved an adept manager of talent. If he fails, there’s a Hall of Famer, the team president Pat Riley, waiting in the wings. Florida has no state income tax and many nice beaches.

Why it won’t happen Superstars often talk about playing together, but they rarely do it. Wade and James are used to having the ball in their hands and the spotlight to themselves. For all of Riley’s talents, he has had trouble assembling a worthy roster around Wade since trading Shaquille O’Neal in 2008.

ODDS 7-1. But the Heat will get a big man — Chris Bosh or Amar’e Stoudemire.

Why it will happen Although they have yet to win a title, the Cavs are a contender — the only team to make the Eastern Conference semifinals for five straight years. The owner Dan Gilbert has spent generously on facilities and personnel, approving trades for O’Neal and Antawn Jamison. If the Cavs fire Coach Mike Brown, James could choose his successor. James, who is said to be fiercely loyal, is beloved in his home state.

Why it won’t In seven years, Cleveland has not acquired a legitimate star to pair with James. Championship teams need at least two. The Cavaliers spent their cap space on role players and will not have room to sign a top free agent for years. Disillusioned fans are turning on James and blaming him for the team’s failure, which only makes it easier to leave.

ODDS 5-7. The Cavs have little time to convince James to stay. They should bookmark that ESPN clock.
457 2010-05-15 Among the 16 teams are some of the world’s best cyclists, including the three-time defending Tour of California champion Levi Leipheimer, the seven-time Tour de France champion Lance Armstrong and other top riders on their new RadioShack team.

Also competing are Team HTC-Columbia’s Mark Cavendish, one of the world’s best sprinters; David Zabriskie, a five-time United States national time trial champion; and Andy Schleck, the Saxo Bank team leader who finished second to Alberto Contador at the Tour de France last year.

Those riders and their competitors will test themselves over eight days and more than 800 miles, as the race winds through California. It ends in the hills north of Los Angeles on May 23.

“This race, in fact, has diluted the field at the Giro because riders want to come here,” said Phil Liggett, a cycling commentator for Versus. “This race has everything except the historical value to be one of the great races in the world. The Grand Tours go back 100 years, so it’s impossible for this race to catch up to them. But it is doing a great job of standing on its own.”

Still, some riders, like BMC Racing’s Cadel Evans and Garmin-Transitions’ Christian Vande Velde, opted to race in the Giro, considering it better preparation for the Tour de France. Vande Velde, however, sustained a broken collarbone in Stage 3 of the Giro.

Each team ended up splitting their rosters, sending strong riders to both races. Garmin brought Zabriskie, a two-time runner-up at the Tour of California, here as its top rider. BMC Racing brought George Hincapie, last year’s United States national road racing champion.

“Obviously for the cycling industry here in the U.S., and for the American sponsors of teams, this is a place to showcase their goods and their riders,” said Jim Ochowicz, president and co-owner BMC racing. “But it all depends on the rider. Rather than doing all that racing in one month, like they do in the Giro, you could break it up over two months at more than one race. It’s really all the same, training-wise.”

For Armstrong, Leipheimer and their RadioShack team, there was really no choice. The team, in its debut season, is based in the United States, with a United States-based sponsor. Racing here would be a great way to show off the team on its home soil, Armstrong said.

To bolster his training for the Tour de France, Armstrong also will be riding in another stage race, in June, like the Dauphine Libere or the Tour of Switzerland. But for now, he said, his focus will be to help Leipheimer win a fourth consecutive Tour of California. In turn, Leipheimer will be expected to help Armstrong win the Tour de France in July.

“It’s no secret that this is the priority for us, and I might take it a step further and say it’s only second to the Tour de France,” Armstrong said.
458 2010-05-15 “More Wander Off in Fog of Age” (front page, May 5) describes a tragic and growing problem in our country. While there is no silver bullet for the safety of missing elderly, a good start is a bill I sponsored: the National Silver Alert Act. Similar to the successful Amber Alert system, this bill supports local law enforcement with a notification system triggered by the report of a missing senior. It passed in the House with broad bipartisan support early last year, but now languishes in the Senate.

State-level Silver Alerts programs have been carried out throughout the country, including with great success in Texas more than two years ago. This bill would support existing and new state programs and coordinate alerts among states to help prevent the elderly from wandering over state lines. All those dedicated to protecting the elderly should urge their senators to pass this bill.

Kudos to The Times for “More Wander Off in Fog of Age.” But in reporting that “6 in 10 dementia victims will wander at least once,” you unintentionally diminish the problem’s scope and severity.

At the New York City chapter of the Alzheimer’s Association, our presumption is that anyone with the disease can and will wander at any time. Getting such people home safely depends largely on the tools available in the community.

Since 2005, more than 900 cases were reported to us. Ninety-nine percent of those registered in our nationwide MedicAlert+Safe Return Program — an initiative that involves emergency responders, hospitals, the media and others in the search for the missing Alzheimer’s patient — were found safe and returned home.

One of the reasons for our success is a strong partnership with the New York Police Department, where a detective from the missing persons squad is permanently assigned to this effort. This smart use of public resources saves lives and untold family heartache.
459 2010-05-15 It is something of an annual budget ritual: Public libraries, always among the first city services to be threatened with substantial cuts in financing, are forced to face the abyss, only to be saved in the end, in whole or significant part.

But this year, if the cuts to New York’s library systems come close to what is proposed in the mayor’s budget, a vital network of services could be devastated, library officials and employees say, affecting far more than just the hours that people can take out books.

Take the Queens Library. The largest public library in the country, measured by circulation volume, it has been recognized nationally as an innovator that has led the way for libraries to become important community hubs for job seekers, teenagers who are looking for a safe and comfortable place to study after school, students of English and people who cannot afford to own a computer but want to use the Internet.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s executive budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 would force the Queens library network to close 14 of its 51 community branches, halve its total hours of service and lay off 412 employees, more than one-third of its staff, library officials said.

The Brooklyn Public Library and the New York Public Library, which runs branches in Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island, would sustain proportionally similar cuts.
460 2010-05-15 Mr. van Sander, whose original paperwork would have stopped the 90-day clock if it had not been flawed, seemed to be on track for such an adjustment in March, when the couple refiled all the papers on the advice of an immigration officer.

But on April 22, a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in a separate case changed the legal landscape for such couples in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and the Virgin Islands. Lawyers say the van Sanders are among thousands of couples who could be adversely affected by the decision, which leaves the foreign spouses no defense against deportation if immigration authorities, at their discretion, decide to expel them.

The decision echoes and sharpens recent rulings in 6 of the 12 regional circuits across the country (but not the one that covers New York), holding that after a 90-day stay, foreigners who enter the country under the visa-waiver program cannot fight summary deportation based on their marriages to American citizens.

“It’s surreal,” said Ms. van Sander, who went to immigration court with the Princeton chaplain and a lawyer on Tuesday to plead for her husband’s release. The judge told them that the appeals court’s decision left her no jurisdiction over Mr. van Sander, and that he was not entitled to a bail hearing.

But on Friday, Mr. van Sander’s 10th day in jail, the government responded to inquiries from The New York Times by announcing that he would be released. Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the agency was using its discretion to let Mr. van Sander try to repair his case.

Under the appeals court’s decision, the larger issue remains. In the Third Circuit, Citizenship and Immigration Services will no longer approve green cards based on marriage if the application is made more than 90 days after the foreign spouse entered on a visa waiver, officials said.

Until now, even in states in other circuits that have issued similar rulings, immigration authorities have generally used the more-lenient law and their discretion to approve such cases, rather than order deportation, immigration lawyers say. But the van Sander case shows that the outlook is dire for couples already in the pipeline for a green card, said Eric E. Olson, an immigration lawyer who has followed the issue closely.

“It’s crazy,” he said, adding that it might provoke a public outcry, because “it’s going to affect a lot of white people, too, not just brown people.”

Coming as the Obama administration says its immigration enforcement priority is deporting dangerous criminals, Mr. van Sander’s arrest bewildered many in the couple’s 40-member Christian fellowship group, said the chaplain, the Rev. B. Keith Brewer.

“They’re both lovely people, not exactly the criminal types,” said Mr. Brewer, who visited Mr. van Sander several times in the detention center, which is run by Corrections Corporation of American in a former warehouse. “Just out of nowhere, three people showed up, put him in handcuffs and took him away,” the chaplain added.

In light of 9/11, the chaplain said, he cannot blame the government for following the letter of the law. But, he added, it was absurd to lock up the young theologian, without his books, at a cost of $175 a day.

“Our tax dollars are paying to fly him back to London,” he said. “It’s ridiculous.”

Unlike the plaintiff in the Third Circuit case, Heathcliffe John Bradley, a New Zealander who arrived in 1996 and had overstayed his visa by 10 years by the time he married, Mr. van Sander always returned to Britain or his parents’ home in Solingen, Germany, before the 90 days were up, his wife said.

After their wedding, they visited his parents, returned to the United States in August and filed his immigration paperwork in September, which should have stopped the 90-day clock. All seemed to be in order, Ms. van Sander said, because her husband was sent a work authorization, and began teaching at a local Christian college.

Not until their immigration interview on March 9, she said, were they informed that they had omitted a crucial document known as the I-130, her petition as an American citizen on his behalf. Without it, his application to become a permanent resident was not valid, and the clock had been running; officially, he had overstayed by four months.

“We tried to do everything right,” Ms. van Sander said, recalling the four forms they filled out without a lawyer. “We made a mistake, but if two Ph.D. students can’t figure it out, it shows the paperwork is really confusing.”

The couple quickly refiled, paying the $355 in fees a second time, and canceled a trip to London, as the immigration officer directed.

“He told us as long as we filed immediately and as long as Karsten entered legally (which he did), that we were safe,” Ms. van Sander said in an e-mail message.

Instead, the case was apparently referred to agents at Immigration and Customs Enforcement. On May 4, Ms. van Sander received a text message at work from her husband saying he was in immigration custody.

Daniel L. Weiss, a lawyer the couple hired Thursday evening, said he was grateful that by Friday afternoon officials in both agencies were scrambling to reopen it and fix it. By 3:30 p.m., a shaken Mr. van Sander walked out of jail into his wife’s arms.

“But this is much bigger than just them,” Mr. Weiss said. “The larger question is government policy, and why do we treat these waiver people worse than we treat other people?”

From New Jersey’s Italian- and Irish-American families alone, he added, “there are going to be a hundred stories like this coming into my office.”
461 2010-05-15 A bill awaiting Gov. Phil Bredesen’s signature would bar felons convicted of violent or drug-related crimes from keeping “potentially vicious” dogs for 10 years after being released from prison or probation. Based on studies showing that unsterilized dogs are most apt to be aggressive, it would also require that any dog owned by felons be spayed or neutered and implanted with a microchip for identification.

Many communities have tried to limit the presence of large, aggressive dogs, sometimes singling out pit bulls and Rottweilers. That provokes complaints from animal lovers, who say there are no bad breeds, just bad masters.

The Tennessee proposal, modeled on a 2006 law in Illinois that was the first of its kind, focuses just on felons and also avoids naming breeds. A dog of any kind, even a Chihuahua, could be branded as potentially vicious if it has been reported twice for lunging at people or biting.

“Breed-specific laws do not get at the root of the problem, which is the owners,” said Sherry L. Rout, a legislative advocate in Memphis for the American Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which helped draft the bills in Tennessee and Illinois.

Laws nearly everywhere allow for the seizure and destruction of dogs that attack people or animals. In the new bill, if a dog is labeled as potentially vicious, the felon must give it away or turn it over to animal control. “The thought is that a dog in the hands of the wrong person can be dangerous,” Ms. Rout said. “But a dog that’s walking the line may not be dangerous in the hands of the right person.”

In Illinois, officers have used the sterilization requirement as a way to build cases against suspected dealers. If they spot an apparently intact male dog, for example, officers can justify stopping suspects for questioning or even searching their homes.

Mr. Hall, the Tennessee drug agent, said that when the canine threat is known in advance, one member of the raiding team carries a fire extinguisher for fending off an attack. If that does not work, they try a Taser. In a couple of cases each year, he said, officers have to shoot the animal.

In one case last year, he recalled, the agents missed seizing $150,000 in illegal cash because of a dog that growled from his outdoor doghouse. They arrested a man suspected of dealing drugs, who later told them that he had buried the cash under the doghouse, just like in the movie “American Gangster.” When they went back to look, the stash was gone. It had been retrieved and taken abroad by the man’s wife.

“We didn’t think to look there,” Mr. Hall said. “And to be honest, I don’t think any of us wanted to try to look there.”
462 2010-05-15 With the aim of depoliticizing a largely Republican assault, the leading lobbying group for small businesses has joined officials from 20 states in their legal challenge to the new health care law.

An amended complaint filed Friday in Federal District Court in Pensacola, Fla., lists the lobbying group, the National Federation of Independent Business, as a plaintiff in the lawsuit that was originally filed in March by attorneys general from 13 states.

Attorneys general or governors from seven other states formally joined the lawsuit on Friday. Among the state plaintiffs, only Attorney General James D. Caldwell of Louisiana is not a Republican.

Two individuals also joined the litigation. One is the uninsured owner of an automobile repair shop in Panama City, Fla. The other is a man from Washington State who prefers to pay his medical bills out of pocket rather than being compelled to obtain insurance, as will be the case starting in 2014.

The additions of the business association and individual plaintiffs, according to lawyers involved, were intended to shift any public perception that the lawsuit was primarily a political device. But the new plaintiffs also may help the states fight an anticipated challenge by the federal government to their standing, or legal authority, to bring the lawsuit.
463 2010-05-15 “One of these accounts was using the e-mini contract to hedge and only entered orders to sell,” Mr. Gensler testified. “That trader entered the market at around 2:32 and finished trading by around 2:51.”

Reuters, in an article citing a document from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, reported that regulators and market officials were focusing on the sale of 75,000 contracts of the 500 e-mini future by Waddell & Reed during the time period in question. The document said the trade “superficially appeared to be anomalous activity,” according to Reuters.

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange declined to comment on Friday’s report about Waddell & Reed, as did the C.F.T.C., which regulates futures trading.

While confirming trading activity that day, Waddell & Reed insisted it was not responsible for setting off the market break or doing anything out of the ordinary. Waddell & Reed said it was among 250 firms that traded the e-mini during the critical minutes.

Founded in 1937, Waddell & Reed has $74 billion under management in a variety of funds, covering both stocks and fixed-income assets.

Trades like the one identified by Waddell & Reed pick up during stock market downdrafts, as money managers try to offset the risk of holding stocks if the market goes lower, a process known as hedging.

“Such trades often are executed in response to market activity, and are undertaken to protect fund investors from downside risk,” the firm said. “We use futures trading as part of this strategy, broadly known as hedging.”

The 500 e-mini is a basket of stocks that can be used to bet on the future direction of the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Like water draining into a narrower and narrower funnel, orders that couldn’t be completed on the New York Stock Exchange flooded electronic exchanges, where trading continued. What is still being analyzed is why hundreds of stocks briefly traded at levels more than 60 percent below their market value, some for pennies on the dollar.

Many of those trades have since been canceled, but the incident has raised many questions about the stability and safety of what are now larger computer-controlled markets. Initial reports suggested that an erroneous order, a so-called fat-finger trade, prompted the sudden move, but that has been dismissed as unlikely by Mr. Gensler and other regulators.

Without enough human oversight, computerized trading in today’s markets can easily overwhelm the current technology, said James Angel, a professor of finance at the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University. In a February 2010 study commissioned by the Knight Capital Group, a major market maker, Mr. Angel warned of such a possibility.

“The key thing when the dust settles will be the idea that this has elements of the 1987 crash, when computers and systems couldn’t keep up with volumes and failed,” he said. “It’s not about too many computers, but too few.”
464 2010-05-15 But it also exhumes the ugly ghosts of the Hussein regime — Saddam’s cocky, vicious son Uday is among the play’s spectral presences — to illustrate how fear, repression and violence had corrupted the culture even before the invasion spawned an explosion of factional conflict.

Kev finds himself haunted by the ghost of the tiger, who wanders the city taking in the grim sights. Increasingly rattled by this otherworldly presence, Kev lands in the hospital after an irrational outburst during a routine search of an Iraqi household. Back in Baghdad with a prosthetic hand, Tom pays a visit to Kev less out of compassion for a broken-minded buddy than for a more practical purpose.

The gun Kev used to shoot the tiger was one of the gold-plated bits of booty Tom had swiped from the gaudy palace of Uday Hussein (Hrach Titizian). With an eye toward staking a new life back home, Tom wants that gold gun back, along with the similarly gilded toilet seat he acquired. Although Mr. Joseph’s play is no polemic against the Iraq war, Tom’s determined pursuit of this glistening lucre resonates as a metaphor for the possibly murky motives behind the American invasion.

As it happens, in the chaos of Kev’s breakdown the gun fell into the hands of Musa (Arian Moayed), one of the translators working with the troops. The weapon has a terrible, talismanic significance for Musa, who was formerly employed as a gardener by Uday and finds himself visited by his chuckling ghost. As heartlessly brutal in death as he was in life, Uday carries his brother Qusay’s head around with him in a plastic bag, playing with it like a new toy, and taunts Musa with gloating references to the rape and murder of his beloved sister.

Mr. Joseph evokes these disparate characters with remarkable facility, and the cast imbues each with a vivid, complicated humanity. (That includes Mr. Tighe’s wry tiger.) Mr. Fleischer is cartoonishly funny as the dopey Kev in the early scenes, but his performance grows more moving as this stereotypically jingoistic, thoughtless soldier learns just how easily — and irrevocably — the trauma of witnessing (and inflicting) violence can poison a young man’s mind.

Mr. Davis is similarly affecting as Tom finds his own guilt over the chain of events manifesting itself in ghostly form. (Mr. Joseph has also written for Tom a frankly sexual scene that is mordantly funny but somehow touching, too, in its understanding of the grittier consequences of losing a useful appendage.)

Mr. Moayed’s Musa is no less nuanced, an honorable man who is eager to improve his English but grows increasingly disturbed by the behavior of soldiers ill equipped to understand the complex workings of the culture into which they’ve been thrust, and brutalized by the threat of violence surrounding them. Musa’s own moral decline, Mr. Joseph makes clear, derives from a mixture of his responses to the tumult of current events and the trauma of his own past under the Hussein regime: a toxic combination.

Interspersed with the nerve-rattling scenes of violence on the streets of Baghdad are the intimate exchanges between the living characters and the dead. Mr. Joseph’s poetic imagination envisions the afterlife as a place where the formerly alive are visited by “all sorts of revelations about the world and existence,” as the tiger puts it. A soldier’s ghost can find himself suddenly discoursing on the birth of algebra, or a big, bad cat can make casual references to Dante.

Occasionally this conceit is overly cute (annoyed at the existential confusion of his fellow ghosts, the tiger says, “You’re dead and you’re in Baghdad — shut up”) or laden with strained significance. There are a few speeches in which the play states its points too plainly, like the tiger’s repeated calls on the absent God to come prune the unruly garden he has left to man’s misbegotten tending.

But Mr. Joseph’s embracing compassion for his characters and their dark journeys through the streets of Baghdad and beyond easily redeems the minor flaws of some overstated or archly poetic writing. “Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo” doesn’t flinch in its depiction of the brutal consequences of violence, but this haunting new play also offers a consoling vision of a world beyond our own, where the wisdom in such eternally short supply on earth can be harvested by those with open hearts. Too bad you have to be a ghost to get there.
465 2010-05-15 MOSCOW — Protesters blocked railroad tracks at the site of a western Siberian mine disaster on Friday night, demanding to meet with the management of the Raspadskaya Coal Company and complaining that low salaries and financial incentives were pressuring miners to cut corners on safety.

Ildar Gabdrakhmanov, chairman of a miners’ union in the city of Mezhdurechensk, said the mayor promised the demonstrators a meeting with the region’s governor. When they refused to leave the railway, he said, riot police officers forcefully dispersed the crowd, which he estimated at about 200 people. A reporter on the scene from the Ekho Moskvy radio station said that the protesters pelted the police with stones and bottles and that many were arrested.

It is not clear what caused two explosions inside the mine last weekend, which killed at least 66 people; 24 others still inside are almost certainly dead. Officials have said that a huge emission of methane may have been to blame, but that the mine’s methane detectors registered normal levels at the time of the blast.

However, Mr. Gabdrakhmanov, who represents around 70 of the mine’s 3,500 workers, said financial incentives could compel the workers to circumvent or disable the detectors. The workers earn a monthly salary of $1,164 if they meet quotas set by the company, and $830 if they fall short, he said. So workers may ignore signs of danger in the push to fill quotas.

“You may have a nosebleed, but you’re supposed to give this six feet to the next shift,” he said. “If there is gas, they would try to aim a flow of fresh air to the sensor, or cover it with a piece of wet clothing.”
466 2010-05-15 Mr. Maliki’s supporters had once claimed that the recount could reverse as many as 20 seats, but a spokesman, Ali al-Mousawi, said Friday evening that Mr. Maliki would “respect the results of the recount in Baghdad, whatever they were.”

Even as the recount was under way, Mr. Maliki formed a postelection alliance with another Shiite bloc that cleared the way for a Shiite-dominated government for the next four years but did not guarantee Mr. Maliki a second term.

Negotiations over how to form that government — and who would lead it as prime minister — have continued in a flurry of behind-the-scenes meetings among Iraq’s political leaders, though apparently with little progress so far.

The country’s Supreme Judicial Council must ratify the election results, a process that could take days or weeks.

Among the outstanding questions are efforts to disqualify candidates on the grounds they were loyal to Saddam Hussein’s Baath Party. One winning candidate on Mr. Allawi’s slate was barred last month, but Iraqi and American officials said this week that an opaque agreement among Iraqi politicians would suspend further disqualifications.

The protracted political impasse has raised concerns about a governmental vacuum even as American troops withdraw and extremists step up attacks to worsen a sense of crisis.

The Islamic State of Iraq, the front organization for Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, issued a statement warning of “a long gloomy night and dark days colored in blood,” according to a translation by the SITE Intelligence Group.

The statement was attributed to a man purporting to be the group’s new “war minister,” the first indication that the group had replaced its leadership after the killings of its two top terrorist leaders last month. He was identified as Al-Nasser Lideen Allah Abu Suleiman, a nom de guerre that translates as Defender of God’s Religion, Father of Suleiman.

In Tal Afar, in northern Iraq, a triple suicide attack struck a local soccer field on Friday evening, even as the recount results were being announced. A suicide bomber detonated a truck filled with explosives near the field at the end of a match. Two more suicide bombers then blew themselves up in the panicked aftermath of the first blast. The use of suicide bombers is a common tactic here for Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.

At least nine people were killed; scores more were wounded, said Abdul Raheem al-Shammari, the head of security committee for the provincial council in Nineveh, which includes Tal Afar. “We were gathered after the end of the match,” said Muhanad Salih, 32. “Suddenly, a horrifying blast occurred. The dust and the shrapnel flew over us through the air. I ran to help move the wounded. Suddenly, another blast occurred. I was very scared and ran in another direction when the third blast happened.”

Another bomb struck a Shiite Muslim mosque in Hilla, south of Baghdad, wounding at least 18 people. Hilla was the site of the worst carnage during a wave of attacks across Iraq on Monday that killed more than 100 people.

“What happened to you these days is the beginning of the blood,” Abu Suleiman wrote, according to SITE’s translation.
467 2010-05-15 WHY NOT BUY STOCKS NOW? One school of thought says equities are a great value. “U.S. stocks in aggregate represent the cheapest asset class in the world today,” said G. Moffett Cochran, chief executive of Silvercrest Asset Management, with $9 billion in assets. “We’re saying to clients ‘We’d urge you to increase your allocation.’ ”

But the rational argument is a hard sell. “People want to believe this, but people are very skeptical,” Mr. Cochran said. “What they’ve learned from first-hand experience is those things that can go up can also go down, and they can do down abruptly.”

Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer at Bank of New York Mellon Wealth Management, put it more bluntly: “Investors should be entering into the market with a strong stomach.”

For others, this uncertainty has put stocks in the category of a cyclical trade: there may be some money to made on them in the short term, but be careful. Richard Cookson, global chief investment officer at Citi Private Bank, subscribes to this point of view. He said companies looked profitable — and their stocks good — not because of any fundamental improvements but because they had cut costs by laying off workers.

Mr. Cookson said that stocks over the long term could be a tough investment, but he is a pragmatist. “You can be right over the very long term but you can get killed in the short term,” he said. “My argument is not that you don’t buy equities, but it means you have to be quite careful when you sell.”

This is not exactly a rousing endorsement of stocks right now, but Mr. Cookson said he believed that stocks could offer a good return over the next six months.

SMALL, MEDIUM OR LARGE? There are plenty of money managers, not surprisingly, who are far more bullish on stocks. But like the story of the three bears, the managers have different views of which ones are just right.

Nick Galluccio, chief executive of Teton Advisers, has $300 million of the $600 million he manages in small- and micro-capitalization stocks. He said these stocks outperformed those from large-capitalization companies over the last decade by 9 percent. And he argues that smaller companies — those with market capitalizations of $200 million to $2 billion — will grow more quickly as the economy recovers because they often supply larger companies.

At the other end of the spectrum is Mr. Maloney, who manages $450 million at M&R Capital. He says he believes that large cap stocks will have both steady growth and low volatility in the future. He reasons that because these companies are multinationals, they can protect themselves from any slowdown in the domestic economy.

In between the two is Richard Madigan, chief investment officer of the $9.2 billion Global Access Portfolio at J. P. Morgan Private Bank. He agreed that large cap stocks could benefit from a global recovery and said he liked small caps last year but felt they had had their run. Now, he prefers stocks in companies between the two extremes. His reason is that the midcap sector is guided more by fundamentals. “It’s a less aggressive sector and not driven by momentum like large caps,” he said.

That reasonable arguments can be made for three different types of stocks will not clear up investors’ uncertainty. Even Mr. Grohowski, who has set a year-end target of 1,250 for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, acknowledges that theories on sectors and predictions on indexes carry less weight with investors than they used to.

“Investors have a right to be skeptical,” he said, adding that investors have been more receptive to pitches on quality, dividend-paying stocks like Pepsi or ConocoPhillips than overarching theories. “There’s a high-degree of skepticism with top-down forecasts but also around past performances.”

This is where the stock pickers come in. William Priest, the founder of Epoch Investment Partners, which manages $12.5 billion, is focused on what he calls “shareholder yield.” Instead of choosing stocks based on the traditional criteria of dividends, earnings and price-to-earnings ratios, he looks at how companies maintain and use the cash on their balance sheets.

“Earnings are an accounting artifact,” he said. “It’s all about cash flow. When Bear Stearns went broke, it had a book value of $60 per share. Cash doesn’t lie.”

Most of the stocks he likes for this strategy are large cap, but he said he had been able to create a stable portfolio that aimed for a 9 percent return, no more, no less.

ROUGH RIDE Regardless of how you go about buying equities, the consensus is that the rest of the year will probably be full of peaks and troughs.

“We’ve probably seen the low in volatility for the year,” Mr. Grohowski said. “It’s going to be choppy and uneven from here.”

He pointed out that the S.& P. neared his year-end prediction of 1,250 when it closed at 1,217 on April 23. On May 7, two weeks later, it closed 100 points lower. This leaves investors three choices: Remain on the sidelines while understanding that market timing is impossible, have a long-term strategy and accept the volatility, or try to mitigate the swings.

Wasif Latif, vice president of equity investments at USAA’s investment management unit, said he had seen a lot of interest in equity hedging to lessen and possibly profit from stock swings. He said USAA’s Global Opportunities Portfolio — which uses a simple strategy of creating bands, or collars, around stocks to manage how much they can rise or fall — went from essentially zero to $500 million in a year.

“We’re getting money in because of the psychology in the market,” he said. “We’re trying to get market exposure but limit the downside.”

This isn’t exactly a bullish sentiment. But it is a practical one.
468 2010-05-15 Andrew’s allergies have also led to a rare inflammatory disease of the esophagus. His diet is so limited that he must be tube-fed to make sure he gets the nutrition he needs.

“He is a healthy, happy boy with rosy cheeks,” said Mr. Delgadillo. “But every day at 12:15 he heads to the nurse’s office for a feeding.”

In a study published earlier this week, research commissioned by the federal government found that while 30 percent of the population say they believe they have a food allergy, only about 8 percent of children and less than 5 percent of adults actually have one.

But for families like the Delgadillos, true food allergies can require careful navigation of everyday life and create all sorts of extra expenses.

Grocery shopping can mean weekly trips to four or five health food stores and multiple Internet sites to find allergen-free cereals, baked goods and other products.

“You know that brand of mild soap products called Cetaphil?” Mr. Delgadillo asks. “Well, it turns out the moisturizer has macadamia nut oil in it. You have to check absolutely everything.”

Mr. Delgadillo, whose family has insurance coverage under his employer’s health plan, estimates they spend an extra $400 a month in the form of co-payments and other out-of-pocket medical bills, special foods and medicines.

“I’m an engineer, and I need to quantify things for my own sake,” said Mr. Delgadillo. “So I’ve taken a good look at this.”

Families with food allergies can also incur financial strains because constant monitoring for dangerous foods often means one spouse stops working or significantly cuts back on hours, said Dr. Tamara T. Perry, a researcher at the Arkansas Children’s Hospital Research Institute.

“The loss of income and the additional costs associated with food allergies can have a significant financial impact,” Dr. Perry said.

There are three main financial challenges for families with food allergies. Here is advice on how to go about managing them:

A CLEAR DIAGNOSIS Pinpointing a food allergy is not easy. In most cases, doctors use a skin prick test during which they inject a small amount of a food under the skin to see if swelling or other symptoms occur within an hour or so. Also common are blood tests that show whether the body is making antibodies to fight certain foods.

But both tests generate a large number of false positives, said Matthew Fenton, chief of the asthma, allergy and inflammation branch of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, a unit of the federal National Institutes of Health.

The most reliable test is called a food challenge. It entails gradually exposing the individual to the suspected foods through the skin and mouth to see what type of reaction is produced. This can take a series of days and must be done in a setting close to an emergency facility.

Food challenges can be expensive because of the time and expertise involved, Mr. Fenton explained. Not all insurance covers these elaborate tests.

Another big problem is that not all doctors approach food allergies the same way.

“Your dermatologist, family doctor, pediatrician and allergist may all be on a different page in terms of how they classify and diagnose food allergies,” Mr. Fenton said. That can mean a lot of extra or unnecessary testing and doctor visits.

The national institute plans to release soon a comprehensive list of clinical guidelines for food allergies that can be used across all medical specialties and that may be a useful tool for parents and adult food allergy sufferers.

Patients and parents can check in with patient advocacy groups like the Food Allergy Initiative and the Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network for the latest research on all types of food allergies and intolerances.

SPECIAL FOODS Take a quick look at any health food store and you will immediately notice the high prices. Factor in the dozens of special products people with food allergies need, and you have a huge grocery bill.

Infants who cannot breast feed and are allergic to dairy milk often need a specialty formula that can cost as much as $30 to $40 a can and is rarely covered by insurance, said Dr. Perry, whose 3-year-old son could not tolerate milk or soy as an infant.

Other milk and soy-free products are also expensive, as are wheat-free and egg-free foods.

Comparison shopping and buying in bulk online can help. The Kids With Food Allergies Web site offers many tips on finding the least expensive specialty products, along with hundreds of allergy-free recipes you can make at home.

When specialty food bills become excessive, Dr. Perry suggests writing a formal appeal to your insurance company for coverage — especially if it is for something as specific as baby formula.

EPIPEN STOCKPILE Many people with severe food allergies carry what is known as an epinephrine auto injector, primarily sold under the EpiPen brand. People accidentally exposed to a food culprit can use the pen to inject themselves with a dose of epinephrine — also known as adrenaline — to avoid a severe allergic reaction.

EpiPens are often priced around $100 each. In most cases a small supply is covered by insurance, but this is not always enough.

Severely allergic people often need two doses to keep a reaction at bay until they can get to a hospital. In practical terms, when you are dealing with children, that means both parents, the child, the school nurse, the soccer coach, the summer camp counselor and so on should all have two pens on hand, explained Cheri Golub, of Manalapan, N.J., whose 8-year-old son is severely allergic to peanuts.

“You wind up with quite a collection — many that you pay for yourself,” she said.

In addition, the pens expire in a year or so and must be discarded if they have been exposed to temperatures under 59 degrees or over 89 degrees.

Food allergy sufferers and their parents should ask their doctors about a generic version of an epinephrine auto injector that recently became available, suggested Lynda Mitchell, founder of Kids with Food Allergies. It is not the same as an EpiPen, and it works differently, so some retraining will be necessary.
469 2010-05-15 One by one on Friday, markets across Asia, Europe and then the United States sank lower under the renewed pessimism about European growth and the instability stemming from the Continent.

The price of oil continued to fall as traders bet on slower global growth, and gold continued to rise as an asset perceived by investors as a safer, long-term store of value in times of stress.

In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average, which had been seesawing since the rescue package was announced on Monday, declined 162.79 points, or 1.51 percent, to 10,620.16 on Friday.

The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 21.76 points, or 1.88 percent, to 1,135.68.

The Nasdaq composite index dropped 47.51 points, or 1.98 percent, to 2.346.85.

The Treasury’s 10-year note rose 20/32, to 100 12/32. The yield fell to 3.45 percent, from 3.53 percent late Thursday.

Bank stocks led the market decline, mainly over worries about Europe. Another factor might have been the Senate’s approval of a proposal on Thursday that could cut bank revenue by imposing limits on fees they can charge businesses to process debit card transactions.

The Senate also approved an initiative to end reliance on major credit rating agencies, putting further pressure on financial stocks.

Last Friday, United States markets gave back all their gains for the year amid the immediate concerns over European defaults. Then on Monday, they roared back at the opening bell on the news of the nearly trillion-dollar intervention, sending the Dow up 404.71 points.

Despite Friday’s losses, the Dow still managed to end the week up 239.73 points and is up 1.84 percent so far this year.

The S.& P. 500 finished 24.8 points higher for the week and is up 1.85 percent so far this year. The Nasdaq was up 81.21 points for the week and is up 3.42 percent so far this year.

In European trading on Friday, the Euro Stoxx 50 index of blue chips ended the session down 3.7 percent. In Paris, stocks slumped 4.6 percent; in London, the FTSE 100 lost 3.1 percent; and in Germany, the benchmark DAX index lost 3.1 percent of its value. The stock market in Spain fell 6.6 percent.

The euro had rallied briefly to start the week, signaling initial enthusiasm about the rescue package. But then it dropped steadily as the week wore on and fell again on Friday, to $1.2385.

Since the start of the year, the currency has fallen 13 percent against the dollar and 14 percent against the yen.

Economists have begun worrying that the dollar’s appreciation might push up the price of American exports to Europe enough to place a further drag on growth in the United States.

The sharp worldwide market decline came only five days after the European Union and the International Monetary Fund hoped their package would signal a “shock and awe” commitment to ending the Continent’s crisis.

But economists said that while the package had eased concerns that countries like Greece would encounter trouble in rolling over old debts or borrowing new money, it had done nothing to help them grow.

“It’s not a game changer, just a game extender,” said Jim Caron, the global head of interest rate strategy at Morgan Stanley.

As far as the markets are concerned, Mr. Caron said, “It does not fix the problem of whether Europe will be able to climb out of this hole.”

There was also a growing worry Friday about how governments would find the $957 billion to pay for the rescue package, economists said, and a growing suspicion that central banks might eventually resort to allowing inflation to lessen groaning debt loads.

The European Central Bank agreed to help calm the financial turmoil by buying government bonds for the first time in its history this week.

Some economists regard that step as a troubling departure from the bank’s mandate to focus solely on price stability, and as a result is adding to the pressures undermining the euro.

“The reputation of the E.C.B. has been dented,” said Jörg Krämer, chief economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.

Although the market swoon amounted to an unwelcome return to the turmoil that preceded the bailout package, Zach Pandl, an economist at Nomura Securities in New York, emphasized that Friday’s decline was different in that it did not involve a big sell-off in government bonds.

Interest rates on bonds in Greece, Spain, Portugal and other countries had risen sharply in recent weeks as investors feared governments might default on their debts. The rescue package appears to have quieted those fears somewhat. But now investors seem to be worried about a slowdown in growth caused by governments cutting back spending.

On Friday, finance officials from the Group of 7 nations, including the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, met by conference call to discuss the continuing market turmoil. They did not comment publicly afterward, however.

The uneasy mood in the markets was not helped by remarks by Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve and now an adviser to the Obama administration, who in a speech in London on Thursday raised the possibility of a “potential disintegration of the euro.”

There are also indications that the rescue deal has worsened tensions among the European capitals.

El País, the Spanish newspaper, reported Friday that President Nicolas Sarkozy of France had pressured Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, to back the rescue effort, pounding his fist and saying France would leave the common currency without Germany’s support.

At a news conference in Zagreb, the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, described the El País report as “rubbish.”

But with rumors like that swirling through markets, investors were saddled with uncertainty, a sure prescription for selling.
470 2010-05-15 BEIJING — Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China said Thursday that the Chinese government would examine the deeper social problems that might have led to the recent string of deadly attacks on schoolchildren.

His remarks were the first public comments by a Chinese leader on the violence since the latest attack, in which a landlord in a village hacked to death seven kindergartners, a teacher and the teacher’s elderly mother on Wednesday.

Mr. Wen’s comments were an implicit acknowledgment of the challenge to the Chinese government posed by the five seemingly unrelated attacks, the first of which was in late March. The Chinese regard children as an especially treasured stratum of society, and prominent dangers to children in the past two years — like tainted baby formula and school collapses during an earthquake — have led parents to call for greater efforts to stamp out such hazards. Some Chinese say the recent attacks show an inability by the government to hold together the traditional social fabric in a time of great economic upheaval.

In a brief television interview, Mr. Wen told Phoenix Television, based in Hong Kong, that the government attached “great importance” to investigating the assaults, in which 17 people have been killed and nearly 100 wounded. All the assailants have been middle-aged men armed with knives or tools and acting alone.

“Apart from taking powerful security measures, we also need to solve the deeper reasons behind this issue, including resolving social tensions, reconciling disputes and enhancing mediation at the grass-roots level,” he said. “We are sparing no effort in all of the above works.”

In discussing the attacks, however, Mr. Wen did not address the possibility that some of the attackers might have been mentally ill.
471 2010-05-15 Rob McConnell, a jazz trombonist, composer and arranger who led one of the few successful big bands to emerge in the 1960s, died on May 1 in Toronto, where he lived. He was 75.     The cause was cancer, said his wife, Anne Gibson....
472 2010-05-16 The Humane Society commissioned the report, by a former newspaperman, on Richard Berman, one of its regular foes....
473 2010-05-16 Deborah Remington, a New York painter who countered the accepted trends of her time by incorporating a sense of real light and space into her abstract images, died April 21 in Moorestown, N.J. She was 79 and had homes in New York and Chester, Pa.

The cause was cancer, her cousin Craig Remington said.

Ms. Remington’s work is represented in many museums throughout the United States and Europe and was the subject of a 20-year survey at the Newport Harbor Art Museum in California in 1985.

In the late 1960s and ’70s, when Ms. Remington was starting out, abstract painting was supposed to be as objectlike as possible. Illusions of light and space were considered obsolete.

But Ms. Remington — a grandniece of the Western artist Frederic Remington — painted as painters had since the Renaissance and embraced illusion as the raison d’être of painting, abstract or not.

Her surfaces were smooth and tight, devoid of signs of the hand. Her palette — almost as fixed as Mondrian’s — emphasized shades of gray and silver heightened by undiluted fields of red, blue and green. Her images centered on reflective shards and metallic fragments that suggested bits of space crafts, car bodies, shields or mirrors. They usually floated before a void of infinite, glowing space, like signs from another dimension that were trying to tell us something.
474 2010-05-16 SANTIAGO, Chile — A judge charged a Pakistani man with illegal possession of explosives, but released him after finding no evidence linking him to terrorist networks.

The court threw out the more severe charge of illicit association of a terrorist character against the man, Mohamed Saif ur-Rehman Khan, who was detained last week after traces of explosive material were detected on his belongings during a check at the United States Embassy in Santiago.

Mr. Khan, a 28-year-old student and hotel clerk, was detained for five days at a high security prison in Santiago under Chile’s antiterrorism law. He was released Saturday night after a four-hour closed court session, but was prohibited from leaving the Santiago metropolitan area for 120 days while state prosecutors continue to investigate the origin of the explosive material tetryl, which was found on his cellphone and documents.

“They rejected evidence linking my client to terrorist activities,” said Gabriel Carrión, a public defender.
475 2010-05-16 Mayor Richard M. Daley shrugged and insisted to reporters last week that his latest effort at “enhanced Web transparency” — publishing Freedom of Information Act requests as they are filed — was all about better government. As the mayor tends to say so often: Let’s be realistic.

Local news media have long pushed the notoriously opaque Daley administration to open City Hall’s filing cabinets wider and more readily. And now that a recent change in Illinois’s “sunshine law” requires every government body to keep a log of requests for public documents, the City of Chicago has decided to go a step beyond the mandate and publish who is asking for which files. No other Illinois city has taken such a step.

The mayor is apparently relishing the opportunity to have reporters see what it is like to be, as he says, “scrootened.” Thanks to a new feature added this week to www.cityofchicago.org, the activities of hypercompetitive investigative reporters are exposed for the public — and rivals — to view the moment they begin following up on tips about the Daley administration’s activities.

For those who have not enjoyed the thrust and parry of information requests with the city, here is what it is like:

When I once filed a request for the mayor’s personal appointment calendar, his aides said they could not provide the information because it would take too long to delete the personal contact information of Mr. Daley’s bodyguards from the documents.

A request for a detailed list of Mr. Daley’s travel expenses related to his failed bid to host the 2016 Summer Olympics resulted in the explanation that it would be too much work to provide a complete accounting.

Early last year, when cities were competing for a share of more than $800 billion in federal stimulus money, Mr. Daley alone among city mayors refused to release his wish list. After the mayor said at a news conference that he had opted against transparency because he did not want to endure news media criticism of the list while his petition to Washington was pending, my then-colleagues at The Chicago Tribune demanded the list under the Freedom of Information Act.
476 2010-05-16 MEXICO CITY (AP) — A former Mexican presidential candidate who has remained a power broker in the ruling party was missing amid signs of violence, the federal Attorney General’s Office said Saturday.

Prosecutors said that the car of the former candidate, Diego Fernández de Cevallos, was found near his ranch in the central state of Querétaro. They said some of his belongings were found inside the car as well as unspecified “signs of violence.”

The Mexican newspaper El Universal reported that federal sources said Mr. Fernández de Cevallos had been kidnapped, but a federal prosecutor’s spokeswoman could not confirm that.

The Querétaro state attorney general, Arsenio Durán, told the radio station Formato 21 that investigators found some of Mr. Fernández de Cevallos’s belongings inside the car and a small pair of scissors with traces of blood on the ground near the car. Relatives told the authorities that no one had contacted them to ask for a ransom.

Mr. Fernández de Cevallos, 69, was the 1994 presidential candidate of the National Action Party that now governs Mexico and he has continued to be an influential figure, as well as one of Mexico’s most successful attorneys.

He emerged from relative obscurity during Mexico’s first televised debate by presidential candidates in 1994, striking a chord with the middle class with his calls to topple the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which had held power since 1929.
477 2010-05-16 The anecdote is one of scores of compelling insider accounts in “The Promise,” an impressively reported, myth-debunking and timely combination of journalism and history.

Drawing on interviews with more than 200 people, including Mr. Obama and virtually all principals of the White House staff, Mr. Alter seeks to answer three broad questions: What happened in Year One? What is President Obama (whom he calls “professor in chief”) really like? And how has he performed so far?

Mr. Alter is well suited to pursue what he conceded was an ambitious goal, before the ink was very dry on Mr. Obama’s initial series of executive orders and bill signatures. A senior editor at Newsweek, Mr. Alter was the author of “The Defining Moment: F.D.R.’s Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,” a best seller about the first months of Franklin D. Roosevelt’s presidency during the Great Depression, a time with obvious parallels to the present.

Mr. Alter, who is also a correspondent for NBC News and MSNBC, customarily focuses on politics. But he does a commendable job of clarifying the complex economic issues Mr. Obama faced before and after the 2008 election.

While “The Promise” duly — and somewhat dully — addresses topics like the president’s personality and his off-hours recreational basketball games, the real meat of the book is about the execution of Mr. Obama’s stimulus package, the bank bailouts, health care overhaul and efforts at job creation.

Mr. Alter gives the president high marks, but with qualifications. He notes that Mr. Obama has presided over roughly $1.5 trillion in government outlays (the $700 billion authorized by Mr. Bush’s TARP program, as well as $800 billion in stimulus spending).

And look at some of the results: When Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, the book notes, the economy was shrinking and losing 741,000 jobs a month. By January 2010, the economy was growing at a nearly 6 percent pace and losing about 20,000 jobs a month. In the interim, banks paid back most of their $700 billion bailout.

The author says Mr. Obama hasn’t received the public credit he deserves for engineering an economic turnaround while simultaneously effecting major social initiatives. Along with health care overhaul, Mr. Alter says, the accomplishments include “the biggest tax cuts for the middle class since Reagan, the biggest infrastructure bill” since the interstate highway law, “the biggest education bill since Lyndon Johnson’s first federal aid to education, the biggest scientific and medical research investment in 40 years, and the biggest clean energy bill ever” (all in the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act).

Mr. Obama’s own political strategies are partly to blame for this lack of recognition, the author says. “The White House didn’t want the public thinking that Obama had achieved long-sought public policy objectives under the guise of merely stimulating the economy,” he writes, “even though that’s exactly what had happened.”

MR. ALTER provides ample evidence that Mr. Obama is not a “socialist,” as contended by some conservative commentators. The author describes at length how the president acceded to recommendations from Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, and Lawrence H. Summers, the economic adviser, to bail out banks deemed “too big to fail” and to defer substantive structural reform of Wall Street in favor of incrementally increased regulation.

The book also takes the president to task, saying that he didn’t show the public he felt compassion for its economic hardships and failed to “convince the middle class that he was focused enough on their No. 1 concern: jobs.” The author further contends that when Mr. Obama faced a choice between siding with banks or with homeowners in the mortgage crisis, “he was sticking with the banks.”

Still, critics of Mr. Obama may contend that Mr. Alter, who seems moderately liberal in his views, is lending the president a too-sympathetic ear. Mr. Alter repeatedly refers to Mr. Obama’s chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, a fellow Chicagoan, on a first-name basis. And Mr. Alter’s summary dismissal of prominent liberal skeptics like the New York Times columnist Paul Krugman and conservative skeptics in general suggests that he is generally in accord with administration policies.

The question is whether Mr. Alter’s next book will cover an Obama presidency that continues through Year Four or Year Eight.
478 2010-05-16 The size of the open Web — built without Facebook’s help — is hard to appreciate. In 2008, Google announced that its search engine had “crawled,” that is, collected and indexed material from, one trillion unique URLs, or Web addresses.

“The beauty of the Web is that it is open, and anyone can crawl it,” says Matt Cutts, a software engineer at Google.

But Facebook does not permit Google to reach most categories of information placed on the site, says Mr. Cutts, adding, “Google can only know what it can crawl.”

Susan Herring, professor of information science at Indiana University, sees it this way: “What the statistics point to is a rise in Facebook, a decline in blogging, and before that, a decline in personal Web pages. The trend is clear, she said — Facebook is displacing these other forms of online publication.

Barry Schnitt, a Facebook spokesman, said his company provides Google with access to public profiles of members and status updates for public Facebook pages, formerly called “fan pages.” He said it also has announced plans to work with Microsoft on its Bing search engine, allowing Bing to publish the status updates of individual members whose privacy settings permit display to “everyone.”

The Facebook model of organizing the world’s information involves a mix of personally sensitive information, impersonal information that is potentially widely useful, and information whose sensitivity and usefulness falls in between. It’s a tangle created by Facebook’s origins as the host of unambiguously nonpublic messaging among college students.

The company’s desire now to help out “the world” — an aim that wasn’t mentioned on its “About” page two years ago — has led it to inflict an unending succession of privacy policy changes on its members.

People often talk about the two leading social networking sites in a way that sounds like they’re a single entity: FacebookandTwitter. But the two are fundamentally different. Facebook began with a closed, friends-only model, and today has moved to a private-public hybrid, resetting members’ default privacy settings. By contrast, most Twitter users elect to use the service to address the general public.

Facebook has redefined the way its users go about obtaining information.

“Information is becoming less of a destination that we seek online,” says Anthony J. Rotolo, assistant professor of practice in the School of Information Studies at Syracuse University. “Instead we are expecting it to come to us in a social stream.”

In the Facebook stream, friends, not search engines, are the trusted sources.

“Just because someone belongs to your social network, it doesn’t make them a good source,” Professor Rotolo says. “But there’s a natural inclination to assume that a person possesses reliable information because it’s person-to-person.”

This is what Professor Herring calls a “recommender model” of getting information. And she sees it as replacing the search-engine model. She points to the recent introduction of the Facebook “Like” button at Web sites, which allows Facebook to note recommendations of those sites among one’s friends. The record of who clicks that “Like” button, however, is not part of the open Web; it’s Facebook’s. The public visibility of users’ Likes on Facebook depends on their privacy settings.

DEFENDERS of the Facebook information stream argue that it doesn’t displace the open Web, but that it merely adds a new layer of information to it. Yet there is a cost: more time spent dispensing recommendations among friends on Facebook means less for similar contributions elsewhere. Members now spend more than 500 billion minutes a month on Facebook, a company fact sheet says.

The links on the trillion Web addresses found by Google, and within the billions of Tweets that have followed, form an incomparably vast, truly worldwide, web of recommendations, supplied by fellow humans.

In this sense, the open Web has a strong claim to being more “social” than does Facebook.
479 2010-05-16 Emily Suzanne Weisbauer and Adam Jacob Gould were married Saturday evening at Bedell Cellars, a winery in Cutchogue, N.Y. The Rev. Debra A. Viola, an interfaith minister ordained by the Sanctuary of Peace & Harmony, officiated.

The bride and bridegroom met at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, from which they both graduated.

Mrs. Gould, 35, is the director of program marketing and advertising at Showtime Networks in New York. She is responsible for developing brand marketing and consumer advertising programs for the network’s original series. She is the daughter of Cecilia H. Weisbauer and Peter H. Weisbauer of Mahwah, N.J.

Mr. Gould, 38, works in New York as a senior consultant at Advent Software, a provider of software to financial institutions based in San Francisco. He is the son of Elayne L. Gould and Howard J. Gould of East Meadow, N.Y.
480 2010-05-16 And there was Mr. Johnson on the BBC again, lauding the new arrangements to the skies.

“I think with a kind of weird genius, the British people looked at what was on offer and decided they didn’t want an overwhelming Conservative majority, they certainly didn’t want Gordon Brown again, they wanted a mixture,” he said. “This coalition led by David Cameron — I just said it was like a cross between a bulldog and chihuahua, but what I meant is it will have a fantastic hybrid vigor. What you could sum it up as is compassionate conservatism.”

Maybe, he said, “the British people have actually done something rather brilliant.”

Mr. Johnson, as usual, was being mischievous in using the bulldog analogy to refer to his great Conservative rival, Mr. Cameron (both were educated at Eton, were at Oxford in the 1980s, and have aristocratic forebears), while comparing the fresh-faced, debonair Mr. Clegg, a Cambridge graduate (“that other place,” to Oxford men), to a chihuahua. But early opinion polls suggested that as much as 80 percent of the British electorate, including many who had just voted Labour, approved of the coalition.

Still, Mr. Cameron and Mr. Clegg have acknowledged that their partnership will be difficult. “If you want to spend the next five years looking for Lib Dem politicians who signal disagreement with Conservative politicians about this or that, or a slightly nuanced policy, you can find lots,” Mr. Cameron said. “We have different parties and we have different ideas,” Mr. Clegg said. But both said they expected the government to last a full five-year parliamentary term.

Still, there were signs that forces in both parties were girding for battle over concessions that made the coalition possible. Mr. Cameron faced a backbench revolt over proposed legislation for “fixed term” Parliaments of five years. Saying they want an end to “short-termism” in government — and a chance to show that coalitions can work — the partners said they would curb the House of Commons’ power to topple governments by simple majority vote and seek a rule requiring a second vote with a 55 percent majority. Conservative backbenchers deemed that a usurpation of the Commons’ power to declare a lack of confidence in unpopular governments.

And that was just the iceberg’s tip. Points of potential conflict in and between the parties include taxes, social spending cuts, immigration, education, defense and voting reforms. And both parties have internal differences that go to the heart of the way Britain is governed.

The striking thing about Mr. Cameron and Mr. Clegg, greeting each other at No. 10 Wednesday morning, was how youthful they are — both 43, the age of John F. Kennedy at his inauguration. There was a matching freshness in their view of what politics and government are all about.

Mr. Cameron, in what amounted to his own inaugural speech, paraphrased Kennedy’s, urging Britons to ask not “What am I owed?” but “What can I give?” Then, in the garden, he looked on admiringly as Mr. Clegg spoke of the “new kind of government” they would usher in.

Mr. Cameron said both men considered letting the two parties go their own way, with the Conservatives establishing a minority government and the Liberal Democrats staying outside, voting their interest and their conscience and backing the Conservatives on critical votes. But then, he said, “we both sort of looked at it and thought, ‘This is so uninspiring.’ We can do it, it might last for a month, or six months or maybe a year, or perhaps a bit longer, but it’s not going to do what we came into politics to achieve, which is to give the country good government.’ ”

“We’re looking at the bigger picture,” he said, “what a strong, stable government can achieve.”

Such a view of government seemed redolent, in its way, of their shared experience as sons of Britain’s most privileged class — wealthy families, elite schools, country houses and, for Mr. Clegg, a father with a 25-room chateau in France. In British politicians, as with American patricians like Kennedy, that kind of privilege has often engendered a sense of politics as a civic calling, an opportunity to give back.

But if that helped carry both men to their coalition, it could also prove a liability in Britain, where much in politics remains ideological, classbound and tribal. In a way, that is a lesson from the experience of Tony Blair, who, with a background only slightly less privileged than Mr. Cameron’s and Mr. Clegg’s, sought to transcend old divides and occupy a new political center, with the project named “New Labour.” That ultimately foundered as the old Labour of the unions and class struggle (aided by Mr. Blair’s misadventure in Iraq) pushed him out in favor of an instinctive class warrior, Gordon Brown.

Now, with the Labour leader defeated and discredited, Mr. Cameron and Mr. Clegg have a similar project of their own — a partnership between their parties that seeks to occupy the same center ground. But the early stirrings against them, among followers similarly reluctant to surrender the familiar certainties, suggest that they, too, may ultimately find that old party loyalties and convictions may prove stronger than their project can bear.
481 2010-05-16 Johannes Caspar, the data protection supervisor for Hamburg, who is leading the German government’s dealings with Google on the issue, said the company’s revelation of illegal data collection would be taken up by a panel of European national data protection chiefs that advises the European Commission.

“This is a data scandal of a much larger magnitude,” Mr. Caspar said. “We are talking here about the large-scale collection of private data on individuals.”

He declined to speculate what action European officials might take.

Mr. Caspar said he had inspected one of Google’s Street View recording vehicles at the company’s invitation this month and had noticed that the recording device’s hard drive had been removed. When he asked to view the drive, he said he was told he couldn’t read the information anyway because it was encoded. He said he pressed Google to disclose what type of information was being collected, which prompted the company to examine the storage unit.

“I am glad that this cat-and-mouse game with Google is finally over,” Mr. Caspar said. “I hope now that the company does what it says it will do.”

Over the weekend, Germany's federal commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Peter Schaar, asked Google to let an independent regulator examine one of the hard drives to determine how much data had actually been collected on individuals.

In a blog posting written late Saturday on his official government Web site, Mr. Schaar, who is also a member of the panel that advises the European Commission on privacy and data protection issues, questioned whether Google's collection of the data was a simple oversight, as the company has maintained.

‘‘So everything was a simple oversight, a software error!'' Mr. Schaar wrote. ‘‘The data was collected and stored against the will of the project's managers and other managers at Google. If we follow this logic further, this means: The software was installed and used without being properly tested beforehand. Billions of bits of data were mistakenly collected, without anyone in Google noticing it, including Google's own internal data protection managers, who two weeks ago were defending to us the company's internal data protection practices.''

“I think this is going to damage the company irreparably,” said Simon Davies, the director of Privacy International, a London-based group of privacy advocates from 40 countries. “Three years ago the company was wearing a halo. But over the past year it has moved substantially in the direction of being perceived as Big Brother.”

Kay Oberbeck, a Google spokesman in Hamburg, said the company was in contact with data protection officials in Germany and in the rest of Europe to address their concerns. He disputed the notion that Google was recklessly collecting private information, saying the company’s services were meant to let users control what information is made public.

“This was obviously a mistake, and we are profoundly sorry,” Mr. Oberbeck said. “We take individual privacy very seriously at Google. There was a breakdown in the communication between teams and within teams, and we are investigating this and want to take up the lessons we learn from this to improve our processes and to have instruments installed which are really robust to make this never happen again.”

Google was collecting the data on locations of wireless networks to improve geolocation for mobile devices. Some cellphones can determine their location by scanning for nearby wireless networks and comparing that information to databases like the one Google has compiled.

Google plans to hire an outside auditor to investigate what personal data was collected through Street View. The improper collection of data came to light, Mr. Oberbeck said, after German data protection officials asked Google two weeks ago to detail exactly what information it had collected from household wireless local area networks, or WLANs.

Initially, Google had told German officials that the data it had collected was limited to just two bits of information: the publicly broadcast ID number of the device, which is called a MAC address, and the name assigned to it by the owner, called an SSID.

But in its review, Mr. Oberbeck said the company learned that its data collection performed by roving Street View vehicles was much more extensive, including a record of sites viewed by the user and potentially the contents of messages if users did not secure their WLANS with a password.

Despite its internal efforts to address the situation, Google may face an uphill battle in Germany overcoming skepticism about its intentions. So far, thousands of Germans have signed up to have their properties excluded from Google’s Street View archives.

If Google’s software makes a mistake, it could be costly for the company. Till Steffen, the justice senator for the city-state of Hamburg, where Google’s German headquarters is located, said Google’s latest disclosure raised questions about its intent to follow local laws.

Mr. Steffen has introduced a bill in the German Parliament that would fine Google for displaying personal property in Street View without the consent of owners. On Saturday, he demanded that Google turn over the illegally obtained information to regulators.

“Google is in the process of frittering away its last shred of credibility,” Mr. Steffen said. “The company must immediately disclose to what degree it has secretly eavesdropped as we’ve sent e-mails to friends in Germany and the rest of Europe or as we’ve done our banking in the Internet.”

Mr. Steffen on May 7 introduced a bill in the upper house of the German Parliament that would fine Google 50,000 euros, or $62,500, for each time it failed to remove the personal property of a citizen who requested to be exempted from Street View. Action on the bill is not likely before summer.

The latest episode will further complicate Google’s business in Europe, where the company has faced a series of legal entanglements over privacy issues.

In April, data protection regulators from eight European countries and Israel and New Zealand sent a joint letter to Google’s chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, criticizing the company’s Buzz social networking service, which unwittingly publicized the connections of some users without their permission.

In Switzerland, Google has agreed to halt the display of further Street View images pending the outcome of a court case lodged by Swiss federal data protection officials.
482 2010-05-16 A Bronx storefront operation cranks out custom T-shirt designs color-coordinated with the latest sneakers to hit the streets....
483 2010-05-16 Reviewing “The Collected Stories of Deborah Eisenberg” (April 18), Jean Thompson says, “What such stories lack is a narrative killer instinct, the coup de grace that gives an ending a sense of finality.” To discuss these stories on the level of how neatly they are wrapped misses the point and quite likely the author’s intention. Eisenberg’s stories work on the level of riddles or koans. Just as in life, more often than not, these characters would rather go on suffering than change. Eisenberg seems intent on not just following their actions but on revealing their inner dynamics and pressures while allowing them the possibility of waking from their dream. There’s something here more tender and subtly dangerous, and more infinitely generous, than what the reviewer has found.
484 2010-05-16 Not all brokers, however, believe that inviting the public is worth the time and trouble, preferring instead to restrict open houses to other agents.

“I am the antithesis of the public open house,” said Mark Seiden, who owns a real estate office in Briarcliff Manor. “I’ve done that — invited all the neighbors, put up balloons and signs, and given people tours of the house. But in a year of more than 100 public open houses, all I got was a ton of what we call ‘looky-loos’ in the trade, and only one property sold.”

As a result, these days Mr. Seiden sticks to brokers-only open houses, and doesn’t offer lunch or a drawing for a bottle of wine as an enticement, as some agents do. If a house is priced right, he said, the other brokers will come.

Loretta Rapisardi of Julia B. Fee Sotheby’s International Realty in Rye, sees it differently. “The idea is to get as much exposure as you can,” she said. “There have been a couple of cases just within the past few weeks when someone walked into a public open house and purchased it on the spot.”

That is not to say that Ms. Rapisardi doesn’t also ply her trade using broker-only open houses and advertising heavily. But she has become partial to the public open houses. “You can never have enough exposure,” she insisted.

Bradley and Kathy Brammer, associate brokers for Keller Williams Realty in White Plains, specialize in open houses. They routinely send out postcards to announce events and knock on doors to remind neighbors that a house near them is for sale. Mr. Brammer’s rationale is that neighbors often refer friends and relatives. Typically, their open houses attract about 15 people, often in groups: couples with children and sometimes even grandparents.

Using the open house in a more limited fashion, Sona Davidian, a broker-owner at McClellan Sotheby’s International Realty in Pelham, sees it as a way to gain exposure for languishing or less desirable properties, like homes on main roads or near highways. And in a community like Pelham, which does not allow “for sale” signs, the public event is a kind of public announcement.

As for the inherent security risks, brokers urge caution but say that incidents of riffled or stolen belongings are few and far between.

“Over the years, there have been allegations of things missing after a public open house,” said P. Gilbert Mercurio, the chief executive officer of the Westchester Putnam Association of Realtors and the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. “We’ve heard of that from time to time, but it’s rare.”

Leah Caro, a Bronxville broker who is president of the realtors’ association, said that visitors at virtually all open houses are required to present photo identification and to sign in. Then, if something turns out to be missing, the police have the names of those who attended and the time of day they were in the house.

“We’ve never had a problem in Pelham,” Ms. Davidian said. “But I still tell my clients it wouldn’t be wise to leave their Rolex on the dining-room table.”

Nancy and Steven Zang, who are selling a four-bedroom three-story colonial in West Harrison for $1.325 million, opened their house to the public last week. The couple are moving closer to Manhattan, where Mr. Zang works in the finance industry.

“We need as much exposure as possible to sell in this market,” Ms. Zang said, “so we agreed to do it, despite our concerns.”

Their open house on May 8 drew about a dozen lookers, including a couple with children, a small group of people who arrived with a broker, and of course a curious neighbor, said Ms. Rapisardi, their broker. Although no one offered to buy the house on the spot, one couple asked for a tour of the neighborhood.

Ms. Zang, who left out a small bench in the kitchen where the children of prospective buyers could play, returned home to find everything in order. She is hosting another open house Sunday, part of a countywide event held by Sothebys offices in Westchester.

Information on dates and locations of public open houses can be found at the Web site of Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service: wpmls.rapmls.com
485 2010-05-16 What if your child wrote a book about your life? How would the story of your days read when channeled through those shrewd, ­judgmental eyes? Would you seem like God when God walked in the garden, or would you seem like Papa Doc, the tyrant, the crafter of rules and breaker of ­treaties?

This is what happened to Mark Twain. His 13-year-old daughter, Susy, in secret, chronicled his life. From her notes, the source of a great new book — “The Extraordinary Mark Twain” — you can conclude either that he was the best father who ever lived, or that he was simply favored by his era, that time before muckraking memoirs and celebrity-daughter tell-alls. Or perhaps a bit of both.

Written by Barbara Kerley and illustrated by Edwin Fotheringham, “The Extraordinary Mark Twain” began with one of those tantalizing tidbits writers sometimes stumble across. Kerley, whose previous works include “What to Do About Alice?” and “Walt Whitman: Words for America,” happened to spot a footnote about a “biography” that Susy, Twain’s eldest daughter, had written. “I was immediately intrigued,” Kerley writes in an author’s note. “Having been the parent of a 13-year-old girl myself, I know they tend to call it like they see it.”

Kerley has used Susy’s text, from a notebook filled with the neat cursive of the day, to construct a kind of dual bio­graphy, the story of Twain and the story of Susy telling the story of Twain. Every few pages, Kerley includes samples of the journal, minibooks stapled to the spine: “His favorite game is billiards,” Susy writes, “and when he is tired . . . he stays up all night and plays. . . . It seems to rest his head.”

Twain is the great hero of American literature, the father of us all, the author of “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn,”but also the world traveler and story-spinner. Kerley gives us a quick sketch of the boy who became the artist, the early years in Hannibal, Mo., the life of the steamboat pilot, the life of the newspaperman and the life of the young author. It’s a story told also in Fotheringham’s pictures, which suggest works of American folk art — the side-wheelers crowding the harbor, the green hills above the river town, the author laughing as he reads his own book.

But more than the public man, what you get here is the husband and father, the private figure named Samuel Clemens. The authors — by the end, Barbara Kerley and Susy Clemens seem like co-authors of this book — tell you what you want to know about Twain: He paced the floor between courses at meal time; he threw his shirts out the window; he wrote all day, breakfast till dinner, filling 50 pages at a pop; he talked to the cat; he hid from fans but now and then got stuck when (Susy quoting Twain) “mentally dead people brought their corpses with them for a long visit.”
486 2010-05-16 Looking at different picture books can feel like taking different kinds of walks in the wood. As you turn the pages the pictures influence the pace at which you read and the attention you give to the images. Some books may feel like being in a forest with tree branches beckoning forward, encouraging you to move at a steady pace down the path. (William Steig is the master of this kind of book, his drawings, easy-going and efficient, so inextricably linked to his words that they lead effortlessly to the conclusion.) An­other kind of book may feel more like a great allée of oaks where you are inclined to stop and admire the whorls and indentations of particular trees. In yet another, the experience is more akin to walking through an arboretum, where every turn brings you face to face with an exciting new specimen of bush or flower.

Each of the books considered here is about an animal on a journey, but they are illustrated in strongly contrasting styles, and in their approaches they exemplify my three kinds of “walks in the wood.”

“Herbert,” written and illustrated by Robyn Belton, is the true story of a little dog who falls off a boat in frigid New Zealand waters and who miraculously survives for more than 30 hours until he is rescued. Belton wisely uses sketchy yet realistic drawings to move us through the story to reach its dramatic and heartwarming conclusion.

The effect of the art is filmic, in that one image points forward to the next, and also emotional. For all the art’s looseness, it manages to capture tender details. A drawing of the boy in the story, for example, subtly suggests his anxiety as he watches his father’s boat leave the pier with Herbert, his dog, on board.

Later in the story, an image of the little dog struggling through the huge waves of a storm, described with a few lines and the black dot of a nose emerging from big watercolor washes, conveys his desperate plight. This is a true adventure yarn that is well matched to its straight-ahead illustrations.

“Sally’s Great Balloon Adventure,” written and illustrated by Stephen Huneck, has pictures that are as solid and rooted to the page as the wooden blocks from which the artist printed the images. The powerfully simplified and colorful woodcuts tell the story of Sally, the black Lab, following her nose to a picnic lunch sitting in the basket of a hot-air balloon. Whoops! The balloon takes off, and after an anxious ride observed by people on the ground, Sally is saved by responding to shouts of “Tug of war, tug of war!” — she gives a rope a hard pull and, happily, her prompt action gets the balloon back on the ground.
487 2010-05-16 FOR much of the last 20 years, the real estate mogul Joseph Moinian has been on a shopping spree, buying up some 20 million square feet of residential, industrial and office space. Now he’s looking to sell. His five-bedroom Park Avenue apartment has been on the market for over a year, and last weekend it hit the sale rack.

Mr. Moinian cut the sticker price on the 11-room co-op to $7.9 million, from $8.995 million.

The 4,000-square-foot apartment is on the 15th floor of 1045 Park Avenue, at the corner of 86th Street. It was originally two apartments, and he and his wife, Nazee, combined it into a full-floor home with the bedrooms clustered at one end and the living room, library and dining room at the other end.

According to the listing, the apartment has 10-foot beamed ceilings and 8-foot-wide windows; it comes with free parking in a nearby garage and a one-year subscription to a concierge service. Perhaps they could help arrange trips to other extremely high-end sales.

The apartment is listed with Jacky Teplitzky, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman. Ms. Teplitzky said she would not discuss the listing.
488 2010-05-16 It’s not as if anyone is ever at a loss for words in John Logan’s "Red." So many of them are uttered, with such sharpshooting intensity and theatrical flourish, you wouldn’t think there would be much room for the unspoken. But there comes a moment in this concentrated study of artistic creation when the painter Mark Rothko (Alfred Molina) and his young assistant, Ken (Eddie Redmayne, right, with Mr. Molina), lay down their words, pick up their brushes and get physical. If the play has been acted at a fever pitch up to that point, it now rises to a level of heat that thermometers can’t measure.

What these men are doing here is a workaday task for an artist. They’re priming a canvas — that is, applying the undercoat on which Rothko will subsequently paint. But there’s nothing workaday about the fury with which these actors attack their job. They do it with a speed and intensity that suggests both rage and ecstasy, antagonistic competitiveness and familial collaboration. The primer, by the way, is red, and it gets all over these guys’ clothes and skin, and they’re soon looking like desperadoes at the end of a Sam Peckinpah movie. Are they making love or war? The mood music that Rothko has put on, a soaring aria from Gluck’s “Iphigénie en Aulide,” is equally appropriate to either activity. And all the talk that has preceded this scene — about the Dionysian spirit and the Oedipal clash of artistic generations — and the implicit mutual resentment and fascination that has been festering between the men find a pulse-quickening, visceral outlet. The director, Michael Grandage, and his actors have given us a physical — and triumphantly theatrical — correlative for intellectual tensions. Mr. Molina and Mr. Redmayne are breathing hard by the end of this scene. So is the audience, which probably feels as one that a post-coital cigarette wouldn’t be inappropriate.”
489 2010-05-16 For the salsa:

1 cup fresh pineapple, peeled and diced

1 tablespoon fresh jalapeño, seeded and diced, or other hot pepper, to taste

For the pork chops:

8 thin pork chops, ½-inch thick or less

2. In a large, nonreactive bowl, add the pineapple, jalapeño, ginger, oil, fish sauce and lime juice and stir lightly. Taste and add more fish sauce, if desired.

3. When charcoal is gray and flames have just started to die, or when grill is very hot, season pork chops aggressively with salt and pepper and place on grill. Cook for roughly 3 minutes a side until well seared on the outside and done on the inside.
490 2010-05-16 Early on, almost all print publications decided to offer free access to their online content, which over time cut into their print circulation. In theory, the industry should have been able to absorb the gradual loss of paying readers. Advertising always accounted for the vast majority of the publishers’ revenues — with newspapers, 80 percent was the rule of thumb — and because publications could reach vastly larger audiences online, it seemed reasonable to expect that they’d be able to make more money from ads. But instead, online ads sell at rates that are a fraction of those for print, for simple reasons of competition. “In a print world you had pretty much a limited amount of inventory — pages in a magazine,” says Domenic Venuto, managing director of the online marketing firm Razorfish. “In the online world, inventory has become infinite.”

“Maybe this is what success looks like,” says Nick Denton, speaking of his own business, Gawker Media — a popular and profitable network of Web sites covering technology, sports and celebrity news — as well as of disruptive ventures like Craigslist, the free site that has decimated classified advertising, once a lucrative source of income for newspapers. “You can have destroyed hundreds of millions of dollars, or billions of dollars, of revenue for other people,” Denton says, “but without capturing it all yourself.”

Yet for some — possibly foolhardy — reason, a lot of people still want to work in journalism, and even amid the depths of the recession, there have been stirrings of creativity. A multitude of younger, nimbler enterprises have popped up, unencumbered by the past and ready to try anything. History suggests that few of these ventures will ultimately survive: Web start-ups have a failure rate between 70 and 90 percent. But it’s quite possible that the experiments they’re staging are already producing the kind of innovations that make for new, sustainable business models.

The Faster Times went online last July, with a blast of publicity and a triumphant party in a Manhattan bookstore. The site had enlisted correspondents in 20 countries, and beats devoted to science, food, travel and the arts, in addition to goofier subjects, like time travel and jet packs. The whimsy aside, Sam Apple took his task seriously. “The crisis of American journalism,” he wrote in the mission statement, is “a financial crisis. Opinions posted on blogs are cheap. Great journalism is expensive.”

With any luck, he was about to discover it was also worth something.

You can’t call it a dot-com boom — there is not much capital, there are no parties with catered sushi and no one is expecting to get rich. But this generation of start-ups does share at least one trait with its 1990s predecessors: a conviction that they’re the vanguard of an unfolding revolution. One morning, as a March gale howled down Broadway, I visited the editors of the Web site True/Slant. Their loftlike office, in a vintage SoHo building, was bare, white and slightly chilly, as if designed to reflect the present ethic of austerity. With just five employees, True/Slant has built a significant audience since it started last year: about a million readers visit the site at least once a month, a number similar to the online following of The Village Voice or The Charlotte Observer. The site owes its modest but growing success to the work of more than 300 part-time contributors. It’s not so much a unified publication as a loosely connected commune of bloggers, who generate a continual stream of content with minimal editorial intervention. The company calls what it is doing “entrepreneurial journalism” and says it’s the future of the profession.

True/Slant is the creation of a lean, gray-bearded 57-year-old named Lewis Dvorkin. He began his career working at newspapers and magazines, and peppers his conversation with references to sainted editors of an earlier era. “I’m old enough to be a bit of a bridge from that world to whatever world we’re in today,” he told me. Dvorkin’s more recent and pertinent experience, however, came as a content-programming executive at AOL, where he played a role in creating the celebrity gossip site TMZ, which has since developed one of the largest audiences on the Web. A few years ago, he started toying with the idea that eventually led to True/Slant: could technology allow you to create a news organization without any of the familiar editorial hierarchies?

At True/Slant, Dvorkin told me, “you are the sole producer, creator, programmer of your content. That reduces — and this is key — the cost structure.” He started the site with a modest $3 million investment from Fuse Capital and Forbes Media, picking its name off a list of compound words that were made up by a Web developer. All of True/Slant’s writers are freelancers and are paid a pittance relative to the salaries offered at established media organizations. “Newsrooms today are high-cost, inefficient content-creation operations that will not be supported by advertising revenues in the digital world,” Dvorkin said. “It just won’t happen.”

Online, advertisers have immense power. Because it’s easy to track who is clicking what, they can aim with efficiency and typically pay according to the number of times their ads are actually viewed. Instead of sending word of its shoe sale to a million print newspaper subscribers, who may or may not be looking for shoes, a store can buy the page views of 50,000 people who are reading articles about fashion. Or the advertiser can place ads on heavily trafficked portal sites like Yahoo and AOL, both of which are currently expanding their production of original journalism. Or it can pay Google to insert its ads into search results. Or it can go to one of the large digital advertising networks that have arisen in recent years and buy unsold “remnant” page views at deep discounts. There is a lot less waste and a lot more choice, and the upshot is that advertising, which once produced robust margins for publishers, now sells for spare change online. Generally speaking, while some ad placements — like those on a site’s home page — go for a significant premium, pages of individual articles, if sold at the going rates, bring in between a penny and nickel each time a reader looks at one.

That’s not to say that it’s impossible to make money. If True/Slant can keep its production costs low and its traffic high, it can collect those pennies and nickels on a scale large enough to turn a profit. There are a couple of ways to do this as an online publisher. You can emphasize quality, producing a limited number of items in the hope that each will attract a great number of readers. Or a publisher can go for quantity, producing a lot of little things that add up in the aggregate. True/Slant’s low-cost newsroom churns out around 125 pieces of content a day.

Many companies practice this strategy at even higher volume. For instance, Examiner.com, owned by the billionaire Philip Anschutz, has a gigantic audience and a nationwide army of 36,000 localized contributors, or “examiners,” who produce articles on subjects like community news, lifestyle issues and pets, and are paid about 1 cent per page view. AOL is trying a similar “citizen journalism” approach on a site called Patch. Probably the most successful example is the Huffington Post, which employs 70 salaried editorial staff members and 6,000 uncompensated bloggers and recently pushed into the nation’s top 10 current-affairs Web sites, according to Nielsen Online, vaulting past sources like The Washington Post. The Huffington Post generates an average of 500 items a day, many of them aggregated content from other sources, and Examiner.com, more than 3,000.

Increasingly the online audience for these sites is coming in side doors, via links on blogs and social-networking Web sites like Facebook. Probably the most important tool for reaching large audiences, however, is Google. If you can climb to the top of the site’s search results, you’re certain to be rewarded with a huge number of clicks. Most publications these days try to harness the Google algorithm through an arcane process known as search-engine optimization. Some are more skilled at this than others. That’s why, as I write in mid-April, a search for the phrase “Eyjafjallajokull Volcano” brings up a Huffington Post photo slide show near the top of its results.

A handful of enterprising new sites, like Associated Content and Demand Media, are now turning the whole process around, generating content that is specifically designed to feed Google’s appetites. They don’t call what they do journalism or care about breaking news, but they say they’re generating huge advertising revenues, and their strategies are being closely watched. “We realized that there was this massive opportunity, that the economics of content and media distribution had shifted, and they had shifted permanently,” says Steven Kydd, who oversees original content production for Demand Media. The company claims to have raked in $200 million in revenue last year and is now reportedly talking to Goldman Sachs about underwriting an initial public offering.

Demand’s business model draws on the skills of thousands of freelance contributors, who pick the topics they address from an automated list of more than 200,000 written and video assignments culled from Internet search requests. The topics are mostly geared toward answering practical questions and are posted to low-profile Web sites like eHow, or to YouTube, with which Demand has a profit-sharing agreement. The company claims to have devised an algorithm that projects precisely how much advertising revenue each assignment will return. It says these mathematically generated ideas are 4.9 times as valuable as those devised by mere human brainstorming.

“Our editors absolutely love this, because they are able to sift through millions of potential titles, and they know that they are all good ideas,” Kydd says. And profitable ones — nothing is assigned unless the algorithm predicts it can cover the costs of production. Demand’s freelancers can make around $15 or $20 per item. “The funny part is, sometimes we’ll ask people who work, say, in newspapers or magazines, ‘How much did that article cost you?’ ” Kydd says. “They literally have no idea.”

That’s changing. Though journalists tend to shudder at Demand Media’s approach, mainstream publishers are starting to co-opt portions of its model. USA Today, for instance, has contracted Demand to supply the content for its Travel Tips Web page, while AOL recently started a Web site called Seed, edited by Saul Hansell, a former New York Times columnist, which generates story ideas from search data. More generally, there is a growing appreciation among those who practice journalism of the Internet’s capacity to tell them what readers want to know.

“For traditional journalists, this is a difficult concept for them to grasp, and one reason it’s difficult is because it’s scary — it’s scary to actually have that data in front of you,” Dvorkin said. “It’s scary to say, wow, this is the audience, and now all of a sudden I have to respond to the audience because this is what they’re interested in.”

Dvorkin and Coates Bateman, a former book editor who runs True/Slant’s daily content operations, showed me around the site’s “dashboard,” the back office of its virtual newsroom. There was a dial, like a digital speedometer, which showed the volume of page views on the site and a list of trending topics on Google and Twitter, topped by the confection of the moment, the teenage-pop sensation Justin Bieber. (Sure enough, within an hour or so, a Bieber-related True/Slant post appeared.) There was a list that ranked the most-viewed items and metrics that tracked how they got their traffic — maybe via a link from a popular blogger, or the recommendation tool Digg. Most eerily, there was a little algorithm-driven display that showed contributors what other people were saying about their work out in the blogosphere — eavesdropping, in real time.

True/Slant structures its compensation to give writers an incentive to hustle for readers’ attention. Contributors are paid a monthly retainer and scaled bonuses based on how many people read their articles. The money isn’t enough to live off — the entrepreneurial journalist has many gigs — but True/Slant is reasonably generous in comparison with, say, the Huffington Post, which pays its nonstaff bloggers nothing but esteem. Most writers make a few hundred dollars a month if they hit their traffic targets, and a few big names, like the professional controversialist Matt Taibbi, make quite a bit more. In fact, if you break it down, True/Slant pays its writers more than the amount of revenue their work generates at the current online advertising rates. Stripped down as it is, the start-up isn’t yet turning a profit, and it’s now in the process of raising a second round of venture capital.

I asked Bateman, as a matter of raw economics, how much an individual article is worth to True/Slant’s bottom line, on average. He told me he calculated it out: around $10.

Sam Apple and I were sitting in a hushed and crowded cafe, amid the soft glow of open laptops. “I thought at the beginning that if I could create a top-notch journalistic outlet, and if I could do that at a small fraction of the cost, maybe advertising could cover it,” he told me. The Faster Times was now eight months old, and Apple was wiser about online economics. The summer before, the site charged out of the gate with a 24-hour posting schedule, a large and enthusiastic staff and guest posts from famous writers like Gary Shteyngart. By the fall, it had acquired a monthly audience of around 200,000 readers, according to the tracking site Quantcast — small compared with the Huffington Post’s but a pretty impressive return on $20,000, in Apple’s opinion. But the revenues that were coming in from Google AdSense, the ad-placement service he was originally using, were so paltry that Apple wondered, when he gave writers their 75 percent share, whether he was actually driving them away.

“I have a friend who is a behavioral economist,” he said. “He says that if you pay people tiny amounts, it’s worse than not paying them at all.” The Faster Times’s first round of payments ranged from $5 to $75. Revenues have increased substantially since Apple switched to another ad service, but the writers’ shares still don’t amount to much. Whether it was because of that, or fickleness, or the attractions of better-paying opportunities, many of the original Faster Times contributors gradually drifted off. Apple was now trying to hatch ideas for alternate sources of revenue, to ease the site’s dependence on advertising. “I still feel like there’s a lot to try,” Apple told me. “We can kind of be a testing ground for the latest experiments.”

Many other publications, confronted with the painful math, have reached the same conclusion: the business needs alternate schemes of support. Some have adapted tried-and-true formulas. The Daily Beast is backed by a generous billionaire, Barry Diller; others are mimicking NPR’s nonprofit model; Politico makes the majority of its revenue from, of all things, advertising in an offshoot print newspaper. Most familiar of all, there’s the subscription route, which the online editions of The Wall Street Journal and The Financial Times have followed with success. The New York Times has announced that early next year it will institute a fee for frequent users of its site. Many analysts are doubtful that the subscription approach will work for everyone — surveys suggest that few consumers are willing to pay for news online. But some start-ups are experimenting with a variation on the idea, premium memberships, which give readers who sign up special access and perks. GlobalPost, an online publication for international news, is currently implementing such a program, offering subscribers the chance to participate in conference-call briefings by freelance correspondents stationed in more than 50 countries, and to vote on articles they’d like to see assigned.

One thing many of these new strategies have in common is a willingness to transgress time-honored barriers — for instance, by blurring the division between reporting and advertising. True/Slant offers to let advertisers use the same blogging tools that contributors do, to produce content that, while labeled, is blended into the rest of the site. Such marketing deals are central to the company’s plans for future revenue growth. “Everywhere I go the whole notion of enabling marketers to create content on a news platform is well received,” Lewis Dvorkin says. “It’s the way the world is moving.”

Not long ago, such an idea would have been considered heretical, and in many newsrooms, it still is. But clearly, attitudes are shifting. “Hopefully we’re breaking down the silliness of how church and state was historically implemented,” says Merrill Brown, a veteran media executive and investor who is currently building a network of local news sites. Once, most journalists took a posture of willful ignorance when it came to the economics of the industry: they never wanted to sully themselves by knowing the business. The recession has, through fear and necessity, made capitalists out of everyone.

The new journalistic entrepreneurs fall into two distinct categories. There are the proprietors, people like Charles M. Sennott, a foreign correspondent who took a Boston Globe buyout and became a founder and an executive editor of GlobalPost, or Alex Balk, Choire Sicha and David Cho, who were cut loose by Radar, a dying magazine, and decided to start the Awl, a smart and idiosyncratic commentary site. Then there are the small-scale entrepreneurs, the journalists who, having found themselves dislodged from a salaried way of living, are now scrambling to piece together a freelance income while building their personal brands. Since one group pays the other — or doesn’t, as the case may be — the two sides are engaged in a symbiotic dance around the issue of valuation. “I don’t think anybody has any idea of what anyone should be paid for a piece anymore,” Sicha says. “It’s more than $25, but less than a thousand . . . I think?” He added that, as of now, the Awl doesn’t pay much to anyone, including himself.

The question of how journalists should be paid is of intense interest to journalists, obviously, but it matters to readers too, in ways they may not realize. Structures of compensation affect the end product, especially when salaries or bonuses­ are tied to the pursuit of traffic, a model that many online start-ups follow. Established publications — some of which are instituting or contemplating similar schemes — are watching the experiment with curiosity and trepidation. Writers and editors know that click-driven Internet economics tend to reward lowbrow gimmickry. They have to decide whether to work around that or to embrace it as a fact of life.

One of the loudest proponents of the latter perspective is Henry Blodget, the editor in chief of Business Insider, a gossipy start-up. His talented staff breaks plenty of news and turns out the occasional high-prestige feature, but Blodget is unapologetic about mixing in a lot of eye candy and isn’t above illustrating articles about A.I.G.’s woes with unrelated photos of attractive women kissing. A former star stock analyst who was banned from the profession amid accusations of securities fraud — he paid $4 million to settle — he says he sees himself as a journalistic outsider, unencumbered by the weight of conventional wisdom. In March he wrote: “Perhaps it’s time to float a new theory: We’re already in the gutter. What we click on accurately reflects what we’re interested in, no matter how much we think and protest and hope to the contrary.” A few days afterward, Blodget engaged in an entertaining multiplatform spat over the issue with the Reuters columnist Felix Salmon, producing the calculation that, in order to earn back a $60,000 annual salary, an online journalist needs to generate a whopping 1.8 million page views a month.

Blodget takes a lot of flak for his iconoclasm, but the fact is, he’s only stating plainly what other editors think in private. If you don’t believe that, check out the list of the most popular posts on your favorite Web site sometime — sex, scandal and Sarah Palin always score high. Even publications that don’t go fishing for clicks discover that, inevitably, certain stories rise to the top. Charles Sennott told me that amid all of GlobalPost’s serious coverage of wars and earthquakes, two big hits during the site’s first year were a post titled, “Meet India’s First Porn Star,” and a slide show of Japanese cat outfits.

There is, of course, nothing wrong with giving readers what they secretly want every once in a while. The problem arises when you start producing articles solely for the id of the search engines, because some clicks are more valuable than others. This is the conclusion, at least, of Gawker Media’s Nick Denton, one of the first to pay writers according to their page views and now a high-profile skeptic of the practice. Denton built his company on the labor of freelance bloggers, but in the last year, he has moved to hiring them as full-time employees, with set salaries and bonuses­ tied to “unique visitors” — a metric that he says measures the writer’s ability to bring new readers into the fold. No sentimentalist, Denton says he changed the formula because he found that page-view incentives encouraged writers to deliver worthless rehashes rather than reporting and tabloid-style scoops — in other words, journalism.

“When we look at the numbers, it’s increasingly evident that the traditional blog post has become a complete commodity,” Denton says. When dueling algorithms compete to answer every human query, it turns out there’s value in telling people things they weren’t aware they didn’t know. To wit: Denton’s technology site Gizmodo recently bought a secret prototype iPhone that an Apple programmer lost in a bar and produced a post featuring pictures and the phone’s specs. Over two weeks, that item racked up nearly 10 million page views, an estimated 4.4 million of them from newcomers, bringing the site an enormous amount of attention (not the least of it from Apple’s lawyers and the police). Denton says his hope is that all the publicity attached to breaking big stories will translate into reader loyalty, brand equity and more lucrative advertising deals.

If that is the model of the future, then the new world could end up looking a lot like the old one, albeit with smaller newsrooms and new players. Politico replaces the Washington correspondent, TMZ is the gossip page and you can get coverage of your baseball team directly from MLB.com, which employs professional sportswriters. In cities like San Diego, New York and Washington, online start-ups are taking on metro news coverage, hoping to tap local ad markets. All of these publications have been hiring real, full-time employees — as have nontraditional providers like Yahoo, which is constructing a new political news site. Over the last few months, there has been a palpable uptick in both advertising and the journalism job market. The iPad, and its applications that restore magazines and newspapers to something like their traditional format, was greeted within the industry like the sight of a ship from a deserted island.

Still, it’s hard to foresee anything like a total restoration. Many publications are struggling to stay afloat, from storied titles like Newsweek, which was recently put up for sale, to scrappy start-ups like The Faster Times. One April evening, Sam Apple and nine top staff members of the publication gathered at the foreign editor’s place, a row house in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, to talk over their prospects. Apple presented what he believed to be the best route forward: introducing a membership program.

Readers could sign up to sponsor a favorite writer, at rates ranging from $12 to $120 a year. The writers would get 70 percent of the proceeds and in return would come up with customized benefits for their sponsors. Over beer and tortilla chips, the editors got to brainstorming. One contributor, a professor and translator of Nietzsche, had already offered to answer a philosophical question of the reader’s choice. The dating columnist volunteered to critique online matchmaking profiles. Apple said that he’d just signed up a new writer. “She’s a Sarah Lawrence grad, but also a dominatrix,” he said. “She’s going to be starting soon, writing about sex and power. So there’s real incentive possibilities.”

“Not to get too theoretical,” the managing editor, Olivia Scheck, interjected over the laughter, “but this is the problem that we keep coming to with this idea, which is that we want to be selling journalism, not sex.”

Apple mentioned, with some cheerful chagrin, that the site’s most popular article ever in terms of page views was a blog post titled, “Megan Fox Has Wacky Hot Chick Syndrome.” That wasn’t exactly the kind of impact he had in mind when he came up with the idea for a new type of newspaper. But he said he liked to think that maybe a handful of those starlet-Googlers had stuck around to read the dispatches­ from Egypt and Turkey, or the acclaimed travel section, or the theater critic — who, contrary to all expectations, turned out to be The Faster Times’s highest initial advertising earner.

Since I’ve been regularly reading The Faster Times, I’ve been most affected by a column called Financial Stress. Written by Kathryn Higgins, a single mother in Connecticut who is losing her house in foreclosure, it’s a heartbreaking chronicle of unimaginable choices, like whether to squat or to move into a bedbug-infested homeless shelter. She just e-mailed Apple out of the blue one day, asking to contribute. There are a lot of voices­ like that in the Faster Times, writers who ended up on the wrong side of this recession. Whatever happens in the future, Apple has accomplished something by giving them a place to set their experiences down in words, creating a record of this transitional moment. That’s the essence of journalism, but its value remains in the eye of the beholder.
491 2010-05-16 A sure-fire formula for success on Broadway has been as elusive as the recipe for eternalyouth. In recent years, though, it has emerged that the most reliable equation for a big box officedemands a big name as one of its integers.

As a service to potential investors, The New YorkTimes has compiled a comparative chart of star power/box-office ratios — based on BroadwayLeague statistics from 2009 and 2010 — that may offer a partial key to cracking the code. We inThe Times theater department, not particularly of an algebraic bent, are merely providing thenumbers. You do the math.

In reviving Stephen Sondheim and HughWheeler’s erotic waltz of a musical from 1973,producers took out insurance by castingCatherine Zeta-Jones as the actress who asksthe musical question “Where are the clowns?”For obvious reasons she is encouraged neverto take the week off.

Former lovebirds and perennial tabloid staples Jude Law andSienna Miller arrived on Broadwayat roughly the same time (andfinished up the same week),bringing a gloss of sex appealto two famously challengingtheatrical classics: “Hamlet” forMr. Law and “After Miss Julie,”Patrick Marber’s adaptation ofStrindberg’s psychodrama “MissJulie,” for Ms. Miller. Though Ms.Miller’s presence in a supportingrole was enough to boost box officein a London production of “AsYou Like It” five years ago, herbrand-name recognition value isobviously smaller stateside. Mr.Law, on the other hand, provedthere is definitely an audience thatwants to see him wearing black andcontemplating suicide.
492 2010-05-16 It's not as if anyone is ever at a loss for words in John Logan's ''Red.'' So many of them  are uttered, with such sharpshooting intensity and theatrical flourish, you wouldn't think there would be much room for the unspoken. But there comes a mom...
493 2010-05-16 PROSPECT HEIGHTS CO-OP     $699,000...
494 2010-05-16 HITCHCOCK--Aurora, of Millbrook, NY, born July 21st 1934, died peacefully May 2nd, 2010 at her home surrounded by her family. Beloved mother of Leslie Moore Murray, Johnny Moore, Melinda Hitchcock Fanning, and William Hitchcock Jr. Beloved abuela ...
495 2010-05-16 GRAMERCY AREA CO-OP     $799,000...
496 2010-05-16 RIDGEFIELD COLONIAL     $785,000...
497 2010-05-16 HASTINGS TOWN HOUSE     $799,000...
498 2010-05-17 The trade paper Variety has escaped from a legal tangle over a negative review for the independent film "Iron Cross."...
499 2010-05-17 The gap in assets between white and black families has "more than quadrupled over the course of a generation," a study finds....
500 2010-05-17 Waddell & Reed Financial, a Kansas-based mutual fund company, said an internal analysis of trading activity indicated it was not the cause of the flash crash that briefly wiped out $1 trillion in stock market wealth earlier this month....
501 2010-05-17 What happens when a man makes his intentions clear before a child is conceived or born?...
502 2010-05-17 A new buying service from American Express offers deep discounts on selected products. But you have to get on your computer early....
503 2010-05-17 European Union finance ministers will hold a preliminary vote on Tuesday on rules that would require hedge funds to register separately in each member country....
504 2010-05-17 The Encore Beach Club, part of the Encore Wynn in Vegas, is set to open on Memorial Day...
505 2010-05-17 A new wave of job listings on Amazon's Kindle job board shows the company hard at work on its newest version of the Kindle....
506 2010-05-17 Anurag Harsh and Chris Poleway joined the New York office of Adify in new posts. Mr. Harsh becomes vice president for business development; he had been vice president for marketing, syndication and networks at IDG. Mr. Poleway becomes vice president for platform sales and business development; he had been vice president for sales and operations at CNNMoney.com, part of Time Warner.

Yahav Isak joined MRM Worldwide in a new post, senior vice president and operations leader for the New York office. He had been director for digital production at JWT, New York, part of WPP. MRM Worldwide is part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Paul Kingsley joined the Red Peak Group in a new post, chief operating officer, based in the London office. He has worked at agencies like Oyster Partners and Tequila Worldwide.

Bill Koenigsberg, president and chief executive at Horizon Media, New York, was named chairman of the media policy committee of the Four A’s, the industry organization formerly known as the American Association of Advertising Agencies.

Thi M. Le joined Inter/Media Interactive, Encino, Calif., part of the Inter/Media Group of Companies, as an online account supervisor. She had been an interactive account manager in client services at Integrated Media Solutions, Beverly Hills, Calif.

Robin Leedy & Associates, Mount Kisco, N.Y., was hired to produce social media campaigns for new hair care products from Conair and for a new product in the Ocean line of nasal saline products sold by Fleming Pharmaceuticals, Ocean Complete Sinus Irrigation. Spending has not been determined.

Daren Mazzucca joined the New York office of Midwest Living magazine, part of the Meredith Corporation, as publisher. He succeeds Brian Kightlinger, who was recently named associate publisher at another Meredith magazine, Parents. Mr. Mazzucca had been associate publisher at Good Housekeeping magazine, part of the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation.

The Nielsen Company, New York, acquired GlanceGuide, Palo Alto, Calif., a video analytics and technology company. Financial terms were not disclosed. GlanceGuide’s technology provides insights, Nielsen said, into how consumers interact with the video they watch online.

Greg Ott joined Demandbase, San Francisco, in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had been senior vice president for marketing at Classmates.com.

Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Washington, presented the Obie Best of Show award, as part of the 2010 Obie Awards ceremony, to TDA Advertising and Design, Boulder, Colo., for a campaign for FirstBank that featured very small businesses like dog walkers and baby sitters to promote the bank’s services to small businesses. An additional 21 Gold Obies were awarded in individual categories. Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners, Sausalito, Calif., won the 2010 Obie Hall of Fame Award for its campaign for the Mini Cooper.

Anita Paul joined KSL Media in a new post, managing director for the Los Angeles office, with primary responsibility for the Guitar Center account. She had most recently been vice president and brand group director at the Los Angeles office of Horizon Media.

R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, opened an office in Singapore to serve as its Asian-Pacific hub.

The Torrance, Calif., office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe, hired four employees for digital creative and production posts. They are: Dave Evans, senior integrated producer; Donnell Johnson, associate creative director and copywriter; Jason Nichols, creative director; and Gary Rosen, associate creative director and copywriter.

Deborah Schumacher joined the New England Consulting Group, Westport, Conn., as a managing associate. She has worked at companies that include S. C. Johnson & Son and Quaker Oats.

Lisa Spielman joined TargetCast TCM, New York, in a new post, senior vice president and director for business development. She had most recently been senior vice president for sales and marketing at Marketing Accountability Partnership, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Maureen Sullivan, chief of staff and acting chief marketing officer at AOL, New York, was promoted to senior vice president for marketing and brand partnerships.

Steve Sullivan joined the Interactive Advertising Bureau, New York, to lead a new West Coast office, based in San Francisco. His title will be vice president for supply chain and revenue solutions. Mr. Sullivan had been senior program manager for advertising security at the online services division of the Microsoft Corporation.

Laura Terry joined Martin/Williams Advertising, Minneapolis, as vice president and account director. She has worked for agencies that include Olson and Tripp Growth Marketing. Martin/Williams Advertising is part of the Martin/Williams unit of the Omnicom Group.

Heather Wingate joined Nomura Holding America, New York, as managing director for public affairs. She had been managing director and head of federal government affairs at Citi, New York, part of Citigroup.
507 2010-05-17 The Republican incumbent loses two top campaign aides....
508 2010-05-17 Hotels in Istanbul tend to be either touristy affairs in the Old City or splashy (and pricey) luxury digs that hug the Bosporus shores. The House Hotel Galatasaray, which opened last month in Beyoglu, is aiming for the space in between....
509 2010-05-17 The week ahead in Congress also includes work on packages of tax breaks and aid to the unemployed....
510 2010-05-17 Junior is a 2006 Volkswagen Passat turbo diesel wagon, showcasing the latest technology in autonomous driving....
511 2010-05-17 Neff Rental, the United States equipment rental company, filed for a prearranged Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection late Sunday in order to shrink its balance sheet and eliminate more than $400 million of debt....
512 2010-05-17 American Express has teamed up with U.K. private equity firm Permira to bid for Royal Bank of Scotland's payment-processing arm, The Financial Times reported....
513 2010-05-17 The euro began the week by hitting a four-year low against the dollar and stock markets in Asia saw another sharp slide on Monday....
514 2010-05-17 TPG's latest deal shows why private equity firms bother with China, Reuters Breakingviews says, but such victories are hard-won....
515 2010-05-17 A Lebanese immigrant took the Miss USA crown in a year when immigration law was a topic contestants were asked about....
516 2010-05-17 Cappie Pondexter and Taj McWilliams-Franklin got the new-look Liberty off to a winning start Sunday.

Pondexter, acquired in a trade, scored 22 points and McWilliams-Franklin, a free-agent signing, had 20 as the Liberty beat the Chicago Sky, 85-82, at Madison Square Garden.

The Liberty used an 18-0 run in the third quarter to take a 16-point lead but allowed the Sky to tie the score late in the fourth.

Pondexter put the Liberty ahead for good with a jumper, and McWilliams-Franklin blocked a potential tying layup by Sylvia Fowles with 1 minute 7 seconds left.

“When we have a 16-point lead, you gotta push your foot on their throat, and we didn’t do it,” Pondexter said.
517 2010-05-17 James van Riemsdyk, Danny Briere and Simon Gagne scored in a stretch of 9 minutes 23 seconds in the second period against the playoff star goalie Jaroslav Halak, and the Philadelphia Flyers routed the visiting Montreal Canadiens, 6-0, in the Eastern Conference finals opener on Sunday night.

There was no comeback necessary this time for the Flyers, who rebounded from a 3-0 series hole against the Bruins and a three-goal deficit in Game 7 in Boston on Friday night. Philadelphia has won five straight over all and is 5-1 at home in the playoffs.

Halak was easily outplayed by the Flyers’ fill-in goalie, Michael Leighton, who is unbeaten since replacing the injured Brian Boucher in Game 5 of Philadelphia’s win over Boston. Leighton made 27 saves in his first N.H.L. postseason shutout.

“It makes it a little but easier when we score that many goals,” Leighton said. “In the second period, we played really well. We got a few goals and that kind of calmed me down and I think it calmed the team down. It took a lot of pressure off us after that.”

Game 2 of the N.H.L.’s first conference finals between a No. 7 and a No. 8 seed will be Tuesday night in Philadelphia.

The seventh-seeded Flyers had home-ice advantage for the first time since the second round in 2004, and they made the most of it. Defenseman Braydon Coburn scored his first N.H.L. playoff goal during a first-period power play, van Riemsdyk pushed the lead to 2-0 just 30 seconds into the second period, and Briere and Gagne — on another power play — beat Halak 5:30 apart to finish the spurt.
518 2010-05-17 Deep in the heart of Texas, Adam Scott saw only Australia. Harsh scrubland off the fairways that reminded him of Brisbane and sandbelt greens that looked like home.

“I had a feeling Aussies would do well here this week,” Scott said.

Rallying from four strokes back for his first PGA Tour victory in two years, Scott was 11 under in a 36-hole Sunday finale at the Texas Open, edging Fredrik Jacobson by a stroke on the new Oaks Course at T.P.C. San Antonio.

The course was designed by Scott’s hero, his countryman Greg Norman, who sent a congratulatory message after Scott’s first win since the Australian Open in December.

Norman’s note meant a lot to Scott. So did this victory.

“I questioned myself at times last year whether I was a great player or not,” Scott said. “I still feel I am.”

The 29-year-old Scott finished at 14-under 274 and earned $1,098,000 for his seventh tour victory and first since the 2008 Byron Nelson Classic. He overcame two early bogeys with an eagle on the par-4 17th in his third-round 66, then built his lead with six birdies en route to a closing 67.

Scott also survived a closing bogey, his only one in the final round, when Jacobson missed a 16-footer from the fringe on No. 18 that would have forced a playoff.
519 2010-05-17 PHILADELPHIA — Arlen Specter stopped by black churches on Sunday, paying homage to a vital bloc in his suddenly desperate race for the Democratic nomination for the Senate seat he has held for 30 years.

Mr. Specter told a welcoming crowd at Mount Ephraim Baptist Church in north Philadelphia about how, with a single phone call to the agriculture secretary, he had saved a school-lunch program that mainly helped black children. “He listened to me because I provide his appropriations,” the senator said to nods and applause.

On Saturday, the example was different but the point was the same. Before union members in Philadelphia’s port, he recounted his 28-year quest to bring jobs to the state with a federal project to deepen the harbor. “I need another six years to bring these 125,000 jobs,” he said.

And at an Irish pub in the middle-class town of Ambler on Saturday, he prodded the mayor to tell the story of how Mr. Specter had intervened with a health insurance company, getting it to cover a costly PET scan for the mayor’s ill daughter.

There has been nothing subtle about Mr. Specter’s message in his “Delivering for Pennsylvania” tour leading up to Tuesday’s primary: Forget about that Republican past, I am the well-connected statesman who has delivered for Pennsylvania (whatever my party) and I’ll keep doing so.

Only a month ago, Mr. Specter, 80, was considered a shoo-in for the Democratic nomination. He only switched to the Democratic Party a year ago, but he has the backing of President Obama, Gov. Edward G. Rendell, local union leaders and much of the black clergy.

But he has been wounded by an upstart challenger’s blitz of television advertisements calling Mr. Specter an opportunist and questioning the depth of his newfound liberalism. Pollsters say the race is too close to call and may depend on turnout: a larger number of African-American and other primary voters is likely to favor Mr. Specter.

On Sunday, his challenger, Joe Sestak, a 58-year-old retired Navy admiral and a two-term congressman, strode into Specter territory, visiting some of the same black churches to ask for an opportunity to serve and stressing his own allegiance to Mr. Obama, who has deep support there.

While Mr. Sestak received a respectful reception at Mount Ephraim, many worshipers said that they felt Mr. Specter had shown concern for the black community over the years and that they did not know Mr. Sestak well enough.

“I think most of us will be voting for Specter,” said Bob Adams, a retired corrections officer, “because he’s been around a while.”

Mr. Sestak’s campaign announced that other black clergymen will be endorsing Mr. Sestak on Monday afternoon.

In relentless advertisements and at rallies, Mr. Sestak tried in recent days to keep the focus on Mr. Specter’s long record — his support for the Bush tax cuts, the war in Iraq and conservative Supreme Court appointees — and on his shift in allegiance.

“Arlen Specter switched parties to save one job — his, not yours,” Mr. Sestak says in the commercials, accompanied by clips of President George W. Bush lavishing praise on the then-Republican senator. Trying to turn Mr. Specter’s experience against him and to ride an anti-incumbent wave, Mr. Sestak emphasizes the need for newcomers in Washington.

Mr. Specter counters by saying that by voting for the stimulus bill, which destroyed his Republican prospects, he helped save millions of jobs. He was not speaking over the weekend about high policy issues like bailouts or war, instead taking every chance to burnish his image as the experienced senator who get things done.

Conversations in Ambler, a former factory town that is trying to renew itself, illustrated both the senator’s strengths and his vulnerabilities.

“I’m leaning to Specter,” said Alan Bassman, an accountant. “He’s a known quantity, and he’s got the clout on the Hill.” But the election had not generated much office talk, Mr. Bassman said, suggesting that there may be no rush to the polls.

Ann Brnich, a dental hygienist, said: “I have a bad feeling about Specter. He’s been there too long, and he just wants to stay there.”

But Mr. Specter stayed on message at the pub. As he was departing, an aide called out to the crowd of 70 people: “Senator Specter just bought the next round, so hit the bar.”
520 2010-05-17 For the third year running, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative has included Spain on its watch list of countries that breach intellectual property rights because of its “particularly significant Internet piracy.”

Critics say it will be extremely difficult to stop illegal downloading in Spain because of the popularity of these Web sites and a perceived indifference to piracy as a crime. As many as three billion illegal downloads were made last year in Spain, far exceeding the 21 million legal downloads, according to a study by Cimec, a Spanish market research company.

Judges have also shown ambivalence toward the issue. In 2006, the attorney general advised that peer-to-peer downloading should be considered criminal only if done for profit.

Fernando Fernández Aransay, a partner at VTF Abogados, a Spanish law firm specializing in media issues, said: “We have a tremendous shortage of cultural education and administrative efficiency so that nobody in Spain, not even the judges, seems to believe that you can go to jail for an intellectual property crime. The problem is not that Spain doesn’t have laws but that there are in fact too many, which means more confusion.”

Some other European countries have taken more forceful action to try to tackle piracy. Last year, French lawmakers approved a law under which illegal file sharers who ignore two written warnings to stop could face the loss of their Internet connection, though the law is not yet being applied. Britain recently passed a similar law, though it also has yet to go into effect. Last month, an Irish judge upheld an agreement between Ireland’s largest Internet service provider, Eircom, and the music industry that authorizes cutoffs.

But Victor Domingo, president of the Spanish Internet Users’ Association, said the group would go as high as the Spanish Constitutional Court to fight any legislation that curtailed access.

“The government is putting authors’ rights, which are of course important, on the same level as much more fundamental rights of privacy and freedom of expression.” Mr. Domingo said. “It has cost us a lot in this country after 40 years of dictatorship to acquire such rights for our citizens, but now we risk losing them.”

The proposed law would, in effect, reverse the burden of proof, empowering a new commission to shut down suspect Web sites pending the outcome of any court appeal.

The proposal has generated debate because some critics see it as infringing on the rights of individuals. In a country where access to information and entertainment had been severely limited during the Franco dictatorship, Spaniards’ growing enthusiasm for the Internet and all that it offers reflects a profound cultural and generational change.

While Spain has not always been at the forefront of technology, it now ranks fifth worldwide in terms of usage of social networks like Facebook and MySpace, ahead of European countries like Germany and France, according to a Nielsen study carried out in February.

“Music and film producers claim downloading means that Spain is losing its culture, but instead Spain is changing its culture while sticking to the best of the old, like concerts and theater shows,” Mr. Domingo said. Fighting downloading, he said, was “just an excuse for companies to try to stick to a business model that no longer makes sense and is way behind the technology.”

Of 32 criminal cases brought before judges against Web sites allegedly facilitating illegal downloading sites in Spain, 2 cases have resulted in sentencing. In both, the sites were fined and their directors received suspended prison sentences for engaging in a lucrative business in breach of copyright rules. The other cases have either been thrown out of court or are still awaiting a ruling.

Civil legal action has also had mixed results. In March, for instance, a judge in Barcelona dismissed a civil case brought by the Sociedad General de Autores y Editores, a leading Spanish association whose members range from music composers to movie directors and TV script writers, against Elrincondejesus, a Web site offering downloadable movies.

The legislation, therefore, is more likely to fuel the legal debate than put much of a crimp on piracy, Mr. Fernández Aransay said.

“I believe that it’s really about political propaganda, so the government can show it’s doing something,” he said.

In the meantime, the downloading frenzy in Spain has already provoked a near-collapse of what had been one of the most thriving music and film markets in Europe, according to executives from these industries.

Digital piracy resulted directly in €1.7 billion, or $2.2 billion, of lost revenue in 2008 for Spain’s creative industries — sectors like movie and music production, publishing and advertising. That made it the most damaged European market, on par with France, according to a study released in March by TERA Consultants, a firm based in Paris.

While determined to defend their rights, some of the artists themselves see both sides of the issue.

“Spain is a very young democracy, a country where rock songs got censored until 1978, so we’re still going through adolescence in relation to intellectual property,” said the Spanish rock singer known as Loquillo. “But we cannot get stuck in a fight between authors and Internet users while, much more importantly, our music industry is allowed to disappear or gets absorbed by outsiders.”

The Spanish music market, which ranks 10th worldwide in revenue, has shrunk to a third of what it was in 2001, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, which represents the recording industry.

In December, about 2,500 singers, musicians and producers handed a petition to the Spanish government, demanding better recognition for their work and job protection.

Spain in some ways has not been a priority for some leading technology companies. Apple first rolled out its flagship iTunes music application in more established northern European markets before turning to Spain. Even now, management of its iTunes Spain service is handled via its Italian offices.

This means that “there is a good variety of Spanish catalogue available on the service, but marketing is lacking,” according to a report from the recording industry group I.F.P.I. in October. And while Apple and others were relatively slow to target the market, Adrian Strain, spokesman for the I.F.P.I., said that Spain was quick in embracing broadband, “so there was probably a vacuum where illegal Web sites filled the gap.”

The Spanish Web sites that offer pirated movies and music have also benefited from the relative indifference shown toward them by Internet service providers, according to industry experts, because Spanish law does not hold them directly responsible for the content that they provide. A working group created in 2005 under the auspices of the government to get I.S.P.’s and copyright holders to tackle piracy collapsed after two years of talks.

“The problem is that the I.S.P.’s here want to keep their regime of complete exemption of responsibility, which is in contrast to everywhere else in Europe,” said José Manuel Tourné, president of a Spanish federation for the protection of intellectual property, known as FAP, which represents movie and video game producers.

Meanwhile, the government’s latest anti-piracy crusade is being closely watched by Hollywood, where assessments of the viability of the Spanish market differ.

“We would not go as far as other studios in putting a general question mark on whether it’s worth staying in that country,” said Dirk Lisowsky, regional managing director of Universal Pictures. “In the end we’re all competitors and everybody has to decide how they respond to this kind of situation. There is one common problem but not one common approach.”
521 2010-05-17 Meanwhile, for every tale of success there are two of anguish. Consider Bain Capital. This week, that firm’s directors at the electrical appliance retailer Gome were voted off the board by a recalcitrant founder.

Or take Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both embroiled in the messy windup of the yogurt maker Taizinai. TPG itself reportedly clashed with the former chief of Nissin, a Chinese leasing company in which it had invested, in 2008.

China remains attractive to buyout shops, because when returns are good, they are very good. Carlyle, for example, recently closed a $2.3 billion fund, having realized a five-times paper profit on its investment in insurer China Pacific.

But in few countries do buyout firms have to work so hard to earn their fee.

Like Stuart Smalley, the character that Al Franken created on “Saturday Night Live,” an amendment pertaining to ratings agencies that Senator Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, sponsored last week has many fans. Yet lawmakers shouldn’t take Mr. Franken’s addition to financial overhaul legislation too seriously. It would embed the government more deeply in ratings. Happily, the proposal from Senator George LeMieux, Republican of Florida, which would do the opposite, is popular, too.

Mr. Franken’s amendment aims squarely at a too-cozy relationship between the rating agencies and bank sponsors of complicated structured securities. It would create an independent government-appointed panel to match rating companies with deals. The worthwhile objective is to stop the bankers from shopping around for the company that would provide the most favorable ratings.

The problem is that the plan would also cement the notion of government-sanctioned ratings, which was the very crutch investors leaned on when they poured into risky mortgage-backed securities that the agencies had deemed highly unlikely to default.

The three biggest agencies — Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and to a lesser extent Fitch Ratings — have benefited from being designated as “nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.” That has their ratings codified as benchmarks of investment riskiness in federal statutes, which, in turn, has encouraged investors to rely on those ratings agencies when they should have done their own thinking.

Mr. LeMieux’s amendment, by contrast, sensibly seeks to get ratings out of federal law altogether. That would encourage investors to do their own homework when buying a corporate bond, a mortgage-backed security or even Greek government debt. They would have no easy, government-sanctioned fallback to rely on.

Take away the government’s blessing, and dominant rating agencies like Moody’s and S.& P. would lose some competitive advantage. Issuers would have to persuade investors, not just rating companies, of the merits of the securities they were offering. Over time, this would diminish the significance of the conflict singled out in Mr. Franken’s amendment — without adding a bureaucratic nightmare — in addition to requiring better due diligence by investors. That’s a far better outcome.

Both proposals are part of the Senate’s package of changes, though they seem contradictory. The LeMieux bill conveniently dovetails with a similar provision in the House version of the legislation. With luck, that means Mr. LeMieux’s plan, not Mr. Franken’s, will have the final word.
522 2010-05-17 In one sense, these liberal cities and Arizona’s conservative lawmakers are working toward the same thing, said Maria Juega, treasurer of the Latin American Legal Defense and Education Fund, an advocacy group that spearheaded the ID programs in Trenton and Princeton. Both camps, she said, are trying to fill the void created by Congress’s failure to fix a flawed immigration system.

“These are reactions,” Ms. Juega said. “We’ve had these gaping holes that everybody’s been talking about for two decades and done nothing about. Everybody’s scrambling.”

Calls for a nationally mandated identification card have been made for decades, particularly after 9/11, but they received a push late last month when a group of Democratic senators unveiled a blueprint for comprehensive immigration reform. The plan includes a proposal to require all workers, including citizens, to show potential employers a card with biometric data, like fingerprints — a measure meant to prevent illegal immigrants from working.

The local identity cards do not grant legal residency or the right to work. They are intended to fold illegal immigrants into the fabric of the community by giving them entree to services and places that require some sort of recognized identification. In Trenton, immigrants can use their cards to access libraries, medical centers and doctors’ offices; seek help from charitable organizations and private social service agencies; and use the city’s public recreation centers and pools.

In addition, law enforcement officials say, the cards give illegal immigrants who fear detection and deportation more confidence about reporting crimes, and allow officials to help immigrants who are crime victims.

“I believe that people who are here in America must be safe and must be healthy,” said Eve Sanchez Silver, the community and Latino liaison for Asbury Park, N.J., where a city-endorsed identity card program for illegal immigrants began in 2008. “If they’re not safe, we’re not going to be safe. If they’re not going to be healthy, we’re not going to be healthy.”

While the programs in Trenton, Princeton and Asbury Park are endorsed by local law enforcement officials but administered by community organizations, New Haven and San Francisco themselves issue identity cards. The cards allow access to even more services, including opening bank accounts. This allows immigrants to deposit their pay checks, rather than carrying large amounts of cash that make them prey for thieves.

To keep the cards from becoming “scarlet letters” that mark illegal immigrants, they are offered to all residents, though they are mainly used by immigrants and the homeless.

A few states, including New Mexico and Washington, allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver’s licenses, but the number has fallen as more states require proof of lawful presence in the country.

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which opposes illegal immigrants and proposals to give them legal status, described the local ID card programs as “attempts by the leadership of those communities to thwart enforcement of U.S. immigration laws.”

He added, “It encourages people to stay in those communities, when in fact the policies ought to be discouraging those people.”

But Ms. Juega said she and her fellow advocates in Trenton were motivated by a desire to “allow this population that is increasingly marginalized to have some semblance of a normal life.”

About 23 percent of Trenton’s 83,000 residents are immigrants, mostly Latinos, according to the 2008 American Community Survey. Many do not have legal immigration documents, advocates say.

Trenton’s ID program, which began in May 2009, met with minimal resistance among city officials, said Detective Bob Russo of the Office of Community Affairs in the Trenton Police Department, who has been a major proponent. “I’ve had a few colleagues who were against it,” he said. “But we stressed that you’re not giving this person any pass or anything like that, you’re just accepting that person as a member of the community.” City and police officials are under orders not to ask residents about their immigration status, unless it is in connection with a felony.

Still, only about 1,300 people in Trenton have stepped forward to get the cards. Some immigrants have been wary, despite promises that the information they provided would remain confidential.

Two days after New Haven lawmakers approved the nation’s first plan to offer cards in 2007, federal agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement began a series of arrests in the area that sent 32 immigrants to detention centers around New England — a move that the mayor, John DeStefano Jr., described as retaliation. By the time city officials issued the first IDs, called Elm City Resident Cards, many residents were afraid to come forward.

Some other communities waited to see if there were legal challenges to the New Haven program, but none surfaced. Opponents of the program filed an open records request seeking the participants’ names and addresses. The city’s refusal was upheld by the Connecticut Freedom of Information Commission, said Michael J. Wishnie, a Yale law professor who helped develop the program and was retained by the city to help defend it in the event of lawsuits.

Like most community identification cards, the cards in Trenton have no currency outside the city. Detective Russo said that some police departments in neighboring communities had confiscated them, thinking they were fake.

Yet organizers say their program has been a success, drawing interest from other municipalities and praise from charitable agencies around the city. The Rev. Jarrett Kerbel, director of the Crisis Ministry of Princeton and Trenton, which runs a food pantry, said a growing number of clients were using the cards to receive services.

Mario, 26, an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, said he used the card to collect his paychecks at the commercial cleaning company where he works, and to enter the guarded buildings he cleans. Last week, he accompanied his friend Augustin, 19, to St. Stanislaus Roman Catholic Church in Trenton, where advocates issue the documents one evening each week. Augustin, a baby-faced immigrant from Mexico, said finding an employer prepared to hire him had not been a problem — the trouble was proving he was not under age.

As Augustin registered for a card, Mario revealed that his had been useful in some unexpected ways.

Early one recent morning as he was driving to work, he was pulled over by a Trenton police officer for driving with a broken tail light. The officer, he said, asked for his insurance card and registration as well as his driver’s license. While Mario had the car documents, he had no license; instead, he offered his local identity card.

The police officer, Mario said, let him go with a warning about the tail light. There was no mention of the lack of a driver’s license, a punishable offense.

Mario, an observant Catholic, smiled as he recalled his stroke of good fortune. “La obra de Dios,” he said. “The work of God.”
523 2010-05-17 In “Outlier” — an impressively flashy, agreeably unconventional but expressively empty new ballet by the British choreographer Wayne McGregor — movement is often big, fast, multifocal and emphatic. Legs sweep up into hyperextended positions; individual body parts are given their own thrusts. In particular — so unusual in ballet — the head is suddenly jerked sideways or forwards, so that a step that might otherwise appear classically harmonious if extreme becomes eccentric. Certainly there’s something refreshing about the way this body-popping takes “Outlier” far outside the rarefied atmosphere of the ballet studio.

This work, which had its world premiere at New York City Ballet on Friday, also looks like a new anti-illusion form of ballet theater. The five women — Ashley Bouder, Sterling Hyltin, Maria Kowroski, Tiler Peck and Wendy Whelan — wear no makeup and look unlike their usual ballet selves, but they look quite unlike one another. And the lighting — much of it from high above — on their high-necked outfits makes them look more full-breasted than their usual appearance; this too is pleasing. The six men are more recognizable: the lighting makes their musculature (the costumes reveal naked thighs) look terrific. Another welcome feature — scarcely new, but still striking — is the handsome spectrum of skin colors.

In design, music and lighting, Mr. McGregor knows how to give us the Diaghilevian thrill of seeming to present the new and the young. After an opening duet set to recorded music (an excerpt from Cliff Martinez’s “Will She Come Back,” written for the film “Solaris”), the ballet is set to the “Concerto for Violin — Concentric Paths” (2005) by Thomas Adès. Though some of Mr. Adès’s music can be hard going, this concerto — conducted on Friday by Fayçal Karoui, with Kurt Nikkanen admirable in the solo part — is compelling. Costumes are by Moritz Junge; each dancer wears a separate theatrical version of practice attire. The décor, by Mr. McGregor himself and Lucy Carter, is thoroughly arresting in color and design, now concentric circles in strong reds, now broad vertical stripes in shades of gray or ochre. It all suggests something that is, by ballet standards, new.

Except, curiously, the choreography. I’m not bothered that the force with which Mr. McGregor contrasts individual body parts is anti-classical, since ballet’s classicism needs a good shakeup at regular intervals. Even more than William Forsythe, Mr. McGregor is the most Mannerist choreographer today; but that, too, need not be a bad thing. There are those who still argue that the style of George Balanchine, New York City Ballet’s founder-choreographer, is thoroughly Mannerist. Mr. McGregor takes several of those vexed Balanchine features — the flexed feet, the hyperextension of individual limbs, and the overcrossing of two or more limbs — and takes them, as Mr. Forsythe did in the 1980s, further.

But the often vast scale of the movement here has the paradoxical effect of making its dancers look tiny; its modish stressfulness makes them look hard-working and yet inconsequential. The grand design of “Outlier” is clear: it progresses from an opening pas de deux to an intricate closing nonet. Mr. McGregor hasn’t, however, the secret of making the small become all the more valuable in context of the large, the humanity within the plan. Its relation to its scores is general and filmlike. Compared with the two most important attitudes of choreographic modernism to music, Mr. McGregor’s idiom is uninterested in either the radical separation from its music that was the bold adventure of Cunningham-Cage dance theater or the intimate engagement with musical details and structure that was the basic premise of Balanchine dance theater. The music gives it some good atmosphere, and some cues and changes of tempo, but watching doesn’t help you hear any better.
524 2010-05-17 TRENTON, N.J. -- Since moving to this city from her native  Guatemala a decade ago, Herlinda, an illegal immigrant, has supported her family with restaurant work, but has had no way of proving that she lives here. Without government-issued photo i...
525 2010-05-17 The Pound Ridge Golf Club became the first Pete Dye-designed golf course in the New York area when it opened in 2008. It was a public daily fee golf course just over the New York border from Stamford, Conn., which put it in the heart of an area re...
526 2010-05-18 Records abound in Robert A. Doll's puzzle....
527 2010-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
528 2010-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
529 2010-05-18 The Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday proposed a trial of individual circuit breakers on all of the stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in response to the May 6 market disruption....
530 2010-05-18 Do parents make better Supreme Court judges?...
531 2010-05-18 Kappa International High School in the Bronx was scheduled to move into space created by school closings. Now the school's fate is not so certain....
532 2010-05-18 Hot bands hold secret concerts to promote a new smartphone....
533 2010-05-18 In Pennsylvania Senate race between Arlen Specter and Joe Sestak, Quinnipiac poll suggests a contest very much up for grabs. In Arkansas, another poll indicates Senator Blanche Lincoln could end up in a runoff....
534 2010-05-18 The number of fraudulent, staged accidents went up 46 percent from 2007-9, according to a new report from the National Insurance Crime Bureau....
535 2010-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
536 2010-05-18 2. Meanwhile, heat the olive oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium heat, and add the onion, carrots and celery. Cook, stirring, until tender, about five minutes. Add a pinch of salt, and stir in the garlic and paprika. Continue to cook, stirring, for another minute until fragrant. Stir into the beans. Add the peppers and salt to taste. Simmer, covered, for another 30 minutes to an hour. The beans should be tender and the soup thick.

3. Stir in the parsley and mint, and simmer another five minutes. Add pepper, and adjust salt. Stir in the lemon juice, taste and adjust seasonings, and serve.

Yield: Serves six to eight.

Advance preparation: The soup can be prepared through step 2 and kept for three or four days in the refrigerator. It also freezes well. Add the herbs and lemon juice close to serving time.

Nutritional information per serving (based on six servings): 344 calories; 6 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 57 grams carbohydrates; 22 grams dietary fiber; 38 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 18 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com.
537 2010-05-18 CME Group, in a detailed investigation into the flash crash of May 6, has put together evidence that suggests that the events might be traced to "divergent trade practices and price protection mechanisms" across the many trading venues that make u...
538 2010-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
539 2010-05-18 What happens to a star of "Breaking Bad" when she crosses over into the criminal justice system of the soon-to-be-departed NBC drama?...
540 2010-05-18 Parody | From "Shouts & Murmurs" in The New Yorker, by Simon Rich: Your New College Graduate: A Parents' Guide...
541 2010-05-18 Regulators and exchanges are considering marketwide circuit breakers that would temporarily stop trading when it falls 5 percent, Reuters reported....
542 2010-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
543 2010-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
544 2010-05-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
545 2010-05-18 Washington Mutual proposed an amended plan of reorganization on Monday that would return $7 billion to creditors, but it was unclear if the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. would support the plan....
546 2010-05-18 Dogless dog-lovers who ogle other people's pooches....
547 2010-05-18 European Union governments overrode British objections -- and American worries -- by agreeing Tuesday to tighten rules for hedge funds, a move some fear will block American funds from the region and cause the lucrative industry to flee London's fi...
548 2010-05-18 Asian stock markets were mixed on Tuesday, with only muted rises and falls by midmorning, as investors took heart from a nearly flat finish overnight on Wall Street and a calmer performance by the beleaguered euro....
549 2010-05-18 Tiger Woods has added the British Open to his playing schedule, though he is still sidelined with a neck injury. According to his Web site, Woods will compete in the year’s third major, July 15 to 18 at St. Andrews in Scotland. He has committed to the United States Open (June 17 to 20) and the AT&T National (July 1-4). Woods has won the British Open the last two times it was held at St. Andrews — in 2000 and 2005.
550 2010-05-18 Deborah Remington, a New York painter who countered the accepted trends of her time by incorporating a sense of real light and space into her abstract images, died April 21 in Moorestown, N.J. She was 79 and had homes in New York and Chester County, Pa.

The cause was cancer, her cousin Craig Remington said.

Ms. Remington’s work is represented in many museums throughout the United States and Europe and was the subject of a 20-year survey at the Newport Harbor Art Museum in California in 1985.

In the late 1960s and ’70s, when Ms. Remington was starting out, abstract painting was supposed to be as objectlike as possible. Illusions of light and space were considered obsolete.

But Ms. Remington — a first cousin twice removed of the Western artist Frederic Remington — painted as painters had since the Renaissance and embraced illusion as the raison d’être of painting, abstract or not.

Her surfaces were smooth and tight, devoid of signs of the hand. Her palette — almost as fixed as Mondrian’s — emphasized shades of gray and silver heightened by undiluted fields of red, blue and green. Her images centered on reflective shards and metallic fragments that suggested bits of space crafts, car bodies, shields or mirrors. They usually floated before a void of infinite, glowing space, like signs from another dimension that were trying to tell us something.
551 2010-05-18 Of course, that pattern — with the slide in GLG’s share price from its 2007 peak — has a lot to do with conditions in financial markets. But then again, special purpose acquisition companies existed largely because money was burning holes in investors’ pockets at the height of the boom, so it’s not surprising that many of their deals were badly timed.

The end of GLG’s term as a listed company almost qualifies as an epitaph for blank-check companies more broadly. They are still out there, but the appearance of new ones has slowed to a trickle. Investors might keep in mind that if and when the phenomenon re-emerges, it may mean the next bubble is about to burst.

Executives at Psychiatric Solutions, a chain of mental health clinics, have done well for themselves. The chain’s top four managers were awarded rich options packages in February. Just a few weeks later, news leaked of a leveraged buyout with the chief executive on board.

The timing looked unsavory, and led to a federal investigation. But it also spurred an auction, bringing a higher bid of $1.9 billion from a rival, Universal Health Services. This chain of events, which led to a 41 percent takeover premium, should at least partly ease shareholders’ minds.

There’s a solid theoretical reason for rewarding top managers for selling their company. Otherwise, it could be too tempting to spurn a deal, which could put them out of their cushy jobs. So change-of-control bonuses and options vesting can help to align the interests of executives with those of shareholders.

The reality, however, can be far messier and slightly perverse. The Psychiatric Solutions deal shows how. The board provided the four top executives with $30 million in options and restricted stock, or about five times as much as the previous year’s grants.

Weeks later, news emerged that the board was considering a management-led buyout financed by the private equity firm Bain Capital. Moreover, the change-of-control packages were sweetened to the benefit of managers in April. Joey A. Jacobs, the chairman and chief executive, will now be paid three times his salary and bonus, as well as other generous perks, when Psychiatric Solutions is sold.

Maybe this can be put down to the miraculous power of incentives, and the Justice Department will uncover nothing wrong. Still, a bigger going-away gift after a sale has started will need some explaining.

Oddly enough, however, the size and timing of the awards — and the subsequent attention from the news media and the authorities — also seem to have ensured a proper auction of the company was conducted. This had the unintended, or maybe even intended, effect of squeezing out the maximum price for shareholders.
552 2010-05-18 The last of 10 Americans detained while trying to take 33 children out of Haiti after the January earthquake was released Monday when a judge convicted her and sentenced her to time already served in jail. “I’m praising God,” said the woman, Laura Silsby, 40, the organizer of the failed effort to take the children to an orphanage being set up in the Dominican Republic.

She was originally charged with kidnapping and criminal association, but those charges were dropped and she was convicted of arranging illegal travel. Ms. Silsby, above, had testified that she thought the children were orphans whose homes were destroyed in the earthquake. But she lacked the proper papers to remove them from the country. It was later determined that all the children had at least one living parent, who had turned their children over to the group in hopes of securing better lives for them.
553 2010-05-18 But she said: “Elections have consequences, and they should focus their efforts on the president and the Democrats that control the agenda in Congress.”

Mr. McCain, a Republican, has in years past repeatedly sponsored a bill that would offer legalization for illegal immigrant students who were brought to the United States as children by their parents, known to its supporters as the Dream Act. But this year he has not. Mr. McCain is facing a primary challenge from J.D Hayworth, a talk show host who has taken a tough stand on illegal immigrants.

The students protesting in Mr. McCain’s office said they wanted to increase pressure on Congress to pass the Dream Act this year, even if lawmakers do not take up a broader overhaul of the immigration system. The student bill is currently part of a Democratic proposal for an overhaul, largely written by Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York.

“I’ve been organizing for years, and a lot of my friends have become frustrated and lost hope,” said one of the students, Lizbeth Mateo, 25. “We don’t have any more time to be waiting. I really believe this year we can make it happen.”

Ms. Mateo, who came to the United States when she was 14, said she paid full tuition to earn a degree from California State University, Northridge, the first member of her family to graduate from college. She said her plans to attend law school had failed because she lacked legal status.

Ms. Mateo was arrested, along with Mohammad Abdollahi, 24, of Ann Arbor, Mich.; and Yahaira Carrillo, 25, of Kansas City, Mo. All three are illegal immigrants.

Also arrested was Raúl Alcaraz, 27, an immigrant from Mexico who is a legal resident and a counselor at a Tucson high school.

The protesters walked into Mr. McCain’s office just before noon and sat in the lobby.

Tania Unzueta, 26, who is from Los Angeles, joined the sit-in, but she said the group decided she should leave the protest in order to avoid arrest.

Mr. Abdollahi said he could not return to Iran, where he was born, because he is gay and feared persecution there.

Margo Cowan, a lawyer representing the students, said that the Tucson police said they would advise federal immigration authorities of the arrests, and that she expected the students would be put in immigration detention.

Illegal immigrant students have become increasingly public in their protests in recent months, as the prospects for an immigration overhaul faded in Washington. Four immigrant students walked from Miami to Washington, arriving in late April. So far, immigration authorities have not moved to detain student protesters.

Lawmakers are divided over whether to take up the Dream Act as separate legislation. Andy Fisher, a spokesman for Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, a Republican who is a lead sponsor of the bill, said that the senator did not support any effort to advance a comprehensive immigration overhaul this year, but that he believed the Dream Act could be “doable” separately.

An aide to Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, a Democrat who is the act’s other lead sponsor, said he continued to see it as part of an overhaul.

Lawyers for the groups that filed the suit over the Arizona immigration law Monday took aim at a chief argument of its supporters: that it largely parallels existing federal statutes. The lawyers said the Arizona law went further because federal agents are not required to check the immigration status of people they stop or arrest, as the state law requires.
554 2010-05-18 Prudential, the British insurer, announced the terms of its $21 billion stock issue on Monday, a move that keeps it on track to finance its acquisition of the Asian life insurance unit of the American International Group.

The insurer said it would offer 11 shares for every two existing shares. Current shareholders will be able to buy the new shares at 104 pence a share, or 80.8 percent less than the May 14 closing price.

The shareholders will vote on the stock issue, which requires 75 percent approval, on June 7.

The secondary issue, to take place simultaneously in Hong Kong and Singapore, was delayed this month when Prudential was forced to cancel its expected announcement on its pricing while it resolved British regulatory concerns over how it would hold its capital in the combined group.

“We knew going in that it would be a long, complicated process,” said Tidjane Thiam, the Prudential chief executive. Both the company and the British securities regulator, the Financial Services Authority, had been working around the clock, but at a certain point, he said, they “called us and said they needed more time.”

Prudential said Monday that it would have £5.2 billion ($7.52 billion) in surplus capital once it had completed the stock issue and takeover of American International Assurance, the Asian arm of A.I.G., as well as access to an additional £1 billion for stress contingencies.

In the same statement, Prudential detailed the terms of its takeover of A.I.A., saying the deal had a notional value of about $35 billion, of which $25 billion is still in cash, despite reports that Prudential had negotiated a smaller cash payment.
555 2010-05-18 New York City offers thousands of options for dinner out on a Thursday night, but until this summer, the Statue of Liberty was not one of them.

The National Park Service, starting in June, will allow people to visit Liberty Island and dine there, at dusk. The park service tried out the idea for the first time on a Friday night in September and now plans to repeat the “experiment” on eight Thursdays, from early June to mid-August, said Mindi Rambo, a spokeswoman for the park service.

“The evening with Miss Liberty that was held in September was very well received by the park service personnel and the visitors,” Ms. Rambo said. “Quite a few visitors asked rangers if we were going to do it again because they wanted to bring a date next time or they wanted to come back and photograph it.”

Mike Burke, the chief operating officer of Statue Cruises, said, “Everybody either had a date or a tripod” on Sept. 25, the night of the first event. He said that he hoped the park service would agree to add more nights next year.

Statue Cruises, which has a contract to ferry tourists to the statue and Ellis Island, plans to charge $35 for adults and $15 for children to ride its boats to Liberty Island from Battery Park and stay for an hour or two. The fee includes the cost of dinner at the concession stands on the island, although visitors may bring their own food. Visitors will be able to roam the grounds, but they will not be allowed into the statue.

Mr. Burke said his company sold all the seats on the two 800-passenger boats it ran to the statue on Sept. 25. (It also operated a night tour to Ellis Island the night before.) This summer, it plans to limit attendance to 1,200 people per evening. “I’m expecting we’ll sell out,” Mr. Burke said.
556 2010-05-18 The World Cup opener against England is June 12 in Rustenburg, South Africa. And the timetable for picking the squad has been compressed by Bradley’s plan to trim his 30-man roster to 23 a day or two after the United States plays May 25 in an exhibition against the Czech Republic in East Hartford, Conn.

“We trust that we’ve had experience in games together,” Bradley said. “I don’t think automatically you’ve got to put what you think is your potential starting 11 out there in the first training session.”

Of course, the United States is not the only one of 32 World Cup teams facing injury concerns as players report to camp after long club seasons. England’s star forward Wayne Rooney is nursing a recurrent groin injury. And Germany has lost its captain, midfielder Michael Ballack, who tore an ankle ligament Saturday while being tackled harshly as Chelsea won the F.A. Cup in England.

“Any time there’s an injury late where a big player is going to miss the World Cup, I think everybody feels bad about it,” Bradley said.

Ballack’s injury could directly affect the Americans in the World Cup, since Germany is a potential second-round opponent from a group that includes Serbia, Ghana and Australia. It was Ballack’s header in a 1-0 German victory that knocked the United States out of the quarterfinals of the 2002 World Cup in South Korea.

“It’s devastating for him personally; he was the face of the German national team,” said Steve Cherundolo, an American defender who plays for a German club. “But I don’t think there’s one player, maybe beside Messi, who could really change a game. I don’t think with or without Michael Ballack Germany is considerably better or considerably worse. I don’t think it changes the situation for us at all.”

To reach the second round, the United States will have to manage its own injury situation. Although Onyewu resumed training with A.C. Milan, he did not get into a match in the final weeks of the Serie A season. His appearance against England would be his first in a game that counted since Oct. 14.

On Monday, A.C. Milan announced that Onyewu, having been absent for so many months, had signed a contract extension and agreed to play for free during the 2012-13 season.

When Onyewu arrives in camp, he is expected to jump into full training, Bradley said.

“He put himself in contention at the end of the year” at A.C. Milan, Bradley said. “He’s been feeling good coming out of regular training sessions, so I think we’re confident about that.”

Bocanegra feared that his World Cup spot might become vulnerable when he was kicked above his left knee in late March while playing for Rennes in France’s Ligue 1. He began overcompensating for the quadriceps injury and strained an abdominal muscle, he said, missing the final three matches of the season.

“It’s a bit frustrating,” he said, but added that should be recovered to train fully in a couple of days.

One choice Bradley must make is whether to play Bocanegra at left back or at center back.

“I’m comfortable with both,” Bocanegra said. “I just want to be on the field. I think it’ll depend tactically how we want to go about the game.”

If Bocanegra plays center back, Jonathan Spector or Jonathan Bornstein would most likely play left back. If injuries persist at center back, Bradley also has Clarence Goodson as an option, and the versatile Spector could play inside or Maurice Edu could drop back from midfield. Cherundolo, a potential starter at right back, also has some experience as a center back, but he cautioned, “At this level, it’s not something you should do, jump around positions.”

He called the current injury situation “not unimportant, but not that big a deal.”

“Everybody here has been in that situation,” Cherundolo said. “We know how to deal with it. On the other hand, it’s an advantage the more time we have together.”
557 2010-05-18 BRUSSELS — European Union finance ministers approved a draft law Tuesday that would make it harder for foreign hedge fund managers to do business in the trading bloc and that could threaten London’s preeminence as a financial center.

But in a diplomatic concession to Britain — and to its newly appointed chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne — the ministers issued a statement “taking into account the concerns” of London.

Mr. Osborne now is likely to turn to Michel Barnier, a French commissioner for financial services, and to the European Parliament to try to ensure that the final results mostly reflect London’s wish that foreign hedge fund managers be able to continue doing business across the 27-member bloc without too many impediments.

Those rules have been the subject of a fierce lobbying battle over the last eight months by British officials who fear that the rules will erode the position of the City of London as a global financial hub while doing little to protect the financial system.

Criticism also has come from the United States, where Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has warned that the measures could be discriminatory.

Regulators and lawmakers worldwide are tightening their scrutiny of hedge funds and private equity firms on the grounds that they may have been partly to blame for the worst financial crisis in a generation. Many in Europe also see the hedge fund and private equity industries as too opaque and secretive.
558 2010-05-18 There are of course many reasons witchcraft trials sometimes spiraled out of control, but scholars generally agree that setting up a category of exceptional crimes permitted a vast expansion of convictions whose justice few would defend today.

We must be careful not to repeat this horrific example. Our civil rights exist precisely for dangerous times and for those suspected of terrible crimes.

The writer is professor emeritus of history at the University of Virginia.

Re “You Have the Right to Remain Constitutional” (Op-Ed, May 13):

Sol Wachtler is right that we should not further erode Miranda warnings. What sense does it make to take away protections for those accused of a crime based on the nature of the crime they’re accused of? If the government can wipe out constitutional protections that are specifically for the accused just by making the accusation, what’s the point?

In the recent Times Square bombing case, I think of the man who was seen on videotape at the scene removing a piece of clothing and looking around. His image was beamed around the world and he was strongly implicated as a suspect, although it now appears that he was just a bystander.

Should the government have been able to pick up this fellow (who could have been any of us) and question him indefinitely without reading him his rights, simply because someone had applied the label “terrorism” to events he had nothing to do with? Not in the America that I believe in.

In discussing the Obama administration’s decision to authorize the killing of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born cleric who is hiding in Yemen, you say that he is “arguably protected” by the Fifth Amendment, which provides that the government shall not deprive a citizen of life, liberty or property without due process of law (“A Legal Debate as C.I.A. Stalks a U.S. Jihadist,” front page, May 14).

There is nothing arguable about it. Mr. Awlaki was born in New Mexico. He is therefore a United States citizen. To say the legal issue is “arguable” is to say there is legitimate doubt as to whether the Constitution prohibits the government from executing citizens who are living outside the United States on the sole basis that the president believes the killing would make the nation more secure.

No matter how incendiary Mr. Awlaki’s rhetoric is, he is not holding a weapon. Targeting him for killing is a lawless act, and the Constitution forbids it.

The writer is a professor at the University of Houston Law Center.
559 2010-05-18 In interviews and a statement, the Pentagon’s Missile Defense Agency strongly defended the SM-3s testing record, and said that the analysis by Dr. Postol, an M.I.T. physicist, and Dr. Lewis, a Cornell physicist, was fundamentally mistaken.

“The allegation is wrong,” Richard Lehner, an agency spokesman, said Wednesday. He said the SM-3 is “attaining test scores that many other Defense Department programs aspire to attain.”

Even so, the Pentagon later admitted that 4 of the 10 analyzed flight tests carried no mock warheads at all.

The White House declined to comment on the critique of the SM-3 and referred questions to the Pentagon.

The political implications of the critique are potentially large. Democrats, traditional critics of missile defense, have been largely silent about Mr. Obama’s enthusiasm for this new generation, which for the moment is aimed only at shorter- and mid-range missiles, rather than ones that fly between continents.

During the campaign, Mr. Obama repeatedly criticized what he called President ’s haste to deploy unproven antimissile arms. He vowed that as president, he would assure that any defensive shield would meet rigorous standards of testing and effectiveness.

Since last fall, Mr. Obama’s antimissile goals have expanded to include not only countering Iranian missiles, but creating a rationale for deep cuts in the nation’s nuclear arsenal and ultimately for prompting foes to abandon their missile programs.

The deployment of the SM-3 is also seen as essential to convincing that the has an effective technology to contain Iran, even if the Iranians obtain a nuclear weapon.

The dispute between the academics and the Pentagon centers on whether it is enough for a speeding interceptor to hit the body of a spent rocket moving through outer space or whether it must hit the attached warhead. Dr. Postol says the SM-3 interceptor must shatter the warhead directly, and public statements of the Pentagon agency seem to suggest that it agrees.

“The interceptors,” the agency Web site says in its basic explanation of antimissile goals, “ram the warhead at a very high closing speed, destroying the target.”

Skeptics generally hold that the antimissile job is so daunting — what the Pentagon calls hitting a bullet with a bullet — that managers and contractors easily fall prey to exaggerating test results.

But technologists call it increasingly doable. Compared with the Bush administration’s land-based system, the SM-3 is fairly small, quickly deployable on ships and has a better reputation.

The interceptor holds what the Pentagon calls an exoatmospheric kill vehicle. In space, it peers through a telescope to guide itself toward the target, sensing telltale heat emanations and using a computer brain to fire thruster jets. The kill vehicle slams into the target and destroys it by force of impact.

Dr. Postol’s critics see him as a pessimist blind to antimissile progress, and his defenders view him as a seer of technical oversight.

During the 1991 Gulf war, the Army put the success rate of the Patriot at over 80 percent in and 50 percent in Israel. But Dr. Postol found that brilliant displays of antimissile fire and thunder hid repeated failures of the interceptors to knock out speeding warheads.

The SM-3 analysis of Dr. Postol and Dr. Lewis, “A Flawed and Dangerous U.S. Missile Defense Plan,” appears in the May issue of Arms Control Today, a publication of the Arms Control Association, a private group in Washington.

The study examined video images that the SM-3 kill vehicle took a split second before striking the target and that the Missile Defense Agency subsequently made public. The analysis looked at 10 tests between 2002 and 2009 — all of which the agency hailed as successful intercepts.

But the scientists found that the kill vehicle hit the warhead only once or twice. The rest of the time, the interceptor struck the rocket body — a much larger target.

In combat, the scientists added, “the warhead would have not been destroyed, but would have continued toward the target.”

In an interview, Dr. Postol said the antimissile blow might cause a warhead to fall short or give it an added nudge, with the exact site of the weapon’s impact uncertain.

“It matters if it’s Wall Street or ,” he said, “but we won’t know in advance.”

The Pentagon’s rebuttal included a written one vetted by Lt. Gen. Patrick J. O’Reilly, director of the Missile Defense Agency, as well the office of the secretary of defense. It called the analysis “flawed, inaccurate and misleading” and said the alleged SM-3 failures were all, in fact, successes that “did exactly what was expected” as the kill vehicles hit “within inches of the expected impact point.”

But it offered little discussion of whether striking the rocket body in flight tests was sufficient grounds to claim overall success — a seemingly important point given that much of the agency’s public testimony centers on the necessity of hitting warheads to ensure their destruction.

In a series of e-mail messages, Mr. Lehner of the Missile Defense Agency offered more information. On Wednesday, he said the rocket’s violent breakup also demolished the warhead. Asked if the agency had evidence, he replied Thursday that readings from test sensors “prove conclusively” that mock warheads “were destroyed and were no longer a threat.”

Mr. Lehner added, however, that target missiles in 4 test flights carried no mock warheads, but rather “a nosecone with a weight up front for ballast.” The 4 flights with no warheads — which Dr. Postol and Dr. Lewis included in their analysis of 10 interceptions by the SM-3 — included 3 early ones and a flight last July, the most recent in their analysis.

Informed of the Pentagon’s response, Dr. Postol said he had no idea about the lack of warheads. He also questioned whether the destroyed warheads represented military designs or frail impostors. Real nuclear warheads streaking through the void of space are extremely rugged objects, designed to withstand the fiery heat of atmospheric re-entry as well as intense buffeting and shaking.

“A mock warhead may be extremely fragile compared to a real one,” Dr. Postol said.

Mr. Lehner disagreed. On Friday he called the fragility claim “absolutely not true.”

Representative John F. Tierney, a Democrat who is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform national security subcommittee, said in a statement that the SM-3 reanalysis raised serious questions.

“Congress will need to look into them further,” he said. “The American people deserve to know about the system’s actual capabilities and have a right to expect that their dollars are being spent effectively.”
560 2010-05-18 “Priscilla Queen of the Desert,” a musical adapted from a 1994 film about three transvestites making their way across the Australian outback, may have a few surprises to offer but the identities of at least two of its leads are not among them. Confirming longstanding reports, the musical’s producers said on Monday that the show’s Broadway transfer would star Will Swenson (“Hair”), above right, as Tick/Mitzi, and Tony Sheldon, right, an Olivier Award nominee for the show’s West End production, who will reprise his role as Bernadette. (No casting was announced for the role of Adam/Felicia, the trio’s third member.) The musical, which was presented in Australia and New Zealand before it reached London, is written by Stephan Elliott, the writer and director of the film, and Allan Scott, and directed by Simon Phillips. A Toronto run is scheduled to begin in October before the production moves to a yet-to-be-determined Broadway theater next spring.
561 2010-05-18 Q. SO WE’RE PROBABLY NOT ALONE?

A. I don’t want to say “we” because people immediately think of something like a human being. But life as we know it — a self-replicating system — is probably not unique to the Earth. Under the right conditions, with the right chemistry, it can happen. There may be simple chemistry happening on Titan, a moon of Saturn. Some people think it could be happening on the satellites of Jupiter. There are compelling reasons to think that Mars was wet when it was young and that the raw materials for life could have been there. We don’t know how far it progressed.

Q. DID YOU SUPPORT FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH’S PLAN FOR MANNED TRAVEL TO MARS?

A. I’m glad the Obama administration appears to be canceling it. Until we know whether or not life existed on Mars, putting humans there is premature. We’d contaminate the planet. All we’d see is human microbes and refuse.

Q. ON THE OTHER HAND, STEPHEN HAWKING THINKS EXPOSURE TO EXTRATERRESTRIAL LIFE COULD PROVE HAZARDOUS TO EARTHLINGS. “IF ALIENS VISIT US, THE OUTCOME WOULD BE MUCH AS WHEN COLUMBUS LANDED IN AMERICA, WHICH DIDN’T TURN OUT WELL FOR THE NATIVE AMERICANS,” DR. HAWKING RECENTLY WARNED. IS HE ONTO SOMETHING?

A. Dr. Hawking suggests an intriguing possibility, although there are alternative scenarios. Aliens might bring some exotic organisms with them to Earth, but would they survive in our oxygen-rich environment long enough to do any damage to humans or the ecosystem? Meteorites from Mars have landed on Earth throughout history, and if any Martian organisms were hitchhiking on these, they have not killed us yet.

Q. THREE YEARS AGO, YOU REDID THE SPARK DISCHARGE EXPERIMENT. WHY?

A. Actually, we didn’t redo it — we reanalyzed it. When, in 1999, Stanley had a stroke, he donated everything in his office to my laboratory. Eight years later, I was giving a talk in Texas and someone there told me that he’d once seen the extracts of the 1953 experiment in a cardboard box in Stanley’s laboratory. Stanley had kept them for all those decades! Though we were very close, he’d never told me about it. I suppose it was just old business to him. But when I got back to San Diego, I asked my staff, “When we moved everything from Stanley’s office, did we get a little cardboard box?” And someone said, “Yeah, its right over there.”

And there it was! Inside, were all these tiny glass vials carefully labeled, with page numbers referring Stanley’s laboratory notes. I was dumbstruck. We were looking at history. It immediately hit me that when Stanley had first done the experiment, analytic tools were still very, very primitive. We have instruments today that are a billion times better. So we then reanalyzed the original materials with the modern tools. And lo and behold, we found that the spark discharge experiment had actually made about 30 compounds. Stanley had shown they’d made only five!

Q. DID YOUR ANALYSIS CONFIRM THE VALIDITY OF THE EXPERIMENT? THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO STILL DOUBT IT.

A. Oh, yes. And more! It showed how easy it was to make a huge number of compounds. What was really interesting was the Murchison meteorite, which fell to earth in 1969, was originally thought to contain maybe 75 amino acids. Three years ago, when we compared the distribution of amino acids in the discharge experiment, they were uncannily similar to those in the meteorite.

I would have loved to have told Stanley about this. But sadly, he was completely incapacitated by the time we found the samples. He died shortly thereafter. I would have loved to have said to him, “Look Stanley, your experiment duplicated what happened on Murchison and you didn’t know it.”

Q. DO YOU THINK IT WOULD BE VALUABLE FOR OTHER SCIENTISTS TO REVISIT OLDER EXPERIMENTS?

A. Listen, I was very fortunate to have had a mentor who had the foresight to preserve his experimental materials. Nonetheless, he couldn’t anticipate all the changes that came with modern analytical chemistry. Today, we are seeing an explosion of knowledge due to new techniques. We ought to use them.

There was just an article in the journal PNAS about how new methods further characterized the compounds in Murchison. Up to now, we knew of hundreds in it. Yet, because of new techniques, they’ve found tens of thousands. And that made me think that yes, we ought to redo the spark discharge experiment. I suspect we’d also find tens of thousands of molecules that were in the prebiotic soup. That, hopefully, is the next project we’ll be pursuing.
562 2010-05-18 The market has emerged from several days of losses amid uncertainty over the European debt troubles.

The euro led the trend on Monday, falling to $1.2235, its lowest since April 2006, and then recovering late in the day to $1.2392.

The European Central Bank disclosed on Monday that it bought 16.5 billion euros (about $20 billion) in bonds in the first week since taking the unprecedented step of intervening in markets to halt a sell-off of Greek and other European debt.

The bank also announced steps to prevent the bond purchases from increasing the total money supply and fueling inflation.

The European Central Bank said it would take in a similar amount from banks, which will be able to deposit funds and earn interest.

European stock markets spent most of Monday in positive territory before slumping at the close. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of euro-zone blue chips and the FTSE 100 index in London were flat.

On Wall Street, stocks in the energy sector were hardest hit. Exxon Mobil was 0.5 percent lower, to $63.27; and Halliburton was down 0.85 percent, to $27.85.

Analysts said the falling euro raised concerns about economic recovery and pulled down the price of crude oil, which fell briefly below $70 a barrel and weighed on energy stocks. Crude oil for June delivery fell $1.53, to settle at $70.08 a barrel.

Stocks in the financial and retail sectors were among the most active.

Citigroup fell 3 percent, to $3.86, and Wells Fargo dropped 7 cents, to $31.97. Bank of America rose a penny, to $16.35.

Lowe’s, the home improvement retailer, reported higher net income of $489 million, or 34 cents a share, in the first quarter. But its full-year outlook fell short of analysts’ expectations and its shares fell $3.11, to $25.26.

Other major retailers, including Wal-Mart and Target, are scheduled to release quarterly reports this week.

John Lonski, chief economist for Moody’s Capital Market Economics, said that a better-than-expected housing-related report might have helped lift sentiment during the day.

The National Association of Home Builders said in a report released on Monday that builders’ confidence in the market for newly built, single-family homes had improved in May.

It “raised the possibility that home-buying activity did not fall off of a cliff following the end of April when the homebuyers tax credit expired,” Mr. Lonski said.

A survey from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on manufacturing was mixed. New York manufacturers expect conditions to improve over the next six months, “but the level of optimism was noticeably lower in May than in recent months,” the report said.

The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 9/32, to 100 3/32, and the yield rose to 3.49 percent, from 3.45 percent late on Friday.
563 2010-05-18 LONDON — The Man Group, the hedge fund based here, agreed Monday to buy a rival, GLG Partners, for $1.6 billion to diversify its range of investment funds.

Man is paying GLG shareholders $4.50 a share in cash, a 55 percent premium to the company’s closing share price Friday, the company said in a statement. Man was under pressure to add new products after its business became overly reliant on its flagship AHL fund, which had a loss last year. The combined group would have $63 billion of funds under management, the company said.

“Man’s quantitative and multimanager expertise complements GLG’s long track record in discretionary investment strategies,” Peter Clarke, Man’s chief executive, said in a statement.

Shares in Man fell 8.17 percent in London on Monday after some investors and analysts questioned whether Man had paid too steep a price for GLG and whether the $50 million in annual cost savings the companies expected could be realized.

“This does help to diversify the business and smooth the earnings, but why could Man not have done that themselves?” David McCann, an analyst at Numis Securities in London, said. “It didn’t strike me that that much would come out of expanding the distribution.”

Man said it expected the acquisition to add to earnings in 2012. GLG’s founders, Noam Gottesman and Pierre Lagrange, and the co-chief executive, Emmanuel Roman, agreed to a lock-up of their shares for three years. They also agreed to swap their GLG shares for Man stock at $3.50 a share, well below the cash offer to other GLG shareholders.
564 2010-05-18 PARIS — Heathrow and Gatwick airports began reopening on Monday after a new cloud of ash from a volcano in Iceland prompted aviation authorities in Britain, Ireland and the Netherlands to close much of their airspace for several hours.

A spokesman for Schiphol Airport said flights to and from Amsterdam’s main international airport would also resume from 2 p.m. local time, although major disruptions were expected to last throughout the day.

Eurocontrol, the agency in Brussels charged with coordinating European air traffic management, said it expected roughly 1,000 flights would be canceled on Monday out of around 29,000 that would normally take place this time of year.

Winds were dispersing the cloud and reducing concentrations to levels that regulators and engine manufacturers have agreed are safe for commercial traffic. Eurocontrol said the densest parts of the cloud over Europe were at relatively low altitudes, which meant that while take-offs and landings were being disrupted, overflights of the affected areas were still possible.

According to the Volcanic Ash Advisory Center in London, the ash plume from Iceland’s Eyjafjallajokull volcano was so far remaining below 29,000 feet, while the standard cruising altitude for aircraft is 32,000 to 35,000 feet.
565 2010-05-18 LISS--Elliott R. 7/6/31-5/18/04. Beloved husband, father, grandfather. Not a day goes by that you are not remembered. We will always love you....
566 2010-05-19 Europe’s debt crisis shows the risks for the United States if it does not get its budget deficits under control, former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said Tuesday....
567 2010-05-19 Dayo Olopade, left, of The Daily Beast and Noah Millman of The American Scene debate auctioning off the right to work in America.
568 2010-05-19 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority plans to sever its relationship with Goldman Sachs, the transit agency's longtime financial adviser....
569 2010-05-19 The Senate failed to cut off debate on a sweeping financial regulatory bill as two key Democrats said it still did not sufficiently tighten rules on Wall Street....
570 2010-05-19 Goldman Sachs had been working on a month-to-month basis with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority after its contract ended last year....
571 2010-05-19 The marketplace will be open on Sundays and Wednesdays until the fall....
572 2010-05-19 Senate Democrats are holding a special caucus meeting on Wednesday afternoon to discuss efforts to finish the big financial regulation bill....
573 2010-05-19 And even more: free lemonade and gelato....
574 2010-05-19 The New York Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit to stop the Police Department from keeping information on those who were arrested as a result of the stops, but later cleared or had their charges downgraded....
575 2010-05-19 Three baristas sell coffee by bicycle in Williamsburg, Brooklyn....
576 2010-05-19 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
577 2010-05-19 A day after the Senate minority leader's choice for the Republican Senate nominee in Kentucky lost, he rails against the financial legislation....
578 2010-05-19 A look at staged accident insurance fraud, the drop in tourism to Thailand and other consumer-focused items from Wednesday's Times....
579 2010-05-19 The nation's top scientific advisers affirm risks from warming and propose ways to limit the downside....
580 2010-05-19 Ceres, an advisory firm, warns investors that high costs and political risks make oil-sands stocks a big gamble....
581 2010-05-19 When your marketing reflects your brand and persona, your company will also differentiate itself from its competitors....
582 2010-05-19 The Thai stock exchange was on fire and parts of Bangkok were hit by power blackouts on Wednesday as violence continued, even though antigovernment protest leaders surrendered and troops said they were in control....
583 2010-05-19 The hedge fund giant Brevan Howard Asset Management has begun accepting outside investors for a $200 million commodities fund introduced in March, Bloomberg News reported....
584 2010-05-19 The recent poor performance of private equity-backed companies in the public markets may mean that buyout shops will have a harder time convincing investors to buy their wares going forward, Bloomberg News reported....
585 2010-05-19 Jamine Peterson was dismissed from the Providence men’s team for violating team rules. Coach Keno Davis said Peterson, known as Greedy, had broken unspecified team rules. Peterson, a 6-foot-6 sophomore, started every game for the Friars and was the team’s leading scorer last season, averaging nearly 20 points a game and more than 10 rebounds. His dismissal follows the arrests last month of his teammates James Still and Johnnie Lacy. They were charged with assault and were suspended pending the outcome of a college investigation.
586 2010-05-19 Stock markets in Asia fell on Wednesday and the euro continued to slide after renewed market nervousness about the Greek debt crisis and policymakers' ability to stem the potential fallout helped drag Wall Street lower....
587 2010-05-19 Stocks on Wall Street fell on Tuesday and the euro retreated to a new low, in part after Germany moved to impose tighter regulation of financial markets....
588 2010-05-19 Before the game, Manager Jerry Manuel said the Mets’ high volume of strikeouts was limiting his ability to do certain things, like hit and run. But he still chose to use an out, with the hope that Wright could at least put the ball in play, or even give the Mets a lead with a fly ball.

Although his power numbers are up — with eight home runs after a season in which he hit a career-low 10 — Wright is striking out at an alarming rate. Manuel said he did not know the reason, but he acknowledged he had seen a growing tendency of opposing teams to pitch Wright inside, often on the first pitch, and then go away with breaking pitches later in at-bats to throw him off balance.

Asked if his problems could be related to the beaning Wright sustained from Giants pitcher Matt Cain last August, Manuel gave a mixed answer.

“I won’t say that,” he said. “You know, that’s something that’s in the equation for thought. I can’t say that I’ve noticed that big of a deal. I see some guys go in on him and he’ll hit balls out over the plate.”

The rookie Ike Davis was linked in failure with Wright in the ninth inning. Davis left Castillo stranded at third when he, too, struck out against Wagner.

In the bottom of the ninth, Braves catcher Brian McCann led off with a single to right field, and Manuel called upon Jenrry Mejia, who walked Yunel Escobar, putting runners at first and second.

Mejia got ahead of Melky Cabrera, but Cabrera hit a slow bouncer toward third.

Wright had only one play, at first, but his throw tailed in toward Cabrera, and Davis got his glove entangled with the runner. The ball got away, and so did the Mets’ hopes of a two-game winning streak with the team’s disappointed chief operating officer, Jeff Wilpon, in attendance after meeting with his staff for the second consecutive day.

Davis took the blame for the final play, saying: “I have to catch that ball. It wasn’t a bad throw.” But a somber Wright also took responsibility.

“The guys are going out there and fighting hard and doing a good job,” he said. “It’s tough when somebody goes out there and plays as poorly as I am right now and really costing us, today both offensively and defensively.”

After the game, Manuel said he was considering giving Wright a day off in Washington, where the Mets travel next.

But Wright said: “That could be one of the worst things right now. I want to get back out there and kind of get this taste out of my mouth.”

The game started with some promise, and a calmer atmosphere in the wake of Monday’s spectacle of Wilpon meeting with Manuel and his staff in the visiting manager’s office. On Tuesday, they met over a fried chicken lunch at the team hotel.

Johan Santana started and pitched seven strong innings, allowing a two-run home run to Troy Glaus in the third and no hits after that. The Mets tied the score in the fifth when Davis and Jeff Francoeur hit home runs.

It was Francoeur’s first home run since April 3 and it broke an 0-for-20 string that dated to May 11. Francoeur, who came into the game hitting .098 in May, sympathized with Wright.

“The harder you try sometimes, the harder it gets,” he said. “I’m living proof of that. You’re so tense up there, it seems like every time there’s one out and a runner at third, you’re up. That’s how the game goes when you’re not feeling good.”

Jerry Manuel said Hisanori Takahashi’s start against the Yankees on Friday would be an audition for a permanent spot in the rotation. ... The Mets said they would announce Wednesday whether Jon Niese, who sustained a strained right hamstring Sunday, would go on the disabled list. If not, the Mets were considering sending reliever Jenrry Mejia to Class AAA Buffalo. With the hard-throwing right-hander Ryota Igarashi coming back from the disabled list sometime this month, the Mets will have flexibility to send Mejia down and possibly have him return to a starting role. ... Steven Matz, the Mets’ top draft choice in 2009, underwent Tommy John surgery.
589 2010-05-19 The Ford Foundation on Tuesday announced plans to spend $200 million over the next five years on programs aimed at better connecting cities and suburbs to create cohesive metropolitan areas. The foundation will support efforts to expand affordable housing, build and enhance public transportation systems, and extend the use of regional land banks to address the problems of abandoned urban neighborhoods. Additionally, Ford, which has long supported various community development efforts, will now direct any money it grants for urban revitalization toward building integrated urban-suburban regions. “Metropolitan areas that manage to interweave urban and suburban development, everything from transportation to arts and culture, attract more people and more investment,” Luis Ubinas, Ford’s president, said in an address to a conference of local, state and federal officials concerned about the redevelopment of cities that have relied heavily on the auto industry, which is now shrinking.
590 2010-05-19 A three-bedroom two-bath duplex in a former torpedo factory on an island in Copenhagen is on the market for 7.5 million Danish kroner, or about $1.24 million....
591 2010-05-19 Canadian oil sands are expected to become America’s top source of imported oil this year, surpassing conventional Canadian oil imports and roughly equaling the combined imports from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, according to IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm.

In a new report, it projects that oil sands production could make up as much as 36 percent of United States oil imports by 2030. “The uncertainty and the slowdown in drilling permits in the gulf really underscores the growing importance of Canadian oil sands, which over the last decade have gone from being a fringe energy source to being one of strategic importance,” said Daniel Yergin, an oil historian and chairman of IHS CERA. “Looking ahead, its importance is only going to get bigger.”

Last week, a phalanx of Canadian diplomats took advantage of a previously planned trip to Washington to promote oil sands as a safer alternative to deepwater drilling because leaks would be easier to detect and control.

In an interview afterward, Alberta’s premier, Ed Stelmach, said he was not trying to capitalize on the gulf disaster, but merely promoting “what we have to offer, which is security of supply” and “a safe stable government.”

From a supply standpoint, there is much to recommend oil sands, also known as tar sands. Canada has 178 billion barrels of proven oil reserves, virtually all in oil sands. Only Saudi Arabia has more proven oil reserves.

The United States produces about five million barrels of oil a day and imports 10 million more. Canada accounts for about 1.9 million barrels of the daily imports, roughly half of it from oil sands.

“If you need crude to fuel your economy, you’d really better be thinking about Canada,” said Chris Seasons, president of the Canadian unit of Devon Energy, an oil company based in Oklahoma City. Devon is already producing 35,000 barrels a day from oil sands around Conklin. It expects to expand its production to 200,000 barrels a day by 2020, in part through a second project, with BP. That would be roughly equivalent to current imports from Kuwait.

To increase delivery of oil sands crude, TransCanada is building the Keystone pipeline system. Two Keystone pipelines have been approved, with the first one delivering oil to Illinois in June. A much longer pipeline to Texas, called Keystone XL, is still under federal review. If fully developed as proposed, the system would allow Canada to export an additional 1.1 million barrels of oil a day.

In a world in which so many oil-producing nations are far away, unstable or hostile to the United States, Canadian oil sands hold great political appeal.

“It is undeniable that having a large supply of crude oil available by pipeline from a friendly neighbor is extremely valuable to the energy security of the United States,” said David L. Goldwyn, coordinator for international energy affairs at the State Department. The department is scheduled to decide this year whether to approve Keystone XL.

Complicating the calculation is the fact that Canada’s backup market for its oil is probably China. Plans are already under way for pipelines from Alberta to Canada’s western coast for shipments to Asia. Although those could take up to a decade to build because of land considerations, Mr. Stelmach, Alberta’s premier, flew to China on Friday on a trade mission to Shanghai, Beijing and Harbin. He said one of his messages was, “We’ve got energy.”

Whatever the advantages, serious environmental problems and risks come with producing oil from oil sands.

Most of the biggest production sites are huge mine pits, accompanied by ponds of waste that are so toxic that the companies try to frighten birds away with scarecrows and propane cannons.

Extracting oil from the sands produces far more greenhouse gases than drilling, environmental groups say, and the process requires three barrels of water for every barrel of oil produced because the dirt must be washed out. Already, tailing pools cover 50 square miles of land abutting the Athabasca River.

The mines are also carving gashes in the world’s largest intact forest, which serves as a vital absorber of carbon dioxide and a stopover point for millions of migrating birds.

Proponents of oil sands acknowledge the dirtiness of the extraction process. But they say that newer projects are using more efficient technologies.

For example, instead of surface mining, the Devon project injects high-pressure steam into the reservoir to enable the heated oil sands to be pumped out of the ground as a fluid, which is less invasive of the forest. Shell is also experimenting with ways to capture some of the carbon emissions, and other companies are trying to use solvents to heat the steam more efficiently.

Some analysts argue that imports from oil sands will replace conventional oil from places like Venezuela and Mexico, where heavy oil requires so much refining that it produces a comparable amount of greenhouse gas emissions. For the United States, “in the grand scheme of things, the actual emissions impact is very small,” said Michael A. Levi, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

But environmental groups are unmoved. “Having tar sands in our energy mix is simply inconsistent with the kind of climate and environment promises we’ve heard the Obama administration make,” said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, who works on the issue at the Natural Resources Defense Council.

The high-pressure pipelines that transport the oil give rise to separate safety and environmental concerns, which have been spotlighted by local ranchers and other opponents during the current comment period on the State Department’s environmental impact statement for the proposed pipeline expansion.

One big question is whether TransCanada should get waivers to use thinner pipes on Keystone XL than is normally required in the United States.

The Transportation Department’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, which oversees oil pipelines, gave such waivers to TransCanada for the first two Keystone pipelines. TransCanada says the thinner pipes have been allowed in Canada for decades and pose no extra risk.

But Cesar de Leon, a former deputy administrator of the pipeline and safety administration who is now an independent pipeline safety engineer, said the thinner standard is appropriate only if pipelines are being aggressively monitored for deterioration. Although the safety administration required such monitoring in the Keystone permits, it “didn’t have the people to monitor compliance,” he said.

In a report in March on the agency’s broader permitting practices, the Transportation Department’s inspector general found that, in many cases, the agency had failed to check the safety records of permit applicants and had not checked to verify that permit terms were being followed.

Officials of the safety administration did not respond to interview requests. But in written testimony to a House committee in April, the agency’s new administrator, Cynthia L. Quarterman, acknowledged problems and promised to improve. “As you know,” she said, “we inherited a program that suffered from almost a decade of neglect and was seriously adrift.”

Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, said the whole situation was alarmingly reminiscent of the permit waivers that were routinely granted to offshore oil wells, including the BP well leaking in the gulf. “I think it is incumbent on myself as a policy maker to say ‘hold it,’ ” Mr. Tester said.

In another sign of concern among policy makers, on April 29 South Dakota’s Public Utilities Commission rejected TransCanada’s request for an exemption from a state requirement to notify affected landowners about spills of less than five barrels.

The gulf spill haunted local public hearings on the Keystone project last week in Murdo, S.D., and York, Neb.

Some people along the path of the proposed and existing pipelines complained that no one had required TransCanada to produce an emergency plan for a spill, even though the new pipes would traverse pristine territory, including the Ogallala Aquifer, which supplies water to a wide swath of the nation’s breadbasket and where even a small spill could have grave consequences.

Others demanded that thicker steel be used. And some asked how the pipeline would be monitored for wear and tear.

At the York hearing on May 10, Jim Condon, an engineer from Lincoln, Neb., said the amount of oil spewing from the leaking BP well was just a small fraction of what would be passing through the Keystone XL pipeline. “A rupture of the pipeline would be a huge problem,” he said.
592 2010-05-19 A former photo director who moonlighted as a caterer, Misty Kurpier, above, gave up her day job and is opening a prepared-food store dressed up with sparkly little chandeliers and a few seats. Her mostly seasonal menu will include gazpacho with grilled shrimp, grilled chimichurri steak on ciabatta, orecchiette in a light toss of plum tomatoes, and assorted salads. Brian Smith will make his new Ample Hills Creamery ice cream in the store. Among the flavors: maple with candied bacon, coconut mojito and bubblegum tinted with beet juice.

Lucas Fine Foods opens May 22 at 847a Union Street (Seventh Avenue), Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-5520. Portions range from $2.99 to $6.99, pastas are $4.99 a pound and the ice cream is $3.85 a scoop.
593 2010-05-19 The have-nots include companies like Vostex, a family-owned textile company with 10 employees located in the Athens suburb of Peristeri. “The banks are getting stingy,” griped Harry Vostantzoglou, chief executive of Vostex. He said that Vostex was profitable and that he expected it to survive even without the local banks. Still, he said he might postpone international expansion plans.

As at Vostex, lack of credit can translate into reduced investment and job creation. If the crunch persists, it could slow European growth, hold down tax receipts and make it that much harder for such countries as Greece, Portugal and Spain to get their debts under control.

European banks, still recovering from the financial crisis, had tightened their standards for borrowers even before sovereign debt jitters struck. Lending fell at an annual rate of more than 2 percent in the first quarter of 2010, according to European Central Bank data.

Now there are signs the availability of credit to business could worsen further as banks and investors demand higher risk premiums. The situation is especially dire for companies in the highly indebted countries, where rates for business loans tend to reflect the risk premium that the local government is paying. Banks in Greece have also been hit hard by their government’s debt crisis and the economic downturn, making it tougher for them to lend.

“There is no longer a single cost of capital for the euro zone as a whole,” Stephen King, global chief economist at HSBC, wrote Monday in a note. “It appears that nationality is increasingly having an impact on borrowing costs. So much for the single market” in the zone.

Corporate borrowing in the bond market is also in a sharp downturn. New bond issues by European companies plunged in April, to $28.5 billion from $58.3 billion in March, according to data from Dealogic. And so far in May, new issues have totaled about $5 billion.

“Greece’s debt crisis could cause credit spreads to widen and borrowing costs to rise, prompting issuers to hold off raising funds until market conditions improve,” Christine Li, European economist at Moody’s, the ratings agency, wrote in a note. Credit spreads represent the difference in interest that borrowers need to pay on securities perceived as risky and those deemed safe.

The bond market sometimes seems to be singling out companies in the most indebted countries. The cost of insuring bonds issued by Telefónica, the telecommunications provider based in Madrid, nearly doubled from mid-April to early May, even though the company earns two-thirds of its revenue outside Spain.

“The perception is that if Madrid is in trouble so is Telefónica,” said Karsten Rosenkilde, a senior corporate bond fund manager at DWS, the fund management arm of Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt. “The Mediterranean corporates were the first to suffer and have really struggled to recover.”

It may not be fair, but that is often the way the lending market works. In many cases credit rating agencies follow a “sovereign ceiling” practice, under which private borrowers cannot obtain a better rating than their home country’s debt, according to a 2006 study by economists at the Federal Reserve.

After sovereign debt crises or defaults, the study found, credit tends to become more expensive for all domestic businesses, which then cut their borrowing.

The twist in this sovereign debt crisis is that risk premiums remain low in the European countries that investors perceive as safe. The Dutch brewer Heineken, for example, last week raised $725 million from institutional investors at 4.5 percent over eight years. It then swapped the debt into euros with an even lower interest rate of 3.9 percent.

The effect of tighter credit on the overall economy is likely to be limited at first, at least among larger companies. In the past year, many took advantage of low interest rates to raise money.

César, a French company that supplies costumes, masks, and other children’s gear to customers including Walt Disney, raised €5.5 million from private and institutional investors in a placement conducted in March, just before the worst of the European market turmoil.

César will use the money to expand the product range and gingerly pursue expansion in Europe, said Benoît Pousset, chief executive of the company. “For 2010 we’re conservative,” Mr. Pousset said. “There are still pockets of growth but we’re realistic.”

Hardest hit will probably be smaller companies in the Mediterranean countries that are reliant on local banks for credit. Companies in Eastern Europe, still recovering from a sharp downturn in 2008, may also suffer from increased risk aversion by banks.

“Banks are now much more cautious,” said Thomas Laursen, the World Bank’s country manager for Poland and the Baltic States. “Financing conditions for the private sector are now much more difficult, and this has affected investments.”

The European Central Bank has sought to keep credit flowing by allowing banks to borrow from it at 1 percent interest. As collateral the E.C.B. accepts bonds, even Greek bonds, allowing banks to convert this damaged debt to cash.

The E.C.B. president Jean-Claude Trichet often reminds banks that he expects them to lend this cheap money to businesses to fuel growth.

In fact, some companies are still getting credit despite the sovereign debt crisis. For example, Sonae, a developer of shopping centers and the largest private employer in Portugal, said it still planned to open 45 stores in Spain this year despite a slump in consumer spending.

“Credit is not so easy to get as it was in the past,” the company said in a statement in answer to questions. “However, Sonae isn’t having problems in financing its activities.”

Over all, though, a climate of tighter credit would seem to favor companies in Germany, France or other countries that still enjoy the trust of bond buyers.

John Leahy, chief commercial officer for Airbus, the plane maker based in France, said that financing for new aircraft deliveries has not been affected so far by the market swoon. “So far, so good,” he said. “We’re not seeing any real problems.”

Mr. Rosenkilde, the fund manager at DWS, predicted that the corporate bond market could bounce back quickly if investors became more confident about Europe’s ability to overcome the sovereign debt crisis. A more robust bond market would also be encouraging news for small-business lending. Banks often issue bonds to raise money that they then lend to companies.

Martin Fischedick, a member of the board of the Corporate Banking division of Commerzbank in Frankfurt, said that “conditions on the money and bond markets play an important role in the ability of banks to lend to companies.” At the beginning of May “there were severe tensions in these markets because of the E.U. debt crisis,” Mr. Fischedick said in an e-mail message. But he said a $1 trillion rescue package eased the tensions and bank lending was not affected.

Until the credit rebound comes, Mr. Nowicki, the Warsaw plastics maker, said he would have to curtail investment. Banks, he said, “can see our company’s performance, how we repay on time.” But he added: “I am suffering. I have three or four projects ready but I cannot realize them because of limited access to loans. The banks don’t want to deliver.”
594 2010-05-19 TO fans of the television comedy“Friends,”Jessica Hecht is Susan, the life partner of Carol, the ex-wife of Ross Geller, one of the lead characters. And as almost everybody knows, she made broadcast history in 1995 when Susan and Carol became the first lesbian couple on TV to become parents.

But for Ms. Hecht, 2010 may prove an even more significant year. She was nominated this month for a Tony Award in her role in the Broadway revival of “A View from the Bridge”; she also just bought a three-bedroom apartment in the Alwyn Court, the landmark building at Seventh Avenue and 58th Street near Carnegie Hall that is famous for its French Renaissance-style terra-cotta facade.

Ms. Hecht and her husband, Adam Bernstein, a director of television, film and music video, paid $2.05 million for a three-bedroom three-bath co-op originally listed for $2.295 million in September. The price dropped to $2.195 million in late November, and the sale closed late last month. The listing agent, Greg Kammerer, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group, declined to comment.

Ms. Hecht was nominated for best performance by a featured actress, as was her co-star in“A View From the Bridge,”Scarlett Johansson. She hasn’t given up on television, though, having recently appeared in“The Good Wife”and in “Breaking Bad,” a show that Mr. Bernstein directed. His directing credits also include episodes of “Nurse Jackie,” “30 Rock” and music videos for They Might Be Giants and the B-52s.
595 2010-05-19 News of the ban emerged late in the day in Europe. Earlier, the euro had stabilized and helped to lift stocks, despite indications that the German economy might not be as strong as economists had thought. The euro later fell to 1.2176, its lowest level since April 2006.

“The short-selling news is causing another dislocation,” said Tom di Galoma, the United States head of fixed-income rates trading for Guggenheim Partners. He added, “I think that is what has put the selling pressure back into the euro. The euro was having a pretty positive day until then.”

The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day down 114.88 points, or 1.08 percent, to 10,510.95. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was off 16.14 points or 1.42 percent, at 1,120.80 and the Nasdaq composite index fell 36.97 points, or 1.57 percent, to 2,317.26.

All of the components in the Dow were down except Wal-Mart, which rose 98 cents, to $53.71, after it reported quarterly profits were up 10 percent.

Financial, materials, technology and consumer-goods sectors were among those that lost ground. Among the most actively traded stocks, Citigroup shares fell 13 cents, to $3.73, and Bank of America dropped 40 cents, to $15.95. Home Depot shares fell 86 cents, to $34.73.

Commodity prices also fell. Crude oil prices slipped 67 cents, to $69.41 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gold was down $2.70 at $1,225.15 an ounce.

The Treasury’s 10-year note rose 1 6/32, to 101 9/32. The yield fell to 3.35 percent, from 3.49 percent late Monday.

The FTSE 100 index in London was 0.9 percent higher at 5,307.34, and the DAX in Germany was up by 89.01 points, or 1.47 percent, at 6,155.93. The CAC 40 in France was up 73.77 points, or 2.08 percent, at 3,617.32.

Uncertainty in the United States market over Europe has been tempered in the last few weeks by economic data that points to an economic recovery, but the new housing and producer price figures released on Tuesday did not send a clear enough message to provide any momentum.

Art Hogan, the chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company, said new economic data and corporate results were mostly positive but could not counteract the euro’s impact on equity markets. “The real negative catalyst is what is going on with the euro,” Mr. Hogan said.

Housing numbers from the Commerce Department suggested that construction plans had slowed, and the producer price index suggested a benign picture for inflation.

“Inflation is not really moving one way or another at this point,” said James O’Sullivan, chief economist for MF Global.
596 2010-05-19 SHANGHAI — After a spectacular rise last year, China’s stock market has plummeted on what analysts say are growing concerns about Europe’s debt crisis and expectations that Beijing is about to take strong action to slow the nation’s booming economy and prevent it from overheating.

Investors are worried that Chinese exports to Europe will slow in the coming months and that government efforts to tame this country’s economy by tightening credit will hamper a wide array of industries, including the nation’s fast-growing real estate market.

Although share prices in Shanghai rose modestly Tuesday after falling 5 percent Monday, the Shanghai composite index remains near its lowest level in a year, down about 21 percent this year.

Stock prices have also fallen sharply over the last few months in Hong Kong and Shenzhen, largely because Beijing is expected to raise interest rates and tighten bank lending to help rein in inflation and soaring property prices.

In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index is down about 9 percent this year.

China’s economy has been red hot since late 2009, when Beijing’s huge economic stimulus package began to kick in along with record lending by state-owned banks. In the first quarter of this year, China said its economy grew 11.9 percent.

The aggressive lending helped revive China’s building boom and sent Chinese stock prices soaring. Last year, the Shanghai composite rose about 80 percent, making it the world’s best-performing major stock market.
597 2010-05-19 The drug maker, Pfizer, will cut 6,000 jobs, or 18 percent of its work force, at its 78 manufacturing plants over the next five years as it pares operations following last year’s purchase of its smaller rival, Wyeth.

Pfizer, the world’s biggest drug maker, plans to close eight plants in Ireland, Puerto Rico and the United States by late 2015 and reduce activities at six factories in those countries, Germany and Britain.

Pfizer had 40 manufacturing plants before buying more than three dozen Wyeth operations in the acquisition last October.

The affected plants make conventional pills, injectable medicines, biotech drugs and consumer health care products. Pfizer will wind down their operations over the next 18 months to five years, depending on business considerations like the time required to transfer manufacturing.

The company said in November it would close six research sites and trim jobs in the United States and Britain as part of its absorption of Wyeth. Pfizer then began a six-month study of how to reconfigure its manufacturing.
598 2010-05-19 Just a month later, in November 2008, Beijing public security officers detained Mr. Huang on suspicion of “economic crimes.” In the ensuing 17 months, investigators accused him of bribing five senior tax and police officials, illegally converting 800 million renminbi, or $117 million, into foreign currency and insider trading involving the stock of a company in the city of Shenzhen that was said to have netted him about $45 million.

Perhaps a dozen prominent people were reported in the Chinese press to have been caught up in the investigation, including Xu Zongheng, a onetime mayor of Shenzhen; the former police chief and the former top anticorruption official in southeastern China’s Guangdong Province; the deputy public security chief in Shanghai; and a major investor in Neptune Group, a cruise line and casino operator based in Hong Kong.

The state-run Xinhua news service, the only news agency allowed to witness the trial, reported that Mr. Huang also was fined about $100 million and that the court ordered about $29 million of his assets seized. Mr. Huang’s wife, Du Juan, was also convicted of insider trading on Tuesday, the agency reported, and was sentenced to three years in prison and fined about $29 million.

Two of the firms Mr. Huang once ran, Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings and Beijing Pengrun Real Estate Development, were fined $730,000 and $176,000 for paying bribes.

Gome (pronounced Gwo-may) issued a statement saying it respected the court’s judgment and adding that “the amount won’t materially affect the company’s business operations or financial position.” Since its peak, Gome has closed hundreds of stores, and now has fewer than 700, but it remains profitable.

Mr. Huang, 41, resigned as chairman of Gome two months after his detention. The company stated that no corporate funds were embezzled or used to pay bribes.

Mr. Huang’s personal story had epitomized the can-do spirit and canny business acumen that have been trademarks of China’s swift rise to economic prominence. The younger of two brothers in a farming family in Guangdong Province, he was said in Chinese news reports to have spent part of his childhood trolling through trash bins for usable goods. He left school at 16 and, with his brother, opened the first Gome store in Beijing in 1987 with 4,000 renminbi they had earned as traveling salesmen in Inner Mongolia and a 30,000-renminbi loan.

“He came from Guangdong, an area rife with pirated goods, and went to Inner Mongolia, where almost everything was in short supply,” Wu Alun, who wrote a 2005 book about Mr. Huang, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday.

“That was where his first business ideas were formed: Take things from where they are plentiful to where they’re scarce.”

At its peak, Gome was China’s largest retail appliance chain, with 1,350 stores in more than 200 cities. Mr. Huang became fabulously wealthy by floating his company on the Hong Kong stock market in 2004, then investing in real estate and stock in mainland China.

But when he sought in 2006 to take over the troubled company that runs Zhongguancun, northern Beijing’s computer technology district, he attracted the attention of investigators. Days after Mr. Huang’s November 2008 detention, the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission accused Mr. Huang of manipulating the price of stock in a company, Beijing Centergate Technologies, so that profits from share sales could be used to restructure the company.

Investigators later charged that Mr. Huang had paid about $680,000 in bribes to five top tax and police officials for help in tax disputes.

Mr. Huang’s rise, Mr. Wu said, may also have epitomized the corporate style in modern China, where seeking political favor and protection are sometimes viewed more as sharp business tactics than as acts of wrongdoing. The chances of being investigated, other analysts routinely say, often depend on whether one has fallen from political favor.

Still, investigations and convictions are visibly increasing. The English-language Global Times newspaper reported that 14 government officials at the ministerial or provincial levels were fired in 2009 for corruption, the most in the last three decades, and that the number of officials caught embezzling more than a million renminbi, or about $145,000, last year was up by nearly one-fifth from 2008.

Trading in Gome’s shares was suspended for some seven months after Mr. Huang’s detention but resumed about a year ago after a Boston private equity firm, Bain Capital, agreed to invest up to $423 million in the company in return for a minority stake. In August, Gome named three Bain executives to its board in a stated attempt to improve corporate governance, but the three were ousted from the board this week.
599 2010-05-19 Ernie Paragallo, a prominent horse owner and breeder, was given the maximum sentence of two years in jail and a $33,000 fine on Tuesday, after his conviction on 33 counts of animal cruelty for starving and neglecting horses on his farm in the Huds...
600 2010-05-20 The Senate voted 59 to 39 to approve a far-reaching financial regulatory bill, putting Congress on the brink of expanding government oversight of the increasingly complex financial system....
601 2010-05-20 With the Senate’s approval of a sweeping financial bill, Wall Street is facing the prospect of painful changes in the ways it does business, especially those involving derivatives trading....
602 2010-05-20 The action put Congress on a path to approving a broad expansion of government oversight of the increasingly complex financial markets in an effort to prevent a repeat of the 2008 economic crisis....
603 2010-05-20 Key components of the Senate and House bills....
604 2010-05-20 Images from two new exhibits about art of the Civil Rights Era....
605 2010-05-20 The ruling is intended to allow both sides to make their arguments to an appeals court....
606 2010-05-20 Air France is offering discounts of up to 40 percent on its newest class on nonstop flights between Newark and 42 European cities....
607 2010-05-20 Wondering what to do this weekend in the Bay Area? We have you covered....
608 2010-05-20 Expedia has a new LGBT store that allows users to find gay-friendly hotels worldwide....
609 2010-05-20 Social media meets fashion, at Brooks Brothers....
610 2010-05-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
611 2010-05-20 The original stage comedy that set Paul Reubens and his manic man-child character on a path to cult stardom will begin a six-week run at the Stephen Sondheim Theater on Oct. 26....
612 2010-05-20 Increasingly, experts are taking a closer look at the changing landscape of marriage and divorce statistics....
613 2010-05-20 Nike makes one of the biggest Facebook ad buys in its history as the World Cup approaches....
614 2010-05-20 The Republican nominee for the Senate seat in Kentucky gave a rather murky explanation of whether he supported the Civil Rights Act....
615 2010-05-20 The enforcement division of the Securities and Exchange Commission has begun looking into the sharp stock market drop of May 6, the chairwoman of the agency said on Thursday....
616 2010-05-20 This is the first time we have ever borrowed money without having a clear use in mind for it, which tells you how important we think cash will become in the near future....
617 2010-05-20 Glenn Dubin, the co-founder of Highbridge Capital Management, told CNBC his hedge fund planned to "cut risk dramatically," reduce its balance sheet and cross its strategies in different regions of the world....
618 2010-05-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
619 2010-05-20 Citadel Investment and Knight Capital, two major firms that deal with trades for retail brokerages, suffered trading breakdowns in the market's unexpected flash crash that happened two weeks ago, The Wall Street Journal reported....
620 2010-05-20 Asian stock markets turned lower on Thursday as investors brushed off good economic news in the region and focused instead on lingering worries about the debt crisis in Europe....
621 2010-05-20 Not only does Urbanspoon want to help diners find a nearby place to eat, it wants to get them a table there too....
622 2010-05-20 UNITED NATIONS — Buried in the sanctions resolution now being debated in the United Nations Security Council lies the possibility of a new effort to pressure Iran over its nuclear program: a call for countries to “exercise vigilance” in dealing with Iran’s central bank.

American and European officials said Wednesday that the reference, passing though it is, could give them a legal basis in the future for choking off financial transactions between Iran and banking centers in Europe and elsewhere. Previous sanctions have taken aim at specific banks suspected of financing proscribed nuclear activity, but never anything as pivotal as dealings with the central bank itself.

What is notably absent from the draft resolution, however, is any binding restriction on transactions with Iran’s central bank. Among the many compromises that the United States accepted to get China and Russia to back new sanctions against Iran was an agreement to limit any reference to the bank — or Iran’s entire energy sector, for that matter — to the introductory paragraphs rather than the sanctions themselves, according to American officials and other diplomats, yielding a weaker resolution than the United States would have liked.

The haggling over the central bank illustrates both the opportunities and the frustrations that American and European officials see in the resolution. One the one hand, it provides an opportunity to expand the range of financial activity that the West can try to impede. On the other, it provides a loophole for any nation that wants to continue relations with Iran, allowing it to argue that a cut off is not mandatory.

The standoff between Washington and Beijing over what economic measures to include in the final resolution consumed the last 10 days of the negotiations, diplomats said. China expressed concern that if you singled out the central bank for sanctions it would paralyze the entire Iranian economy, they said.

Even so, both Obama administration officials and diplomats underscored the mention of the central bank as an important tool to try to limit any trade with Iran that contributes to nuclear proliferation.

Security Council diplomats expressed confidence that they had at least 10 votes on the 15-member council, and maybe more depending on how negotiations unroll. Turkey and Brazil, both current members, have said they will not engage in talks on the draft, and Lebanon is also expected to sit out the vote. The position of other members, especially Nigeria and Uganda, remain unclear since they are awaiting instructions from their capitals, diplomats said.

Iran reacted with outrage on Wednesday to the proposed new sanctions, particularly since the agreement was announced just a day after the Islamic republic had been trumpeting a compromise agreement on nuclear enrichment for an experimental reactor in Tehran that had been worked out with Brazil and Turkey.

Iran’s foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said “there was no chance that the resolution would be approved,” given that Tehran had agreed to ship a chunk of its enriched uranium to Turkey, the Fars news agency reported. He described the countries favoring the draft as a minority, Fars said.

Mojtaba Samareh-Hashemi, an adviser to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, dismissed the draft as having “no legitimacy,” the news agency reported. All of the new sanctions come under the umbrella of limiting activity linked to nuclear proliferation, and Iran maintains its program is strictly peaceful but it is suspected of trying to develop a nuclear bomb.

The carefully worded compromise emerged after the United States said it would not support the passage of any resolution that did not at least mention the central bank and Iran’s lucrative energy sector, while the Chinese were equally adamant that no economic targets be singled out.

In the end, both the energy sector and the central bank were mentioned with somewhat tortured wording in the preamble, with the draft noting the “potential connection between Iran’s revenues derived from its energy sector” and possible financing for its nuclear program.

That is enough to pursue companies dealing with either the banks or the energy sector, American officials said. Whenever the negotiations stalled, Ambassador Susan E. Rice, the American envoy, warned the Chinese that any measures passed by Congress in the absence of a United Nations resolution would likely have much greater consequences for Chinese banks and its trade relations with the United States, one United Nations diplomat said.
623 2010-05-20 WASHINGTON — One of the last things David Wright told reporters on Tuesday night after his deflating performance in Atlanta was that the worst thing for him would be to have a day off on Wednesday. Later that night, Wright learned that that was exactly what was coming.

Mets Manager Jerry Manuel replaced Wright in the lineup with Fernando Tatis for Wednesday night’s game against the Nationals, who wound up winning, 5-3, as Tatis went 1 for 4 with a home run. Manuel wanted Wright, his strikeout-prone third baseman, to have a day off to allow him to clear his mind from the frustrations that have clouded it lately.

Wright told Manuel he was not in favor of a day off, but said he would not stage a protest.

“I don’t fill out the lineup card,” Wright said before the game, the first he missed this season. “It’s Jerry’s decision and he wants to get Tatis in there, and I’ll be out on the bench supporting these guys. But the important thing is to go out there and win. If he feels Tatis gives us the best chance to do that tonight, I’m all for it.”

After he went 0 for 4 with three strikeouts and made a throwing error that led to Atlanta’s winning run on Tuesday, Wright made it clear that what he needed most was to get back on the field immediately to remove the bitter taste of that 3-2 loss.

Although he refrained from any Hanley Ramirez-style criticism of Manuel for disregarding that wish, Wright indicated that he did not see the value in a day of rest.

“I’ve never liked having off days,” Wright, who had played in all 40 of the Mets’ games, said coolly. “I don’t enjoy having off days. But sometimes the staff and the coaches think that’s what’s best for the players. Those guys make those decisions, and we abide by them.”
624 2010-05-20 Wildlife authorities in Zimbabwe on Wednesday defended the decision to sell two baby elephants and other animals to North Korea, and they said veterinary experts were satisfied that North Korea was equipped to care for them. The two 18-month-old elephants each cost $10,000. Officials said the other animals purchased by the North included breeding pairs of giraffes, zebras, antelopes, hyenas, monkeys and birds.

Vitalis Chadenga, the head of the wildlife department, called the deal “purely a business arrangement” for financially struggling Zimbabwe; he said it involved surplus species in the western Hwange National Park. But Johnny Rodrigues, the head of the independent Zimbabwe Conservation Task Force, criticized the arrangement. “We understand North Korea does not have a good record in animal rights,” he said.
625 2010-05-20 In March, two City Council leaders called on Mr. Kelly to purge the database so that it only contained those convicted of crimes — though no one is sure how many of the arrests from street stops lead to convictions.

Police officials have hailed the street stops as an essential crime-fighting tool. When he was asked about the lawsuit, Mr. Kelly said, “I can only tell you that that database has proven to be invaluable.” He pointed out that investigators used information from the database “on some high-profile bias cases.”

Asked about the suit’s assertion that state law forbids the names from being kept in cases that are resolved in the defendant’s favor, Mr. Kelly said he would have to see the court papers before commenting.

Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, has said that the stop and frisks have not only led directly to arrests, but have also contributed to a safer climate in the city. And he has argued that there is a direct correlation between the ethnicity of those stopped and those who commit crime in the city.

For instance, while 55 percent of stops in the first three months of this year involved black people, 66 percent of violent crimes involved suspects described as black, he said.

But others question such logic, arguing that there is no proof that the street stops have put a significant dent in crime, since the biggest drops in crime in recent years occurred before the practice mushroomed.

Jeffrey A. Fagan, a professor of law at Columbia University who has studied the numbers, contradicted Mr. Browne, noting that in 2009, blacks made up 15 percent of suspects in all crimes, and 32 percent of suspects in all violent crimes in New York. Yet, a suspect’s race is known only 29 percent of the time.

The department “reports the data on suspect race only in cases where they know the race of the suspect, which leaves out 7 out of 10 crimes where the race of the suspect isn’t reported by the police,” he said.

The civil liberties group’s suit, which seeks class-action status, names two individuals who represent the class. One, Daryl Khan, who is white, 35, a former Newsday reporter and a former freelance reporter for The New York Times, was stopped in October 2009 for riding his bicycle on the sidewalk in Brooklyn He got two violations — one for the bicycle and one for disorderly conduct — that were later dismissed, yet his name is presumably in the database, the suit claims.

The second plaintiff, Clive Lino, 29, who is black and works with special-needs children, said he had been stopped at least 13 times since 2008. At least some of those interactions led to summonses or violations that have since been dismissed or disposed of through a fine, and thus are “entirely sealable,” said Christopher T. Dunn, the civil liberties group’s associate legal director.
626 2010-05-20 Credit: Piotr Redlinski for The New York Times
627 2010-05-20 On Tuesday, federal authorities filed a criminal complaint in Buffalo that said Galea had illegally distributed human growth hormone and the unapproved drug Actovegin to athletes in various sports and that he had made false statements to the authorities.

Galea has acknowledged treating Rodriguez, stating that he gave him anti-inflammatory medicine as he recovered from hip surgery that took place in March 2009. Rodriguez, in turn, has acknowledged to investigators for Major League Baseball that Galea treated him, but he also said he did not use banned substances.

On Tuesday, The New York Times reported that Galea’s assistant has told federal investigators that Galea injected Rodriguez with a cocktail of substances on at least one occasion. The contents of that cocktail are not known, but investigators are likely to ask Rodriguez about that and related matters if and when they meet with him.

Although federal authorities have been trying to talk with Rodriguez since February, a meeting has yet to take place. In several instances, investigators thought they were about to meet with him, only to have Rodriguez and his lawyers ask for a delay.

Ultimately, if no meeting takes place, Rodriguez could be compelled to appear before the federal grand jury in Buffalo that is now part of the investigation into Galea’s activities.

Meanwhile, the season proceeds. Rodriguez was peppered in spring training with questions from reporters as to when he would meet with investigators. It was a daily ritual in the locker room that Rodriguez had to endure. That questioning has essentially stopped. But Wednesday, several reporters approached him before the game and brought up the matter again.

Had he met with the authorities yet? one reporter asked him.

“I can’t get into any of that,” Rodriguez responded. Asked if he was aware of the latest news concerning Galea, that a criminal complaint had been filed against the doctor, Rodriguez answered, “I’ve been seeing a little bit of it, but I’ve been pretty busy.”

After it was revealed last December that Galea was under investigation, Rodriguez, through his representatives, initially informed the Yankees that he had not been treated by him, which is apparently not true.

As a result, Yankees officials and Commissioner Bud Selig’s deputies are still not sure what to make of Rodriguez’s relationship with Galea, whatever it was.

For now, they wait to see where the investigation is headed. Meanwhile, Rodriguez is at third base for the Yankees, closing in on 600 career home runs and trying to get his team back into first place and not really saying anything about Galea.
628 2010-05-20 TOKYO — The Japanese economy grew at a healthy clip of 1.2 percent in the first quarter, the government said on Thursday, hinting that Japan’s recovery from a crippling recession was finally gathering momentum.

Japan’s real gross domestic product rose 1.2 percent in the January-March period from the previous quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis. That is an annualized growth rate of 4.9 percent, according to preliminary figures released by the Cabinet Office. It was the Japanese economy’s fourth quarterly gain in a row; it expanded 1 percent in the last three months of 2009.

Japan’s latest numbers exceeded an annualized 3.2 percent growth rate in the United States economy in the first quarter, though it missed a median forecast of 5.5 percent by 21 economists polled by Bloomberg News.

Private consumption, which makes up about 60 percent of the economy, grew 0.3 percent in the quarter, while exports rose 6.9 percent. Economic recovery in Japan has been bolstered by a rebound in Tokyo’s mainstay exports of cars and electronics, which posted the fourth year-on-year rise in March. The rebound finally appears to be filtering through to domestic production and wages.

Exports have been spurred by a rise in demand from China, which has lifted profits at companies like Toyota Motor and Sony.
629 2010-05-20 “The investors take a big bite out of the awards because they could get nothing if the I.R.S. decides not to pay,” said Mr. Havian, a partner in Phillips & Cohen, a firm in Washington specializing in whistle-blower cases.

“And for the whistle-blowers, the amount of the potential award is so astronomical — tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars — that they have to ask themselves, ‘How many times over do you have to be rich?’ and ‘Would I be better off with the guarantee of some money now?’ ”

Determining the value of a whistle-blower complaint is a risky endeavor for the investors. Confidentiality rules forbid I.R.S. officials from discussing the status of an investigation even with the whistle-blower, so investors are left to gauge the strength, and potential payoff, of any claim by reviewing the documentation provided by the informant and his lawyer.

I.R.S. officials acknowledge that they have discussed such agreements with whistle-blower lawyers, but the agency does not keep track of how many may have been executed.

Among the lawyers, hedge funds and investors who may provide the financing for class-action lawsuits and whistle-blower cases against government contractors, the reinvigorated I.R.S. program has attracted attention.

Even Credit Suisse, the big Swiss bank, which has been criticized by the United States and other governments for allowing tax evaders to use its private accounts to hide assets, has explored the possibility of investing in a whistle-blower’s award, according to lawyers involved in the negotiations. A Credit Suisse spokesman, however, said the bank had not made any deal and was no longer interested in one.

David Desser, whose capital management firm specializes in litigation finance, said the market was likely to expand once the I.R.S. awarded its first whistle-blower a check under the expanded program, which is expected later this year.

“As soon as the I.R.S. begins paying whistle-blowers, more people will realize that this is a whole new class of assets to be monetized,” Mr. Desser said. “It will be limited in size, because only a percentage of whistle-blowers will have incentive to sell. But for investors there is potential here for outsized returns.”

While the market in whistle-blower futures is in its infancy, investors have been requesting as much as 65 percent of any award an informant receives, according to lawyers negotiating possible deals. In the more established field of litigation finance, investors who underwrite the cost of a lawsuit get 5 percent to 50 percent of any legal settlement or jury award.

Although the I.R.S. has long accepted tips from informants, until recently it seemed reluctant to investigate their complaints or reward them. For the five years ended in 2008, the I.R.S. received about 80 whistle-blower complaints a year, and recovered an average of $155 million a year from tips in previous years, paying an average of $14 million annually in awards.

Since sweetening its awards, the whistle-blower’s office has been receiving more than 500 tips a year, involving far larger amounts. In the five years through fiscal 2008, tips from informants led to 20 cases in which the I.R.S. had been underpaid by at least $2 million. Now the I.R.S. receives 40 or 50 such tips a month, about 10 percent claiming fraud of $100 million or more.

It is too early to gauge whether the program will deliver on the promise that it might recover billions each year, but the preliminary results are promising: an audit by the Treasury Department found that in 2008 alone, whistle-blowers had reported $65 billion in unpaid taxes.

Law firms have been aggressively marketing themselves by setting up whistle-blower blogs and seminars, financing taxpayer antifraud groups, firing off press releases to trumpet big claims, and holding whistle-blower boot camps to train lawyers.

Some accountants and tax lawyers warn that the lure of big money awards could taint the process, even encouraging false accusations from unscrupulous business rivals, or disgruntled employees looking to cash in.

Donald L. Korb, former chief counsel of the I.R.S., said he considered it “unseemly” for the government to encourage citizens to become bounty hunters by informing on their co-workers, employers and neighbors.

During his tenure at the I.R.S., Mr. Korb said he had tried to set up a sophisticated set of procedures to vet complaints because he feared that misuse of the program might bring new complaints about overzealousness by I.R.S. auditors. “I think it’s a bad precedent,” said Mr. Korb, now a partner at the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell. “It’s a disaster waiting to happen.”

But I.R.S. investigators say that the whistle-blower’s office will carefully screen cases to prevent abuse and that the program already precludes monetary awards for people involved in planning or initiating the tax fraud they report.

Those restrictions will be tested in the case of Bradley C. Birkenfeld, the whistle-blower who helped pierce the secrecy of the Swiss banking system.

Mr. Birkenfeld’s tip helped the government win a $780 million settlement from UBS, another big Swiss bank, and could lead to billions more because he helped the I.R.S. find thousands of Americans with offshore accounts.

But Mr. Birkenfeld also withheld information from investigators about his actions to help a client evade taxes, and is now serving a 40-month sentence. Dean A. Zerbe, who represents Mr. Birkenfeld, said the I.R.S. risked undermining the program if it reneged on paying an award.

“He came forward and helped them recover more tax money than anyone else in history,” said Mr. Zerbe, who helped write the new whistle-blower rules four years ago, while working for the Senate Finance Committee. “And if people see that he went to jail and didn’t get the kind of award the I.R.S. has been promising, why would anyone ever come forward again?”

A recent round of “program changes” by the I.R.S. announced that informants are entitled only to a portion of the money directly paid to the government. If a tip simply leads to the denial of a refund — or if the unpaid taxes are used to offset other losses — the whistle-blower comes up empty.

Erika Kelton, a whistle-blower lawyer who testified before the Senate when the rules were being amended, predicted the limits would be struck down “either in tax court or in Congress.”
630 2010-05-20 The rich may be different. But they could also be a leading economic indicator.

The corridors of wealth and finance are alive with new optimism. The Federal Reserve, though, doesn’t seem to share it. The central bank has not indicated any intention of raising interest rates soon. The trouble is, if the Fed is behind the game, there’s a good chance everyone will suffer.

All seems well indeed atop the food chain. Whole Foods, purveyor of richly priced organic onions and other groceries, last week raised its best estimate for same-store sales growth this year to as much as 7 percent from as little as half that. Its shares have gained 45 percent this year, while those of price-conscious Wal-Mart are down a bit.

Other anecdotes tell a similar story. The chief executive of one of America’s biggest banks contends that the strength of the American economy will surprise everyone. The hedge fund manager John A. Paulson has been busy telling investors he is seeing the upward side of a V-shaped recovery. His investments in banks and other economy-driven stocks back up the view.

These could be the observations of a cloistered few. And it’s true a big bank executive’s views are cushioned by the relatively robust health of customers like Mr. Paulson and multinational corporations reporting higher profits and balance sheets bulging with cash.

Then again, Mr. Paulson’s arguments, echoed in big company boardrooms, have evidence. Indicators including California housing prices, American household net worth and bank lending practices back up the idea of a sharp recovery.
631 2010-05-20 WHITE PLAINS (AP) — A judge has refused to dismiss the case against four men who claimed they were entrapped by a government informant into a plot to bomb two Bronx synagogues and shoot down military planes.

Judge Colleen McMahon of United States District Court said legal precedents established that even when the government helped commit a crime, others could be prosecuted.

“In case after case, governmental activity that facilitated the commission of a crime has been held not sufficiently outrageous to warrant dismissal of an indictment,” Judge McMahon wrote in a ruling filed on Tuesday.

Lawyers for the defendants and for the United States attorney’s office declined to comment.

The defendants — James Cromitie, 44; Onta Williams, 32; David Williams, 28; and Laguerre Payen, 27 — are accused of placing what they thought were bombs outside two Bronx synagogues last May. The men, all from Newburgh, N.Y., also are accused of planning to use what they thought was a live Stinger missile against planes at an Air National Guard base in Newburgh.

They have pleaded not guilty.The dismissal motion called the alleged plot “a government-inspired creation from Day 1.” It said an informant chose the targets, offered payment, provided maps and bought the only real weapon involved, a handgun. The defendants, who face up to life sentences, claimed “outrageous government conduct.”

Judge McMahon said the government “does not exactly deny devising and financing the details of the plot.” Prosecutors claimed that the informant had to act as if he were taking part “in order to gather evidence of illegal conduct, and perhaps even to prevent some jihadist act from actually taking place.”

The judge said she might re-examine the issue of government misconduct again after the trial, which is set to begin next month. She said that if she ruled on “how the scenario took place,” she might be intruding on questions a jury should take up.
632 2010-05-20 Ms. Cantwell, in a floor speech after the vote, said she was mainly fighting for a vote on an amendment to tighten proposed rules for the trading of derivatives, the complex instruments that were at the center of the economic crisis.

Her proposal would make it illegal to enter into a derivatives contract that had not been cleared through an exchange, other than contracts specifically exempt from the law. It would also empower regulators and investors to stop or undo a derivatives deal if knowingly violated the trading requirements.

Without her amendment, Ms. Cantwell said the legislation would be left with a dangerous loophole. “Even something like Hoover Dam with all of the great concrete and all of the great engineering and all the great things that make that structure work, still has a problem if somebody drills a hole in the bottom of it,” Ms. Cantwell said in her speech.

“If you don’t have a regime of exchange trading and clearing you will have money seeping into the continuation of a dark market,” she added.

Ms. Cantwell said she would also like a vote on another amendment she proposed, with Senator , Republican of , that would restore the , which maintained a firewall between commercial banking and banking from the 1930s until it was repealed by Congress in 1999. In a statement, Mr. Feingold said he favored restoring that firewall.

“After 30 years of giving in to the wishes of Wall Street lobbyists, Congress needs to finally enact tough reforms to prevent Wall Street from driving our economy into the ditch again,” Mr. Feingold said. “We need to eliminate the risk posed to our economy by ‘too big to fail’ financial firms and to reinstate the protective firewalls between Main Street banks and Wall Street firms. Unfortunately, these key reforms are not included in the bill.”

Proponents of the legislation say it includes adequate safeguards that are more appropriate for the modern banking and financial industry than the old Glass-Steagall approach.

At a news conference after the vote, Mr. Reid criticized Republicans for standing in the way of tougher regulation of Wall Street.

Senator , Democrat of and the bill’s main author, joined in blaming Republicans, saying they were obstructing the legislation even after having a strong role in drafting it and winning adoption of a number of amendments.

“Unfortunately our Republican friends took a walk on this, even on their own propositions,” Mr. Dodd said.

To underscore the Democrats’ point that Republicans were the ones blocking the bill, Mr. Dodd returned to the Senate floor asked for unanimous consent of the Senate to allow a vote on Ms. Cantwell’s derivatives amendment. Senator of , the senior Republican on the banking committee, objected.

Democrats also said that Senator , the freshman Republican of , had broken a promise to vote in favor of ending debate.

A spokesman for Mr. Brown said that he voted against ending debate because the bill still needed to be improved.

But the disagreement that mattered on Wednesday was among Democrats, and the failed effort to close debate was a jarring setback for Mr. Reid. He proved unable to address the concerns of all of his caucus members, including some with serious policy concerns about the legislation — even as he insisted that it was time to get to a final vote.

Senate Democrats had emerged from a special caucus meeting on Wednesday afternoon tense and clearly divided.

Mr. Reid had planned to hold a vote to wrap up debate at 2 p.m., but it was postponed and the caucus meeting quickly convened after it was clear that Mr. Reid did not have the needed 60 votes.

Exiting the meeting, Ms. Cantwell tersely announced that she would oppose ending the debate. After doing so, she sat stone-faced at her desk in the chamber, rejecting entreaties to change her mind.

Republicans leaders are in no particular hurry to end debate on the bill, which they have criticized harshly this week. The Republican leader, of , has said he expects debate to continue until next week, and given the high-stakes election year he has little reason to let Democrats move on to the next items on their agenda.

In a floor speech , Mr. McConnell denounced the bill, saying “it uses this crisis as yet another opportunity to expand the cost and size and reach of government.”

Later on Wednesday, the Senate, by a vote of 60 to 35, rejected an amendment by Senator , Democrat of , that would have required credit card companies to comply with limits on interest rates in the states where their cardholders reside. Under current law, companies must only abide by the limits in the state where the company is located.
633 2010-05-21 Credit: Ed Alcock for The New York Times
634 2010-05-21 Credit: Basil Childers for The New York Times
635 2010-05-21 Credit: Kevin Moloney for The New York Times
636 2010-05-21 Credit: Chris Ramirez for The New York Times
637 2010-05-21 Credit: Caleb Kenna for The New York Times
638 2010-05-21 President Obama has tapped former Senator Bob Graham of Florida and William K. Reilly, the former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to lead a new bipartisan commission to figure out how to avoid another oil spill, officials sai...
639 2010-05-21 The Obama administration has immediately begun trying to influence the process for combining the Senate and House bills, pressing for tough provisions in the face of a final onslaught of Wall Street lobbying....
640 2010-05-21 Three men to watch at the French Open....
641 2010-05-21 The financial regulatory bill is going to a House-Senate conference committee, which will determine how tough it is on Wall Street....
642 2010-05-21 We celebrate the nice and easy ways of summer, from getting lost in time in Portugal to the buzzing nightlife of Bogotá....
643 2010-05-21 An appeals court orders a hearing on a subpoena that would compel Joe Berlinger to turn over more than 600 hours of footage....
644 2010-05-21 A devastating summer and winter in Mongolia, an indomitable paddle boarder, young cyclists on the fanciest bikes in Oakland and a heroin addict with HIV....
645 2010-05-21 Three women who could make an impact at the French Open....
646 2010-05-21 Senator Blanche Lincoln vows to "vigorously oppose" any attempts to water down the tough restrictions on derivatives as the financial regulatory bill moves to a House-Senate conference committee....
647 2010-05-21 Harold Bloom's cover review of "Trials of the Diaspora," by Anthony Julius (May 9) drew an unusually large number of letters from readers, almost all of them critical....
648 2010-05-21 An injury during rehearsal results in back surgery....
649 2010-05-21 In his latest film, "Boxing Gym," the director of documentaries like "State Legislature," spends time with the diverse clientele of Lord's Gym in Austin, Tex....
650 2010-05-21 The Deal Professor argues that the financial regulatory bill passed by the Senate is just the first step toward reforming how Wall Street operates....
651 2010-05-21 Shares in the nation's big banks rose on Friday after the Senate passed its version of a sweeping overhaul of bank regulations....
652 2010-05-21 Poor welding on a suspension part may result in its failure, Nissan told the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration....
653 2010-05-21 A Swiss parliamentary commission signaled Friday that it was likely to accept an agreement with United States to hand over data on UBS clients suspected of tax evasion....
654 2010-05-21 All eyes were on Justine Henin and Rafael Nadal at the French Open draw....
655 2010-05-21 Also in the Morning Buzz: CNN considers former Gov. Eliot Spitzer as a contributor; Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo is making moves to select his successor; and more regional news....
656 2010-05-21 Help for Windows users trying to get iPods and iPhones working properly with PC hardware....
657 2010-05-21 Steven Barg, UBS's head of global capital markets for Asia, has resigned from his post, marking another blow to the bank's regional equity capital markets franchise, Reuters reported....
658 2010-05-21 Finally, a little cloture. As the Senate vote Thursday looks to usher in a new era of financial regulation, we're rounding up all the links that are fit to blog....
659 2010-05-21 The new British coalition government announced plans Thursday to roll together parts of the Financial Services Authority and two other agencies to create a single office to focus on corporate crime, the same day the F.S.A. imposed its largest-ever...
660 2010-05-21 The fiscal tightening from Japan, euro zone, and the United States will lead to slower growth and lower inflation, which is leading to added selling pressure on world financial markets on Thursday, the manager of the world's biggest bond fund said...
661 2010-05-21 Fears that the fragile economic recovery in the United States might be threatened by the financial and political crisis in Europe gripped Wall Street on Thursday, sending the stock market into a sharp decline and leaving anxious traders wondering ...
662 2010-05-21 The latest twist in the evolving story of an immigrant whose sandwich shop became a foodie magnet -- and whose neighbors want the restaurant and its crowds, smells and litter to get lost -- came when the neighbors suggested he pay them so he could...
663 2010-05-21 The argument raging over credit-default swaps would not be taking place if regulators had done their jobs years ago and classified them as insurance, Floyd Norris writes in his latest column....
664 2010-05-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
665 2010-05-21 Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo had to engineer a two-minute drill on the golf course Thursday to stay alive in his quest to qualify for next month's United States Open at Pebble Beach....
666 2010-05-21 Rand Paul, after winning the Republican nomination for Senate in Kentucky, faced questions about his views on MSNBC’s “Rachel Maddow Show.”
667 2010-05-21 Somalia’s president, Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed, on Thursday reversed his decision to fire the prime minister. Sheik Sharif had ordered Prime Minister Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke to step down on Monday after a no-confidence vote in Parliament. Mr. Sharmarke had refused to resign, saying the move was unconstitutional. On Thursday the president said that he had determined, after consulting with lawyers, that the decision was not legal and had asked Mr. Sharmarke to stay on.
668 2010-05-21 I was shown around the work space by Janet Hampton, the office administrator who, like many of her colleagues, exudes remarkable equanimity. They deal daily with those in extremis, often forced to say “no” due to strict eligibility rules, especially when it comes to the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, a conduit for the welfare-to-work law passed in 1996.

Statewide, unemployment is up, and food-stamp usage is stratospheric. More than 712,000 families, or 1.6 million individuals, are on food stamps, prompting Illinois to stagger its monthly allocation to ease the inventory burden on grocery stores. For those who chide a profligate federal government, be informed that welfare brings just $318 a month to a single mother with two kids, with food stamps providing another $257.

The 1996 law dramatically toughened welfare eligibility standards and spawned an administrative culture prone to reject applicants. Nationally, the caseload fell to 1.7 million in 2009 from 4.8 million right before the Clinton-era measure passed. In Illinois, the welfare rolls fell to 26,377 in March 2009 from about 240,000. They have now risen to about 31,000.

That’s still a smaller increase than one would figure, since there are so few jobs, but some states’ caseloads are stagnant, even improbably declining. Regardless, the burden placed on human services infrastructures amid state cuts is torturous.

This Blue Island office has a staff of 123, down from 230 a few years ago, though the caseload for welfare, food stamps, and Medicaid is up 30,000 in the same period. That means caseworkers like Danny Smith, Dawn Stewart and Carolyn Nance are inundated, with some workers overseeing between 1,500 and 2,000 individual cases.

Handling the demand appears a Sisyphean task and, stereotypes aside, some workers show up well before doors open at 8:30 a.m. and stay past 8 p.m. Sometimes it’s to help those still waiting when doors close for the day. Perhaps it’s finally getting to clogged voice mail and ample paperwork.

The office’s phone system is so antiquated that during peak periods, like the start of a month, it routinely breaks down.

“I can’t even call 911,” Mrs. Hampton said. And since so much is not computerized, there are more boxes than in an Allied Van Lines warehouse — filled with pending applications for benefits, and turning conference rooms into storage bins.

Then there’s the daily interaction with people who are just like any of us could be — with grown men who, scared of losing their homes and not being able to feed their kids, break down in tears.

“I tell people not to be ashamed,” Mr. Smith said.

Ms. Nance added: “You’re a social worker, counselor, mother, father — one-stop shopping. But it is overwhelming.”

I exited after a primer on welfare-to-work rules from welfare caseworkers pained by an obligation to reject so many. As I drove past the restaurant next door — called Beggars Pizza, would you believe — I wondered how so many can suffer so much so quietly. Rage seems so private and isolated.

And, like anybody, I wondered where the folks in that waiting room will all wind up.
669 2010-05-21 The Home Office said Thursday that a man wanted in the United States for allegedly hacking into American military computers could stay in Britain for now because the new home secretary had agreed to grant more time to consider the case. The High Court adjourned the extradition case of the man, Gary McKinnon, who is accused by the United States of hacking into computers shortly after 9/11. His lawyers have argued that Mr. McKinnon suffers from a form of autism and that extraditing him would violate his human rights.
670 2010-05-21 VISALIA, Calif. — The cyclist Floyd Landis was once a commanding presence at the Tour of California, an eight-day race that attracts some of the world’s top riders. With keen skill and unmatched toughness, he won in dominating fashion four years ago and went on to become the Tour de France champion — a title that was stripped from him for doping.

Now, with a reputation as a pariah and his personal life and career at a low, Landis has unexpectedly returned to the sport’s spotlight at the race, which began Sunday. This time, it is for saying that he and many top American cyclists — including several racing here — were involved in systematic doping.

Until now, the 34-year-old Landis vehemently denied using performance-enhancing drugs, but in e-mail messages in recent weeks to cycling officials, he not only detailed his own doping practices, but he also said he watched Lance Armstrong and others inject the blood-booster EPO and use blood transfusions for increased endurance. He said some riders also took steroids and human growth hormone.

Landis did not return phone messages left for him. He acknowledged to ESPN.com that he had no documentation to prove his claims, but said he had kept a journal. He said he wrote the e-mail messages because “I want to clear my conscience,” adding, “I don’t want to be part of the problem anymore.”

It all put a pall over Stage 5 of the Tour of California, which was further darkened when Armstrong crashed, injuring his elbow and requiring eight stitches for a cut below his left eye. He abandoned the race.

Before racing began on Thursday, Armstrong described Landis as a broken man with no credibility. “I would say I’m surprised, but I’m not,” Armstrong said as he stood with the team manager, Johan Bruyneel, at his RadioShack bus. “He has no proof,” Armstrong said. “It’s just our word against his, and we like our word. We like where we stand.”

Armstrong said Landis had been sending him e-mail and text messages for the past couple of years suggesting that he would go public with accusations about him, and that the messages recently reached “a fever pitch.”

Bruyneel, who was also implicated in the e-mail messages, said Landis had asked him “for money, basically a lot of money” and a job on the team in exchange for his silence.

He added that Landis was looking for money to pay legal bills that were accumulating after he tested positive at the Tour de France. “Threatened, blackmailed, whatever you want to call it,” Bruyneel said.

When asked if he contacted the police about the threats, Bruyneel said no. He said that Landis had a volatile personality and that he should “seek professional help, and by that I don’t mean lawyers.”

Landis, who now races with the lower-level OUCH-Bahati Foundation Pro Cycling team, has struggled to keep his life on track since testing positive for a synthetic form of testosterone at the 2006 Tour de France.

Not only was Landis’s cycling career crumbling, but less than a month after the Tour, his father-in-law, a close friend, committed suicide. Landis campaigned for donations from fans to help finance his $2 million fight against the United States Anti-Doping Agency, only to end up losing. He served a two-year suspension. His marriage fell apart. No top team would sign him.

This February, a French court issued an arrest warrant for him in connection with a computer hacking case involving the national antidoping lab.

Landis, known as a wisecracking eccentric, moved into a cabin in the Southern California woods, said two former teammates, who didn’t want their names published because they had been told not to talk to reporters.

Some of Landis’s friends had not spoken to him in years, said Allen Lim, an exercise physiologist on Armstrong’s RadioShack team. In his e-mail messages, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, Landis said Lim had helped him cheat; Lim called the allegations “crazy,” and said he would never work with a rider who used performance-enhancing drugs.

Some of Landis’s closest friends in the sport were those he implicated: Armstrong; the United States road-racing champion George Hincapie; the three-time Tour of California champion Levi Leipheimer; and the five-time United States time trial champion David Zabriskie, who is second over all at the Tour of California. In a statement sent by his team, BMC Racing, Hincapie said he had “earned the respect of my peers and a reputation for working hard, honestly and honorably.” He added, “I’m really disappointed to hear these accusations.”

Jonathan Vaughters, the manager of Zabriskie’s Garmin-Transitions team, said Landis “had his demons,” but he could not explain why Landis made his allegations.

Armstrong said he saw Landis every day of last month’s Tour of the Gila in New Mexico, and “not a word” was said. But away from the race, Landis was sending e-mail messages to Steve Johnson, the chief executive of USA Cycling, telling him, “It’s up to you to demonstrate your true colors.” Johnson did not return phone and e-mail messages.
671 2010-05-21 When Alice protested, Humpty Dumpty replied that the issue was “which is to be master — that’s all.”

The word here is “swap.” It used to mean, well, a swap. In a currency swap, one party will win if one currency rises against another and lose if the opposite happens.

Credit-default swaps are, in reality, insurance. The buyer of the insurance gets paid if the subject of the swap cannot meet its obligations. The seller of the swap gets a continuing payment from the buyer until the insurance expires. Sort of like an insurance premium, you might say.

But the people who dreamed up credit-default swaps did not like the word insurance. It smacked of regulation and of reserves that insurance companies must set aside in case there were claims. So they called the new thing a swap.

In the antiregulatory atmosphere of the times, they got away with it. As Humpty would have understood, Wall Street was master. Because swaps were unregulated, calling insurance a swap meant those who traded in them could make whatever decisions they wished.

That decision, perhaps more than anything else, enabled the to go broke — or, more precisely, to fail into the hands of the American government. Had it been forced to set aside reserves, A.I.G. would have stopped selling swaps a lot sooner than it did.

The decision that swaps were not insurance meant that anyone could buy or sell them — or at least anyone who could find a counterparty.

Had credit-default swaps been classified as insurance, the concept of “insurable interest” might have been applied. That concept says that you cannot buy insurance on my life, or on my house, unless you have an insurable interest.

, the chairman of the Commodities Future Trading Commission, recently laid out the history of that concept. It did not exist until the 18th century, when many people — not just owners of ships or cargos — began buying insurance against ships sinking.

The outlawed such sales of ship insurance in 1746. Ever since, to buy that insurance you had to have an interest in the ship or its cargo. But it was another 28 years before extended the idea to .

So should it be illegal for me to buy credit-default swaps on companies even if I have no other interest in the company? And if I have an interest, should I be limited to buying only enough insurance to cover my exposure? That is, if I own $100 million in XYZ Corporation , should I be able to buy $1 billion in insurance against an XYZ default?

To most on Wall Street, the answer is obvious: let markets function. My buying that insurance will probably drive up the price, and serve as a market indication that people are worried about the , which is good because it gives a warning to others.

In any case, it is legal to sell stocks short. That, too, is a way to bet that a company will fail. So what’s the difference?

One difference is that many people short stocks because they deem them overvalued, not because they think the company will go broke. They can profit even if the company does well, so long as the stock does turn out to have been overvalued.

Many who despise credit-default swaps argue that they can be used to force companies to fail. The swap market is thin, and even a relatively small purchase can drive up prices. That very movement may make lenders nervous, cause liquidity to dry up and bring on unnecessary bankruptcies.

There is another, little noticed, possible impact of credit-default swaps. They can undermine bankruptcy laws.

Normally, a creditor wants to keep a company out of bankruptcy if there is a decent chance it can survive. If it does go broke, the creditor wants to maximize the value of the company anyway, so that more will be available to pay creditors.

But what happens if a major creditor, who might even control one class of bonds, has a much larger position in credit-default swaps?

Will he not have interests directly at odds with those of other creditors, since he will do better if the company ends up with less to pay its creditors? Might that creditor seek to, and perhaps be able to, sabotage the company’s best hopes for revival?

At a minimum, such things should be disclosed, but that gets tricky when one part of a megabank (the one with the bonds) claims it is run independently from the other (the one with the swaps).

I don’t know whether it is necessary to treat credit-default swaps like insurance and require someone to have an insurable interest before swaps can be purchased.

The financial reform bill now being debated in the Senate has provisions intended to assure that many of the previous swap abuses are not repeated.

But I do think Germany’s decision was ill considered. First, it may have little effect if other countries do not join in. Buying a swap in New York or , rather than , will not be difficult.

But the more important issue is one of limiting the targets of credit-default swap purchases. If Germany had simply required buyers of credit-default swaps to have an insurable interest, it would have been standing up for a principle.

By limiting the scope to swaps on debt of euro area governments, the German government sends two signals: it is acting in self-interest, and it is still worried that it may have to finance more bailouts.
672 2010-05-21 Democrats quickly mobilized to draw attention to what they cast as out-of-the-mainstream positions espoused by Mr. Paul — from raising the Social Security retirement age to 70 to questioning the legality of the Americans with Disabilities Act — as they sought to discredit what Jack Conway, the Democratic Senate candidate in Kentucky, described in an interview as Mr. Paul’s “narrow and rigid philosophy.”

The Tea Party phenomenon has provided a bolt of energy for the Republican Party. But the case of Mr. Paul also shows the risks that have emerged as new figures move to the forefront of conservative politics, as candidates with little experience and sometimes unorthodox policy positions face the kind of scrutiny and pressure that could trip up even the most experienced politicians.

Mr. Paul said in an interview with Rachel Maddow on MSNBC on Wednesday night that he supported the sections of the Civil Rights Act that applied to public accommodations but had concerns when it came to its applicability to private business; he raised similar concerns earlier in the day about the Americans with Disabilities Act in an interview on National Public Radio.

Asked by Ms. Maddow if a private business had the right to refuse to serve black people, Mr. Paul replied, “Yes.”

“I’m not in favor of any discrimination of any form,” Mr. Paul continued. “I would never belong to any club that excluded anybody for race. We still do have private clubs in America that can discriminate based on race. But I think what’s important about this debate is not written into any specific ‘gotcha’ on this, but asking the question: what about freedom of speech? Should we limit speech from people we find abhorrent? Should we limit racists from speaking?”

“I don’t want to be associated with those people,” he said, “but I also don’t want to limit their speech in any way in the sense that we tolerate boorish and uncivilized behavior because that’s one of the things freedom requires is that we allow people to be boorish and uncivilized, but that doesn’t mean we approve of it.”

While those views reflect the libertarian philosophy that Mr. Paul and many Tea Party members have embraced, they are politically treacherous for someone making an appeal to the electorate at large, as Mr. Paul learned as he struggled with questions about whether he thought the government had a role in regulating food safety and working conditions.

Congressional Republicans were peppered with questions about Mr. Paul’s position on civil rights. “I just want to be on the record that I believe the Interstate Commerce Clause was properly used by the courts and the Congress to make sure that when you travel in this country you can’t be denied food and lodging based on your race,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said. “That is not a big heavy lift for me.”

Mr. Paul’s father, Representative Ron Paul, a Texas Republican who ran for president in 2008, angrily defended his son, saying he was being treated unfairly. “I think there’s a lot of resentment because he became a star,” said Mr. Paul, who ran for president in 2008.

Democratic leaders have long said that they viewed Mr. Paul as the weaker of the two major candidates in the Republican primary — the other was Trey Grayson, the secretary of state — because, they said, his views would not be embraced by the general electorate as they were by primary voters. That view was shared by many establishment Republicans, as reflected by the fact that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, did not support him in the primary.

Mr. Paul also found himself on the defensive on Thursday when he sought to justify his decision to hold his election night celebration at a country club in Bowling Green, arguing that was not in any way at variance with the grass-roots movement he has come to epitomize.

“I think at one time, people used to think of golf and golf clubs and golf courses as being exclusive,” Mr. Paul said in an interview with ABC’s “Good Morning America,” adding, “Tiger Woods has helped to broaden that, in the sense that he’s brought golf to a lot of the cities and to city youth.”

Representative James E. Clyburn, the Democratic majority whip, who was active in the civil rights movement during the 1960s, described Mr. Paul as “extreme” in an interview. Mr. Clyburn said Mr. Paul’s decision to hold his victory rally at a country club was a slap at his own supporters. “Who would have a victory party in a place where the minions who just voted for you ain’t welcome?” he said.

More broadly, Mr. Clyburn said that he viewed Mr. Paul, should he get elected, as a threat to gains made by the civil rights movement over the past 50 years, given his views on the Civil Rights Act. “If we see someone like this get elected to the United States Senate, that will be the first step in my opinion to turning back the gains that we started making way back in the 1860s,” he said.

Representative Al Green, a Texas Democrat, demanded on the House floor on Thursday afternoon that Mr. Paul explain his views, which Mr. Green said were painful to those who experienced segregation. Mr. McConnell said through a spokesman that he was a fervent backer of the civil rights law and welcomed Mr. Paul’s statement that he would not seek to repeal it.
673 2010-05-21 The institutions are set on doing things their own way, yet I know of nobody in the Navy or other services who would argue that graduates of Annapolis or West Point are, as a group, better than those who become officers through other programs. A student can go to a civilian school like Vanderbilt, major in art history (which we don’t offer), have the usual college social experience and nightlife (which we forbid), be commissioned through R.O.T.C. — and apparently be just as good an officer as a Naval Academy product.

Instead of better officers, the academies produce burned-out midshipmen and cadets. They come to us thinking they’ve entered a military Camelot, and find a maze of petty rules with no visible future application. These rules are applied inconsistently by the administration, and tend to change when a new superintendent is appointed every few years. The students quickly see through assurances that “people die if you do X” (like, “leave mold on your shower curtain,” a favorite claim of one recent administrator). We’re a military Disneyland, beloved by tourists but disillusioning to the young people who came hoping to make a difference.

In my experience, the students who find this most demoralizing are those who have already served as Marines and sailors (usually more than 5 percent of each incoming class), who know how the fleet works and realize that what we do on the military-training side of things is largely make-work. Academics, too, are compromised by the huge time commitment these exercises require. Yes, we still produce some Rhodes, Marshall and Truman Scholars. But mediocrity is the norm.

Meanwhile, the academy’s former pursuit of excellence seems to have been pushed aside by the all-consuming desire to beat Notre Dame at football (as Navy did last year). To keep our teams in the top divisions of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, we fill officer-candidate slots with students who have been recruited primarily for their skills at big-time sports. That means we reject candidates with much higher predictors of military success (and, yes, athletic skills that are more pertinent to military service) in favor of players who, according to many midshipmen who speak candidly to me, often have little commitment to the military itself.

It’s no surprise that recruited athletes have been at the center of recent scandals, including a linebacker who was convicted of indecent assault on a female midshipman in 2007 and a quarterback who was accused of rape and dismissed from the academy for sexual misconduct in 2006. Sports stars are flattered on campus, avoid many of the onerous duties other midshipmen must perform, and know they’re not going to be thrown out. Instead of zero tolerance, we now push for zero attrition: we “remediate” honor code offenses.

Another program that is placing strain on the academies is an unofficial affirmative-action preference in admissions. While we can debate the merits of universities making diversity a priority in deciding which students to admit, how can one defend the use of race as a factor at taxpayer-financed academies — especially those whose purpose is to defend the Constitution? Yet, as I can confirm from the years I spent on the admissions board in 2002 and ’03 and from my conversations with more recent board members, if an applicant identifies himself or herself as non-white, the bar for qualification immediately drops.

Some in the administration have justified the admissions policies on the ground that it “takes all kinds” to be officers. But that’s not really what the academies recruit. They don’t give preference to accomplished cellists or people from religious minorities or cerebral Zen types.

We’ve even given less-qualified students a backdoor into Annapolis — the Naval Academy Preparatory School, our remedial institution in Newport, R.I., for admitted students who are not prepared to enter the academy itself. And if students struggle academically when they get to the academy, our goal is to get them to graduate at whatever cost. Thus we now offer plenty of low-track and remedial courses, and students who fail can often just retake classes until they pass: we have control over their summers and their schedules, and can simply drag them through with tutoring.

I’ve taught low-track English classes; the pace is slower and the papers shorter than in my usual seminars, but the students who complete them get the same credit. When I’ve complained about this, some administrators and midshipmen have argued that academics are irrelevant to being an officer, anyway. Really? Thinking and articulating are irrelevant to being an officer?

The picture I have drawn of the academy is not what most Americans imagine when they come to a parade and see all those clean-cut young men and women standing in nice rows with their chests out (as they will at next week’s graduation ceremony). Some may argue that our abandonment of merit as a criterion for officer status is simply the direction the military overall has taken — the stress of fighting two wars has lowered the bar for enlistment, and R.O.T.C. standards have also declined. But I’d like to think we could do better.

We have two choices. One is to shut down Annapolis, West Point and the other academies, and to rely on R.O.T.C. to provide officers. Or we can embrace the level of excellence we once had and have largely abandoned. This means a single set of high standards for all students in admissions, discipline and academics. If that means downgrading our football team to Division III, so be it.

We also need a renaissance in our culture. We need to get our students on board with the program by explaining our goals and asking for feedback from cadets, graduates and the armed forces at large. Now, we’re just frustrating the students and misleading taxpayers.

Change won’t happen from within. The short-term academy administrations want to keep the hype flowing, and tend to lack the big-picture thinking necessary to seeing the institution objectively. Rather, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and other civilians need to mount a full re-conception of the academies: deciding what do we do that’s wrong, what’s irrelevant and what deserves to be saved. Otherwise, my most promising students will continue to tell me, “Sir, this place shows you what not to do.”
674 2010-05-21 There is a twist in the case of the missing cross. Mysteriously (or miraculously?) a cross has arisen at the spot in the Mojave Desert where a large one at the center of a dispute over church and state disappeared this month. The new cross, about six inches taller than the seven-foot one stolen from the rock it sat on since the mid-1990s, was discovered Thursday by National Park Service workers. Just as it was a crime to steal it, it is also a violation to put up a monument in a federal preserve without government authorization. The cross is being taken down.
675 2010-05-21 Thanks for Maureen Dowd’s brilliant column about Elena Kagan.

The 18th century had a way of dealing with the issue of married and unmarried women: older ladies were Mrs., younger ladies were Miss. I don’t know whether Gloria Steinem had this tradition in mind when she popularized Ms., but it was a tradition based not on marital status but on maturity, respect and honor. (It was akin to using “honorable” for peers, politicians and their families.)

We carry on this tradition when we say of great actresses and singers: Miss Jane Fonda, Miss Shirley Knight, Miss Joanne Woodward, Miss Patti LuPone, Miss Renée Fleming.

Whether these women are/were married or not is not the question. They are all “Miss” because their talent makes them revered.

Ms. blurs the difference between married and unmarried, but takes away the actor’s or singer’s (or even lowly author’s) honorific conferring esteem. Now they all want to be called “actors” because female words always lose status in a deeply sexist society.

Naturally, I myself prefer to be a poet, rather than a flowery, fervid poetess. Or indeed an author, rather than a woman writer.

But the bottom line is: marital status should not matter.

Whether married four times (like me) or never married (like Elena Kagan), we have our own accomplishments and beliefs. I am not now and never have been an appendage to a husband.
676 2010-05-21 In one study of about 600 patients that was made public on Thursday, use of the drug lenalidomide after stem-cell transplant sharply cut the recurrence of multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow. After three years, 68 percent of the patients who took the drug were free of disease progression, compared with 35 percent of those who got the placebo. “This is of major clinical importance for patients,” Michel Attal of Purpan Hospital in Toulouse, France, the lead author of the study, said in a telephone news conference.

Another study found that two years of maintenance therapy with the drug rituximab cut the risk of cancer recurrence in half among patients with follicular lymphoma, a type of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.

The trial involved about 1,000 patients who responded to initial treatment with rituximab plus chemotherapy. Those who continued to get an infusion of rituximab every eight weeks had a relapse rate of 18 percent after about two years. Those who stopped taking the drug after the initial response had a relapse rate of 34 percent.

Neither study has shown yet that maintenance therapy allows people to live longer. For both multiple myeloma and lymphoma, people can live a decade or more after diagnosis. Long-term use of the drugs could cause side effects and is expensive. Two years of maintenance therapy with rituximab, which is sold by Genentech as Rituxan, costs about $50,000. Lenalidomide, sold by Celgene as Revlimid, costs more than $6,000 a month.

Regarding ovarian cancer, doctors have long been searching for the ovarian cancer equivalent of mammography — a way to catch tumors early enough that they are treatable. A big challenge is that ovarian cancer is very rare. That raises the risk of false positives, which would subject many women to needless surgery.

Researchers at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center say the answer might lie not in some new test but an old one — a test that measures the amount of a protein called CA-125 in the blood. That test is now used to detect recurrence of ovarian cancer but has not been a reliable marker for detecting an initial occurrence of the disease. But the researchers tried to overcome this by following changes in CA-125 over time.

The study involved more than 3,200 healthy, postmenopausal women, who were given a risk score calculated from the CA-125 result and their age.

Those with low risk scores were told to come back a year later for another CA-125 test, and those with intermediate scores were told to come back in three months. Those with the highest risk were referred for transvaginal ultrasound, with possible surgery after that. Over a nine-year period, only eight women underwent surgery. Three were found to have invasive cancers that were caught early enough to treat. Two had borderline cancers, and three did not have cancer.

The researchers said this was encouraging in terms of avoiding unnecessary surgeries. The screening failed to detect two borderline cancers but did not miss any invasive ones.

Still, Dr. Karen Lu, lead author of the study, said the results were “not practice-changing at this time” because it is not known whether the screening strategy would save lives. A study involving more than 200,000 women to answer that question is now under way in Britain, with results expected around 2015.

One of the authors of the study, Dr. Robert Bast, is a co-inventor of the CA-125 test and receives royalties on its use.

The yoga trial, led by researchers at the University of Rochester, randomized 410 survivors of early-stage cancers who reported problems with sleep after their treatment had finished. Half the patients went to a yoga session twice a week for four weeks, and the rest did not. Based on questionnaires, those who did yoga had a bigger improvement in sleep and a reduction in fatigue.
677 2010-05-21 The German actor Ulrich Tukur brings an understated intensity and psychological depth to the title role of “John Rabe,” a sweeping historical film that exalts a largely unsung real-life hero who risked his life to do the right thing. Rabe, a Nazi German industrialist stationed in China, is credited with saving the lives of more than 200,000 Chinese during the infamous 1937 massacre in Nanking (now Nanjing) in the second Sino-Japanese war. In a matter of weeks, the Japanese slaughtered at least 200,000 civilians and prisoners of war and committed mass rape.

Rabe had been living in Nanking for 27 years, and was running the Chinese branch of Siemens, the German engineering conglomerate. Today he is venerated in China for his decision to remain in the city and help organize and run a safety zone for civilians during the massacre. It is only relatively recently that the so-called Rape of Nanking has been widely recognized as one of the great atrocities of the 20th century. Even now, the Japanese government resists acknowledging the full horror of what happened.

The German director Florian Gallenberger has made Rabe the central figure in an old-fashioned historical epic that covers much of the same territory as the 2007 documentary “Nanking,” in which Rabe (pronounced RAH-bay) is mentioned. Because its hero was a “good Nazi” who courageously acted on his humanitarian impulses, “John Rabe” has a lot in common with “Schindler’s List.” But despite its gruesome scenes of hundreds of Chinese prisoners of war being lined up and executed and its ostentatious shots of severed heads, the movie is less than indelible.

With its solid performances and sweeping set pieces in which Japanese planes swoop through the streets like mad, fire-spitting bats, “John Rabe,” has its visceral moments. But it is also burdened by manipulative clichés of a screenplay in which exposition outweighs character development. Inspired by Rabe’s diaries, from which short excerpts are read, it tells the story almost exclusively from a Western point of view.

The most prominent bad Nazi is a stereotypical Hitlerian martinet with a cowardly streak and an ugly facial scar; the worst Japanese villain (Teruyuki Kagawa) is a one-dimensional bloodthirsty demon with a shark’s grin.
678 2010-05-21 A judge issued a warrant for Lindsay Lohan’s arrest and set bail at $100,000 on Thursday after the actress failed to show up for a mandatory court hearing in Los Angeles, The Associated Press reported. Ms. Lohan, left, went to Cannes for the film festival there, and, according to her lawyer, Shawn Chapman Holley, her passport was stolen, preventing her from returning to the United States in time for her hearing. Judge Marsha Revel of Los Angeles County Superior Court also revoked Ms. Lohan’s probation, which she had been on after two arrests in 2007 on charges of drunken driving. Mr. Holley said Ms. Lohan would be back in the United States by Friday evening. If she makes bail, the judge has stipulated that she will be prohibited from drinking alcohol and required to wear an alcohol monitoring bracelet and undergo weekly drug testing. ... Also in Los Angeles, the former rap mogul Marion Knight, known as Suge, was arrested for investigation of assault with a deadly weapon early Thursday and held on $65,000 bail, The Los Angeles Times reported. Investigators said that another man accused Mr. Knight of robbing him in south Los Angeles on Wednesday night.
679 2010-05-21 GRAND ISLE, La. — Local and state officials here voiced desperation on Thursday as their fears became far more tangible, with oil from the BP spill showing up on shore as tar balls, sheens and gooey slicks.

In Washington, the Environmental Protection Agency said it had told the oil company to immediately select a less toxic dispersant than the one it is now using to break up crude oil gushing from a ruined well in the Gulf of Mexico. Once the agency has signed off on a different product, it said, the company would then have 72 hours to start using it.

In a letter to BP’s chief executive, Tony Hayward, the agency’s administrator, Lisa Jackson, and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano also warned the company that it had “fallen short” in keeping the public informed. It demanded that BP release and post all data related to the month-old spill and monitoring efforts on a public Web site.

But here in Grand Isle, the focus was on the grim spectacle of what one official referred to as creeping “brownie mix.” At a news conference attended by visibly furious officials who had just taken a helicopter tour of the coast, Gov. Bobby Jindal said he was particularly worried that the heavy patches of oil appeared to have moved to shore under the surface of the gulf.

“This oil has traveled 110 miles to land on our coast, and we’re concerned that this is just the beginning,” Mr. Jindal said. “You didn’t see oil that close to our coast a day or two ago.”

Mr. Jindal said officials from the Coast Guard and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration continue to tell him that heavy oil is not traveling underwater before it shows up on the coast, which he said would not explain its presence.

According to NOAA’s estimates, Mr. Jindal said, the spill has already affected nearly 50 miles of Louisiana’s coastline, which is full of breaks and inlets into fragile marshlands that are far more difficult to protect than sandy beaches. “No shoreline has been fully cleaned,” he said.

On Elmer’s Island, one of the few sandy beaches in Louisiana that is accessible by road, a thick brown frosting of oil was smeared on the shore. But inland marshes have so far been spared by a four-day project by the Louisiana National Guard that filled a 785-foot gap in the shore with sand. The guard is working to fill other such gaps along parts of the state’s coastline.

Near the mouth of the Mississippi, reddish-brown emulsified oil was pooled three inches deep in some places on Thursday and had killed off cane for at least a mile along the shore. The thick black oil seen there Wednesday appeared to have been washed out by the tide, but the air was heavy with scent of petroleum.

Several officials at the news conference in Grand Isle called on President Obama to order the federal government to take over where BP has failed. “We need some action, and we need it now,” said Michel Claudet, the president of Terrebonne Parish.

In directing BP to select a less toxic dispersant, the Environmental Protection Agency said it was exercising caution because so little is known about the chemicals’ potential impact.

BP has sprayed nearly 700,000 gallons of Corexit dispersants on the surface of the gulf and directly onto the leaking well head a mile underwater. It is by far the largest use of chemicals to break up an oil spill in United States waters to date.

Scientists and politicians have questioned why the E.P.A. is allowing use of the Corexit products when less toxic alternatives are available.

On Monday, Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, sent a letter to Ms. Jackson at the E.P.A. demanding details of the formula for Corexit products and information about any testing that had been carried out on the chemicals.

In a statement on Thursday, the E.P.A. said, “Because of its use in unprecedented volumes and because much is unknown about the underwater use of dispersants, E.P.A. wants to ensure BP is using the least toxic product authorized for use.”

BP said it was reviewing its options and did not detail which or how many dispersants it might propose for use.

But U.S. Polychemical of Spring Valley, N.Y., which makes a dispersant called Dispersit SPC 1000, said Thursday morning that it had received an order from BP and would increase its production to 20,000 gallons a day in the next few days, and eventually to as much as 60,000 gallons a day.

BP defended the use of the Corexit products, mainstays of oil spill control that were developed in the 1980s and ’90s.

“Corexit was an E.P.A.-approved dispersant that had been widely used in the gulf and was available in the quantities we required,” said Toby Odone, a company spokesman in Houston.

Indeed, some experts, like Merv Fingas, who served as the lead oil spill expert at Environment Canada, the Canadian counterpart of the E.P.A., said Corexit was not that much more toxic than other dispersants and had a long track record of use.

Mr. Fingas said the more important question was why dispersants were being used at all in the gulf.

Dispersants are conventionally applied to move oil off the surface of the ocean to protect marine life there and to prevent large amounts of oil from moving onshore. Yet the oil is emerging from a leak 50 miles offshore and a mile underwater. Oil in such a location emulsifies and separates as it comes to the surface, so “dispersant use isn’t really effective,” Mr. Fingas said.

“But they are in a desperate situation where they have to try everything possible, hoping something will work,” he said.

With reports of oil moving into areas as far west as Timbalier Bay, La., the patience of state and local officials had worn thin.

“It seems like BP doesn’t care,” said Euris DuBois, the police chief of Grand Isle, a scenic coastal community popular with tourists in the summer.

Chief DuBois said that he met with BP officials daily and had reported to them that oil was coming closer and closer to shore, but that he had seen no concrete action. “Nobody went and cleaned nothing,” he said, “and now it’s on our beaches.”
680 2010-05-21 PARIS — A lone hooded man who squirmed through a broken window and evaded security alarms stole five paintings by Picasso, Matisse and other artists overnight Wednesday from the Paris Museum of Modern Art in a brash theft of art valued at $114 million to $127 million.

Museum officials discovered the theft shortly before 7 a.m. Thursday. They said they had captured video images of the black-clad burglar as he stole into the museum, housed in the Palais de Tokyo, the 1937 Art Deco showpiece that sits across the Seine from the Eiffel Tower.

The burglary — which triggered no electronic alarms — immediately raised fresh questions about museum security in the French capital.

Last summer, a thief snatched a red sketchbook of 33 Picasso drawings from the Picasso Museum while it was undergoing renovations. Security alarms did not sound in that case, either.

The Museum of Modern Art was closed to visitors and cordoned off by investigators on Thursday.

The stolen works, part of the museum’s permanent collection, were “Dove With Green Peas” by Picasso, “La Pastorale” by Matisse, “Olive Tree Near l’Estaque” by Georges Braque, “Woman With a Fan” by Amedeo Modigliani and “Still Life With Chandeliers” by Fernand Léger.
681 2010-05-21 “People are learning to think the unthinkable,” said Willem Buiter, chief economist of Citigroup. Many worry that Greece and even other economically vulnerable nations like Spain or Portugal will be unable to pay their debts despite a sweeping rescue effort by the European Union.

By the close, the Dow was down 376.36 points, or 3.6 percent, to 10,068.01. In a seesaw period of months this year, the index hit a recent low of 9,908.39 on Feb. 8, climbed to a peak of 11,205.03 on April 26, and then fell back by more than 10 percent since.

The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed down 43.46 points, or 3.9 percent, to 1,071.59, the biggest one-day drop since April last year. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 94.36 points, or 4.11 percent, to 2,204.01.

The unilateral decision by Germany this week to ban certain speculative trading, a move rebuffed by some other European nations, has unsettled investors.

The German government did not consult its partners before issuing the change, adding to the sense that new financial regulations will start arriving piecemeal and that Europe’s leaders are not united in addressing the Continent’s broadening crisis.

“Investors are struggling to adjust to a new regime where politics is more important than before,” said Gianluca Salford, a strategist at JPMorgan Chase in London.

On Thursday, the Treasury Department announced that Secretary Timothy F. Geithner would travel to Europe next week to discuss the crisis there with Britain’s new chancellor of the Exchequer and with the president of the European Central Bank.

The uncertain progress of financial regulatory overhaul in the United States also weighed on the markets.

Across Wall Street, banking analysts were busy tallying up the financial effect of the legislation, which was passed by the Senate on Thursday night. Tough new credit card rules have already chipped away at the bottom line of the biggest banks. Now, their derivatives, debit card and proprietary trading businesses could face similarly heavy restrictions under new rules.

A Goldman Sachs research report, released Monday, said the proposed legislation could reduce earnings at 28 of the biggest banks by more than 20 percent.

For the first time there was talk of capital flight from countries like Germany and Britain to perceived safe havens like Switzerland. And across the globe investors fled from risky currencies, bonds and stocks to safer assets like the dollar, the Japanese yen and United States bonds.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond — the benchmark global interest rate — fell to 3.21 percent, its lowest level this year and a clear sign of investors seeking a safe haven.

“There has been a flight to quality — a flight to the dollar, investment grade bonds and even within the stock market toward higher quality companies,” said Matthew S. Rothman, global head of quantitative equities strategy at Barclays Capital.

There were other reasons for the jitters on Thursday — violence in Thailand, political tensions between North and South Korea, and yet another labor strike in Greece over the proposed austerity measures, added to the nervousness of investors.

But traders and analysts said the biggest factor unnerving markets was the prospect that European governments might not have done enough to stem the panic over Greece and other heavily indebted nations, and that their problems might spill into the United States, affecting the pace of the economic recovery.

Some economists warn, for example, that weakness in Europe’s economies combined with the current appreciation of the dollar against the euro could hurt American exports.

“You are seeing the combined impact of three distinct yet reinforcing factors: greater understanding and concern about the structural headwinds facing markets, a downward reassessment of global growth prospects, and large technical unwinds,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of the bond giant Pimco.

Major American industrial companies whose prospects are intertwined with that of the global economy took a hit to their share prices on Thursday. General Electric, for example, closed 5.79 percent lower, Caterpillar shares were down 4.51 percent and Boeing was off 4.85 percent.

The S.& P. 500 index broke below its 200-day moving average. To technical analysts of the stock market, that was seen as a sure signal of a bearish mood among investors.

“There is no sector that is being spared,” said Anthony Conroy, head equity trader at the BNY ConvergEx Group. “You have heard the phrase ‘flight to quality’? We are having a flight to liquidity. Everybody is trying to get liquid. Gold, oil, silver, financials — every sector is getting hit.”

Mr. Buiter of Citigroup said many big investors were questioning whether they could continue to rely on the euro as a safe long-term investment, given Europe’s troubles. “Many pension funds and other long-term holders have to, for regulatory reasons, hold a fraction of their investments in safe assets. Euro debt used to fit the bill,” he said. “It no longer does. People are wondering about it.”

But some other investors said that despite the market correction there had not yet been a fundamental shift in long-term investment strategies.

Justin Urquhart Stewart, a co-founder of Seven Investment Management in London, said: “The market is nervous and there has been some selling out, but it’s not capital flight. The euro zone economy is doing better than it was, German exports are strong and corporate earnings are on the up. We have had a one-year bull market in equities, so it’s not surprising to see a pullback.”
682 2010-05-21 Although squash isn’t ready yet locally, there’s some beautiful organic yellow squash from Mexico in my local supermarkets and at Trader Joe’s. I couldn’t resist using it for this Greek-inspired chicken soup with bulgur. Make your own chicken stock if you can; use the stock that resulted from poaching the chicken breasts.

1. Place the chicken stock in a saucepan, and bring to a simmer. Add the bulgur, and simmer, covered, for 20 minutes. Taste and adjust seasonings with salt and pepper, and add the squash. Simmer uncovered for 10 minutes. Stir in the chicken breast and lemon juice, and heat through for a few minutes. Ladle into bowls, sprinkle tarragon into each serving and serve.

Advance preparation: You can make this several hours ahead, but stir in the tarragon just before serving.

Nutritional information per serving (based on four servings, using low-sodium commercial chicken broth): 148 calories; 1 grams fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 15 milligrams cholesterol; 23 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 95 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 12 grams protein
683 2010-05-21 Deborah Remington, a New York painter who countered the accepted trends of her time by incorporating a sense of real light and space into her abstract images, died April 21 in Moorestown, N.J. She was 79 and had homes in New York and Chester Count...
684 2010-05-22 The oil spill commission, which has already drawn Republican criticism, will have six months to come up with recommendations on how to avoid another spill....
685 2010-05-22 HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — Pennsylvania’s attorney general gave up an attempt to subpoena two Twitter users who commented on a political conspiracy case on Friday after the defendant in the case was sentenced.

The attorney general’s office had subpoenaed Twitter to ascertain the identities of two users who had posted writings sympathetic to the defendants, but prosecutors said after Friday’s hearing that the information had not been produced and they considered it a moot point.

The subpoenas were criticized by civil liberties groups as a violation of free rights.

The defendant in the case, Brett W. Cott, a former Democratic employee in the Pennsylvania Legislature, received a 21-month-to-5-year sentence Friday for his role in a conspiracy to divert state resources to wage political campaigns.

Mr. Cott’s sentence exceeded even what prosecutors had asked for, and Judge Richard A. Lewis of Dauphin County ordered him jailed immediately, rejecting his lawyer’s request that he be allowed to remain free on bail while he pursues an appeal.

Judge Lewis called Mr. Cott’s actions “a violation of the public’s right to a fair and equitable electoral process” that was “unmistakably far over the line.”

He fined him $11,000 and ordered him to pay $50,000 in restitution.

Mr. Cott, 38, said nothing at sentencing, and afterward his attorney, Bryan Walk, vowed to appeal.
686 2010-05-22 After all the revelations about predatory lenders, bankers who bet against their clients and speculative booms and busts, it should be clear that weak regulation is a recipe for disaster. And open and transparent markets, with clear roles for regulators, are essential to the nation’s financial health.

So it was good news that, despite all the bank lobbying and all the Republican posturing, the Senate finally passed a financial reform bill on Thursday.

Whether it will fix the system is still not known. In many ways, the bill has moved closer to what is needed. But when House and Senate leaders meet in coming days to negotiate a final bill, they need to correct several deficiencies and omissions.

The political battle also is far from over. When the stock market sank on Thursday, hours before the final vote, opponents rushed to declare that that was because even the possibility of reform was destabilizing. The market rose again on Friday. The rhetoric didn’t stop.

Here is what needs to be addressed:

RISKY BUSINESS It was never going to be easy to rein in the multitrillion-dollar market in unregulated derivatives. The Senate bill went further than the House version in requiring most derivatives to be traded on exchanges and to be processed, or cleared, through a third party to guarantee payment in the case of default.
687 2010-05-22 On Friday, the White House expressed its own frustration with the structure of the job. “The government continues to work through the challenges that the law and the position have always presented to government and in the coordination of many different agencies and departments and the intelligence functions that they represent,” said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary. “I think many D.N.I.’s beyond whoever is next will deal with some of the vagueness and many of the complexities.”

But privately, senior administration officials said the situation simply was not working, citing among other things the failure to coordinate intelligence that led to the attempted bombing of a passenger jet on Dec. 25.

Mr. Blair had pressed for a pact between the United States and France that would have halted espionage operations on each other’s soil, a more formal version of America’s “gentleman’s agreement” with Britain.

The informal agreement with London is built on decades of trust between the American and British governments. Officials said that Mr. Blair had come to believe that Mr. Sarkozy’s presidency was a unique opportunity for two countries long suspicious of each other’s motives to build lasting security ties.

But others worried that a written pact — the first of its kind for the United States — would handcuff the United States if a new government came to power in France that was more hostile to American foreign policy goals.

“What people balked at was the suggestion of a formal, written, no-spy pact, signed by heads of state,” said one American intelligence official. “How would you verify it — by spying?”

A spokesman for the intelligence director declined to comment.

Unlike America’s relationship with Britain and other close allies like Australia, the United States and France have a long history of spying on each other. For example, intelligence experts said the French had been particularly aggressive in trying to steal secrets about the American defense and technology industries. For its part, the United States has long been suspicious of French government and business ties to countries like Iran and Syria, and about North African militant groups whose operatives work inside France.

In recent months, Mr. Blair had also made a push to rein in covert activities carried out by the C.I.A., reflecting his view that the United States had become too enamored over stealth activities.

He even developed rules to guide policy makers before they approved a covert action. Among them were guidelines that covert activity should never be employed “for the purpose of circumventing a lack of U.S. public support for any particular overt policy,” according to one American official.

Officials said that some in the White House and C.I.A. bristled at Mr. Blair’s efforts to exert greater oversight over covert action. The reaction, they said, puzzled Mr. Blair, who had thought he had been given a degree of authority over these activities.

There appears to have been similar miscommunication on the France episode. Officials said that while Mr. Blair had been authorized to work out new intelligence-sharing arrangements with the French, he was specifically told by the White House that a formal no-spying pact was off the table.

Mark M. Lowenthal, a former assistant director of the C.I.A., said the relative weakness of the intelligence director position was especially frustrating to Mr. Blair, who had powerful positions in the military, notably as head of United States Pacific Command.

“Denny had been commander of the largest military command in the world,” Mr. Lowenthal said. “And then he took this job where anyone who wanted to ignore him basically could do it.”
688 2010-05-22 Dorothy Kamenshek, a star player in the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League who helped inspire the lead character in the movie “A League of Their Own,” has died. She was 84.

She died of natural causes Monday at her home in Palm Desert, Calif., said the Riverside County coroner’s office. She had had several strokes in the past five years, said her friend and fellow baseball player Lavone Paire Davis, who was known as Pepper.

Kamenshek played first base for the Rockford (Ill.) Peaches from 1943 to 1951 and again in 1953, and finished among the league’s top 10 career batting leaders, with an average of .292. She was named one of the top 100 female athletes of the century by Sports Illustrated, winning batting titles by hitting .316 in 1946 and .306 in 1947.

“She had the whole package,” said Davis, 85, a catcher who played 10 years in the league. “She could hit with power, she could lay the bunt down and steal the base. She was a great first baseman — she could go off the ground three feet and grab it, or dig it out of the dirt. She was a tough lady, and she was as smart as they come.”

She was selected to seven All-Star teams and retired in 1953.

Kamenshek’s abilities impressed a minor league men’s team in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., which offered to buy her contract in 1947, but she declined.

“I thought it was a publicity stunt,” she told the baseball historian John Holway for an article published in 2003, adding that she thought her 5-foot-6, 135-pound frame would have been no match for “those big guys.”
689 2010-05-22 A Swiss parliamentary commission signaled on Friday that it was likely to accept an agreement with United States to hand over data on clients of the bank UBS suspected of tax evasion.

The issue has become tied up in Switzerland’s highly factional political process, with some parties linking their support to government commitments on rules on bonus caps and bank supervision.

Some observers said they thought the committee on economic affairs would vote against the UBS deal, prompting an outpouring of lobbying from Swiss business groups and others backing it. But the committee voted 19 to five, with three abstentions, to continue deliberations on the issue until the start of June, just before the full Parliament votes.

Mark Stucki, a spokesman for the Parliament, said the decision to continue the discussions suggested that there had been a shift in opinion and sent a clear signal that the committee would ultimately back the deal.

Hansruedi Wandfluh, the chairman of the committee, was quoted by Swiss media as saying that the committee was likely to agree on the text in a final vote on June 2.
690 2010-05-22 Sport, though, is one of the last quarters where many gay people are not comfortable enough to step out — particularly men. The former N.F.L. players David Kopay, Roy Simmons and Esera Tuaolo came out after their careers were over, as did the former baseball player Billy Bean and the former basketball player John Amaechi.

Even though Walker is in a low-profile sport played by women, his being out is significant, according to Jim Buzinski, a founder of Outsports.com.

“It’s probably not as sexy as if he were coaching a men’s team — that’s a different dynamic because people always freak out about the locker room,” Buzinski said. “But Kirk’s value is in putting a name to the concept that ‘Oh, we know there’s gay coaches and gay players.’ Here’s one you can identify with. By being himself, he is trail-blazing.”

After Outsports.com profiled Walker in 2007, other news media outlets picked up his story. When Sherri Murrell was hired as the women’s basketball coach at Portland State, The Portland Tribune carried a story of her hiring on the same page as a feature on Walker.

“I go, ‘Wow, I’m in the right place,’ ” said Murrell, who is thought to be the only publicly gay Division I women’s basketball coach. “What Kirk has done is very inspiring.”

Murrell later reached out to Walker when she was approached about being interviewed for the documentary “Training Rules,” which examined the policy by the former Penn State basketball coach Rene Portland forbidding lesbian relations. Murrell said Walker was helpful in letting her know what to expect from the publicity about the movie, which was released last year.

“When you actually publicly put your life out there — and we can’t avoid it as coaches — there are a lot of unknowns,” Murrell said. “What if this happens? What if that happens? It’s easy to fear them.”

Those pangs dissipated for Walker over the years as he told friends, family and co-workers that he was gay. The pangs have been gone altogether since 2005, when he told his team that he and his partner, Randy Baltimore, had begun the process of adopting their daughter, Ava. Because they had to register with a public agency, Walker did not want his players to learn from anyone else.

As Walker stood before his team then, fumbling for words, he was surprised that none of his players had any questions about his being gay. All they wanted to know about was the baby.

That has not changed much. Players still fawn over Ava, who turns 4 in July, and their parents will occasionally ask about Baltimore, who works for an insurance company in Portland. Walker said that his being gay had never been brought up during recruiting and that he did not think it had ever caused him to lose a recruit.

“I can’t say it has, I can’t say it hasn’t,” Walker said of the effect it has had on recruiting. “But it’s never blatantly been an issue.”

Walker, 45, has found himself straddling generations in the gay community. Those who are older often kept their orientation to themselves. Those who are younger have grown up in a more welcoming environment, with laws to protect them.

“It’s a new age,” said Kelly Dyer, a senior Oregon State softball pitcher from Eugene, Ore. “Being gay is becoming more acceptable in our generation. It’s not like him being gay off the field has any effect on us on the field. It’s no big deal.”

Walker said: “My role with my players hasn’t changed. It doesn’t mean I become their surrogate social worker. I have no problem being a resource, but it doesn’t mean every team meeting we’re talking about liberation and what are we doing to promote better equality. We’re trying to win a ballgame.”

Walker completed his 16th season at Oregon State last weekend. It was not one of his better ones, with the Beavers (24-30, 4-17) finishing last in the powerful Pacific-10 Conference. The seven conference teams in front of them have reached the N.C.A.A. tournament.

But Walker has had great success in turning around a program that had won 12 Pac-10 games in the eight seasons before he arrived. He has won more games than any other Oregon State coach, he is a two-time Pac-10 coach of the year, and he took the Beavers to the Women’s College World Series in 2006.

Walker found his passion for coaching at an early age. Though his two older brothers were standout high school athletes growing up in Woodland Hills, Calif., a suburb northwest of Los Angeles, he began helping the coaches for his younger sister’s club softball team. At age 13, he was hooked.

Because of his age and because he was coaching girls, Walker said, he was highly conscious of trying to act professionally. As he grew older, working as a manager and an assistant at U.C.L.A. while he earned a degree in kinesiology, he continued to reinforce a wall between himself and players.

It was not until he passed through “avoidance mode” and began to come to terms with his sexuality in his middle-to-late 20s that he began to realize it was not the wall or his dedication to coaching that kept him from being interested in women.

Dyer, the Oregon State pitcher, shyly notes that it would not be any great revelation to learn that Walker is gay, and Walker said, “It’s more evident than it was seven or eight years ago.”

“It’s not as much being flamboyant — like an outfit or a hairstyle,” Walker said. “I would say I’m not worried about being perceived as masculine or overly heterosexual.”

He added: “Let’s face it — ABC and TMZ aren’t following me around. That’s what everyone in athletics fears; it’s not the unknown of ‘Am I going to be called names?’ The issue is: is this going to define me when I want to be defined by what I do? In entertainment, you can absolutely be defined by your stances — free Tibet — or by the way you dress. You cannot be defined by that in the athletic world. That is the big fear.”

Walker said he suspected that the first athlete to come out while in the spotlight would be near the end of his career, or at the beginning, probably in college. It will be someone, he suggests, who is willing to carry a banner even if he would rather not.

The rewards, whether in the form of an e-mail message here, a conversation there, or more, are what will be overwhelming.

“I would absolutely be envious,” Walker said. “It would change history. Having seen how it has impacted people, I wish my position allowed my story to be a bigger story than it is. The result would be pretty cool.”
691 2010-05-22 The May 18 front-page article “Physicists Say Weapon Failed in Missile Tests” cites misses that were not misses in tests of the sea-based Standard Missile 3, or SM-3, interceptor. It was based on an academic assessment by physicists who had no access to test data, especially classified telemetry data showing the complete destruction of the targets, or interceptor sensor views that were not released so as not to reveal to potential adversaries exactly where the target was struck.

The article also did not mention that tests involving very small and challenging separating targets — representative of what is now being developed by rogue nations — resulted in five of six successful intercepts.

Over all, we have fired 19 SM-3 interceptors and scored 16 hits in 16 tests since 2002, as well as 18 SM-3 specific ground tests to accurately measure lethality, conclusively demonstrating that the interceptor is highly lethal against ballistic missiles.

I have no hesitation in stating that this missile defense system provides an excellent capability for our deployed forces, and to our allies and partners around the world, and we continue to improve and enhance the system through realistic testing to ensure that we are able to address evolving threats.
692 2010-05-22 An aide to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who was on the verge of becoming the executive director of New York State’s leading gay rights organization, abruptly withdrew his name from consideration on Friday amid fierce resistance from advocates, some of whom objected to his ties to the mayor.

It was the latest sign of tumult among New York’s gay rights leaders, who are still reeling from the defeat last year of their signature goal: the legalization of same-sex marriage.

The aide, Brian Ellner, 40, was considered so close to being approved by the board of the Empire State Pride Agenda that the group had prepared a news release with glowing remarks about Mr. Ellner from political leaders like Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn. Mr. Ellner had begun to contact gay leaders, saying he looked forward to working with them.

His sudden exit, the day before the board was to vote on whether to approve him, leaves the organization looking again for a permanent replacement for Alan van Capelle, who left the post in January after leading the organization for seven years.

Mr. Ellner said, “It didn’t work out, and I wish them the best.”

The gay rights movement in New York is frequently riven by disagreements over strategy and politics, but the speed with which Mr. Ellner’s candidacy was derailed caught many by surprise.
693 2010-05-22 Re “Tea Party Pick Causes Uproar on Civil Rights” (front page, May 21):

The news that Rand Paul, winner of the Republican Senate primary in Kentucky, believes that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is too broad is a frightening reminder of the danger of fringe elements in political campaigns.

It took a century to engineer the death of Jim Crow laws in the South, and now we have a Senate nominee who thinks that the government went too far.

As a young child in the South, I could not stay at the Heart of Atlanta Motel, which refused to rent to black customers. My father, a combat veteran, chose to fly to visit his in-laws in the South because he refused to go to the back of restaurants to pick up food while driving through Virginia and the Carolinas.

By the time I came of driving age, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 had banned discrimination in public accommodations.

I don’t care if Mr. Paul is the darling of the Tea Party or a kaffeeklatsch. The voters of Kentucky can ill afford to send him to Washington.
694 2010-05-22 WASHINGTON — During their long effort to pass a financial regulation bill, senators cited many causes for the housing crisis and the financial market collapse that led to the recession.

The mining of minerals in Congo was not one of them.

Nevertheless, tucked into the bill passed by the Senate on Thursday is a provision that requires any publicly traded company that uses certain minerals to file reports annually with the Securities and Exchange Commission certifying whether the minerals originated in Congo or neighboring countries.

It also requires them to report what steps the company took to ensure that the purchase of these minerals did not benefit armed groups in Africa. Minerals trading in Africa is often used to finance military activities.

These are not just any minerals, however. Columbite-tantalite, cassiterite, wolframite, gold and metals derived from them are widely used in the manufacture of cellphones, laptop computers, MP3 players, digital cameras and all sorts of other consumer electronics. Thus, the regulations could affect hundreds of companies.

Wolframite, for example, is a source of tungsten, which is used in integrated circuits, light bulbs, and computer and television screens.

The measure calls for any company using the minerals as a primary ingredient in its products to file the reports and to describe the steps taken to ensure that its mineral procurements did not benefit armed groups in Africa.

Senate leaders had vowed that the financial regulation bill would not be weighed down by amendments favoring the pet projects of lawmakers. But the Congo mineral amendment has been a project of Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, for years. The amendment was approved by a voice vote.
695 2010-05-22 Still, the Obama administration and consumer groups had pushed for the creation of a consumer protection agency that would oversee all types of consumer loans, including those originated by mortgage companies and payday lenders rather than banks.

For the most part, they got their wish. Both House and Senate bills include a new consumer agency that would oversee all types of consumer loans, including credit cards, payday loans and mortgages. The agency also will oversee debt settlement firms, debt collectors and check-cashing stores.

“The idea that you have consumer protection no matter where you buy the product is largely in this bill,” said Ed Mierzwinski, director of consumer programs for the United States Public Interest Research Group.

Most of the nonbank lenders are currently overseen by state regulators and the Federal Trade Commission, which lacks the resources and rule-writing authority of bank regulators.

The most obvious remaining uncertainty involves the nation’s 18,000 or so car dealers, who had mounted a vigorous campaign to be excluded from the new agency’s oversight. The dealers, who swarmed Capitol Hill to make their case, maintained that they simply facilitate car loans on behalf of financial institutions and therefore should be exempt.

But the Obama administration and consumer groups argued against the loophole, saying car dealers played a key role in arranging financing and too often steered consumers toward high-interest loans.

The military weighed in too, complaining that dealers foisted unscrupulous deals on soldiers.

On Thursday evening an amendment to exempt car dealers was withdrawn before the final vote. As a result, under the Senate bill, the new consumer protection agency would regulate car dealers.

Despite the loss, car dealers and their supporters in Congress vowed to continue the fight. They had previously won an exemption in the House version of the financial reform bill, and on Monday, the Senate will hold a vote on whether to instruct negotiators to include the auto dealer exemption in the final bill.

“We’re not disappointed at this point,” said Dave Westcott, a North Carolina-based car dealer who is also chairman of government affairs for the National Automobile Dealers Association, which was urging its members to call senators on Friday. “We’ll have an up or down vote on Monday. We’re optimistic.”

Mr. Mierzwinski held a different view, maintaining that a nonbinding message from the Senate was far weaker than an actual bill. Nonetheless, he said the car dealer exemption would most likely result in a pitched battle as negotiators try to reconcile the two bills.

Among the most obvious winners in the Senate bill were small businesses, many of which were excluded from the legislation. Some worried that small businesses would fall under the regulatory umbrella of the new consumer financial protection bureau, because orthodontists, butchers, florists and plumbers, among others, extend credit to their customers.

But an amendment sponsored by Senators Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, and Mary Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, excluded businesses that met a three-pronged test: they did not sell financial products, did not securitize consumer debt and met accepted definitions for a small business.

While the amendment successfully removed all but the very largest plumbers and orthodontists from the new agency’s purview, some business groups said it still left midsize business owners vulnerable to additional regulation, which they deemed unnecessary.

A second amendment, drafted by Ms. Snowe, would require the consumer agency to assess the impact on small businesses before writing new regulations. Consumer groups complained that the amendment would slow the agency’s ability to write new regulations and give small businesses, including perhaps predatory lenders, first crack at killing consumer protections.

On another matter, many businesses, including confectioners, brewers and airlines, had worried that new rules for trading derivatives would hurt their ability to hedge. But an exemption was included in the Senate bill that essentially exempts manufacturers of goods that use hedges on such things as commodities, currencies and interest rates.

And merchants were a surprise victor in the Senate version of the bill. It included a provision that would limit the fees, known as swipe fees or interchange, that banks charge merchants when consumers use debit cards. Merchants have long complained that Visa and MasterCard set the interchange rates for credit and debit cards at excessive levels as a way to entice banks to issue their cards. Last year, Visa and MasterCard paid the banks roughly $15.8 billion in interchange fees on debit cards alone.

The bill calls on the Federal Reserve to cap the fees at a “reasonable and proportional” level.
696 2010-05-22 While the tax increase next year is substantial, another increase comes in 2013, when provisions to pay for the health care bill take effect. Following are some general estimates for people at the four different income levels. (By the way, these tax increases aim only at single people making more than $200,000 a year and couples with incomes above $250,000.) All the assumptions below were based on a married couple filing jointly and without considering the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system aimed at a certain slice of high earners that excludes many deductions.

2011 Next year is the big year for anyone in the top two income tax brackets. At the highest level, the tax rises to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. The capital gains rate also goes to 20 percent from 15 percent. The bigger shock is qualified dividends, which had been taxed at the capital gains rate but will now be taxed at the ordinary income rate.

So what does this mean?

According to Summit’s calculations, the couple earning $500,000 a year, with an assumed $75,000 in net investment income and an equal amount in itemized deductions, is looking at a tax increase of $20,327 in 2011, from 2010. That would bring their federal tax bill to $162,885.

A couple earning $1 million a year with $150,000 in investment income and the same amount in deductions would pay $48,427 more for a federal total of $363,235. Under the same assumption of investment income and deductions being equal, a couple earning $3 million a year could expect an increase of $145,627 in federal taxes, to $1,174,435, and one earning $5 million, an increase of $243,027 for a total of $1,975,835.

“We didn’t make any assumptions about the person,” Mr. Spada said. “He could be a doctor, a lawyer, an investment banker. We focused on the income.”

He said he wanted to draw attention away from percentages. “Nobody thinks about what it is going to cost dollar-wise.”

Bill Smith, managing director in the national tax office of accounting firm CBIZ MHM, reviewed the data independently. He said that if anything, the tax increase estimates were too conservative. Starting next year, certain deductions are being phased out for wealthy filers. For the couple earning $500,000, this could mean an additional $5,000; for the $3 million couple, it could be an extra $35,000.

2013 While the bump-up in 2011 is the most striking, the health care taxes and surtaxes have stirred the most populist antagonism. But these charges, which start Jan. 1, 2013, are less easily calculated. The two big tax changes to result from health care reform legislation are a 0.9 percentage-point increase in the Medicare tax, also known as the hospital insurance tax, and a new 3.8 percent surtax on investment income.

The Medicare increase would tax the first $250,000 for a couple at the existing 1.45 percent rate and anything above that at 2.35 percent. “The kicker here is if you make $200,000 and she makes $100,000, they add them both together and you pay 2.35 percent on $50,000,” said Joseph Rowek, a vice president and tax lawyer at Summit.

For the couple earning $500,000, this translates to an increase of $2,250, for a total Medicare tax of $9,500. In the $1 million situation, the tax would jump by $6,750, to $21, 250. For $3 million in income, it goes up $24,750, to $68,250. It rises $42,750, to $115,250, for the $5 million couple.

By comparison, the 3.8 percent surtax on investment income hits the wealthy more than the very wealthy, at least by Summit’s assumptions. In the $500,000 example, an investment income of $75,000 was assumed, which put the surtax at $2,850, or $600 more than the Medicare increase. For the couple with $5 million of income and an assumed $400,000 in investment income, the surtax would be $15,200 — a third of the Medicare increase.

If the very wealthy couple had higher investment income, the tax could rise. But it is calculated by a formula that always compares the net investment income against the modified adjusted gross income and taxes the lower one.

OTHER TAXES In all four situations, the high earners will be paying 17 to 19 percent more in taxes by 2013 than this year. But these are just federal taxes. That does not include state taxes or Social Security contributions, or property and sales taxes.

In New Jersey, for example, the couple in the $500,000 example with $75,000 in investment income would pay $34,535 for a combined state and federal total of $197,420 (if the New Jersey rates remain the same). For the $1 million couple, assuming $150,000 in investment income, the state tax would be $86,112, for a total of $449,347 — or 45 percent of the couple’s income.

“You can’t control this — it’s happening,” Mr. Spada said. “You can control your personal planning.”
697 2010-05-22 Mr. Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, promised a transparent process for reconciling the two bills. “It will be conducted, the formal parts, in public,” he said. “That means that no agreements reached, no compromises which obviously are being discussed, will be made part of anything without being publicly presented and voted on and discussed.”

Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, said in an interview, “The president wants us to get this right and make sure that this is the strongest possible bill, but he wants us to get it done in a responsible way that preserves the right balance.”

Mr. Geithner was part of the meeting at the White House, along with Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council.

In another sign of the unusual political dynamics that have accompanied the monthslong debate over the regulatory overhaul, there were calls from both the left and the right for the conference process to be as open as possible.

“The battle now moves to conference, where the big banks will look to weaken or kill the bill behind closed doors,” said Heather Booth, executive director of Americans for Financial Reform, a coalition of liberal advocacy groups. “We cannot and will not allow this to happen.”

The House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, made a similar point. “This subject is too important and affects too much of our economy to be written in its final stages by a select few Democrats and lobbyists behind closed doors,” he wrote in a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi.

The process of reconciling the legislation will most likely be undertaken with the aim of preserving the fragile coalition that made its passage in the Senate possible.

The House bill would create a freestanding Consumer Financial Protection Agency, financed through a mix of sources, while the Senate version would create a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection within the Federal Reserve, with a director appointed by the president and its budget coming from within the Fed. Momentum appears to be growing for the Senate approach.

The two bills differ on the extent to which the new agency’s rules would override consumer standards promulgated by states, known as pre-emption. Most banks prefer the Senate version, which would allow greater pre-emption in certain instances.

The House bill would exempt auto dealers from the reach of the new consumer agency; the Senate bill would not. President Obama has been outspoken in arguing against the exemption.

The two bills differ on what has become known as the Volcker Rule — a ban on banks making market bets with their own money, as opposed to trading on behalf of their clients.

The House version gives regulators the discretion to crack down on such activity, known as proprietary trading. The Senate version directs regulators to ban such proprietary trading after a period of study.

The Treasury Department largely drafted the Senate version of the Volcker Rule, and is expected to advocate for it.

The bills also differ in their approach to creating a so-called resolution authority, a process for the government to seize and dismantle a systemically important institution in a way that is aimed at preventing financial chaos.

While both bills call for a process modeled on the approach the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation uses to take over failing banks, the House bill calls for huge financial companies to pay into a $150 billion fund. The Senate removed the fund, which had become an object of much contention. Either way, the industry would have to pay the costs of resolution.

In addition, the Senate version makes it clear that a company could not survive the process — that resolution is “hospice, not convalescence,” said John Dearie, executive vice president for policy at the Financial Services Forum, which prefers the Senate approach.

The administration is seeking to remove two requirements in the Senate version: that a failing company must pass through a review by a special panel of bankruptcy judges, and that F.D.I.C. loan guarantees obtain Congressional approval.

The Lincoln provision is expected to draw the most fire in coming weeks. Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, have criticized the provision, asserting that it could destabilize the financial system. Administration officials say that the provision would block derivatives-clearing organizations from receiving liquidity assistance in the event of a crisis, undermining a major aim of the measure.

Mrs. Lincoln has so far stood firm behind her provision, but several observers said its fate would almost certainly not be decided until after June 8, when she faces an aggressive challenger, Bill Halter, in a Democratic primary runoff.

Other substantial differences exist between the two bills.

While both provide for increased oversight of the Fed by the Government Accountability Office, the Senate version would continue to exempt interest rate decisions from scrutiny.

And the Senate version would limit interchange fees, which retailers pay to banks when customers swipe credit or debit cards. The House version does not contain that provision.
698 2010-05-22 DEBIT AND CREDIT CARDS The Senate bill contains an amendment with provisions that could affect how you use your credit card. You have probably encountered those irritating handwritten signs that forbid card use unless you’re spending more than $10 or so, even though stores are generally not supposed to do this. The bill would allow such minimums, as long as stores were not setting minimums for, say, Bank of America’s credit card but not Chase’s. Merchants would also not be allowed to set different credit card spending minimums for, say, a Visa and MasterCard.

However, stores would be able to offer discounts based on what card a customer was using. So someone with an American Express card, which often costs the merchant more than other cards, might pay the full sticker price of an item that costs $100, while Visa and MasterCard holders could get a $1 discount.

The bill specifies that cash discounts are acceptable, as are lower prices for people who use debit cards. The stores could not, however, charge one price for Visa debit cards from one bank and another for Visa debit cards from a different bank.

Why does the bill include this provision? Because it also orders the Federal Reserve to set rules that would lead to lower fees for merchants who accept debit cards. A crucial part of this provision is the fact that merchants would pay those lower fees only to banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Smaller community banks and credit unions would still get the same amount of merchant fee income that they are getting now. That might have led a merchant to accept the less-costly Visa cards while turning away the more expensive ones (or setting minimum purchase amounts for the pricier ones).

You would think that small banks would like having a revenue advantage. They don’t think a two-tier fee system can last, though, and figure that big banks, which produce a large portion of the revenue for Visa and MasterCard, would pressure the two companies into lowering the fees that the small banks would collect as well. So they are lining up with the big banks to oppose the bill and keep the fees intact.

Dan O’Malley, the chief executive of PerkStreet Financial, is trying to build an online banking service around giving customers rewards for using their debit cards. Those merchant fees finance his perks, and if those fees fall, he’s got problems. Most banks would have their own challenges if they were to lose out on a big chunk of fee revenue.

“It becomes a gamble,” Mr. O’Malley said. “Monthly checking account fees will come back. And maybe retail prices will come down, but nobody knows.”

Indeed, the merchants who have been pushing for lower fees for years argue that the reduction would benefit consumers, since they would then pay lower prices.

Somehow I doubt that merchants would throw a parade and immediately cut all prices by half a percentage point on every item on the day this bill goes into effect, if it comes to pass. Maybe prices won’t go up as much as they might have otherwise. But it will be hard for merchants to point to the vague idea of less-steep increases and satisfy angry customers who may suddenly be paying $10 a month for a checking account or earning half as many debit card rewards because their bank can’t afford to be as generous anymore.

“This is an incredible con job,” MasterCard’s general counsel, Noah J. Hanft, said. “Under the guise of helping small business, this is just a shrewd and cynical effort that ultimately harms consumers.”

That is the case he will make to the Congressional panel that will reconcile the two bills. The provisions are not in the House bill, and it’s not clear if House members will be willing to accept any of them.

MORTGAGES The Senate bill outlines three new changes, many of which echo the House bill.

First, mortgage lenders would face restrictions on when they can charge borrowers a penalty for paying off their loan before the term of the mortgage is up. They wouldn’t be able to charge prepayment penalties at all for mortgages that have balloon payments or for those that allow people to make payments so low that the mortgage balance rises instead of falls (so-called negative amortization loans), among others. For more standard plain-vanilla mortgages, prepayment penalties would be allowed only in the first three years.

Second, the bill forbids anyone who sets up mortgages for customers from accepting compensation that would vary depending on the loan type. This is intended to protect consumers from some of the shenanigans that went on several years ago, when banks paid mortgage brokers extra for putting customers in loans with high fees and terrible terms.

Finally, the bill requires banks to consider applicants’ income, assets and credit history before making a loan. How quaint, right? It would be funny if it weren’t so pathetic.

CREDIT SCORES In an issue that is not addressed in the House bill, the Senate bill, through an amendment, requires anyone who uses a credit score as a reason for taking an adverse action against a consumer to give the score to that person free. So if you don’t get the best mortgage, credit card or auto loan interest rate, the lowest insurance premium or the apartment you wanted, you would be able to see the grade that hurt you. Normally, this can cost you about $15.

Lenders or landlords will have to give you the score they used, which will usually be a FICO credit score. I had hoped that Congress would give consumers free credit scores every year to go along with the three free credit reports they can get, but it didn’t happen.

BROKERS AND FIDUCIARY DUTY Senators had no luck inserting an amendment into their bill that would require brokers to act in clients’ best interests. Currently, many of these professionals need only to recommend investments that are suitable. The House bill includes the “best interests” requirement, and if it prevails, many more stockbrokers — and insurance sales representatives pushing certain kinds of expensive annuities — would have to meet a higher standard.

The House’s so-called fiduciary standard has been the subject of debate for a long time, and the insurance industry will fight fiercely in the negotiations to keep it from becoming law.

NEW CONSUMER AGENCY Both bills call for the creation of a consumer protection agency. The agency would oversee many consumer loans and work to make the products more transparent.

It’s hard to predict exactly how much power the agency will ultimately have and how aggressive it will be as it tries to set new rules. At the very least, it will give consumers someplace else to go when things go awry.

Lest we forget, the whole point of this bill is to prevent something like what went on in the latter half of the last decade from ever happening again. Perhaps the new cops on the beat will sound the alarms sooner when we inevitably go off the rails again in the years to come.
699 2010-05-22 Rezai has much more in common with Pierce than Mauresmo. Like Pierce, she is a flat-hitting baseliner with huge power and is from a multicultural background. The French-born child of Iranian immigrants, Rezai has dual French and Iranian nationality and grew up speaking Persian at home in the city of Saint-Étienne in southeastern France. She is well known in Iran and has twice represented the country in the quadrennial Women’s Islamic Games, winning the gold medal in singles in 2001 and 2005.

She assiduously avoided discussing politics or religion on Thursday. “I respect both countries,” she said. “In my heart I keep both of them and that’s what makes me who I am.”

But Rezai has not always remained apolitical. She was featured in a promotional video in Iran for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad before the controversial presidential election last year. It was merely a quick television interview after meeting the president in Tehran and presenting him with tennis rackets. But her expression of support for Ahmadinejad, whose victory led to violent protests, has drawn virulent criticism in some Iranian circles and chat rooms.

Also like Pierce, Rezai’s path to success has been made more arduous because of tension generated by a temperamental father. Rezai’s father, Arsalan, has clashed regularly with French tennis officials and occasionally other parents as he attempted to further his daughter’s career.

Arsalan decided that he would be the father of tennis champions after watching Yannick Noah’s emotional victory at the 1983 French Open, when Noah bounded into his father’s arms during the celebration. Arsalan’s first project was his son and oldest child, who became a promising junior but never made the leap to the elite level. It would be up to Aravane, and though Arsalan lacked formal tennis training and only began playing sporadically as an adult, he remained her primary coach and was admittedly a hard-driving one.

“I had lots of problems to train this girl: lack of money and lack of courts,” Arsalan said on Thursday. “There were neighbors who bothered us. They accused me, saying that this man was killing this child. But today she’s not dead. She’s happy.”

It has, nonetheless, been a demanding journey. The Rezais regularly slept in the family van at tournament sites to save money on hotels and, with no money for indoor court time and no access to courts with lights, Aravane sometimes practiced outside at night in the winter on a court lit by car headlights.

“I had really difficult moments, lots of sacrifices,” Aravane said, “playing outside in the rain and snow. I don’t think other people’s path is the same as mine. Of course that gives me strength. When I was in Madrid, on my match point, all this came into my head like a movie.”

The movie is, of course, still running. Her father has planned for her to reach No. 1 in the world since she began playing at age 7, which is one of the reasons he always emphasized power over control.

Aravane still hits phenomenally hard, possessing a particularly devastating two-handed backhand. But Rezai and her new coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, insist that they have added tactical elements to her game since they began working together in November (with Arsalan still part of the team). They also have improved her serve and fitness. She is noticeably slimmer than she was a year ago and more mobile, too.

The family’s relations with authority have improved, too, with a change of regime in the French federation, and Rezai represented France’s Fed Cup team for the first time this year. But leading France in Fed Cup is not nearly as high-profile as leading France at Roland Garros. Not that Aravane sounds daunted. “I’m happy I won in Madrid, but I didn’t achieve my goal in Madrid,” she said. “I want to go as far and as high as possible.”
700 2010-05-22 JORDAN--Emily Mae, age 31, died on May 18, 2010. Beloved daughter of James and Mary Ann Jordan, loving sister of Sara Jordan and Neill Jordan, dear sister-in-law of Jeffrey Altman, also survived by many aunts, uncles, cousins and dear friends. Stu...
701 2010-05-23 Why not spend more than $100 million on art, especially if it’s a Picasso?...
702 2010-05-23 Credit: Pieter Bauermeister for The New York Times
703 2010-05-23 Which bands would you pay V.I.P. prices to see and why?...
704 2010-05-23 The tiny Villa D'Auteuil, favored by journalists and other rank-and-file workers at the French Open, will be sold at the end of the year....
705 2010-05-23 Financial lobbyists and incumbents on alert....
706 2010-05-23 Landis, who was stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title for doping, did not talk to reporters Saturday. His security guards and a beefy bodyguard made sure of that.

But some of the people he has accused of doping were not silent.

“He’s here, really?” Zabriskie said sarcastically after he finished third in the time trial, 27 seconds back. “Tell him I said hi. How’s he doing?”

Another person Landis has accused of being involved in doping — Jim Ochowicz, the Team BMC Racing president — had heard that Landis might be at Stage 7 on Saturday.

“Everybody’s free to do whatever they want; it’s a free country,” Ochowicz, a former top USA Cycling official, said of Landis’s attendance. “I haven’t had contact with Floyd in a long time. I feel sorry for him.”

Ochowicz said that none of Landis’s allegations were true and that he did not know why Landis would make them.

He added that he “couldn’t say” if he had been contacted by antidoping officials or federal agents involved in an investigation of doping in cycling — an investigation Landis is cooperating with. But Ochowicz called those investigations unsettling.

“Anybody would be nervous about something like that,” he said.

Team HTC-Columbia’s Tony Martin, a 25-year-old German, won the time trial on a route with bumps, rough surfaces and shifting wind. His teammate Michael Rogers was second, 22 seconds back. Rogers, of Australia, remained in the leader’s yellow jersey, nine seconds ahead of Zabriskie, with one stage to go.

Leipheimer is third over all, 25 seconds out of first. After years of dominating this race, he was dejected after finishing fourth in the time trial. That effort could have put his fourth consecutive Tour of California victory out of reach.

“Of course, if I come to the Tour of California, if I don’t win, I lose,” said Leipheimer, who added that he had “nothing to say” about Landis being at the race. “Dave and Mick were just a fraction better than me all week.”

Rogers, one of the few top riders here not implicated by Landis, said he was hopeful of keeping his lead on the final day, an 83-mile circuit race north of this city.

“We’re really excited and we think we can do it,” Rogers said of his potential victory on Sunday, which would be the biggest win of his career.

At one time, winning the Tour of California was a huge victory for Landis, too. In 2006, a year after Armstrong went into a three-and-a-half-year retirement, Landis was labeled the next great American rider. Back then, he had a lot of friends in the sport.

“At one point or another, all of us implicated have cared about Floyd,” Armstrong said before Thursday’s stage, during which he crashed and abandoned the event. “We might have been on different teams or from different backgrounds in our lives, but at some point or another, we shared the bond that we all gave Floyd a ladder. When he dug himself in a hole, we gave him a ladder to dig out of. Now people aren’t throwing ladders at him anymore.”

Landis’s personal doctor, Brent Kay of OUCH Sports Medical Center, is still willing to do that. He was by Landis’s side the day Landis tested positive for synthetic testosterone at the Tour de France. And he remained at Landis’s side, although a series of e-mail messages posted on the RadioShack Web site last week left him feeling embarrassed.

In those messages, some of which were from Kay to Armstrong and a Tour of California race official, Kay wrote that he still believed that Landis had never doped. He was asking for Landis and the team to be included in this race.

But halfway through the Tour of California, Landis admitted to doping, shocking those who had long believed in him.

For Kay, it was just a hiccup in their relationship. He invited Landis to attend Saturday’s stage as a guest of a fund-raising event he was hosting, and he shooed some reporters away from Landis.

Before that event, Kay spoke briefly to reporters standing just outside metal barricades hastily erected around the area.

“I’m not going away; I’m supporting him as a physician,” Kay said of Landis, adding that he believed that Landis told the truth when he said that others in the sport had doped.

But he could not explain why he was supporting Landis. He said, “I just do.”
707 2010-05-23 ShoreBank has become a potent political symbol, in part because for years the bank has drawn the attention of those who saw in its success a way to meld a social mission with a profit-making purpose. Those seeking to find lessons in ShoreBank’s near-collapse say it stumbled for the simplest of reasons: It grew too fast, and stayed true to its mission at the expense of its bottom line.

“It was the desire to expand that got them into trouble,” said Richard Taub, a University of Chicago professor who advised ShoreBank’s board of directors for nearly 30 years.

A bank spokesman declined comment, and executives did not return phone calls.

ShoreBank emerged on the national scene in 1973 when local investors paid $3.2 million to buy the former South Shore National Bank, which had threatened to leave Chicago’s South Side as its white population fled the racially changing area. ShoreBank grew steadily by practicing a sort of financial alchemy: lending in poverty-stricken urban neighborhoods where most commercial banks feared to tread.

By 1987, ShoreBank was expanding to Arkansas. It later began lending in Michigan’s economically battered Upper Peninsula. Over time, it opened small-business loan programs in Poland, Bulgaria and Russia and attracted support from the Ford and MacArthur foundations. (The MacArthur Foundation has provided a grant to the Chicago News Cooperative.)

The bank’s model of socially responsible lending relied on an ability to turn people with poor credit histories into profitable clients by offering care and attention to each loan. Over time, the bank began claiming it delivered a “triple bottom line” — earning a profit, creating jobs in at-risk urban neighborhoods and improving the environment in areas like the Pacific Northwest, where ShoreBank backed “green” investment.

It took ShoreBank until 2000 to accumulate $1 billion in loans. With the new decade and century came a growth drive that was symptomatic of the hard-charging economic times — and ultimately disastrous to ShoreBank’s bottom line. The bank doubled its loan portfolio in four years.

From 2005 to 2007, the bank’s assets grew more than 30 percent, to $2.2 billion. And when Joseph Hasten, a new chief executive, came on board in early 2007, he vowed to quintuple ShoreBank’s lending over the next six years.

But the bank had moved into two of the nation’s toughest markets, Detroit and Cleveland, with troublesome results. The Detroit operation, in particular, became the source of management headaches and steep loan losses. At the same time, ShoreBank was reluctant to foreclosure on delinquent loans.

By the time Mr. Hasten resigned under fire in 2009, the bank was operating under a cease-and-desist order from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The bank’s founders, Ronald Grzywinski and Mary Houghton, initially set out last summer to raise $50 million in new capital to forestall an F.D.I.C. takeover or liquidation, but by the time a deal took shape last week, the bank was in need of $220 million in private and federal funds.

“The question comes up, was this bank managed as well as it could have been?” said Bert Ely, head of Ely & Co., a bank consultancy based in Alexandria, Va. “Or were they too much into the social-welfare thing?”

A look at ShoreBank’s financial statements over the last five years shows how the bank’s social mission may have led to practices that put off tough decisions and placed the entire operation at risk.

At the end of 2006, ShoreBank had a nearly pristine balance sheet. The $2-billion-asset bank had placed only $22 million in loans on non-accrual status — indicating that no interest or principal had been paid for at least 90 days. The current figure is more than 10 times that, $250.7 million in non-accruing loans at the end of March.

Despite the deterioration in loan quality, ShoreBank’s financial reports indicate the bank steadfastly sought to avoid loan foreclosures. It held only about $2.5 million in real estate obtained via foreclosure at the end of March.

Banks that allow non-performing loans to stay on their books must finance their operations somehow, and beginning in 2006 ShoreBank moved aggressively into brokered deposits — fast-moving money that ricochets from bank to bank, chasing high interest rates paid for deposits. Brokered deposits raise a bank’s cost of funds and bring instability to operations.

Over three years ending in 2007, ShoreBank’s brokered deposits rose nearly 40 percent, accounting for 30 percent of deposits. At the time, banks in ShoreBank’s peer group obtained only 6 percent of their total deposits from brokers. Of the banks that failed that year, brokered deposits amounted to 25 percent of their total deposits on average — far less than the percentage held by ShoreBank.

Its financial profile was alarming: Total risk-based capital — an important measure of a bank’s health — had fallen from a strong 11 percent of assets at the end of 2006 to barely above 3 percent, a measure considered dangerous.

Mr. Taub, the longtime board adviser, said ShoreBank suffered from an overly zealous commitment to its original mission and a lack of scrutiny by the bank’s board of directors.

“The general mood of the board has been acquiescence,” he said. “It’s very hard when you’ve been on a board a long time to intervene and say, ‘Hey, this is a bad idea.’ ”
708 2010-05-23 The biggest flash point for many Wall Street firms is the tough restrictions on the trading of derivatives imposed in the Senate bill approved Thursday night. Derivatives are securities whose value is based on the price of other assets like corn, soybeans or company stock.

The financial industry was confident that a provision that would force banks to spin off their derivatives businesses would be stripped out, but in the final rush to pass the bill, that did not happen.

The opposition comes not just from the financial industry. The chairman of the Federal Reserve and other senior banking regulators opposed the provision, and top Obama administration officials have said they would continue to push for it to be removed.

And Wall Street lobbyists are mounting an 11th-hour effort to remove it when House and Senate conferees begin meeting, perhaps this week, to reconcile their two bills. Lobbyists say they are already considering the possible makeup of the conference panel to focus on office visits and potential fund-raising.

The House’s version of the bill does not include the tougher derivatives ban, and Wall Street lobbyists said one chief target would be Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who leads the Financial Services Committee and shepherded the House bill. Others include Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, the Pennsylvania Democrat with a senior role on the House financial services panel, and Representative Collin C. Peterson, Democrat of Minnesota, who leads the House Agriculture Committee, which has jurisdiction over futures contracts and derivatives.

“This is not the end of the process,” said David Hirschmann, senior vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, which has spent more than $3 million to lobby against parts of the bill.

He said the chamber planned to keep fighting for a loosening of the regulatory restrictions — first in the House-Senate conference, then in the implementation phase after final passage of a bill, and “if all else fails,” in court.

Scott Talbott, a senior executive at the Financial Services Roundtable, a lobbying group that represents about 100 of the largest financial companies, said his group had already begun meeting with House members it believes will be important in getting the derivatives restrictions stripped from the Senate bill.

While the industry’s objections are widely known this late in the debate, Mr. Talbott said that the way to press the case was to meet with lawmakers and their aides as often as they could.

“There’s no substitute for old-fashioned gumshoe lobbying,” Mr. Talbott said. “The staff here knows it. We offer to resole their shoes when they wear them out.”

Along with the aggressive lobbying, of course, comes general political support from the industry, and political consultants and campaign strategists said the recent strain in relations between Wall Street and Congress had not slowed the flood of money yet.

A few lawmakers have indicated that they will curtail fund-raising from Wall Street firms in the regulatory debate because of fears of a possible conflict. For instance, Senator Blanche Lincoln, the Arkansas Democrat who has led the push to restrict banks from trading in derivatives, said after the Securities and Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs that she would no longer take contributions from the firm and scrapped a possible fund-raiser with it.

Members of the House and Senate financial committees have been frequent recipients of Wall Street’s largess, and as the three fund-raisers last Wednesday for financial service members indicated, that trend shows little sign of abating.

So far in the 2010 election cycle, members of the financial committees have far outpaced those of other committees in fund-raising parties by holding 845 events, according to the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington nonprofit group that tracks fund-raisers.

Asked about the Nationals Park fund-raiser, Mr. King, who voted against the toughened regulations passed by the House and who for years has received significant contributions from the financial industry, said through a spokesman: “Judge me by my record. I am proud of my integrity.” While the list of attendees at last week’s fund-raisers are not yet publicly available, the spokesman for Mr. King said that 3 of the 20 tickets sold were “associated with Wall Street.”

Representatives Scott and Capuano did not respond through their aides to requests for comment.

The money from the financial sector goes not only to high-profile leaders of the financial committees — like Mr. Frank in the House and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who sponsored the bill in the Senate, or Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the leading Republican on the banking committee — but also to less-prominent committee members who may ultimately play a role in important votes, according to a new analysis provided to The New York Times by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonpartisan group.

The group’s analysis found that the 14 freshmen who serve on the House Financial Services Committee raised 56 percent more in campaign contributions than other freshmen. And most freshmen on the panel, the analysis found, are now in competitive re-election fights.

“It’s definitely not accidental,” said Melanie Sloan, the director of the ethics group. “It appears that Congressional leaders are deliberately placing vulnerable freshmen on the Financial Services Committee to increase their ability to raise money.”

Take Representative John Adler, Democrat of New Jersey. Mr. Adler is a freshman in Congress with no real national profile, yet he has managed to raise more than $2 million for his re-election, the analysis found.

That is due in large part, political analysts say, to his spot on the Financial Services Committee. (Securities and investment firms and insurers were among his biggest contributors, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit research group in Washington.)

Mr. Adler’s campaign says the Wall Street money has never influenced his votes, and aides point to his stance in supporting legislation generally opposed by the financial industry. “No one has a better record of standing up for taxpayers and consumers,” said Geoff Mackler, his campaign manager.

But Mr. Adler’s likely Republican opponent, Jon Runyan, has seized on the contributions from financial firms as evidence of what he calls “shameless hypocrisy” by Mr. Adler in his dealings with Wall Street.

“He’s bashing them for their practices while taking money from them,” Mr. Runyan said in an interview. “He’s playing both sides. That may be business as usual in D.C., but to the average person, it doesn’t smell right.”
709 2010-05-23 MY great-grandfather moved from Jerusalem to Colombia at age 20 because he heard there were business opportunities there. He went from town to town selling textiles on horseback although he didn’t speak a word of Spanish.

When I was about 6, I had a watch that had a game on it. I loaned it to a classmate on weekends, and he gave me money in exchange. One weekend my mom me asked where my watch was. When I told her, she called the boy’s mother to apologize and made me return all the money. My father was proud. He said I invented renting.

It was a dangerous time in Colombia in the 1980s. Every time the government would pursue the drug dealers, they’d retaliate and bomb government buildings and public places. We’d hear the popping sounds at school. My dad owned a factory that made leather goods, and when I was 9 we were glad to live in the United States for six months while he opened a distribution center in Florida.

I moved back to the United States in 1994, and in 1998, I graduated from Babson College in Massachusetts with a B.A. in finance and information systems. Working as a management consultant for a while, I analyzed call centers for a bank to determine the effectiveness of its TV advertising. It was boring, but I learned about direct response marketing, which would come in handy later.

When I went home to Colombia to visit, my mother would rave about a fitness class she was taking with Alberto Perez, whom everyone calls Beto, that involved a dance routine set to Latin and international music.

In 1999, I created a business conference called Latin Venture with a partner, where Latin American entrepreneurs presented their business plans. I got companies like I.B.M. and Telefónica to sponsor it, and I lined up venture capitalists as speakers and panelists. We held the conference in Miami.

Then three partners and I created Spydre Labs, a business incubator for Latin American entrepreneurs with ideas for Internet businesses. We raised several million dollars and invested in the start-ups we created.

Then the tech bubble burst, funding dried up, and I had to let everyone go. I decided to return what remained of the investors’ money because my father always taught me that if you’re honest and respectful, it will come back to you tenfold.

My parents had moved to Miami by then, and I had dinner at their house that night. My mother suggested that I talk to Beto about starting a business related to his fitness routine. He had also moved to Florida and was giving fitness classes here.

He and I met and discovered that neither of us had any money. We decided to start a company anyway, and I asked Alberto Aghion, one of my best friends from childhood, to join us. We wanted to sell home fitness videos directly to consumers, so one night we set up on the beach and had a videographer film a fitness class. We started looking for joint venture partners for producing videos we could market on television.

Along with a TV infomercial, the home videos introduced our concept to the public, and when people called wanting to be trained as instructors, the company took off. Zumba Fitness is now in about 50,000 locations in 75 countries. This year we’re introducing a game for Nintendo Wii, Xbox and PlayStation.

I’ve learned that if you don’t take a risk, that’s a risk in itself. I’ve also learned that your customers are your boss. Our main customers are our instructors, who pay for training. They have their own community on our site, and I listen carefully when they tell me what we need to do in the future.
710 2010-05-23 PaperG’s program is up and running on 32 local media Web sites, including Time Out New York and Time Out Chicago, and on 29 network TV affiliates owned or managed by Hearst Television, said PaperG’s chief operating officer, Roger Lee. The company has also signed up the McClatchy newspaper chain and will soon be on some of its Web sites, he said.

Sales representatives at the media companies who have signed up with PaperG often use PlaceLocal to build sample ads they show to small businesses, said Mr. Wong. Pricing, typically a flat monthly fee, is set by the media company and varies from about $150 a month to $500 or more, based primarily on how many times the ad is shown. PaperG takes a percentage of this fee, he said. In the future, small businesses will also be able to create their ads by going directly to the PaperG Web site, Mr. Lee said.

Shaina Park, a sales representative at Time Out New York who handles Web and print advertising by local bars and restaurants, is using PlaceLocal to sell ads. “Instead of sending customers a rate card, I send them an ad that the program has built,” she said. “It’s easier to sell ads if customers have an example in front of them.”

Because the program creates an ad in moments, it saves the time of people on the Web site who might normally need to build the ad themselves, or work with the customer to build one. That can translate into lower charges, Ms. Park said.

Normally Time Out New York requires companies to submit their own ads that adhere to the specifications of the site. “Images have to be a certain size and a certain format,” she said. “But often local clients don’t have those at their disposal.” She hopes that the instant ads and lower prices will bring in new small businesses that have been put off by the difficulties of advertising. “The program makes the ads much more accessible to local clients with smaller budgets,” she said.

The program can pan over photographs in the ad, zooming in to show off images of a restaurant or real estate listing, Mr. Wong said. Even if the business has no Web site, the program can usually turn up a wealth of information on it to include in the ad. “For a lawyer, we might find information in the yellow pages or on a Web site that rates and reviews lawyers,” he said. For a local company that bakes dog biscuits, the program might find comments from pleased shoppers that have appeared online, rotating different quotes in the ads as they run.

Gaby Benalil, who lives in Albuquerque, recently signed up at the Web site of a local TV station, KOAT, to advertise her new business offering cello and vocal performance lessons. “I’m just starting out,” she said, “and I don’t have much of a budget to invest in advertising.” PlaceLocal created the ad for Vocello Music Lessons that will run on the KOAT’s Web site. It will cost $200 for its six-week run, she said.

PaperG has raised over a million dollars from, among others, Brian O’Kelley, chief executive of AppNexus, an advertising technology company.

COMPUTERS are not only creating ads; they are also adding new information to them automatically. The Web site TheDigitel Charleston is offering advertisers a free updating service, said Ken Hawkins, editor. “People typically put in an ad and then don’t change it. But messages can get stale very quickly,” he said. If a customer, like a pizza shop, decides to run a special, the customer can send the revision from a blog or Facebook page, or from Twitter.

Ads that are easily updated this way will have an advantage, Mr. Rothenberg said. “It’s really important on the local ad level to make the whole process simple,” he added. “The dry cleaners, the grocery — they want the process to be easy and visible.”
711 2010-05-23 As American fans of the best-selling Swedish crime novelist Stieg Larsson await the release on Tuesday of the third book in his Millennium trilogy, they might want to catch up on the bloodline of his fiercely unconventional and darkly kooky antiheroine — the girl with the dragon tattoo, the girl who played with fire and the girl who kicked the hornet’s nest.

They need only read the tales of Pippi Longstocking — the fiercely independent and cheerfully kooky 9-year-old who has been a soul mate to generations of children longing to color outside the lines.

An old colleague of Mr. Larsson’s has said they once talked about how certain characters from children’s books would manage and behave if they were older. Mr. Larsson especially liked the idea of a grown-up Pippi, a dysfunctional girl, probably with attention deficit disorder, who would have had a hard time finding a place in society but would nonetheless take a firm hand in directing her own destiny. That musing led to the creation of Lisbeth Salander, the central character in Mr. Larsson’s trilogy. So how does Lisbeth compare to Pippi, the creation of the earlier Swedish author Astrid Lindgren?

SINGULAR BEGINNINGS Pippi first appeared in 1945, living all alone except for a horse (on the porch) and a monkey (usually on her shoulder). Her mother is dead. Pippi eats pancakes, drinks lots of coffee — sometimes while up in a tree — and goes to school when she feels so moved. Though courageous and loyal, probably not a role model. In the first Larsson book, Lisbeth’s mother is in a nursing home, her father has disappeared and she’s on her own. She eats Billy’s Pan Pizza, drinks a lot of coffee — sometimes while hacking computers — was bullied at school and never finished. Also courageous and loyal, but definitely not a role model.

ODD LOOKS Neither should be judged at first glance. This is how Pippi appeared to her young neighbors: “Her hair, the color of a carrot, was braided in two tight braids that stuck straight out.” Her dress was “rather unusual.” In part this was because “on her long thin legs she wore a pair of long stockings, one brown and the other black.” Lisbeth is tattooed and nose-ringed, with inky hair. Though in her mid-20s, she is a “doll-like” woman, with “delicate limbs, small hands and hardly any hips,” looking as if she “had just emerged from a weeklong orgy with a gang of hard rockers.”

AWESOME SKILLS Pippi “was so very strong that in the whole wide world there was not a single police officer as strong as she. Why, she could lift a whole horse if she wanted to! And she wanted to.” Lisbeth is pretty strong herself. In one of her defining confrontations, she is pitted against two creepy bikers. “The situation was ridiculous. There stood a skinny girl who could fit into his breast pocket getting cheeky with two fully grown men.” Lisbeth employs some Mace and a pistol, and then “the toe of her boot shot up with full force and was transformed into kinetic energy in his crotch with a pressure of about 1,700 pounds per square inch.”
712 2010-05-23 PITTSBURGH (AP) — The Steelers find themselves in an unprecedented situation, preparing for a season that will open without their suspended star, Ben Roethlisberger. If that were their only problem, perhaps the Steelers’ off-season would not seem so hectic, unsettled or disrupted, but it is not.

There are numerous concerns on both sides of the ball as the Steelers go through a month’s worth of spring practices, and not all of them are likely to be resolved by the time training camp arrives. Or when the season starts, either. Or by the return of Roethlisberger from a six-game suspension that has disturbed nearly every aspect of the Steelers’ preparation.

They are auditioning three quarterbacks for a starting job at a time when nearly every N.F.L. team has that settled. Receivers are not working with the man who will throw them the ball most of the time.

Santonio Holmes’s departure thinned the Steelers’ depth at wide receiver and eliminated their most productive downfield threat. Mike Wallace was an effective No. 3 receiver as a rookie and significantly improved the Steelers’ speed. But as Hines Ward said, there is a big difference trying to get open on every down — as Wallace now must do — as opposed to doing so once or twice a series.

“We’ve got plenty of time for that to sort itself out,” Coach Mike Tomlin said.

Willie Parker, a three-time 1,000-yard running back, is gone, too, though injuries cost him the starting job last season.
713 2010-05-23 And when Mr. Paul gave his victory speech, he aimed a barb at Congressional Republicans that struck pretty close to Mr. McConnell, a proud proponent of steering federal dollars to his state for local projects.

“So many Republicans have been elected and they say, ‘We’ll cut your but then we’ll bring you home the pork,’ ” Mr. Paul said disdainfully. “It’s coming to an end because we can’t manage this debt.”

Mr. McConnell has not had much to say about the election, though he issued a statement congratulating Mr. Paul on running an outstanding campaign that “clearly struck a chord” with the Kentucky Republican electorate. And the two headed for a weekend unity rally.

Mr. Paul’s win in Kentucky does not appear to be translating into any loss for Mr. McConnell on Capitol Hill. Many Republican senators, even some who have had occasionally strained relations with him, say Mr. McConnell has performed well in a tough environment, stands to gain seats in the election and will almost certainly be returned as leader — majority leader, they hope.

“The message of Rand Paul resonated, but it doesn’t change anybody’s view up here of Mitch McConnell,” said Senator , Republican of . “The people of our caucus want him leading. He has my confidence. I think he has the confidence of the conference. He has done a good job with 41 people.”

“I think he is pretty secure,” agreed Senator , Republican of .

“He has done a good job,” said Senator , Republican of .

Other Republicans say Mr. McConnell benefits from various factors.

A chief potential rival, Senator of South Carolina, endorsed Mr. Paul but said he supported Mr. McConnell for leader. Even if Mr. DeMint were to have a change of heart, he would encounter some difficulty in taking on the incumbent, since he brazenly backed a challenger to Mr. Bennett — a clear violation of the unwritten rules of the clubby Senate. Some fellow Republicans would no doubt hold that against him.

In the wake of the uproar surrounding Mr. Paul’s view of civil rights laws, some in the Senate have suggested that they now understand why the Republican leader was in no hurry to get on the Paul bandwagon even if his own candidate was drubbed.

Few established politicians have not seen an endorsement backfire — both Senator and the late aggressively endorsed in the presidential campaign only to watch him lose in the presidential primary to . Aides to Mr. McConnell noted that polls in Kentucky showed that Paul voters also overwhelmingly had a favorable view of Mr. McConnell.

Of course, those are not the only reasons Mr. McConnell could remain at the top. Being a Congressional leader is not always the most attractive job, devoting hours to listening to colleagues and coaxing them along on the issues.

And it won’t get any easier.

After the November elections, Senate Republicans could consist of a collection of lawmakers that includes not only Mr. Paul and a new Utah senator who figured Mr. Bennett was too liberal, but also the moderate of , who would be aligned with the like-minded Republicans of , Senators and Olympia Snowe.

“We will have people who are both more conservative and more liberal than any Republican senator today,” said Senator of , the No. 2 Republican. “It will be interesting.”

And according to Mitch McConnell’s whip count, he will be the one in charge.
714 2010-05-23 Only 8 of the 160 passengers and 6 crew members survived, according to the airline, which is owned and operated by the Indian government.

“As soon as we landed, the tire burst,” one of the survivors told a local television crew from his hospital bed. “Within three seconds there was a fire blast. The inside was filled with smoke.” He said he escaped through a crack in the fuselage.

The accident focused attention on India’s booming but troubled aviation industry, one that reflects the contradictions of a nation with one of the world’s fastest-growing economies but where electricity is irregular and clean water scarce, and many people struggle to survive on less than a dollar a day.

Start-up commercial airlines have grown exponentially here in recent years. The number of domestic air passengers has tripled in the last five years, and the number of international passengers traveling to and from the country has doubled.

But infrastructure and safety have not kept pace, Mr. Kaul said. Industry and government must make a “quantum leap” to catch up on safety and training, he said.

Many airlines, including Air India, are losing hundreds of millions of dollars. In New Delhi, where the government is building a new 42-acre terminal, power failures sometimes shut down runway lights and air traffic control equipment.

Although India has had few major accidents in recent years — the last major crash was in 2000 — the number of near collisions and other safety problems has been increasing. Last year, for instance, there were three near-miss collisions at the airport in Mumbai, India’s commercial capital. In New Delhi, several people were killed in 2008 by vehicles on the tarmac.

Mangalore, in the Western Ghats, or hills, region, has other limitations imposed by geography. Just a week ago, Mr. Patel, the aviation minister, inaugurated a new terminal there, promising that work to extend the runway would start soon.

On Saturday, he denied that poor planning was a factor in the accident. He said that an older runway at the airport was “even smaller,” and that there had been no accidents on it.

The newer runway, while shorter than those in other major Indian airports, is more than adequate for landing a Boeing 737, aviation experts said.

But critics said it was neither long enough nor wide enough to allow room for such a large jet to compensate for error. Environment Support Group, one of several groups that sued twice to stop the airport’s expansion, said the new runway did not comply with existing Indian laws or international standards.

The lawsuits also said the site was unsuitable for heavy commercial traffic because it was on a plateau, surrounded by industrial smokestacks and garbage dumps that attracted birds, and it would be impossible for emergency crews to reach airplanes that crashed off the plateau quickly enough to rescue passengers.

The High Court dismissed the suits, and the Supreme Court dismissed an appeal in 2003.

The crash on Saturday, the Environment Support Group said in a statement, was “no accident, but a direct result of the series of deliberate failures of officials and key decision makers.”

But it remained unclear to what extent the accident may have been related to the wider problems across India’s aviation industry.

“This particular incident appears like a pilot error, and therefore it can happen anywhere,” said Sanat Kaul, a former aviation official who also once was on Air India’s board of directors. “Aviation safety is a bigger issue, and it shouldn’t be mixed up with a crash like this.”

The pilot, identified by The Associated Press as Zlatko Glusica, 55, a British citizen of Serbian origin, had landed the same aircraft in Mangalore 19 times before. He had 7,500 hours of flying experience, including 3,500 on this type of plane, Mr. Kaul said.

In addition, aviation officials said that the weather was clear. And the plane, a Boeing 737-800, was relatively new, having made its first flight in December 2007, according to the Aviation Safety Network. The 737-800 has been involved in five fatal accidents since entering service in 1998.

But investigators were still trying to determine what factors may have led to the error and caused it to be so devastating.

Experts say India has been lax in training aviation specialists, including air traffic controllers, maintenance engineers, pilots and regulators. Mr. Kaul estimates that just 10 percent of the industry staff members trained at local schools are qualified to do their jobs.

A 2006 audit by the International Civil Aviation Organization found hundreds of safety violations, and scored India worst on “technical personnel qualification and training.”

Inadequate pilot training has bedeviled the aviation industry, especially as it has expanded. Many airlines have hired foreign pilots because demand for air travel was outstripping the pace at which India could mint new pilots.

The industry employs about 600 expatriate pilots, but the government has ordered airlines to replace them with Indians by next summer, raising concerns about how the country will be able to produce enough qualified pilots so quickly.

India requires 200 hours of flying time and a high school diploma to co-pilot a passenger airline, compared with 250 hours required by the American Federal Aviation Administration. But many American airlines have minimum requirements of 1,000 hours or more, according to the F.A.A.'s web site.

Pilots here said that even that minimum was often skirted.

“A lot of people I graduated with, if I knew they were flying a plane I wouldn’t get on it,” said one new commercial pilot in New Delhi who did not want to be quoted by name criticizing his peers.

“Basically you pay the flight schools a lot of money” and in return they give you a license, he said. Trainee pilots sometimes pay others to fly the required hours on their behalf.

Pilots say that Air India has a reputation for paying well and not requiring long hours, but that the planes often have technical problems. The company’s engineers often find loopholes to clear planes to fly, said one commercial pilot who flies for another airline.

The aviation industry has also been plagued by a shortage of qualified safety inspectors.

In April 2008, the director general of civil aviation, Kanu Gohain, told the business newspaper Mint that India had just 3 inspectors for 10 commercial airlines and 600 planes, well below global norms.

While the government has since been able to raise the number — by hiring 14 permanent inspectors and borrowing another 14 from commercial airlines — Mr. Ranganathan says many are inadequately trained.

Moreover, lapsed inspections over the last few years have left a backlog that may take years to eliminate, he added.

“If you look from 2004 to 2009, they were just very few safety audits done,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’s only in the last year that things were done. We are paying for that.”
715 2010-05-23 Ysern said relocation would cost an estimated 600 million euros ($755 million), to be borrowed from commercial banks. The federation is a nonprofit organization with about 1.5 million tennis license-holders.

Its officers argue that Roland Garros’s 19.8 acres, smallest of the four major international championship sites, must be expanded to avoid potential loss of fan and player interest caused by cramped facilities.

According to federation estimates, the sites for Wimbledon and the Australian Open cover nearly 50 acres each. The site for the United States Open is listed as 34.5 acres.

If it was forced to abandon a place in the Bois de Boulogne, where it built five courts in 1928 for its Davis Cup match against the United States, it would be heartbreaking, a statement by Jean Gachassin, the federation president, said, “but it is an option we cannot rule out.”

A second potential destination covers 148 acres in Versailles, where the French army is vacating a military base next month. The third site under study, Ysern said, is smaller, 74 acres, in an area northeast of Paris called Gonesse.

At whatever site is selected, they said, they planned to build a vast headquarters and French Open facility composed of 55 clay courts, including two large outdoor courts with retractable roofs holding 18,000 and 12,000 spectators.

Marshalling illustrated maps, architects’ sketches and charts in an elaborate big-screen presentation to reporters, the federation sought to dramatize its effort as a serious, high-stakes endeavor.

Officials said they plan to narrow their three relocation choices to a single “challenge” site that would compete for acceptance with a modernization of the existing Roland Garros facility. They said they hope to make a decision by early next year.

“We want to be the most beautiful tournament in the world,” Ysern said. “We want Roland Garros to be the strongest tournament in the world.”

A TITLE FOR SHARAPOVA Maria Sharapova won her 22nd title by beating Kristina Barrois of Germany, 7-5, 6-1, at the Strasbourg International in France. The top-seeded Sharapova was trailing, 5-3, but she won seven straight games to take the first set.

Sharapova is looking to get back to her best after recovering from a right elbow injury. Barrois was playing her first final on the WTA Tour. (AP) GASQUET WINS IN NICE France’s Richard Gasquet won the Nice Open when he beat the Spaniard Fernando Verdasco, 6-3, 5-7, 7-6, in the final.

Gasquet was trailing in the deciding set, 3-0, but fought back to win the tie breaker, 7-5. (AP)
716 2010-05-23 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo announced his candidacy for governor on Saturday, saying he was seeking not only to lead New York but to remake a state mired in political scandal and paralyzed by financial crisis.

In a direct confrontation with a Legislature controlled by his own party, Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said he would pressure lawmakers this fall to state publicly whether they would embrace essential ethics changes, including disclosing their outside income, ceding control of redistricting to an independent panel and submitting to an outside ethics monitor.

Appearing in front of the former Manhattan courthouse named for Boss Tweed, the corrupt political boss of Tammany Hall, Mr. Cuomo told a crowd of supporters: “Unfortunately, Albany’s antics today could make Boss Tweed blush. Our message today is simple. Enough is enough.”

The approach underscores Mr. Cuomo’s determination to avoid the fate of the current governor, David A. Paterson, and the previous one, Eliot Spitzer, who both promised change but were quickly stymied by an obstinate Legislature, and later fell victim to their own scandals.

In a year in which incumbents everywhere are under attack, Mr. Cuomo is trying to run against Albany, which could be difficult to sell, given his history. He is the son of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, for whom he served as political director, and he has deep connections in state and national politics.

But Andrew Cuomo is hoping to exploit his broad popularity and his status as the overwhelming favorite in the governor’s race to begin overhauling the state before next year.

His words could be a jolt to rank-and-file Democrats, who consider him a savior capable of restoring their party after several years of embarrassment and disappointment.

And the comments could antagonize the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a legendarily shrewd strategist who has outmaneuvered many a governor and has fiercely defended the Legislature’s authority to police itself and set its own rules.

Mr. Cuomo said that “politicians of both parties, Democrats and Republicans, share the blame” for Albany’s rash of scandals and corruption.

Further, he said, the state government, which is controlled by fellow Democrats, “has failed and the people have the right, indeed the people have the obligation, to act.”

In addition to making the appearance in Manhattan, Mr. Cuomo released two videos on Saturday, one introducing himself and a longer one detailing his policy positions.

Wading for the first time into the budget impasse, he said he opposed a plan being pushed by Lt. Gov. Richard Ravitch to borrow $6 billion over the next three years in exchange for a series of fiscal controls, including the creation of a financial review board.

He also spoke directly to New York’s powerful public employee unions, saying he would freeze salaries of state workers. And he said he opposed raising taxes.

He proposed capping state spending and limiting local property tax increases to no more than 2 percent annually.

But his announcement did not grapple with what will be the next governor’s greatest challenge: plugging a yawning budget deficit next year.

Mr. Cuomo made his bid official as Democrats prepared to open their state convention in Rye Brook on Tuesday. He had spent months privately plotting the campaign.

His release of the videos, including a 21-minute segment in which he describes his policy positions, is in part a response to criticism that he has ducked questions about what he would do as governor. That criticism has grown louder as the state’s economic condition has worsened.

In the longer video, Mr. Cuomo described his philosophy as “fiscally prudent and socially progressive,” and focused mostly on his plans to reshape the government and rein in legislative excesses.

Those plans include a proposal to eliminate 20 percent of the state’s more than 1,000 agencies, authorities, commissions and the like, part of a broad reorganization effort.

He has approached former Vice President Al Gore, who presided over an effort to reinvent government during the Clinton administration, to serve on a reorganization commission in New York.

Mr. Cuomo also laid out components of an economic agenda, including a plan to create a $3,000-a-head tax credit for businesses that hire unemployed New Yorkers.

He described his positions on social issues: He said he supported same-sex marriage, opposed the death penalty and supported increasing the number of charter schools. He pledged to fight discrimination and to further women’s rights in the workplace.

The Republican primary for governor is expected to come down to a battle between two men: former Representative Rick A. Lazio of Long Island and the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, who switched his party affiliation in March. Republicans will hold their state convention early next month.

Mr. Cuomo begins his campaign bolstered by his popularity, at a time when few political figures in the state have much to cheer about in their poll numbers. In a Marist poll this month, 64 percent of voters said they believed Mr. Cuomo was doing either an excellent or a good job.

Still, it is not clear how much voters know about Mr. Cuomo beyond his family name. In the longer video, he struck a personal note. Appearing in an office, flanked by shelves of law books and photographs of his father, he linked the state’s need for revival to his own political and personal rebound.

Mr. Cuomo suffered a bruising setback in his abortive run for governor in 2002, when he dropped out of the race after it became clear he would not prevail against H. Carl McCall in a Democratic primary. That loss was followed by a bitter divorce from Kerry Kennedy, the mother of his three daughters.

“Sure it’s hard to come back,” Mr. Cuomo said. “I saw it in my own life. A few years ago, I ran for governor and I lost. And I then went through a very difficult time in my personal life. It was a public humiliation.

“People said it was over for me; they said my public service career was finished — there was no way I could come back,” he said. “Some days even I thought they were right.”

He added, “With the compassion and empathy of New Yorkers, you gave me a second chance.”

While Mr. Cuomo’s supporters were enthusiastic about his entry into the race, others were more circumspect. Labor leaders had no immediate reaction to his call for austerity, though New York State United Teachers, which has bristled at proposals to increase the number of charter schools or limit property taxes, has indicated it may decline to endorse him.

Many Democrats see Mr. Cuomo’s election as inevitable and are planning for his ascension.

Mr. Paterson, who said he had spoken with Mr. Cuomo on Saturday morning, said he would be making some modifications to the sports facilities at the governor’s mansion. “I’m adjusting the basketball rim at the mansion a little lower so he can dunk on it,” Mr. Paterson joked.
717 2010-05-23 The establishment of the commission comes at a time when oil continues to gush into the gulf, with no end in sight, more than a month after the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded, killing 11 people. Mr. Obama has come under increasing fire for not being more aggressive. A letter sent to BP by the federal government this week requesting more transparency was criticized as too deferential, and cable channels are filled with commentators asking why the federal government has left so much to BP to handle.

At his daily briefing on Friday, Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, explained repeatedly that current law makes the company responsible for the recovery and cleanup, not taxpayers. He noted that BP has the specialized equipment and technical expertise to try to shut off a leak 5,000 feet below the surface, not the federal government.

“They are responsible, and we are overseeing to ensure that what they’re doing is what needs to be done,” Mr. Gibbs said, ticking off the agencies involved, including the E.P.A., the Coast Guard, the Minerals Management Service, the Small Business Administration and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. “There’s nothing that would denote that the federal government has stood there and hoped for the best.”

The new commission is intended to emulate others that have followed major national disasters like the accident that destroyed the Challenger space shuttle in 1986. It will look at what happened when the rig exploded and make recommendations on what the government needs to do to reshape national regulations.

Mr. Graham, a Democrat, served for 18 years in the Senate after two terms as Florida’s governor. He is also serving now on a panel established by Congress to look at the financial crisis of 2008, and he previously served as chairman of a commission that studied how to prevent the spread of nuclear and other unconventional weapons.

Mr. Reilly ran the E.P.A. for four years under President George Bush, including during the Exxon Valdez spill off Alaska. He is chairman of ClimateWorks Foundation and former president of the World Wildlife Fund and the Conservation Foundation. He currently serves on the boards of directors of DuPont and ConocoPhillips.

Mr. Obama said he would name the other five members of the panel shortly. The commission’s mandate, he said, will be “to consider both the root causes of the disaster and offer options on what safety and environmental precautions we need to take to prevent a similar disaster from happening again.”

Environmental groups welcomed the establishment of the commission. “The entire framework of government oversight needs to be reviewed and strengthened,” said Frances Beinecke, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council. The commission, she added, needs to develop guidelines for “whether, when, where and under what circumstances new offshore drilling operations should be allowed.”

Vikki Spruill, president of the Ocean Conservancy, said, “That must be part of an aggressive effort to reform a broken system.” Noting the president’s assessment about regulators being too “cozy” with industry, she added, “That is not a problem that will be solved without undertaking sustained and far-reaching reform.”

In his Saturday address, the president repeated his criticism of BP and other companies involved in the spill. “What led to this disaster was a breakdown of responsibility on the part of BP and perhaps others, including Transocean and Halliburton,” he said. “And we will continue to hold the relevant companies accountable.” At the same time, he added that “we also need to hold Washington accountable.”
718 2010-05-23 Marissa Beth Roslyn, the daughter of Marian C. Roslyn and Burton L. Roslyn of Roslyn Heights, N.Y., was married Saturday evening to Landon Royal Clark, a son of Linda S. Clark and Michael R. Clark of Holland, Mich. Cantor Joel Colman officiated in a courtyard ceremony at the New Orleans Board of Trade in New Orleans.

The couple met at Tulane, from which they graduated.

The bride, 27, is a nurse practitioner in the women’s health practice at the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center in New York. She received bachelor’s and master’s degrees in nursing from Pace University.

Her father is an architect in Roslyn Heights. He was the president of the American Institute of Architects, New York State, in 2009. Her mother is a program director in New York for the Empire State Development Corporation.

The bridegroom, 29, works in New York as a patent and intellectual-property associate for Jones Day, the Cleveland-based law firm. He received a law degree cum laude from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University.

His mother is an English teacher at Holland High School in Holland. His father is the athletic director for the Holland Public Schools.
719 2010-05-23 Lawrence Stacey Cameron Griffith Jr. and Clarence McCain McMurray Jr. were married Thursday at the couple’s home in Washington. Judge Joseph H. Gale of the United States Tax Court officiated.

Mr. Griffith, 49 (left), is known as Cameron. He is the congressional affairs liaison for the French Embassy in Washington. He graduated from Haverford College and received a master’s degree in international affairs from George Washington University.

He is a son of Anne Y. Griffith and Dr. Lawrence S. C. Griffith of Baltimore. His father is a cardiologist at Johns Hopkins Hospital and a professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.

Mr. McMurray, 61, who is known as McCain, is an architect in private practice in Washington. He specializes in corporate interiors and residential projects. He graduated from Wake Forest University and received a master’s degree in architecture from North Carolina State University. He is a trustee at Andrus on Hudson, a nursing home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

He is a son of Dr. Dorothy Gore McMurray of Shelby, N.C., and the late Dr. Clarence McCain McMurray. His mother, a pediatrician, retired as the director of medical education at Cleveland Memorial Hospital in Shelby. His father was an internist in private practice in Shelby.
720 2010-05-23 DINERS looking for good value will find it in spades at Red Bean Asian Bistro, a recent addition to the ShopRite complex in Norwalk.

With its assortment of Chinese, Thai, Malaysian and Indonesian specialties, along with a sushi bar, Red Bean is following the recipe of many contemporary Chinese restaurants. But what makes it notable are the low prices of its fresh, well-prepared dishes. Most dinner entrees range from $8 to $13, with “chef’s selections” running from $11 to $19 and starters about half the price of entrees.

The Vietnamese salad I tried was generous and refreshingly light, with jicama, napa cabbage, mango and crispy vermicelli embroidered with wisps of fresh cilantro. Also appealing were the crispy calamari salad graced with mesclun and the grilled shrimp salad with lemon grass and mesclun. The Japanese seaweed salad, always reliable, had an unexpected peppery zing.

Other starters I’d recommend include the lightly breaded, deep-fried and crunchy soft-shell crab, and the cold sesame noodles, a well-prepared classic. The crispy-edged pan-fried scallion pancake, though a bit oily, had good flavor, as did various steamed and pan-fried Chinese dumplings, though I didn’t much care for the Sichuan ones, served refrigerator cold rather than at room temperature. For a lighter alternative, you might try the wonton-watercress soup or the spicy-sour Thai tom yum goong with shrimp.

There is considerable variety among the entrees, with a number of attractive sashimi choices. Not only were the presentations eye-appealing, but the hamachi (yellowtail), unagi (eel), tako (octopus) and white tuna were all sparklingly fresh. And sushi lovers will appreciate the 18 different special rolls and hand rolls, although not every type was available the nights I was there.
721 2010-05-23 When he’s not playing golf on Sundays, Donald J. Trump, 63, shops for courses or other real estate. He owns five sets of links in the New York area, and when he is in town, he starts the day on the course, often talking about business with other golfers. Mr. Trump lives with his wife, Melania, and his son Barron, 4, in the Trump Tower in Midtown.

WAKE-UP TIME I get up early, about 5 or earlier. I immediately read The New York Times or The New York Post, or both, and The Daily News. I read them, I accumulate as much news as possible, and I watch television news shows. I find out what catastrophe has befallen the world — what landslide, what tsunami. Then I will take a shower and get in a car and go out to one of the courses.

SUNDAY UNIFORM I have never been a believer in shorts on a golf course. It’s not elegant. I wear slacks and a sports shirt. Depending on the weather, I will wear a sweater.

SUSTENANCE I will usually have a breakfast — eggs scrambled or over, bacon, sausage, or they make great waffles and pancakes. I will usually have just orange or tomato juice.

NO COFFEE? I do not drink coffee. I’ve never had a cup of coffee or a glass of alcohol in my life. I never liked it. I never liked the caffeine thing. I really don’t need anything to wake up.
722 2010-05-23 The Web is a teeming commercial city. It’s haphazardly planned. Its public spaces are mobbed, and signs of urban decay abound in broken links and abandoned projects. Malware and spam have turned living conditions in many quarters unsafe and unsanitary. Bullies and hucksters roam the streets. An entrenched population of rowdy, polyglot rabble seems to dominate major sites.

People who find the Web distasteful — ugly, uncivilized — have nonetheless been forced to live there: it’s the place to go for jobs, resources, services, social life, the future. But now, with the purchase of an or an , there’s a way out, an orderly suburb that lets you sample the Web’s opportunities without having to mix with the riffraff. This suburb is defined by apps from the glittering App Store: neat, cute homes far from the Web city center, out in pristine Applecrest Estates. In the migration of dissenters from the “open” Web to pricey and secluded apps, we’re witnessing urban decentralization, suburbanization and the online equivalent of white flight.

The parallels between what happened to cities like , and New York in the 20th century and what’s happening on the Internet since the introduction of the App Store are striking. Like the great modern American cities, the Web was founded on equal parts opportunism and idealism. Over the years, nerds, students, creeps, outlaws, rebels, moms, fans, church mice, good-time Charlies, middle managers, senior citizens, starlets, presidents and corporate predators all made their home on the Web. In spite of a growing consensus about the dangers of Web and the importance of curation, there were surprisingly few “walled ” online — like the one purports to (but does not really) represent.

But a kind of virtual redlining is now under way. The Webtropolis is being stratified. Even if, like most people, you still surf the Web on a desktop or laptop, you will have noticed pay walls, invitation-only clubs, subscription programs, privacy settings and other ways of creating tiers of access. All these things make spaces feel “safe” — not only from viruses, instability, unwanted light and sound, unrequested porn, sponsored links and pop-up ads, but also from crude design, wayward and unregistered commenters and the eccentric ­voices and images that make the Web constantly surprising, challenging and enlightening.

When a wall goes up, the space you have to pay to visit must, to justify the price, be nicer than the free ones. The catchphrase for software developers is “a better experience.” Behind pay walls like the ones on Honolulu Civil Beat, the new venture by the founder Pierre Omidyar, and ’s Times of London, production values surge. Cool software greets the paying lady and gentleman; they get concierge service, perks. Web stations with entrance fees are more like boutiques than bazaars.
723 2010-05-23 As a Somali native who was raised as a Muslim and grew up to become one of the most outspoken critics of Islam, you fled to Amsterdam and served in the Dutch Parliament before fleeing again, to America. What kind of security do you have here?

I don’t go from A to B without being escorted by people who are armed. But please, let’s not talk about my security.

In your new book, “Nomad: From Islam to America,” you urge American Christians to try to talk to American Muslims about the limitations of their faith. 

We who don’t want radical Islam to spread must compete with the agents of radical Islam. I want to see what would happen if Christians, feminists and Enlightenment thinkers were to start proselytizing in the Muslim community.

That could be dangerous for the proselytizers. 

It may be, but in the United States we have a police force and the rule of law; we can’t just say something is dangerous and abstain from competing in the marketplace of ideas.

What Islam really needs is a reform branch — Reform Islam, which, like the Reform Jewish movement, would reconcile an ancientfaith with modern ways.

The problem is that those of us who were born into Islam and who don’t want to live according to scripture — we don’t have what the Jews have, which is a rabbinical tradition that allows you to ask questions. We also don’t have the church tradition that the Christians have.

You have the mosque.

The mosque is not the church.

True. It seems like more of a men’s club. 

It’s like a men’s club, and it’s a place where you discuss politics. There are some mosques with facilities for women; it’s usually a back room with a back-door entrance.

In this country, you’ve been embraced mostly by conservatives, especially those at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, where you’re now a resident fellow. Do you see yourself as a conservative? 

I don’t. I call myself a liberal, a classical liberal as in John Stuart Mill.
724 2010-05-23 Where does Harold Bloom offer any evidence, in his celebration of the “fierce relevance” of Anthony Julius’s history of English anti-Semitism (May 9), for his blanket assertion that the English literary and academic establishment “essentially opposes the right of the state of Israel to exist, while indulging in the humbuggery that its anti-Zionism is not anti-­Semitism,” a “sanctimonious intelligentsia who really will not rest until Israel is destroyed”? And how might this be very different from, say, calling Israelis “essentially” anti-­Palestinian? But then, Bloom likes to speculate that perhaps the English have been so anti-Semitic because of their upper-class love of sadomasochism (you know, those dodgy boarding schools of theirs).

In place of this precise slander and imprecise imputation, Bloom might have noted that some of the most robust left-wing discussion of Israeli policy has come from members of the British literary and academic establishment who are also Jewish (Tony Judt, Harold Pinter, Mike Leigh, Jacqueline Rose). If there is more political discussion of this order in Britain than in America it is not necessarily because the English are so anti-Semitic — or at least, I certainly hope not —­ but more likely (as Judt has pointed out) because most Americans live in almost complete ignorance of the “fierce relevance” of certain political realities and facts.

JAMES WOOD

Cambridge, Mass.

The writer is professor of the practice of literary criticism in the department of English at Harvard University.

Harold Bloom’s review of Anthony Julius’s history of English anti-Semitism is a curious and unfortunate confusion of its political and cultural strains. The contemporary English anti-Semitism to which Bloom refers, manifesting itself as anti-Israel, is a relatively new combination of leftist post­colonial guilt and rightist bruising at having been driven from Palestine by the Irgun. It has nothing to do with the traditional problems Jews faced in clubby England, and even less to do with the writers in question.

Politically speaking, England has, for ages, been one of the most welcoming and tolerant places for Jews. It elected a prime minister of Jewish descent more than 130 years before Democrats in America nominated their first Jewish vice-­presidential candidate; it welcomed Jews to Parliament long before this was common practice in Christian nations; and — pace Bloom’s good cheer at having been born a New Yorker — it actively provided a refuge for Jews, especially children, fleeing the Nazis when President Roosevelt was turning their boats away.

If Harold Bloom had watched BBC Television transmit the negotiations for the formation of a new British government, he might have modified his opinion about anti-Semitism in British society. I heard and saw Lord Mandelson as well as David and Edward Miliband speak for Labour. The Miliband brothers (recently foreign and energy ministers, respectively) are prominent candidates to succeed Gordon Brown as party leader. I also heard and saw Michael Howard, the former prime ministerial candidate; Sir Malcolm Rifkind, former foreign minister; and Oliver Letwin, one of his party’s leading thinkers, speak for the Conservatives. Some of the prominent figures from the Liberal Democratic Party who were interviewed may also have been Jewish, but it was impossible to identify them, at first glance, as anything but British politicians.
725 2010-05-23 Type 57 3.3-liter sports models, 12 cars built in 1934-1938, $100,000-$7 million each. (Five of these Type 57 models are in the collection of La Cité de l’Automobile, Musee National and four are in the collection of the Mullin Automotive Museum.)

* In the collection of La Cité de l’Automobile, Musee National, Mulhouse, France.

† In the collection of the Mullin Automotive Museum, Oxnard, Calif.
726 2010-05-23 Re “My Hero, the Outlaw of Amherst” by Holland Cotter [May 16]:

Cheers to Mr. Cotter for trying to rescue Emily Dickinson from mythmakers. His question — “Why do we so badly need to have this poet paired off with someone?” — reveals resurgent cultural discomforts with strong-minded women, especially when they remain single.
727 2010-05-23 “There was skepticism when she took over, but she has definitely proven herself,” said Seth Glewen, co-head of theater department at the Gersh Agency, who represents Ms. Callaghan. Outsiders share his assessment. “Julie brings a really good artistic sense,” said Paige Evans, director of LCT3 at Lincoln Center. “The plays have been more dynamic.”

Ms. Crosby said she avoids stereotypical women’s plays, adding, “If I get one more play about menopause I’m going to jump off the roof.” Instead, she said she prefers unusual plays that offer a woman’s take on anything from the Iraq war to religious zealotry.

Before establishing her own artistic voice, however, Ms. Crosby had to revive the theater’s finances. Julia Miles, then the associate director of the American Place Theater, started the Women’s Project there in 1978 after a survey showed that only 7 percent of the plays produced nationwide were written by women. For more than two decades Ms. Miles provided a vital steppingstone for female writers and directors; the project graduated from the American Place basement in the 1980s and bought its own home (now the Julia Miles Theater) in 1998.

Ms. Miles stepped down in 2003, and her daughter Marya Cohn took over on an interim basis; a year later Loretta Greco, a respected director, took the artistic helm. But Jann Leeming, who joined the board soon after (she’s now the board chairwoman), said that Ms. Greco spent far too much money. “It did look as if we might lose the theater,” said Kathleen Chalfant, an actress who was among the project’s founders.

Searching for someone with bottom-line budget management experience Ms. Leeming found Ms. Crosby, who was a company manager for a half-dozen Broadway shows. Among her first acts as managing director was telling Ms. Greco that there wasn’t money for her next play as planned. Ms. Crosby rearranged the company’s season to maximize theater-rental opportunities but said that “the smartest thing I did was refinance the mortgage,” folding in high-interest debts and reducing monthly payments to $8,600 from $13,000.

In 2006, Ms. Leeming led the board in ousting Ms. Greco. Ms. Crosby was promoted to producing director, then producing artistic director. “It was a hard sell at first, but we knew we’d have to change or die,” Ms. Leeming said. “I trusted Julie’s judgment. She’s the perfect combination of arts and numbers.”

Reached in San Francisco, where she is now the artistic director of the Magic Theater, Ms. Greco said it was not an “enviable position” to take over an organization from its founder, and added that the fiscal crisis “didn’t happen on my watch.” Still, she described herself as “really proud” of her tenure, and pointed to the exposure she gave emerging artists like the playwright Lynn Nottage and the directors Anne Kauffman and Leigh Silverman. Despite the skeptics, Ms. Crosby didn’t hesitate to make significant changes. She hired a marketing director and raised the marketing budget by 64 percent over four years, to $160,000. She carried out innovative ideas like giving free preview tickets to anyone who would provide their mailing address by e-mail.

Ms. Crosby, who insists on four weeks of rehearsal when many theaters have cut back to three, also nurtured the theater’s Lab Program. “My greatest difficulty when I took over was that there was absolutely nothing in the pipeline,” she said. “I became obsessive about the future — we now have six shows at various states of development.” She also created a Lab Program for producers. “We were developing playwrights and directors but we weren’t hooking them up with the next generation of producers,” she said.

Not every show has earned the acclaim of “Crooked” and “Or”; writing in The Times, David Rooney said “Lascivious Something” was “too intoxicated by its own mysteries.” Yet Ms. Crosby’s network of relationships with agents like Mr. Glewen have helped attract other artists to produce work with the Women’s Project. And the board showed confidence in her this year by agreeing to run a small deficit so she could expand to a three-show season.

Still, plenty of challenges remain. The physical space needs an overhaul. So does the company’s name, according to Ms. Crosby and Ms. Leeming, who wants the word theater be included in the title.

“It’s the bane of my existence,” said Ms. Crosby, promising a new name as soon as she can afford legal and marketing costs. “We get calls on a regular basis where people have mistaken us for a soup kitchen or other women’s social work service.”

The biggest struggle is the cause itself. As recently as two years ago women wrote only 12 percent of the plays produced in New York. “It’s maddening,” Ms. Crosby said. “Our theater and our culture will be so much richer when we have this half of the population getting to contribute.”
728 2010-05-23 The two were nominated this month for Tony Awards for best leading actor and actress in a play, with the production itself earning 10 nominations altogether, the most ever received for a revival of a play. This is the first “Fences” on Broadway since the original 1987 production starring James Earl Jones and Mary Alice, who earned Tonys for their performances (though Ms. Alice won in the best featured actress category).

Mr. Washington is widely known for playing tough-talking extroverts and firebrands in films like “Malcolm X” and “Training Day” (for which he won an Academy Award in 2001), while Ms. Davis has tended toward controlled characters with gnawing anxieties, like the protective mother of a schoolboy in the movie “Doubt,” which earned her an Oscar nomination in 2009. For all their differences as actors, however, Ms. Davis and Mr. Washington said they initially shared trepidation about following their predecessors of 23 years ago. Mr. Washington saw Mr. Jones and Ms. Alice on Broadway the same year that he earned his first Academy Award nomination, at age 32, playing the anti-apartheid leader Steve Biko in “Cry Freedom.”

“That voice of James Earl Jones, that physical presence, filled the theater in a way that I’ve never experienced since,” said Mr. Washington, now 55. “Sitting there, watching him, I never imagined I would play this role. Well, maybe I did, briefly. But —— ”

“There’s no way to prepare yourself to step into a work with such history,” Ms. Davis continued.

One of Wilson’s 10 plays in his study of the African-American experience during each decade of the 20th century, “Fences” stands as his great marital drama. While the other nine plays mostly feature brothers and sisters, fathers and sons, and boyfriends and girlfriends, the emotion in “Fences” centers on the seemingly unbreakable bond between Rose and Troy, one or both of whom is onstage until the play’s final scene, when the Maxsons’ children reckon with their lives and the marriage of their parents.

The demands inherent in the play’s structure guided much of the rehearsal work for Mr. Washington and Ms. Davis. Act I, while dotted with dark moments, is essentially a romance, establishing the affection, companionship and sexual attraction between Troy and Rose. Wilson’s dialogue ranges from tender (Troy about Rose: “I love her so much, I done run out of ways of loving her”) to baldly carnal (Troy: “We go upstairs in that room at night, and I fall down on you and try to blast a hole into forever”). For Act II to successfully deliver the devastating blows that Wilson sets up, audience members must believe by intermission that Troy and Rose — whatever their personal foibles — are a couple for the ages.

Working with the director Kenny Leon (also a Tony nominee), Ms. Davis and Mr. Washington had long discussions imagining a richly textured back story about the couple’s courtship, love life and reservations about each other — a narrative that is all but absent from Wilson’s script. Ms. Davis took the lead, writing out several pages of a conjured origin story about the first date of Rose and Troy, their first night of sex, and the first time that Troy tells Rose that he once killed a man (in self-defense) and spent 15 years in prison as a result.

“Our first date was especially crucial as an establishing moment in this relationship, and it was an epic first date,” said Ms. Davis, 44, who in 2001 won the best featured actress Tony for another Wilson play, “King Hedley II.” “We sat on the porch of my house, and he entertained me for hours with all of his stories so that by the end of the date I was mesmerized and falling in love with him. We talked until dawn, and he was the perfect gentleman. He kissed my hand and walked away.”

“But part of me knew that wasn’t right, that he’d want to do more than kiss my hand,” she added with a girlish giggle.

“What? Like take you to a strip joint?” Mr. Washington asked.

“No, no, but you’re a bad boy,” Ms. Davis said of Troy. “And I was so sexually attracted to him. And sex is important, sex could mask our problems. There are moments in Act I where I need to make it clear that I’m thinking: ‘Did I make a mistake marrying this man? Did I not think realistically about this relationship before I married him?’ The fact that he did murder someone — I didn’t want to marry someone with that kind of past, but I fell into it because my loins were on fire.”

Mr. Leon, who had directed regional productions of “Fences” previously, said in a telephone interview that he had come to learn from those experiences that Rose and Troy — as well as the actors playing them — needed to “seem inseparable in their bones if ‘Fences’ is to truly work.”

“Chemistry between actors isn’t enough,” Mr. Leon said. “You need people who can convey through body language, through pauses, even through the pace of their breathing around one another, that Rose and Troy are everything to one another.”

Mr. Washington, in turn, who was last on Broadway five years ago as Brutus in “Julius Caesar,” said he concentrated on balancing Troy’s devotion to Rose with disappointment in other parts of his life, like his failed baseball career, and with traumas associated with his father and brother. Yet Mr. Washington said he was determined not to play the character for sympathy. As a result, he said that he sometimes feels a desire to make Troy seem as tough and dominant as possible — which can backfire if he is not careful, he added.

“The hardest thing for me to do is listen,” he said. “Onstage I sometimes think, ‘Denzel, listen to Rose, let her finish what she’s saying.’ It’s tricky because, by my own nature, I’m a talker, and Troy’s a talker, and he’s always cutting people off. I personally have this natural instinct to talk, and I’m playing a man who draws power partly from hearing himself talk.”

Audience reactions also present a challenge at some performances, said Mr. Washington, who described trying to tune out the distraction of female theatergoers laughing or whispering at inappropriate times, like Troy’s most pained revelations to Rose in Act II.

“There are all these women coming to see me, to see this actor they like, and I appreciate that,” he said. “But at some shows, women are carrying on and snickering too much. Like at our Mother’s Day performance. Some audience members wouldn’t stop talking during an Act II speech. So I walked down to the front of the stage and stared at them, silently, for 30 seconds. They stopped, and I went on.”

He and Ms. Davis said they were not surprised by nervous laughter and murmurs, seeing it as an outlet for audience members who might feel as unsettled by the marital strife as Rose and Troy are. Both actors are happily married, and they said that their performances drew partly on the painful idea of what their lives would be like without their spouses. Maybe, they said, some audience members are audibly vocal simply to distract themselves from that pain.

“Denzel and I are able to do this play, I think, because we both know what it means to have love in our lives,” Ms. Davis said. Married to the actor Julius Tennon for seven years in June, Ms. Davis continued: “I love having my husband in my life. The part of me that I’m able to share with the audience is the fear and desperation that I would feel if the love of my life was suddenly taken from me.”

“I feel the same,” Mr. Washington said, “exactly the same.”
729 2010-05-23 Hotels in Istanbul tend to be either touristy affairs in the Old City or splashy (and pricey) luxury digs that hug the shores of the Bosporus. The House Hotel Galatasaray, which opened last month in Beyoglu, is aiming for the space in between: it'...
730 2010-05-23 PARIS -- She was once banned from Roland Garros stadium after she and her father got into a shouting match there with a French tennis coach. Relations with the French tennis federation were once so embittered that she was refused financial help an...
731 2010-05-23 PARIS -- She was once banned from Roland Garros stadium after she and her father got into a shouting match there with a French tennis coach. Relations with the French tennis federation were once so embittered that she was refused financial help an...
732 2010-05-23 DENZEL WASHINGTON and Viola Davis were little more than professional acquaintances when they began rehearsing in March to play husband and wife in the Broadway revival of August Wilson's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama ''Fences.'' They had worked tog...
733 2010-05-24 At the heart of a new global anthem, a theme devised by Cameroonian sharpshooters during World War II....
734 2010-05-24 Over the weekend, some Facebook users were coping with a malicious Facebook application spreading adware; it was quickly removed from the site....
735 2010-05-24 I.B.M.'s software acquisition strategy is focused on companies that ease online transactions among businesses....
736 2010-05-24 Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, a sharp critic of Wall Street and close ally of the Obama administration, will head a House-Senate conference committee to prepare a final bill on financial regulation....
737 2010-05-24 Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, will make a presentation at next month's Apple developers' conference. But with all the leaks, will developers be wowed?...
738 2010-05-24 The Texas Rangers voluntarily filed for bankruptcy on Monday to facilitate the team's sale to a group of investors, including Nolan Ryan, for about $575 million....
739 2010-05-24 The American Academy of Pediatrics now says that when it comes to choking risk, food should be subject to as much scrutiny as toys. The group is asking for warning labels on foods that are known choking hazards....
740 2010-05-24 A variety of eating places and shops are under the direction of the chef Todd English....
741 2010-05-24 Fabiano Coura joined the new São Paulo, Brazil, office of R/GA, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as the head of planning. He had been digital planning and creative director at Insula Communicação, São Paulo.

G. Steven Dapper, chairman at Hawkeye, was elected chairman of the Direct Marketing Association, Washington, and Don McKenzie, chief executive at the Direct Group, was elected vice chairman of the association.

Arthur Fullerton joined Zig, Toronto, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, director for technology. He had been director for technology at the Fuse Marketing Group, Toronto.

Gibbs & Soell, New York, formed a public relations practice specializing in green technology and sustainability, to be led by Ron Loch, a senior vice president at the agency.

Steevan Glover joined the London office of Vision Critical in a new post, European head of sales and marketing. He had been account division development and group account director at Blueprint Partners, London.

Matthew Hoelter, a free-lance editor, won the $25,000 grand prize in a user-generated content contest, called the 10-Second Challenge, sponsored by Aflac. The contest sought video clips from consumers to describe Aflac and its products in 10 seconds. The public was invited to watch the entries online and vote for 10 finalists; a panel of judges named four winners including Mr. Hoelter, age 24, of Marina del Rey, Calif.

Drew Ianni opened the Athena Partnership, New York, where he is chief executive. Athena plans to put on a conference and exposition named Appnation; the first one is scheduled for the Moscone Convention Center in San Francisco on Sept. 13 and 14. Mr. Ianna had most recently been event chairman and senior global analyst at Adtech, New York.

Adam Kasper, senior vice president and director for digital at Media Contacts, part of Havas Digital, was named to lead a new unit of Havas Digital, Innova, as senior vice president and managing director for digital innovation. Havas Digital is part of Havas. Also, David Puner joined Innova as an innovations director, based in Boston; he previously worked on marketing and social media at Dunkin’ Brands, Canton, Mass. And Sabine Cummins, account director at Media Contacts, becomes an innovations director at Innova, based in Chicago.

KG Partners, Portland, Me., started a unit, the Retail Innovation Group, to be led by Tim Mathis as director for retail innovation.

Eriks Krumins joined Furlined, Santa Monica, Calif., in a new post, vice president and executive producer, overseeing day-to-day operations of the commerical production company. He had been executive producer at Backyard Productions, Venice, Calif., and is a former member of the United States national water polo team.

Jeff Jan, Mitch Lee and Suzanne Szostak joined Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco. Mr. Jan becomes communications strategy director, a new post; he had been associate media director at Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore. Mr. Lee becomes head of communications strategy, succeeding Samantha Stuart, who is taking a break from advertising, the agency said, after the birth of her third child. Mr. Lee had been partner for integrated communications strategy at PERS, San Francisco. And Ms. Szostak becomes senior brand strategist, a new post; she had been advertising programs manager at the San Francisco office of YouTube and Google.

David Kopp joined Healthline Networks, San Francisco, in a new post, senior vice president for network and advertising services. He had most recently been senior director for ad products at Yahoo.

Marina Monsante joined La Comunidad, Miami, in a new post, director for creative services. She had been director for traffic services at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami.

Tom Morrissy joined Synaptic Digital, New York, as executive vice president for North American sales. He assumes duties from Jack Serpa, senior vice president for client solutions, who left, the company said. Mr. Morrissy had most recently been running his own media and entertainment consulting company, Morrissy & Vine, and before that was publisher of OK and Entertainment Weekly magazines.

Post Foods, a division of Ralcorp Holdings, St. Louis, and Six Flags Entertainment, New York, signed a cross-promotion agreement. Financial terms were not disclosed. The deal includes an offer on 12 million boxes of Post cereal brands like Alpha-Bits and Cocoa Pebbles, which will carry free admission coupons for Six Flags theme parks that will be valid with paid adult admissions.

Josh Rabinowitz, senior vice president for music at the Grey Group, New York, part of WPP, was named the inaugural music jury president for the 2010 London International Advertising Awards.

Amy Saralegui, publisher at Los Angeles magazine, part of the Emmis Publishing unit of Emmis Communications, was named to two posts as part of a reorganization of Emmis Publishing. Ms. Saralegui will move to Austin, Tex., and become publisher of Texas Monthly magazine as well as group publisher for national sales at Emmis Publishing. Under the reorganization, several executives left the company, including April Hinkle, publisher of Texas Monthly, and Susie Love, executive vice president and director for sales and marketing.

Derek Van den Bosch joined Blitz, Santa Monica, Calif., as vice president for delivery. He had been director for digital production at the Los Angeles office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

Shelly Weitz joined MicroMass Communications, Cary, N.C., as account director. She had been senior creative director at Creative Strategy, Chevy Chase, Md.

Joseph Zhou joined Bird Bonette Stauderman China, Hong Kong, a new unit of Bird Bonette Stauderman Worldwide, Westport Conn., as president. He had been manager for advertising production at Procter & Gamble China, Guangzhou, part of the Procter & Gamble Company.
742 2010-05-24 Moving the French Open from Roland Garros to the suburbs isn't Roger Federer's decision, but the idea appears to bother him....
743 2010-05-24 The 2010 French Open poster is the creation of an Indian artist, Nalini Malani....
744 2010-05-24 At his very richest, George Washington was worth more than half a billion in today's dollars, according to new estimates....
745 2010-05-24 White Collar Watch examines how the S.E.C.'s enforcement division is trying to determine whether broker-dealer firms might have shirked their obligations to customers in the May 6 flash crash....
746 2010-05-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
747 2010-05-24 At the heart of a new global anthem, a theme devised by Cameroonian sharpshooters during World War II....
748 2010-05-24 The military will have solar panels for hot water installed in 900 homes at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina....
749 2010-05-24 How to keep Picasa name tags out of your Gmail contacts list....
750 2010-05-24 TC Disrupt is patterned after March Madness -- right down to the Final Four....
751 2010-05-24 Who says galleries ought to show strictly art? Don't books, tattoo drawings and toys also deserve an outlet? Le Pied de Biche, a new gallery in Paris, is asking just these questions....
752 2010-05-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
753 2010-05-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
754 2010-05-24 Healthscope, the Australian private hospital operator, said Monday that it would let its private equity suitors review its books over the next several weeks as they look to seal a $1.5 billion offer for the group....
755 2010-05-24 Asia-Pacific stock markets started the week mostly higher, taking heart from a firm performance on Wall Street on Friday and buoyed by speculation that the Chinese authorities will ease some of their tightening measures....
756 2010-05-24 Weaknesses in the Spanish financial sector were exposed over the weekend when the central bank rescued CajaSur, a savings bank that was crippled by losses related to real estate and was unable to agree on a merger with a bigger rival....
757 2010-05-24 If he was motivated by three days of nonstop criticism, he would not admit it.

“No, not at all,” Stoudemire said. “Just the fact that I wanted to win, how important this game was. That’s what motivated myself, and also my teammates.”

He added, almost unnecessarily, “We couldn’t afford to go down 3-0” — a deficit that no N.B.A. team has ever overcome.

Stoudemire was brilliant from start to finish, scoring 9 points in the first four minutes of the game and 13 points in the final quarter. Stoudemire skipped and soared, flipping in finger rolls and pretty reverse layups, while outscoring the Lakers’ starting frontcourt of Pau Gasol (23 points), Ron Artest (12) and Andrew Bynum (2). He finished 14 for 22 from the field and 14 for 18 from the line.

“I knew that Amare would respond,” Coach Alvin Gentry said. “He’s a competitor. He knows that he didn’t play well in L.A.”

Phoenix won its fifth straight home game, a streak dating to April 18.

Kobe Bryant led the Lakers with 36 points, 11 assists and 9 rebounds, but he went 3 for 8 in the fourth quarter, when Phoenix, buoyed by a chorus of “Beat L.A.” chants, pulled away.

The Suns took the lead for good on a Jared Dudley layup early in the fourth, which sparked an 11-2 run that gave Phoenix a 100-92 lead. The Suns eventually pushed the margin to 11 points, their biggest lead of the series.

Jason Richardson had 19 points, including four big 3-pointers, and Steve Nash kept the offense humming with 17 points and 15 assists, despite getting his nose crushed by Shannon Brown.

“I don’t think I broke it; I think I rearranged it,” said Nash, who also took a Bryant shoulder to his chin.

It was that kind of night. Derek Fisher and Robin Lopez received a double-technical foul after Lopez banged an elbow on Fisher’s head, prompting Fisher to go after him. Stoudemire was hit so hard in the face that his goggles sliced into his forehead. He wore a bandage above his eyebrows but did not need stitches.

For the first time in the series, the Suns overcame the Lakers’ height and length. Lamar Odom, a force at the rim in the first two games, had just 6 rebounds and fouled out with 3:16 left. Center Andrew Bynum, who is playing despite torn cartilage in his right knee, looked slow and uncomfortable and got in early foul trouble against Stoudemire.

Coach Phil Jackson said Bynum’s physical limitations were a concern and acknowledged that he would consider holding him out for a game.

“He was ineffective, I thought, out there,” Jackson said. “There were some things that got by him.”

The Lakers need Bynum’s size and strength against the Suns, but they would need him even more in a finals match against the Boston Celtics, who have a 3-0 lead in the Eastern Conference finals.

With three days off before Game 3, and the Lakers and the Celtics both undefeated in the conference finals, all of the chatter on talk radio, television and Twitter was focused on the possibility — perhaps the inevitability — of another Lakers-Celtics finals.

The Lakers could not afford to be so presumptuous, but the anticipation was overwhelming. The precocious Bynum, who missed the 2008 finals against Boston, lost all sense of diplomacy and verb tense when the subject was raised Saturday.

“It’s going to be amazing playing against those guys again,” he told reporters in Los Angeles. “We’re going to have a lot of fuel and a lot of ammo.”

Jackson shook his head at the lack of decorum, saying, “He wasn’t thinking very clearly right there.”

Or perhaps Bynum simply knows his history. Before this series, Jackson’s teams had 2-0 leads 35 times and won every series.

The Lakers took control early Sunday but scored just 15 in the second quarter, their worst quarter of the series. The Suns pounced and turned a 7-point deficit into a 54-47 halftime lead.

The pressure was on the Suns’ big men — on Stoudemire to show some hustle and on Channing Frye to find his jump shot. Frye is still looking, after missing all seven of his field-goal attempts Sunday, making him 1 for 20 in the series. Center Robin Lopez picked up the slack, scoring a surprising 20 points against the Lakers’ suddenly soft interior.

No one enjoyed the open lanes more than Stoudemire, who had been strafed by fans and pundits for grabbing just nine rebounds in the first two games. In a radio interview on KTAR, the Suns commentator Tom Chambers essentially questioned Stoudemire’s commitment and work ethic and said he was playing “in a fog.” Stoudemire is likely to be a free agent this summer, which has only added to the tension.

“Everybody has the right to have their opinions,” Stoudemire said, adding, “But from my standpoint, you can never question my determination, my focus, my dedication.”

On Sunday, no one was.
758 2010-05-24 For the third time, Zabriskie finished second at this race. He was nine seconds behind Rogers. Leipheimer, who won this race the past three years, finished third, 25 seconds back. Armstrong, the seven-time Tour de France winner, crashed out of the race last Thursday.

In the end, Rogers had achieved something great: the biggest stage-race victory in his career. And he and his squad, including the team owner Bob Stapleton, hope that is what fans will remember.

“It’s great that we’ve been so successful here, but it’s unfortunate that this scandal took over this really tremendous event,” Stapleton said of Landis’s allegations. “What people should focus on is the fundamental beauty of this sport that has been lost by a bitter past.”

Landis, who was stripped of his 2006 Tour de France title for doping, dug up that past when e-mail messages he sent to top cycling officials surfaced last week. In those messages, he detailed what he said were his doping practices and those of others, but later told ESPN.com that he had no documentation to back up his accusations.

He is cooperating with an investigation by the United States Anti-Doping Agency, as well as with federal authorities, two people briefed on the matter said. Those people did not want their names published, for fear of losing their access to sensitive information.

Some riders Landis accused of doping said they did not know why he came forward so many years after he rode with the United States Postal Service team in the early 2000s, which is when, Landis said, he first began doping. Hincapie, one of the most veteran riders in the peloton, was on that team.

“Whoever wants to talk about something eight years ago, fine, they can waste their time on that,” Hincapie said. “I want to talk about the future of the sport and the sacrifices we put into it.”

Hincapie addressed the accusations, saying he was disappointed to learn what Landis had accused him of, claims that included blood doping.

“I would like to say that there isn’t anybody out there, whether it’s the press, the fans or Usada, that wants a clean sport more than me,” he said. “I’m out there suffering, day in and day out. I sacrifice everything for my family. I don’t see my kids that much. I train five, six, seven hours a day, and I’d give anything for this sport.”

He went on to say that cycling does more to combat doping than any other sport and that it bothers him that people may think the riders are still cheating. He said he did not think he deserved what Landis said about him.

“I’m not the type of person that tries to bring harm on anybody,” he said. “I’ve led my life by trying to be a good person, by trying to be a good example, by trying to set an example.”

Others in cycling also hope that Landis’s comments do not tarnish the current riders and team members. The sport is doing more than it has ever done to stave off doping, Zabriskie said.

Leipheimer said, “I really believe in cycling and think it’s fair and clean.”

Pat McQuaid, president of the International Cycling Union, said the biological passport program, in which scientists analyze and monitor data from a rider’s blood, has been effective in rooting out the riders who are doping. Doping cases have been started for nearly a dozen riders whose profiles have appeared abnormal.

“The sport of today is a completely different sport than it was five years ago, than it was 10 years ago, that I’m sure,” McQuaid said. “It’s unfortunate that Landis, a rider with some sort of an agenda, has chosen to try to diminish all the work we’ve been doing.”

Jonathan Vaughters, team director of Garmin-Transitions and a former rider on the Postal Service team, said that the passport program had helped move the sport in the right direction.

He said he was “100 percent sure” that his team was doping-free, and that he would release riders’ blood records to prove it. But he is aware that cycling’s dark past looms.

“I wanted this team to be a safe haven for those riders who don’t want to go down that path,” he said.

For Stapleton, delving into the past to finger riders who may have doped has only hurt the sport’s tattered image.

“I believe that these guys that Landis named are playing by the rules and you have to judge them by the standards of today, and not look back to things that may have happened years ago,” Stapleton said. “I don’t think a witch hunt will serve any purpose.”

He added: “I’m all for the older generation racing and succeeding and passing the drug tests, but they don’t define the sport anymore. Lance Armstrong doesn’t define the sport anymore. There’s a new generation of riders and teams who operate under a whole new set of rules. I think the fans should stay tuned for that.”
759 2010-05-24 Nystrom said: “I do notice that when there are conversations or TV shows, the Islanders are sort of left out. But that doesn’t matter — we did something for the folks on Long Island, and we’ve got four Stanley Cups.”

The Islanders were always a low-key group — some former players contacted for this article were unaware that the 30th anniversary of their first title was approaching — and none of them seemed terribly put out by the notion that they are something of a forgotten dynasty. But all agreed that what they accomplished did not receive the recognition it deserved.

Why it does not may be a byproduct of where the most heated discussions on the topic take place.

Debates over the best teams in N.H.L. history are not generally common in the United States. They are in Canada, and there, tales of the Canadiens are a fixture in the national psyche, as are the later exploits of the Oilers.

“You have to remember that hockey is Canada’s sport,” said Mike Bossy, the Islanders’ top sniper and a Montreal native. “In the end, it doesn’t surprise me that there is a bias toward the Canadian teams who have dominated in winning their championships.”

The five straight Stanley Cups the Canadiens won from 1956 to 1960 make up the longest streak, but it was accomplished in the six-team N.H.L., when only two series victories were needed to win the Cup. Like that edition of the Canadiens, Montreal was a juggernaut in the regular season and the postseason from 1976 to 1979. Those Canadiens won 13 straight series, well short of the Islanders’ 19.

The Oilers are recognized as a dynasty for winning five Cups in seven years, but they never captured more than two in a row. In the narrative of Edmonton’s rise to greatness, the Islanders play a secondary role as the team that swept the cocky young Oilers in the 1983 finals, teaching them lessons about focus and sacrifice that enabled the Oilers to beat them in the 1984 finals.

There are other reasons the Islanders get a bit lost in the discussion.

“Those teams had a little more glamour: Gretzky and the high-flying Oilers; the Canadiens, a storybook franchise,” the ex-Islanders defenseman Ken Morrow said. “We certainly didn’t flaunt our championships. We were sort of in the shadows in New York. Even when we were winning, the Rangers were the established team that got more of the attention.

“It was good for us: guys’ heads didn’t get too big. We just went about our business.”

Torrey, who still talks as if he is part of the organization despite having been affiliated with the Florida Panthers since 1993, joked about the Islanders’ place in the N.H.L. hierarchy.

“We’re a suburban team, so we’re used to being slighted,” he said.

A low-key team, an American team, a suburban team overshadowed by the Rangers, its older, more popular neighbor. The franchise has also had little success in the last 15 years, and relocation is often mentioned as a possibility. Those may be some of the reasons they are overlooked, but the argument for the ’80s Islanders as the best N.H.L. team ever is strong.

The bullet points begin with the 19 straight series victories — 16 while the Islanders won four Cups from 1980 through 1983, and three more in 1984 before they lost to Edmonton in five games in the finals. During the streak, they were pushed to a deciding game only twice.

They finished first over all in the regular-season standings twice. Seven members of the dynasty are in the Hockey Hall of Fame: Torrey; the coach, Al Arbour; Bossy; defenseman Denis Potvin; goaltender Billy Smith; Bryan Trottier, the team’s career scoring leader; and Clark Gillies, a linemate to Bossy and Trottier.

They were the first Stanley Cup winners with players from Europe (Anders Kallur and Stefan Persson of Sweden in 1980, joined by their countrymen Tomas Jonsson in 1982 and Mats Hallin in 1983). In 1981, Bossy became the second player, after Richard, to score 50 goals in 50 games. Potvin broke Bobby Orr’s career scoring marks for a defenseman and retired as the N.H.L.’s career leader among defensemen in goals, assists and points. All this from a franchise that came into existence only eight years before its first title.

“The 19 straight series, we hold that record probably as proudly as anything we ever did,” Trottier said. “Not only did we have to beat all those other teams, we had to overcome the bad bounces, the hot goaltender, the injuries, the bad calls from the refs — all the things that can beat you.”

Other teams were not so resourceful.

“People say if the Oilers hadn’t had that bad bounce against Calgary in ’86, they would have won five Cups in a row,” Bossy said, referring to Steve Smith’s own-goal that interrupted Edmonton’s title run. “But they did have it, and they couldn’t overcome it. We did overcome bad bounces.”

And in the hypothetical debate over which team is the best ever, could the Islanders be considered the answer?

“I don’t see why not,” Bossy said. “To have won 19 series in a row and 4 Cups in a row, I don’t see why not. We did what we did, and I’m proud of it.”
760 2010-05-24 Now, in this moment of painful budget cuts, with Arizona and more than a dozen other states placing children eligible for subsidized child care on waiting lists, only two kinds of families are reliably securing aid: those under the supervision of child protective services — which looks after abuse and neglect cases — and those receiving cash assistance.

Ms. Wallace abhors the thought of going on cash assistance, a station she associates with lazy people who con the system. Yet this has become the only practical route toward child care.

So, on a recent afternoon, she waited in a crush of beleaguered people to submit the necessary paperwork. Her effort to avoid welfare through work has brought her to welfare’s door.

“It doesn’t make sense to me,” she says. “I fall back to — I can’t say ‘being a lowlife’ — but being like the typical person living off the government. That’s not what I’m trying to do. I’m trying to use this as a backbone, so I can develop my own backbone.”

As the American social safety net absorbs its greatest challenge since , state budget cuts are weakening crucial components. Subsidized child care — financed by federal and state governments — is a conspicuous example.

When President Clinton signed into law the changes he declared would “end welfare as we know it,” he vowed that those losing government checks would gain enough support to enable their transition to the workplace.

“We will protect the guarantees of health care, nutrition and child care, all of which are critical to helping families move from welfare to work,” Mr. Clinton pledged in a radio address that year.

Now, with the jobless rate hovering near double digits and 6.7 million people unemployed for six months or longer, some states are rolling back child care.

“We’re really reneging on a commitment and a promise that we made to families,” said Patty Siegel, executive director of the Child Care Resource and Referral Network, an advocacy organization. “You can’t expect a family with young children to get on their feet and get jobs without child care.”

As part of last year’s package of spending measures aimed at stimulating the economy, the Obama administration added $2 billion for subsidized child care programs for 2009 and 2010, on top of the expected $5 billion a year. The administration has proposed a $1.6 billion increase for 2011. But even as this extra money has limited cuts and enabled some states to expand programs, officials acknowledge that it has not kept pace with the need.

“To say that we are in a difficult environment in terms of state budgets would be the understatement of the century,” said Sharon Parrott, an adviser to , the secretary of health and human services, which administers federal grants to states for child care. “It’s just not possible for the federal government to fill the entire hole, but the Recovery Act has provided critical help.”

Even some architects of the mid-1990s welfare overhaul now assert that low-income families are being denied resources required to enable them to work.

“We’re going the wrong way,” said Ron Haskins, a senior fellow at the who was a Republican Congressional aide and was instrumental in shaping welfare changes. “The direction public policy should move is to provide more of these mothers with subsidies. To tell people that the only way they can get day care is to go on welfare defeats the purpose of the whole thing.”

Here in — a city of roughly 500,000 people, sprawling across a parched valley dotted by cactus — Jamie Smith, a 23-year-old single mother, once had subsidized child care. That enabled her to work at Target, where she earned about $8 an hour. She paid $1.50 a day for her 3-year-old daughter, Wren, to stay at a child care center. The state picked up the rest.

She was aiming to resume college and then find a higher-paying job. But in December, she missed by a day the deadline to extend her subsidy. When she went to the state Department of Economic Security to submit new paperwork, she learned that all new applicants were landing on a waiting list.

Ms. Smith sought help from Wren’s father to look after their daughter. But he had his own job delivering pizza, limiting his availability.

“Some days, I’d just have to call in sick,” she said.

By March, she had missed so many days that Target put her on a leave of absence, telling her to come back after securing stable child care, she said.

Without the state program, she sees no viable options.

She, too, is contemplating going on welfare.

“It’s a blow to my own self-image and self-worth as a person who can take care of myself,” she says. “I’m totally able, physically and intellectually, to continue working. But I can’t work without child care, and I can’t afford child care without work.”

In many low-income working families, child care is one of the largest expenditures after housing. Among families with working mothers and incomes below the poverty line — $18,310 for a family of three — child care absorbs nearly a third of total household budgets, according to census data.

Yet long before the assailed state budgets, subsidized child care was not reaching the vast majority of families in need.

In 2000, only one in seven children whose families met federal eligibility requirements received aid, according to an analysis by the Center for Law and Social Policy, which advocates for expanded programs. In 2003, the Bush administration found that in the smaller group of children eligible under more restrictive state criteria, only 30 percent received subsidized care.

Until the Obama administration increased financing last year, federal support for subsidized child care had been steady for a decade. From 2001 to 2008, direct federal spending for subsidized child care through the Child Care and Development Fund — the primary source — nudged up to $5 billion a year, from about $4.6 billion, according to the .

During the same years, the number of children receiving subsidized child care under the program fell to 1.6 million in 2008, from an average of 1.8 million a month in 2001.

Data for last year has yet to be compiled, but federal officials and poverty experts assume the number of families eligible for help has climbed, given broad cuts in working hours and other sources of income.

At least nine states, including and , used increased federal aid through the to begin offering child care support to parents looking for work. Thus they expanded the case loads of such programs or lengthened the duration of the benefits, according to data compiled by the National Women’s Law Center, an advocacy group in Washington.

But at least nine other states, including Arizona, , and , have cut access to subsidized child care programs or the amounts they pay.

, and resorted to waiting lists. reduced its income eligibility from twice the poverty line to 150 percent — $33,075 annually for a family of four.

“The social safety net was always in patches, and now it’s more frayed,” said Helen Blank, director of leadership and public policy at the National Women’s Law Center. “For a single mom, it’s a lottery in many states whether she gets child care or not.”

This year, California altered its welfare reform program, cutting $215 million from child care financing given to counties and allowing families with young children to draw aid without looking for work. But it also means that those who want to pursue careers may effectively be consigned to the old welfare system, receiving monthly checks without support like child care.

“These women desperately want to be off cash aid,” said Ms. Siegel, at the California Child Care Resource and Referral Network. “That door has essentially been shut.”

Last week, Gov. proposed scrapping California’s entire welfare-to-work program, including child care and cash assistance, as the state grapples with a $19 billion budget shortfall — an action that would eliminate aid for roughly a million children.

In Arizona last year, stimulus funds prevented budget cuts that would have eliminated care for 15,000 eligible children. But as the budget crisis has ground on, the state has added names of eligible children to the wait list, a term that social service agencies deride as a euphemism.

“It’s really a turn-away list,” says Bruce Liggett, executive director of the Arizona Child Care Association, a -based advocacy group. “The program has been shut down.”

For Mr. Liggett, this amounts to a bitter turn. In the mid-1990s, he was a deputy director of the Arizona Department of Economic Security, where he helped put in place the new welfare-to-work program.

“We’ve seen devastating cuts,” he says. “For those families working to stay off welfare, we’re denying help. Welfare reform in Arizona is certainly a broken promise.”

Alexandria Wallace grew up in a middle-class home topped by Spanish tile, with a swimming pool out back and a view of jagged reddish mountains. Her decline from work to welfare began in the spring of 2009.

She was working three days a week at a call center for Wireless, earning about $9.50 an hour while attending beauty school at night to earn a license as a cosmetologist. She aimed to use earnings from that profession as a springboard to nursing school.

Alaya was enrolled at a child care center, with a state subsidy, and Ms. Wallace was pleased with the girl’s experiences there — singing songs, learning to share. But when Ms. Wallace sent in the forms to extend the program, she received a rude surprise: a recent raise — less than 50 cents an hour — had bumped her above the income limit.

With no one to watch her daughter on a regular basis, she quit her job at the call center and began working at her mother’s thrift store for $7.50 an hour while she finished beauty school.

Ms. Wallace reapplied for child care. Now she qualified, but she landed on the wait list.

She shared a two-bedroom apartment with a couple and their 5-year-old daughter, and she sometimes paid them $25 to look after Alaya. But the woman worked, and the man seemed more interested in his PlayStation than the children, Ms. Wallace said.

“I’d come home from work in the afternoon, and Alaya would still be in her pajamas,” she said. “It’s so hard to find someone to really take care of your kid.”

Her younger brother sometimes helped, but reluctantly and irregularly.

A classmate at beauty school offered to watch Alaya during the day. In exchange, Ms. Wallace took care of her friend’s 18-month-old boy every evening.

Her days tending to customers gave way to nights caring for a baby in a cramped apartment while cooking dinner and cleaning her house. Alaya was jealous and demanded extra attention. Ms. Wallace was perpetually exhausted.

Still, this arrangement provided enough stability that Ms. Wallace began cutting hair at a nearby salon. Her first month, she brought home about $500. She felt confident her clientele would grow.

Then, her friend canceled the swap, forcing Ms. Wallace to bring Alaya to the salon, where she tried to keep her occupied with cartoons in a back room.

Soon her car broke down, forcing her to rely on family and the public bus to get to work, which did not always happen.

Her boss had been kind, but patience wore thin.

“She was like, ‘Your baby sitter bailed on you, your car broke down. What do you have left?’ ” Ms. Wallace said. “She said, ‘If you can’t get something worked out, I’m going to have to let you go.’ ”

Even after she lost that job, Ms. Wallace remained confident she could find another.

Then it dawned on her. Given the state of the social safety net, unemployment might provide the solution. She could qualify for cash assistance, which would require her to enroll in a state jobs program and would include help securing child care.

“It’s something I have to do to get where I need to go,” she said.

She plans to stay on cash assistance long enough to gain child care, then find another job. She would then lose cash assistance, but could hang onto child care as long as her income stayed below the eligibility limit.

These were her thoughts as she stood in an airless office, amid the sounds of unhappy children in the arms of tired women, waiting to hand in the forms to receive welfare.

“Oh no,” she said, peeking inside a white envelope full of documents and spotting a brown smudge. “My kid got chocolate on her birth certificate.”

She ducked into the ladies room and dabbed the stain with wet paper towel.

When she stepped outside an hour later, beneath a pounding Arizona sun, $220 a month was headed her way. Her daughter was waiting at her parents’ house. Her future — a working car, a steady job — was waiting out there, too, she told herself, though it had a way of coming in and out of focus.

“I’m just trying to get my life situated to where I can look beyond the day to day,” she said. “I hope it all falls together the way it all fell apart.”
761 2010-05-24 Now, don’t cry for these people: they’ll still be doing extremely well, and by and large they’ll be paying little more as a percentage of their income than they did in the 1990s. Yet the fact that the tax increases they’re facing are reasonable doesn’t stop them from being very, very angry.

Nor are taxes the whole story.

Many Obama supporters have been disappointed by what they see as the administration’s mildness on regulatory issues — its embrace of limited financial reform that doesn’t break up the biggest banks, its support for , and so on. Yet corporate interests are balking at even modest changes from the permissiveness of the Bush era.

From the outside, this rage against regulation seems bizarre. I mean, what did they expect? The financial industry, in particular, ran wild under deregulation, eventually bringing on a crisis that has left 15 million Americans unemployed, and required large-scale taxpayer-financed bailouts to avoid an even worse outcome. Did Wall Street expect to emerge from all that without facing some new restrictions? Apparently it did.

So what and his party now face isn’t just, or even mainly, an opposition grounded in right-wing populism. For grass-roots anger is being channeled and exploited by corporate interests, which will be the big winners if the G.O.P. does well in November.

If this sounds familiar, it should: it’s the same formula the right has been using for a generation. Use identity politics to whip up the base; then, when the election is over, give priority to the concerns of your corporate donors. Run as the candidate of “real Americans,” not those soft-on-terror East coast liberals; then, once you’ve won, declare that you have a mandate to privatize . It comes as no surprise to learn that American Crossroads, a new organization whose goal is to deploy large amounts of corporate cash on behalf of Republican candidates, is the brainchild of none other than .

But won’t the grass-roots rebel at being used? Don’t count on it. Last week , the darling who is now the Republican nominee for senator from , declared that the president’s criticism of over the disastrous in the gulf is “un-American,” that “sometimes accidents happen.” The mood on the right may be populist, but it’s a kind of populism that’s remarkably sympathetic to big corporations.

So where does that leave the president and his party? Mr. Obama wanted to transcend partisanship. Instead, however, he finds himself very much in the position described in a famous 1936 speech, struggling with “the old enemies of peace — business and financial monopoly, speculation, reckless banking, class antagonism, sectionalism, war profiteering.”

And that’s not necessarily a bad thing. Roosevelt turned corporate opposition into a badge of honor: “I welcome their hatred,” he declared. It’s time for President Obama to find his inner F.D.R., and do the same.
762 2010-05-24 Imagine a player piano. Now imagine you’re a guitarist and composer named Pat Metheny and that you have a kind of player piano that can both play what you’ve composed for it — not through perforated paper but digital technology — and also replicate whatever you’re playing on the guitar. You can also play a long phrase on the guitar and command the piano to loop the phrase, so that you can play against the loop.

Now for the big leap. There’s not just a piano. There are two pianos. There’s also a vibraphone; a marimba; a groaning array of drums, cymbals and shakers; an acoustic guitar and bass; eight individual one-string guitar robots; and two apothecary shelves of glass bottles filled with liquid at different levels, which produce a vocal-ish sound from jets of air blown therein. A wink of light flashes wherever a sound happens.

You’ve called it an orchestrion, referring to the no-hands, multi-instrument contraptions made in the 50 years or so before the advent of recording technology. You’ve done it mostly with solenoids — transducers that use electromagnetic energy — and the rest with pneumatics.

You’re the only human onstage at Town Hall on Friday. You’ve got your foot pedals and five or six guitars, but also there’s an orchestrion behind you, under wraps — instruments in cages and carpentry, on rods and risers — and 1,500 people before you.

They’ve never seen anything quite like this before. It’s best not to overwhelm them, so you begin with solo guitar: several pieces you’ve recorded over the last three years with Brad Mehldau, and a song (“Unity Village”) from your first album. It’s pretty strummy, a lot of parallel chords. Then you un-tarp the imaginarium, the crowd says, “Whoa!,” and you start activating things.

You haven’t compromised in the music for “Orchestrion,” the new Nonesuch recording of this colossus: a suite, through-composed, rhythmically complex, Brazilian-ish in parts, powered by the counterpoint of mallet instruments, with sections of static harmony as an open background for your guitar solos. It’s very dense, though. You’ve made that machine prove itself. The biggest challenge — as it was for the player-piano industry — is rhythm and dynamics. How do you make rhythm sound comfortable, and not as if it’s made by a robot?
763 2010-05-24 Starting with the 2002 World Cup in South Korea and Japan, however, European pay-TV providers gained a foothold, as the time difference between Europe and Asia made some of the games less attractive to mainstream broadcasters.

Now, as free commercial channels and public broadcasters wrestle with budgetary constraints, pay-television providers, which have come through the recession in better health, are making further gains.

In France, for example, 8 of the 64 World Cup matches will be available exclusively on Canal Plus, a pay-TV provider. The opening for Canal Plus came when TF1, a commercial broadcaster that had bought French rights to all the matches, offered up several packages of games to rivals last winter after sustaining a plunge in advertising revenue during the recession.

“The rights fees have gone up so much, many broadcasters are not going to be able to cover the cost through advertising alone,” said Tim Westcott, senior analyst at Screen Digest, a research firm in London.

Screen Digest estimates that the World Cup will add from 1 to 2 percentage points to growth in global television advertising revenue this year. For a broadcaster like TF1 in France, the firm said, that could mean an extra €20 million to €30 million.

But TF1 spent €120 million, or $152 million, on the rights, reportedly recouping only €33 million of that when it resold some of the matches.

In some European countries, pay TV providers have acquired a majority of the games.

In Spain, Sogecable has exclusive rights to 40 of the matches. In Italy, Sky Italia will show 39 of the games exclusively.

European cultural regulations still require key games of national interest to be shown on free television. Generally, those include the final, the semifinals and any match involving the home team in its domestic market. In Britain, however, the entire tournament is subject to such rules, so the World Cup broadcasts will be shared between the publicly owned British Broadcasting Corp. and a free commercial broadcaster, ITV.

“Whenever you talk about the World Cup being on pay TV, lurking at the back of your mind is concern that some politician will say, ‘This is terrible, the World Cup is part of our cultural heritage,”’ said Ross Biggam, director general of the Association of Commercial Television in Europe, which includes pay TV operators among its membership. “But there is already protection in place for that.”

In many smaller European countries, public broadcasters still have a firm grip on the World Cup, under a collective agreement between FIFA, the governing body for the tournament, and the European Broadcasting Union, a group representing public broadcasters.

A similar deal was signed between FIFA and the African Union of Broadcasters, providing viewers with free access to all the World Cup matches across much of sub-Saharan Africa.

But in some parts of North Africa and the Middle East, fans may have to pay up; Al Jazeera, which owns the rights across much of the region, is making the games available only on premium channels in a number of countries.

In some places where pay television operators own exclusive match rights, fans are protesting.

A Facebook group in Singapore, for example, is calling for a boycott of matches on the pay-TV providers Singapore Telecommunications and StarHub, saying they are charging too much to watch the games.

By bringing pay television into the mix, FIFA has been able to generate significantly more revenue from the sale of television rights.

Worldwide, this has generated $2.15 billion, up 53 percent from the 2006 event, according to Sportcal, a research firm.

“There’s always debate in the sport business between maximizing revenue and maximizing coverage,” which is important in order to keep sponsors happy, said Ezechiel Abatan, senior researcher at Sportcal. “FIFA has been pretty good at doing both.”

While audiences in a few markets may be constrained by the need to pay, viewership is expected to continue to grow in other places, including the United States.

There, the rights are shared by ABC, a free network, and the ESPN cable service, both of which are owned by Walt Disney, and Univision, a Spanish-language channel.

Amid growing interest in the World Cup in the United States, ESPN has been promoting the tournament heavily — announcing, among other things, plans to broadcast some of the games in three dimensions, for viewing on specially equipped 3-D television sets.

Worldwide, Mr. Alavy, the ad researcher, estimated that the audience could grow as much as 5 percent from the already hugely popular 2006 World Cup in Germany. Individual games will attract an average live viewership of about 125 million, he said, roughly the same as for the Super Bowl, the championship match in American football.

The average live audience for the World Cup final could be as high as 350 million, he said.

A lot will depend on which teams progress to the final. For broadcasters, the dream match-up would be Brazil vs. England, Mr. Alavy said, because those teams historically have attracted the biggest international TV audiences. The worst potential pairing: New Zealand vs. North Korea.
764 2010-05-24 Kuznetsova, seeded sixth, lost the first three games of her match against Sorana Cirstea of Romania. Then she won the next nine and cruised to a 6-3, 6-1 victory on the same court where she won the final nearly a year ago.

Tsonga was challenged by the rising 22-year-old German Daniel Brands, who matched his opponent’s power and resolve with a steely confidence. The two took turns breaking each other’s serve in the deciding set, and Brands fought off two match points before succumbing, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-7 (2), 7-5.

“I was not at the top of my game,” Tsonga said. “I was not at the top of my shape with regards to running. Many things. But what’s important is winning it at the end of the day.”

The day brought a few lower-level upsets. Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, a quarterfinalist last year and seeded 10th this time, was less-dramatically escorted from the women’s side of the tournament with a 6-1, 6-2 loss to Gisela Dulko of Argentina.

The rout was startling, the result less a surprise. Dulko, 25, has won at least one match at Roland Garros each year since 2004, when she beat Martina Navratilova in the first round. (That year, Dulko repeated the feat about a month later in the second round at Wimbledon, making her the rare player with an undefeated career record against Navratilova.)

Dulko has positioned herself to make a deep run. She will face the qualifier Chanelle Scheepers. María José Martínez Sánchez, the 20th seed from Spain, who had been a possible third-round opponent, was beaten by Akgul Amanmuradova of Uzbekistan.

The upset that followed on Court Suzanne Lenglen delighted the home fans, as France’s Julien Benneteau battered No. 23 Ernests Gulbis of Latvia, who retired with what he believed was a hamstring injury in the third set. Gulbis beat Federer in the second round at Rome in April and was a popular choice for a long run here. But Benneteau, a 28-year-old whose ranking has idled in the 30s for several years, was underwhelmed by Gulbis’s upward mobility. He won, 6-4, 6-2, 1-0 (retired).

It was part of a pleasant opening-day triple feature for the French. The brightest moment came as Aravane Rezaï, seeded 15th and dressed in shimmery gold, cruised past Canada’s Heidi El Tabakh, 6-1, 6-1, before a boisterous and friendly crowd at Chatrier.

Rezaï was unseeded earlier this month in Madrid but she opened the tournament by beating Justine Henin and closed it by beating Venus Williams in the final. Suddenly, Rezaï has a country’s hopes pinned to her like a corsage, and she thrived in the attention on the main court Sunday.

“There was a lot of stress on me,” Rezaï said in French. “It was not easy to manage these feelings, but really, I enjoyed it, to see the crowd there, waiting for me on center court, the first match. It’s always so nice to be waited for.”

She recognized the danger, however, of expectations overwhelming accomplishment.

“But let’s be careful,” she said. “That’s a pitfall.”

Most men’s results stuck to form. Croatia’s Marin Cilic, seeded 10th, slowly swept away Brazil’s Ricardo Mello, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1. No. 11 Mikhail Youzhny beat Michal Przysiezny in straight sets.

Most of the bigger names practiced and waited for the rest of the first-round matches on Monday and Tuesday.

Federer, No. 3 Novak Djokovic and No. 4 Andy Murray are among the men scheduled to play Monday. Those who will have to wait until Tuesday to start the tournament include No. 2 Nadal, No. 6 Andy Roddick, No. 7 Fernando Verdasco and No. 9 David Ferrer.

On the women’s side, Monday’s schedule includes top-seeded Serena Williams, No. 3 Caroline Wozniacki, No. 4 Jelena Jankovic, No. 5 Elena Dementieva and No. 7 Samantha Stosur. Among those scheduled to begin play Tuesday are the four-time champion Henin (perched at a post-retirement No. 22 seed), No. 9 Dinara Safina and No. 12 Maria Sharapova.

For a few moments on Sunday morning, it appeared that the tournament could begin with one of the biggest upsets in history; only one female defending champion — Anastasia Myskina in 2005 — has lost in the first round.

But Kuznetsova struggled all spring on clay, and Cirstea reached the quarterfinals here last year by beating Alizé Cornet, Wozniacki and Jankovic in consecutive rounds before losing to Stosur.

A smattering of fans took a liking to Cirstea, who was wearing a bright orange outfit with a short skirt and a dark ponytail that stretched midway down her back. But her quick start unraveled amid missed first serves, and Kuznetsova forced mistakes by picking on Cirstea’s backhand side.

“Definitely I was a little bit nervous in the start, and it was rough start for me, but I think I’m very happy about it,” Kuznetsova said.

With an uncomplicated opening match and room-temperature conditions, it felt as if the French Open was dipping gently into its two-week schedule. But there promises to be more excitement on the horizon; the big names are on the way, and forecasts suggest the likelihood of midweek rain.
765 2010-05-24 Urbanspoon made a name for itself with a mobile application that served up listings of nearby eateries after you gave the phone a hearty shake.     Now, the company is hoping to make fresh ripples in the restaurant industry with a reservation syst...
766 2010-05-25 Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, is broadly optimistic financial reform is headed in the right direction, he said on Monday at the Japan Society’s Annual Dinner in New York....
767 2010-05-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
768 2010-05-25 After the collapse of Bob and Harvey Weinstein's bid to win back Miramax Films, the Walt Disney Company has resumed casual talks with a competing bidder....
769 2010-05-25 What do you think about denim diapers and chocolate toddler formula?...
770 2010-05-25 Following the collapse on Friday of Bob and Harvey Weinstein's bid to win back Miramax Films, the Walt Disney Company, which owns the boutique label, has resumed casual talks with a competing bidder....
771 2010-05-25 Our new photo uploader, called Stuffy, uses a NoSQL storage engine for speed and flexibility....
772 2010-05-25 AT&T has added a disclaimer to a television commercial that some viewers have suggested may be based too closely on the work of the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude....
773 2010-05-25 Studying Japan remains very useful for understanding where all of us are these days....
774 2010-05-25 The senators on the House-Senate conference committee on the financial regulatory bill are coming from the Banking Committee and the Agriculture Committee....
775 2010-05-25 The House negotiators won't be chosen until after the weeklong Memorial break....
776 2010-05-25 Travel wisdom is something to cherish, especially when you consider all you had to go through to acquire it....
777 2010-05-25 Justine Henin marked her return to Roland Garros with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over Tsvetana Pironkova of Bulgaria....
778 2010-05-25 Which companies do hedge funds love most? According to Goldman Sachs's most recent quarterly Hedge Fund Monitor report, the answer is Apple, followed by Bank of America and Google....
779 2010-05-25 Over the last year or so, many hedge funds have scored big betting on financial firms. But, if they're are still in the game, they're taking a beating, Business Insider says....
780 2010-05-25 Oxygen Media, part of NBC Universal, has signed up the Yoplait brand of yogurt sold by General Mills as the sponsor of the national tour of its reality dance competition series called "Dance Your Ass Off."...
781 2010-05-25 National regulators should have the power to intervene early in a banking crisis and should have the right to replace senior management at troubled companies, a group representing the world's largest financial firms said on Monday....
782 2010-05-25 For consumers trying to figure out what the financial overhaul bill means for them, the legislation the Senate passed Thursday offers some tantalizing possibilities, Ron Lieber writes in The New York Times....
783 2010-05-25 A shaky finish on Wall Street and nervousness over the health of some European banks sent Asian stock markets sharply lower on Tuesday, with falls of more than 2 percent on several of the region's bigger indexes....
784 2010-05-25 SAN FRANCISCO — Hoping to energize its lackluster consumer devices division, Microsoft will reorganize parts of its phone and game unit this week, people familiar with the matter said.

While Microsoft has been very successful with business and productivity software, it has struggled when it comes to wooing consumers with new gadgets and services. As part of a larger structural overhaul to address some of these issues, Microsoft will shake up its entertainment and devices group currently headed by Robert J. Bach, these people said. Mr. Bach has watched over products like Microsoft’s Xbox 360, the Zune music player and Windows Mobile phone software.

Microsoft’s entertainment group sells millions of Xboxes and related games and has one of the most popular online services tied to its gaming platform, which competes against similar products from Sony and Nintendo. It plans to sell a new add-on for the Xbox, codenamed Project Natal, that lets people play games by using body gestures rather than handheld controllers.

But Microsoft has suffered from years of blunders in the cellphone market. The company will have a new smartphone operating system later this year and just released its Kin phone models for younger consumers. But it has lost market share to Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android phone. As Apple’s iPad has come to define the tablet market in a matter of months, Microsoft has shut down its own tablet project run by J Allard, the group’s chief technology officer.

News of the anticipated shakeup was first reported by The Wall Street Journal’s Web site Monday night.
785 2010-05-25 Workers won an important victory at the Supreme Court on Monday when the justices ruled unanimously that a group of African-American applicants to the Chicago Fire Department did not wait too long to challenge a hiring test they claimed was discriminatory.

If interpreted properly by the lower courts, the ruling could give a chance at relief to minority groups, women, the elderly the disabled and others claiming to be victims of a discriminatory employment practice long after the practice went into effect.

The court ruled that the black firefighters could sue the city of Chicago over the scoring system on a test that they claimed had overwhelmingly favored white applicants. The issue was not the test itself, which a lower court had already ruled discriminatory against blacks, but the time lapse in bringing the suit. Under Title VII of the civil rights law, plaintiffs are supposed to file no later than 300 days after an unfair practice occurs; the question here is whether the practice occurred only when the scoring system began or every time the test was given.

Determining when a time limit begins became a serious issue after the Supreme Court ruled in 2007 against Lilly Ledbetter, who had been paid less than men for years by her employer, Goodyear Tire and Rubber, saying she should have filed her complaint shortly after her pay was set, even if she did not know then about the disparity. Fortunately, Congress overturned that decision last year.

Writing for the full court, Justice Antonin Scalia insisted that there was a difference between the two cases.

Ms. Ledbetter’s deadline, he wrote, started with the first act of discrimination against her because she was trying to prove that Goodyear’s pay system caused a “disparate treatment” of men and women, a stricter standard that can result in more damages but requires proof of intentional discrimination. The aspiring firefighters, on the other hand, were trying to show that the test had only a “disparate impact,” which does not require intentional discrimination, and, Mr. Scalia wrote, lacks the strict deadline requirements.

Justice Scalia had written in a racial discrimination case last year that he had serious misgivings about the disparate-impact laws, and — as much as we disagreed with the Ledbetter decision — it was encouraging to see that he did not give in to those doubts on Monday.
786 2010-05-25 In case you need a refresher, New Yorkers voted twice in the 1990s to limit major elected officials in the city to two consecutive terms. But as Mr. Bloomberg and Ms. Quinn were approaching the end of the line, they exploited the financial meltdown of 2008 to push through legislation overriding the people’s expressed will.

The city, they said, couldn’t possibly get along without them and such indispensable figures as the borough presidents and some do-nothing Council members.

With no small amount of arm-twisting, they got the Council to raise the limit to three terms, never mind poll results showing that New Yorkers overwhelmingly wanted any proposed change to be submitted to a referendum, as in the ’90s.

Voter outrage was evident. Despite outspending his main opponent by 12 to 1, Mr. Bloomberg barely won re-election last November. Four of the 29 Council members who self-servingly supported him on term limits were shown the door by voters, a high rejection rate for incumbents. Two others among the 29 were later charged with corruption. One has already gone to prison. Such is the stellar nature of one or two of the best lawmakers money could buy.

Like the man who came to dinner, the term limits issue doesn’t go away. It is now in the hands of the Charter Revision Commission, which has several tasks, one of which is to convince skeptical New Yorkers that it is not a wholly owned subsidiary of Mr. Bloomberg.

On a more substantive level, the panel’s 15 members have to figure out what to recommend to city voters: Keep the limit at three terms? Revert to two terms? Stay with three for the Council but restrict the far more powerful mayor to two? Perhaps eliminate limits altogether?

Whatever the commissioners decide, they will act in the shadow of the 2008 Bloomberg-Quinn maneuvering. “How they’re going to look at it is influenced by what happened,” said Frederick A.O. Schwarz Jr., who in 1989 led a charter commission that brought about the most far-reaching revisions of modern times.

Mr. Schwarz called it “very likely” that the current panel will insist that any results of a new referendum be undone only by still another referendum.

“In other words,” he said, “it won’t be possible for ordinary legislation to change term limits.”

Even if the commission doesn’t impose such a requirement, it should ensure that no sitting mayor and Council can subvert the rules to benefit themselves, Mr. Schwarz said.

There should be guarantees that any legislation would apply only to future officeholders, just as the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution, limiting the president to two terms and adopted in 1951, didn’t apply to the man then in the White House, Harry S. Truman.

Randy Mastro, a former deputy mayor who led a charter commission in the 1990s, saw no reason to trust those in power to act in good faith if left to their own devices. “Self-interested politicians tend to act in their self-interest,” he said.

“Process does matter,” Mr. Mastro added, “and it’s an outrage what they did, not putting it back to the voters. Once the voters have spoken, twice and decisively, you don’t take it away from them the third time.”
787 2010-05-25 Vladimir V. Putin, then Russia’s president, ordered the prosecution of an oil tycoon because he was supporting political parties without Mr. Putin’s permission, former Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov said in court on Monday. The tycoon, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, owner of the now bankrupt Yukos company, and his partner, Platon Lebedev, are accused of embezzling 350 million tons of oil. After Mr. Khodorkovsky was arrested, Mr. Kasyanov, left, pressed Mr. Putin for an explanation. “He said something like this: That Yukos was financing political parties — not just the Union of Right Forces and Yabloko, which he, President Putin, allowed them to finance, but also the Communist Party, which he, President Putin, did not allow them to finance,” Mr. Kasyanov testified. He said he was shocked to learn that “lawful support of political parties still required secret approval from the president of the Russian Federation.”
788 2010-05-25 Opposition leaders moved to impeach Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva on Monday for his handling of rioting and violence in Bangkok, and an army official said the city would remain under curfew for another week as a precaution against further unrest. The impeachment measure and a move to censure top cabinet officials were expected to be defeated easily. Two months of antigovernment protests left at least 88 dead and the Thai capital in flames. All but one of the senior antigovernment red-shirt leaders were in custody on Monday after the surrender of two more major figures.
789 2010-05-25 LONDON — A doctor whose research and public statements caused widespread alarm that a common childhood vaccine could cause autism was banned on Monday from practicing medicine in his native Britain for ethical lapses, including conducting invasive medical procedures on children that they did not need.

The General Medical Council applied its most severe sanction against the doctor, Andrew Wakefield, 53, who abandoned his medical practice in Britain in 2004 as questions intensified about his research and set up a center to study childhood developmental disorders in Texas, despite not being licensed as a physician there.

In January, after the longest investigation in its history, the council found several instances of what it said was unprofessional conduct by Dr. Wakefield. It cited his taking blood samples for his study from children at his son’s birthday party; he paid each child £5, about $7.20 today, and joked about it later. It also noted that part of the costs of Dr. Wakefield’s research was paid by lawyers for parents seeking to sue vaccine makers for damages.

Dr. Wakefield left the Texas center in February, but continued to speak out against his treatment in Britain, as he did in interviews in New York on Monday, when he called the British decision to strike him off the medical register an effort to “discredit and silence” him. He said he would appeal the decision, which will take effect, unless suspended for legal reasons, within 28 days.

The disciplinary tribunal’s action came after more than a decade of controversy over the links Dr. Wakefield and associates in Britain, as well as supporters among parents of some autistic children in Britain and the United States, have made between autism and a commonly used vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella. The suggestion of a link caused use of the vaccine in Britain and elsewhere in the world to plummet, a development that critics of Dr. Wakefield said contributed to a sharp rise in measles cases in countries where the vaccine was in use.
790 2010-05-25 National regulators should have the power to intervene early in a banking crisis, including the right to replace senior management at troubled companies, a group representing the world’s largest financial firms recommended on Monday.

The comments were part of a report by the group, the Institute of International Finance, as governments were moving toward new rules on bank supervision.

The group also recommended that the costs of future bank failures be shouldered by shareholders and creditors, rather than taxpayers.

The report said policy makers should be able to order capital increases or restructuring via debt-equity swaps; to identify business units vital to the financial system and transfer those to third parties where necessary; and to delay termination clauses in financial transactions to buy time for struggling firms — for a short period.

Peter Sands, chief executive of Standard Chartered and chairman of the group’s regulation committee, said, “Any additional costs arising out of the winding down of firms should be shouldered by the financial industry itself.” Direct losses should be “borne by equity holders as well as by uninsured unsecured creditors,” he said, and regulators should promote private solutions like takeovers of weak firms by stronger ones.
791 2010-05-25 Twenty-three years of teaching at the Naval Academy hardly qualified Bruce Fleming for lumping West Point and the Air Force Academy into his indictment of the Naval Academy for its slide into mediocrity. Each military academy has its own military culture, academic system and standards for varsity sports participation.

Everything I know about West Point leads me to believe that it has maintained just as high standards as it had when I graduated from the academy in 1969, and its graduates are every bit as well trained and highly motivated as they were in my day.

The writer is the author of two novels about West Point.

My son is a midshipman at the Naval Academy. While I am familiar with the issues Bruce Fleming raises — lowered academic standards, preferential treatment for athletes — I assure you that these young people who have volunteered to serve our country during wartime are anything but mediocre. I have come to know many who pursue excellence in all areas of their lives: academic, military and physical.

Mr. Fleming refers to the academies as “holdovers from the 19th century” that “produce burned-out midshipmen and cadets.” I believe that these midshipmen and cadets are some of our nation’s best and brightest. Many exemplify the principles that make our country great: loyalty, honor, service, sacrifice and hard work.

Don’t write them off because the institutions need reform. They deserve better.

While readers may justifiably disagree about the specifics of Prof. Bruce Fleming’s thoughts on the Naval Academy, we ought to agree that the Naval Academy has on its faculty a man who has the guts to criticize the place publicly — and this speaks well of the academy.

Great institutions welcome criticism from the inside — and the more robust, the better.

My grandfather, who graduated from the academy in 1928, was a varsity athlete in two sports: football and baseball. But he rarely spoke about sports, preferring to stress the importance of the development of intellect in the making of a naval officer.

I’m certain he would have enjoyed Professor Fleming’s essay — and would have been proud of the academy for employing a man who stands by his academic ideals in public.

Bruce Fleming raises some valid criticisms, particularly in terms of the leniency afforded football players. But in a year spent following a squadron of cadets at the Air Force Academy, I didn’t find racial diversity to be the enemy of excellence. During that year, a record number of freshmen ended their first semester on academic probation, a feat that had nothing to do with the small share of blacks admitted — fewer than 5 percent — and much to do with the many distractions available to today’s students.

Mr. Fleming’s criticism of the myriad ways that academies help cadets stay on track to graduate can equally be seen as a strength, resulting in 80 percent of entering cadets graduating four years later, regardless of race — a rate of success that would be the envy of virtually any civilian campus in this country.

There are criticisms to be made of the academy: training has become more about indoctrination than professionalism, and the godlike power of upperclassmen — at the heart of that indoctrination — can foster abuse. The cure, though, will not come from returning to the past, but from embracing the complexity of the present.

The writer, a former reporter for The New York Times, is the author of “Skies to Conquer: A Year Inside the Air Force Academy.”

I was disappointed in Bruce Fleming’s criticism of the Naval Academy as a “military Disneyland.”

The football players and minority members I remember from the class of 2005, some of whom Mr. Fleming suggests were undeserving of admission, serve their country today with the same honor, skill and enthusiasm as their classmates and past graduates.

Service academies achieve diversity by accepting a limited number from each Congressional district; each class includes the best students from communities across America. Admitting only top students from elite prep schools would produce officers out of touch with the society they swear to defend.

Mr. Fleming claims that service academy standards have fallen. In fact, the scholastic achievements of recent classes indicate that academic standards have never been higher. Mr. Fleming has two choices. Work from within to improve the institution to his standard of excellence. Or vote with his feet.
792 2010-05-25 “We’re moving away from the saccharine and getting into a little more reality and humor,” said Richie Glickman, a JWT creative director who worked on that spot and the latest one.

While it is, in the most literal sense, potty humor, Mr. Glickman said such ads resonated with parents at a deeper level.

“We wanted to get at the truth in parenting, which is that sometimes it can be messy and wild and chaotic, but it can also be fun and funny,” Mr. Glickman said.

Not everyone is laughing, though. While the jeans diaper commercial, which is scheduled to run on May 31, was accepted by 13 networks, including NBC, TNT and E!, three others, ABC, ABC Family and Sprout, objected to screen text at the end of the spot that included the word “pooping,” according to Huggies. (The brand did not seek to advertise on either CBS or Fox.) For those networks, the text was changed to, “When you gotta go, go in style.”

While diapers are undeniably necessities, the industry is not recession-proof. In the 52 weeks ending April 18, total sales of disposable diapers and training pants dropped 2.5 percent, to $2.4 billion, over the previous 52 weeks, according to SymphonyIRI, a market research firm whose data does not include Wal-Mart.

Revenue for the top seller, Huggies Snug and Dry, fell 4.7 percent and for second-place Pampers Baby Dry dropped 13 percent, while revenues for less expensive private-label brands offered by retailers like Target and Costco surged 13.9 percent.

“As more consumers buy private label, total dollar sales become suppressed because the category can’t create new customers,” stated a February report on disposable baby products by Mintel, a market research firm. “There are a finite number of babies each year.”

There are, in fact, fewer. According to recently released data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, births dropped nearly 2 percent in 2008, a downward trend expected to also be reflected in 2009, as many wait for the economic gloom to pass before starting families.

Huggies spent $31 million in advertising in 2009, while Procter & Gamble spent $47.8 million on its diaper brands — $32.4 million on Pampers and $15.3 on Luvs, a lower-priced brand, according to Kantar Media.

In March, Pampers introduced new versions of their diapers that were thinner, owing to an absorbency technology called Dry Max, but the redesign has drawn criticism from thousands of parents on Facebook and on Pampers.com, some of whom claim the new diapers cause rashes. The company did not return messages requesting comment.

As for Huggies’ new diapers with a denim pattern, research conducted by the brand found that 40 percent of mothers wear jeans most days of the week and 57 percent buy jeans for babies within their first six months.

“We know that moms live in jeans,” said Stuart Schneider, senior brand director at Huggies. “It’s a very fashion-forward trend.”

The brand has sold jean diapers for limited periods in more than 20 countries, beginning with Israel in 2007, and stores in the United States and Canada will carry the products only in June and July, warmer months when pants might be eschewed.

“The jeans diaper could be used as a primary garment, in some cases, as a denim-shorts type of execution,” Mr. Schneider said.

Jen Drexler, co-founder of Just Ask a Woman, a marketing firm that specializes in reaching female consumers, said that jeans were a “uniform” for young mothers and that Huggies had identified a “great social currency moment” — not to mention the convenience.

“It is significantly easier to have your kid run around in just a diaper, but you do feel a little bit like you’re neglecting the kid,” Ms. Drexler said. But the denim diapers, she added, could lead to “an explosion of diapers that don’t need clothing.”

The kicker, Ms. Drexler said, is that, when parents do first model the new diaper on babies in public, it is apt to prompt not stern looks but the opposite.

“There’s always one mom in the play group who is in the know and an early adopter of cool things,” Ms. Drexler says. “The first who has these in the play group, wins.”
793 2010-05-25 Re “Can an Enemy Be a Child’s Friend?” (Mind, May 18): A study suggests that “when someone dislikes you, it may be adaptive to dislike them back.” Yes, but as a mom, author, and advice columnist, I know that if you fight a queen bee, you’re likely to get stung. When friendships go sour, girls should reach out to other kids and recognize that the world is crowded and not made of just two people orbiting each other. Disengaging is not easy, but it is liberating.
794 2010-05-25 The Texas Rangers voluntarily pushed themselves into bankruptcy on Monday to facilitate the team’s sale to a group of investors led by Chuck Greenberg and the team’s president, Nolan Ryan, for about $575 million.

The team and Major League Baseball took the unusual step so that the new owners would not be saddled with much of the debt held by the current owner, the HSG Sports Group.

In a statement, the team said the bankruptcy was “prepackaged” and supported by baseball and the HSG Sports Group. It also said the sale of the team would produce enough money to pay the Rangers’ creditors in full, including players, like Alex Rodriguez, who were still owed millions of dollars in salary.

The team said it asked the bankruptcy court for a hearing within 45 days, and it hoped the sale would be completed by midsummer. The club said it had assets and debts of between $100 million and $500 million. “This agreement assures an orderly process to expeditiously transfer Rangers ownership to the Greenberg-Ryan group, and it protects the franchise’s baseball operations,” Bud Selig, baseball commissioner, said in a statement.

The league will also loan the Rangers money so that the team “continues to meet all of its obligations while the sale is being completed.”

The HSG Sports Group defaulted on more than $500 million in loans last year, prompting Thomas Hicks, who leads the group, to look for investors to buy the team. The Greenberg-Ryan group was chosen above the other bidders in January. The sale was first supposed to be completed by the beginning of the season. The lenders to the HSG Sports Group, though, have argued that there are at least two more lucrative bids for the team that must be considered. They have been pushing baseball — thus far unsuccessfully — to reconsider those bids.
795 2010-05-25 One in 10 new fathers experience prenatal or postpartum depression, a condition long thought to affect only mothers, according to a new analysis of dozens of earlier studies.

The men are at highest risk for depression three to six months after the birth of a child, and their depression often corresponds with depression in the mother, the paper found.

“It may be Mom’s depression leading the way; it may be Dad’s depression leading the way; it may have to do with the child’s temperament,” said Dr. James F. Paulson, of the Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk, Va., the lead author of the paper, published in the May 19 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association.

“We don’t know much about the causes, but this suggests we should do more to screen for depression in fathers,” Dr. Paulson said.

The research analyzed 43 studies involving 28,004 fathers observed during the period between the first trimester of pregnancy until one year after the birth. Researchers concluded that the overall estimate of paternal depression was 10.4 percent, more than double the 4.8 percent prevalence among men in the general population. About a quarter of women experience depression during pregnancy and about one-tenth have postpartum depression.

American fathers were at greater risk for depression than fathers in other countries, with rates of 14.1 percent compared with 8.2 percent elsewhere. Dr. Paulson said the disparity might be because of cultural differences, along with more liberal paternity-leave policies in other countries.
796 2010-05-25 “I think three, four, five people even have the ability of making it to the second week,” Isner said after his match on a scorching, sunny day. He included himself in that group.

It says something about the American men’s prospects that sixth-seeded Andy Roddick, who begins play Tuesday, is widely given no chance to win here. He reached the fourth round last year, his best showing, but did not make it past the second round in his six previous appearances. In preparation for Roland Garros, Roddick did not play a tournament match on clay this spring.

Instead, the hopes for American men on clay have fallen to Isner and No. 18 Sam Querrey, good friends whose career arcs seem leashed together. Two weeks ago, they met in the final of the Serbia Open, the first American men’s pair to reach a European clay-court final since Jim Courier beat Andre Agassi at the 1991 French Open. Querrey won.

The 6-foot-9 Isner is the rare tall player who has a big advantage on clay, despite spending many years never playing on the surface — something American tennis officials hope to change with younger generations. The balls slow down when they hit the clay and generally bounce higher.

“The guy I played today, he hit some balls that were good shots, but I found them right in my strike zone — you know, shoulder high,” Isner said. “That’s where I want it.”

Querrey, who stands 6-6, plays his fellow American Robby Ginepri on Tuesday, assuring at least one more United States victory. When that match was announced Friday, the two were in Germany, practicing against each other on clay.

Dent’s opening-round victory was the biggest surprise among the American contingent. It was his second clay-court victory of any kind since 2004. Another will prove far more difficult, against No. 5 Robin Soderling in the second round.

“The conditions were nice for me,” Dent said. “Any time it’s hot and dry here, the courts are really quick. It’s almost like a hardcourt out there.”

Still, none of the American men are expected to recall two decades ago, when the United States practically annexed Roland Garros in early June. From 1989 to 1993, six Americans played in the men’s final, including three winners: Michael Chang (1989) and Courier (who beat Agassi in 1991 and won again in 1992).

Agassi reached the final in 1999 and won. But no American man besides Agassi has even reached the quarterfinals at Roland Garros in the years since. (Agassi did so in 2002 and 2003, losing each time.)

These days, American drama comes in out-of-the-way places. Yani, a 29-year-old former Duke player, worked his way through the qualifiers last week to earn a spot in the main draw. His first-round match against Lukas Lacko of Slovakia was suspended Sunday night because of darkness, the score knotted at 8-8 in the fifth set.

Last year, Yani qualified for Wimbledon and the United States Open for the first time but could not win a main-draw match. This time, in his first shot at the French Open, Yani was forced to sleep on the possibilities and return to finish the match on Court 17 on Monday afternoon.

About an hour later, Yani finally fell, losing the fifth set, 12-10, in a match that tied the French Open record for games (71) since tie breakers were introduced in 1973.

Jesse Witten, another qualifier, may be remembered for his scrappy, three-round run at last year’s United States Open. His hopes for an encore in Paris relied on a victory over 25th-seeded Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus on Monday. Baghdatis won, 6-3, 6-4, 6-3.

Top-level American tennis, as it has been for most of the past decade, relies largely on Serena and Venus Williams, and the expectations placed on them here are as heavy as ever.

They arrived ranked and seeded No. 1 and No. 2, giving the United States hope of rejuvenating, at least temporarily, its once-proud reputation at Roland Garros — a reputation forged largely by the seven-time champion Chris Evert and her primary rival, Martina Navratilova, in the 1970s and 1980s. No American woman has reached the semifinals since Jennifer Capriati in 2004.

Venus Williams beat Patty Schnyder on Sunday, and Serena Williams beat Stefanie Voegele on Monday after a first-set struggle. Their seedings, if not their recent French Open history, would suggest that they were the ones to beat.

But an American victory might rather be viewed as an upset.
797 2010-05-25 The third-seeded woman, Caroline Wozniacki, breezed to a 6-0, 6-3 victory over Alla Kudryavtseva. Unseeded Ana Ivanovic, the champion at Roland Garros in 2008, continued her career turnaround with a straight-sets victory.

Still, there remains no player on the women’s side who can match Williams when she is healthy and motivated. Even now, it is hard to tell if she is both, or either.

After winning the Australian Open in January, Williams did not play a match again until this month, resting a sore left knee. In her time away, she traveled to Kenya to open a school in her name and took courses to become a nail technician.

“I was injured, and then I was twiddling my thumbs at home,” Williams, 28, said last week. “I had nothing to do. I was just working out and just trying to get better. I was bored, and that’s how I got into nail school.”

Williams has become a busy tweeter on Twitter, too. She uses it largely to follow her favorite band, Green Day (“Whenever they tweet I get incredibly excited,” she said), and to provide glimpses of her world to fans.

“For those people that like me half as much as I like them, I like to keep them in the loop with my life,” Williams explained.

Many of her observations have little to do with tennis.

“Omg! There is a condom dispenser on the streets of Paris??” she posted before the French Open began. “Am I being naïve to be shocked??? Wowzers.”

Williams, seemingly relaxed and having declared herself healthy, may not be the tournament favorite. After all, she played just two tournaments in advance of the French Open, in Rome and Madrid, stirring familiar criticism about her schedule. Of 36 tour victories, 12 have come in majors, a remarkably high ratio.

“It’s always something, you know,” Williams said. “If you’re winning Slams, you don’t care about the other ones. If you win the other ones, then you can’t win Grand Slams. It’s a win-win or lose-lose situation. I don’t really care or really listen or really it doesn’t really matter to me what someone else is saying because they’re not out there physically playing every week, you know, for 20-something years.”

Adding further doubt about her chances, Williams has not passed the quarterfinals here since 2003, when she lost in the semifinals to Justine Henin. That match is best remembered for a dust-up over whether Henin raised her hand to call time as Williams missed a serve. The chair judge did not see it. Williams fumed, and apparently has not forgotten.

Earlier this month in Rome, Williams raised a hand to signal a timeout as Jelena Jankovic served an ace during a last-set tie breaker. The chair judge ruled for Williams, which drew a protest from Jankovic and catcalls from the crowd. Jankovic went on to win the semifinal match, and cameras appeared to pick up the sound of Williams’s saying to Jankovic afterward that she did not cheat, that she’s “not Justine.”

On Friday, after much prodding, Williams eventually said that she did not fully recall the recent exchange with Jankovic.

“I remember after the match I said something to her, but I don’t know,” Williams said. “I don’t even remember the whole gist of the whole situation.”

There was no controversy on Monday. For a time, Voegele matched Williams’s big serves and powerful forehands and the occasional overhead smash, and there was a buzz over whether Williams would be the first big name player to tumble from the tournament.

Voegele, whose tour biography lists Williams and Federer as the players she most admires, pushed Williams to a first-set tiebreak. Along the way, the taut back-and-forth occasionally elicited the type of emotional fist pumps and screams that Williams often unleashes when provoked.

Williams surged to score seven of nine points to capture the set. Having found traction, and perhaps having broken Voegele’s spirit, she cruised to victory in the second set.

“I’m doing so well in practice, and it just didn’t work for me today,” Williams said. “So with that being said, I’m happy to win and just go on to the next round.”

Interest will follow. Amid the relative parity of the women’s tour, no one draws the attention the way Williams does, even as she seems oblivious to the commotion. At last year’s United States Open she lost in the semifinals to Kim Clijsters in a match noted for Williams’s finger-pointing threat to a line judge.

Williams’s sister Venus, the French Open’s second seed, won her first-round match on Sunday while wearing a lacy see-through dress with undergarments that left little to the imagination. As photographers and the Internet buzzed, Venus Williams simply explained that the outfit was about “illusion.” As with her sister, there was no sense of the broader attention to come.

The last time the sisters were the top two seeds at a Grand Slam event was at the 2003 Australian Open. Serena Williams beat her sister in the final, just as she had months earlier in Paris.

Those two matches may be all that separates their legacies, which will further unfold here. Venus Williams has won seven Grand Slam titles, but not the Australian or the French Open — no thanks to her little sister.

Even Venus Williams could not always decipher Serena.
798 2010-05-25 I.B.M. said on Monday that it had agreed to buy for $1.4 billion the Sterling Commerce unit of AT&T, which makes software that helps businesses buy and sell to each other.

The deal would be I.B.M.’s largest acquisition since it bought the business software maker Cognos in 2008.

Sterling runs “collaboration networks” where companies can interact with vendors. It has 18,000 clients worldwide and enables more than one billion deals a year, I.B.M. and AT&T said in a statement. Customers include the H. J. Heinz Company, Motorola, Boise Cascade and the Boston Market Corporation. The parties would not provide a figure for the unit’s annual revenue.

AT&T, then known as SBC Communications, paid $3.9 billion for Sterling in 2000, near the peak of the Internet bubble. The price tag was driven by forecasts that all business-to-business commerce would soon be conducted through online marketplaces not unlike a stock exchange, with demand dictating prices more efficiently.

The unit, based in Dublin, Ohio, has little connection to AT&T’s main telecommunications business and has maintained its own brand.

An AT&T spokeswoman, McCall Butler, said AT&T’s business had changed since 2000, and Sterling was “no longer core to the company’s long-term strategic objectives.”

Ms. Butler said with the help of I.B.M.’s purchase price, operating contributions and tax benefits, AT&T would recoup most of its investment in Sterling. AT&T expects a one-time pretax gain of about $750 million when the deal closes sometime in the second half of the year.
799 2010-05-25 Mr. Singh, 77, argued that India had done better than almost every other major economy in blunting the impact of the global downturn — with growth projected at 8.5 percent for the new fiscal year following a record drought in 2009. He predicted that inflation, currently near double digits, would fall to between 5 percent and 6 percent by December.

But he also acknowledged that the government’s performance had not been perfect.

“I would be the first person to admit that we could have done more,” Mr. Singh said in a prepared statement.

Mr. Singh does not often hold major news conferences, and his appearance came as the government was being criticized for its inability to thwart deadly attacks by Maoist rebels operating in the Indian countryside. Earlier this month, militants blew up a passenger bus loaded with police officers and civilians, killing at least 31 people. Last month, Maoists killed 75 paramilitary officers during an ambush in a remote forest.

Mr. Singh denied that the central government had underestimated the Maoists, noting that for the past three years he had called them India’s gravest internal security threat. India’s future prosperity hinged on curbing the Maoists, he said, adding that the national government was coordinating a response with state governments, who are at the forefront of the police response.

Mr. Singh also swatted away the speculation that has ebbed and flowed in Indian political circles of a chill between himself and Sonia Gandhi, president of the Congress Party. It was Mrs. Gandhi who installed Mr. Singh as prime minister when Congress first regained power in 2004 through the first United Progressive Alliance government, and their close working relationship had been considered critical to the party’s success.

Mr. Singh, a former economist, is the face of the pro-growth wing of the party, analysts say, while Mrs. Gandhi focuses on political work and social issues, like national projects to provide work, food and education to the rural poor. But some analysts suspected a rift between them in recent months, and some members of the Congress Party grumbled that the prime minister was not dedicating enough attention to social causes.

When Mrs. Gandhi was reinstated to a cabinet-level position as leader of a national advisory group on social issues, some political commentators interpreted the move as a deliberate curbing of the prime minister’s authority.

“There is not an iota of truth that there is an element of distrust or mistrust between me and the president of the Congress,” Mr. Singh said.

In a lighter moment, one journalist noted that the prime minister was advised by two powerful women — Mrs. Gandhi and his wife — and he was asked whose advice he favored. The prime minister said he was “privileged” to benefit from their advice.

“Both of them deal with different subjects,” he said, “and I welcome the advice from both of them.”
800 2010-05-25 TIPOGRAPH--Joan Hillary Stockhamer, loving wife, mother, daughter, sister, aunt and friend; died May 22, 2010, NYC, of complications from pneumonia. Survived by husband Peter; children, Lindsey, Austin; Parents: Nathan and Kathleen. Joan was a spi...
801 2010-05-25 TIPOGRAPH--Joan, our loving daughter-in-law. Joan loved life and her beloved family - her husband Peter, her children Lindsey and Austin. Our hearts go out to Joan's parents, Cathy and Dr. Nat Stockhamer. It is with much grief and sadness that we ...
802 2010-05-25 The Texas Rangers voluntarily pushed themselves into bankruptcy on Monday to facilitate the team's sale to a group of investors led by Chuck Greenberg and the team's president, Nolan Ryan, for about $575 million.     The team and Major League Base...
803 2010-05-26 Rain could interrupt the French Open again on Thursday, but the skies should clear enough to allow Wednesday's unfinished matches to be completed....
804 2010-05-26 If you're traveling to South Africa for the World Cup, you should worry more about mundane problems like diarrhea and measles than you do about exotic tropical diseases like malaria....
805 2010-05-26 The company is dealing with political candidates' requests for apps....
806 2010-05-26 Daniel B. Dwyer, the youth coach of both John McEnroe and Mary Carillo and a pivotal figure in the development of wheelchair tennis, died Tuesday....
807 2010-05-26 Apple approved a Republican politician's app Wednesday after initially saying it was defamatory, the latest indication that the company is still feeling out its approach to political speech....
808 2010-05-26 Celebrity chef Rick Bayless is to open Red O Restaurant on trendy Melrose Avenue in Los Angeles....
809 2010-05-26 The precarious state of the economy means tougher times - and a good deal of frustration - for policymakers whose job is to advocate potentially costly action aimed at tacking climate change....
810 2010-05-26 President Obama took the opportunity to contrast the potential of clean energy with the environmental perils of fossil fuel, reflected in what he called a "heartbreaking" gulf oil spill....
811 2010-05-26 The Mamilla Hotel, a chic hotel less than a mile from Jerusalem's Old City, has already gotten plenty of buzz, including being listed on Condé Nast Traveler's Hot List for 2010....
812 2010-05-26 Starting on Tuesday, Walmart is offering a 16 GB iPhone for $97 with a two-year AT&T contract or qualified upgrade....
813 2010-05-26 The Treasury Department said on Wednesday that it has appointed Marjorie Magner, a former Citigroup executive, as one of its two representatives on the board of Ally Financial, the bank formerly known as GMAC Financial Services....
814 2010-05-26 Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and Citigroup are three big name banks active in the field of end-of-quarter "window dressing," that is masking risk by temporarily ridding debt before they make their finances public, a recent analysis for The Wall ...
815 2010-05-26 A bankruptcy judge said Tuesday that the Texas Rangers can pay employees and conduct other normal business operations so the team won't ''go hungry,'' but he delayed some decisions after the baseball club's legal tactics were criticized....
816 2010-05-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
817 2010-05-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
818 2010-05-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
819 2010-05-26 Investors rarely like wars or rumors of war. But for global markets, the renewed military tension on the Korean peninsula comes at a particularly inopportune time. The threat to this fairly big economy — South Korea’s economy is four times larger than Greece’s — furthers the impression of a world out of control.

South Korea’s response to the likelihood that the North torpedoed a South Korean naval vessel in March seems proportionate, merited and economically minor. The severance of relations will hit an annual trade of only $286 million, about 0.3 percent of South Korea’s gross domestic product. The effect on the already impoverished northerners may even be mitigated by China, Pyongyang’s traditional ally.

In more settled economic times, markets could probably absorb this increase in Korean tension without too much difficulty. Everyone knows North Korea is dangerously unpredictable. Investors usually respond to provocative actions with only a brief flurry of worry. They sometimes even interpret aggression as desperation, and dream of potential gains from eventual Korean unification.

This time could be different. As of Tuesday, the Kospi index in South Korea had dropped 4.8 percent since the official report on the sinking, and the won had fallen 5.3 percent against the dollar. Investors may be thinking South Korean companies will face higher capital costs or that military expense will hold back the country’s growth. Or they may just be blindly shunning geopolitical risk.

The fear is likely to be exaggerated. An all-out war can probably be avoided, even if North Korea’s announcement of a freeze in relations leads to direct military confrontations. What’s more, the Korean economy accounts for only 1.5 percent of global G.D.P. The euro zone contributes 22 percent.
820 2010-05-26 Girardi would not disclose his choice to pitch when play resumes because, he said, he is not required to. Girardi said he would confer with General Manager Brian Cashman about adding an additional reliever for Wednesday, in case Girardi has to empty the bullpen.

Both starting pitchers, A. J. Burnett of the Yankees and Baker, worked five innings on an unseasonable warm night in Minnesota. It was 87 degrees at game time, the day after the temperature here reached 95, breaking the record for that date set in 1875. Burnett, pounded for 18 runs (16 earned) over three previous starts, allowed three hits in his best outing since May 4 against Baltimore.

“I pitched some guys differently than I usually do, and I got some better results,” Burnett said. “It’s just a matter of repeating it next time out.”

The day began with the Yankees taking early batting practice in such bright sunshine that some players opted for sunglasses — a piece of equipment never required in the Metrodome.

In the Yankees’ travelling party, only first-base coach Mick Kelleher, a former infielder, had ever played an outdoor major league game in Minnesota. Kelleher went 1 for 5 in three games for the Detroit Tigers in 1981, the final season the Twins played at Metropolitan Stadium in suburban Bloomington. The Twins moved into the Metrodome the following year.

Kelleher, who spent 9 of his 11 major league seasons in the National League, said he liked the Dome because, unlike artificial surfaces like the Astrodome’s, grounders bounced true. Many players, however, despised the place and its Teflon-coated roof, where fly balls went to vanish. But left-handed hitters loved the reachable right-field fence, and the Yankees had plenty of success there, winning 26 of 40 games from 2000 through 2009 including postseason.

“I actually liked playing there,” first baseman Mark Teixeira said.

“What I loved was, you always knew you were going to play, and it was 72 degrees and sunny every game. And with the short right-field porch, you didn’t really have to get it to hit it out. Center field and right-center were pretty deep.”

The Twins always claimed a significant home-field advantage at the Dome, and the move has not negated it. Minnesota is 14-7 at home. Justin Morneau leads the American League in home batting average at .411, with the reigning most valuable player Joe Mauer rolling at .340.

However, Target Field has not been a launching pad in its first two months, especially for the Twins, outhomered here 19 to 10. Morneau has hit 9 of his 11 homers on the road, and Jim Thome 4 of his 5.

Balls carry well down the lines but die in the power alleys, which are slightly shorter than in the Metrodome, and straightaway center. Earlier this month, White Sox Manager Ozzie Guillen joked that a Morneau drive caught in deep center would have hit rats at the Metrodome.

Tuesday night, with flags atop left-field stands limp, Morneau drove a ball deep through the drizzle in the third. The crowd roared in anticipation as right fielder Nick Swisher drifted back, his left arm extended, feeling for the wall. Swisher made the catch on the warning track, beneath the overhanging stands.

ALFREDO ACEVES, on the disabled list with a lower back strain, felt more back pain playing catch in Tampa on Tuesday and may be headed to New York for more tests, JOE GIRARDI said. “He was bouncing around better, but he felt something,” Girardi said. ... JAVIER VAZQUEZ, who fouled a ball off his right index finger while bunting Friday night, said Tuesday he could grip pitches normally and plans to start as scheduled here Thursday night. ... CURTIS GRANDERSON (strained groin) is expected to rejoin the Yankees on Friday, Girardi said.
821 2010-05-26 Another of the candidates is Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, who represents a district in Westchester County, where the convention is being held.

Mr. Jacobs said he and other state party officials had been deluged with calls in recent days demanding that they keep the balloting process open.

“We had a lot of pushback last night,” Mr. Jacobs said. “The perception was that the process was disregarding the views of upstate” county leaders.

Under party rules, any candidate with 25 percent of the vote automatically wins a place on the Democratic primary ballot. Going into the convention, only two candidates — Ms. Rice and State Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, who represents a Manhattan-Bronx district — appeared likely to meet that threshold.

To allow everyone onto the ballot, Mr. Jacobs said, party leaders would hold two rounds of balloting, which would allow some committee members to vote for more than one candidate.

The decision spared Democrats a potentially bitter convention fight and came as a relief to some.

“I almost didn’t come to the convention because I was that angry about it,” said Linda Mitchell, the Democratic chairwoman of Hamilton County, who supports Mr. Dinallo. “It was very upsetting that they weren’t going to listen to rural Democrats.”

What’s in a name? Plenty, if you’re one of those five Democrats running for attorney general — and trying to brand yourself with fickle party regulars.

Ms. Rice has on hand boxes of Rice Krispies Treats, each one plastered with her campaign stickers. (The empty wrappers that littered the Hilton are testament to the success of her strategy.) Another of the five, Sean Coffey, a Navy veteran and trial lawyer, has held “Coffee With Coffey” events on the trail.

But no convenient pun is available for Mr. Schneiderman, who counted on an open bar to draw conventiongoers to his reception on Tuesday evening.

“I wonder what was wrong with my relatives that they didn’t shorten it at Ellis Island,” Mr. Schneiderman said of his surname.

Mr. Dinallo, also punless, has a different secret weapon. “The chocolate fountain, I’m told, has been the real attraction for our event,” he said. “I’m going to do laps in it.”
822 2010-05-26 “When the water stops running from the tap, people blame America,” said Shaista Sirajuddin, an English professor in Lahore.

The problem is more than a peculiar domestic phenomenon for Pakistan. It has grown into a narrative of national victimhood that is a nearly impenetrable barrier to any candid discussion of the problems here. In turn, it is one of the principal obstacles for the United States in its effort to build a stronger alliance with a country to which it gives more than a billion dollars a year in aid.

It does not help that no part of the Pakistani state — either the weak civilian government or the powerful military — is willing to risk publicly owning that relationship.

One result is that nearly all of American policy toward Pakistan is conducted in secret, a fact that serves only to further feed conspiracies. American military leaders slip quietly in and out of the capital; the Pentagon uses networks of private spies; and the main tool of American policy here, the drone program, is not even publicly acknowledged to exist.

“The linchpin of U.S. relations is security, and it’s not talked about in public,” said Adnan Rehmat, a media analyst in Islamabad.

The empty public space fills instead with hard-line pundits and loud Islamic political parties, all projected into Pakistani living rooms by the rambunctious new electronic media, dozens of satellite television networks that weave a black-and-white, prime-time narrative in which the United States is the central villain.

“People want simple explanations, like evil America, Zionist-Hindu alliance,” said a Pakistani diplomat, who asked not to be named because of the delicate nature of the topic. “It’s gone really deep into the national psyche now.”

One of those pundits is Zaid Hamid, a fast-talking, right-wing television personality who rose to fame on one of Pakistan’s 90 new private television channels.

He uses Google searches to support his theory that India, Israel and the United States — through their intelligence agencies and the company formerly known as Blackwater — are conspiring to destroy Pakistan.

For Mr. Hamid, the case of Mr. Shahzad is one piece of a larger puzzle being assembled to pressure Pakistan. Why, otherwise, the strange inconsistencies, like the bomb’s not exploding? “If you connect the dots, you have a pretty exciting story,” he said.

But the media are only part of the problem. Only a third of Pakistan’s population has access to satellite channels, Mr. Rehmat said, and equally powerful are Islamic groups active at the grass roots of Pakistani society.

Though Pakistan was created as a haven for Muslims, it was secular at first, and did not harden into an Islamic state on paper until 1949. Intellectuals point to the moment as a kind of original sin, when Islam became embedded in the country’s democratic blueprint, handing immense power to Islamic hard-liners, who could claim — despite their small numbers — to be the true guardians of the state.

Together with military and political leaders, these groups wield Islamic slogans for personal gain, further shutting down discussion.

“We’re in this mess because political forces evoke Islam to further their own interests,” said Aasim Sajjad, an assistant professor of political economy at Quaid-i-Azam University in Islamabad.

Lawyers in Pakistan have a strong streak of political Islam. Mr. Habib, who has had militants as clients, argues that Al Qaeda is an American invention. Their pronouncements are infused with anti-Semitism, standard for Islamic groups in the region.

“The lobbies are the Jews, maybe some Indians, working in the inner core of the American administration,” said Muhammad Ikram Chaudhry, vice president of the bar association.

Liberals on Pakistan’s beleaguered left see the xenophobic patriotism and conspiracy theories as a defense mechanism that deflects all responsibility for society’s problems and protects against a reality that is too painful to face.

“It’s deny, deny, deny,” said Nadeem F. Paracha, a columnist for Dawn, an English-language daily. “It’s become second nature, like an instinct.”

Mr. Paracha argues that the denial is dangerous because it hobbles any form of public conversation — for example, about Mr. Shahzad’s upper-class background — leaving society unequipped to find remedies for its problems. “We’ve started to believe our own lies,” he said.

For those on the left, that view obscures an increasingly disappointing history. For 62 years, Pakistan has lurched from one self-serving government to the next, with little thought given to education or the economy, said Pervez Hoodbhoy, a physics professor at Quaid-i-Azam University. Now Pakistan is dependent on the West to pay its bills, a vulnerable position that breeds resentment.

“We acknowledge to ourselves privately that Pakistan is a client state of the U.S.,” Mr. Hoodbhoy said. “But on the other hand, the U.S. is acting against Muslim interests globally. A sort of self-loathing came about.”

There are very real reasons for Pakistanis to be skeptical of the United States. It encouraged — and financed — jihadis waging a religious war against the Soviets in the 1980s, while supporting the military autocrat Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, who seeded Pakistan’s education system with Islamists.

But Mr. Hamid is more interested in the larger plot, like the secret ownership of the Federal Reserve, which he found on the Internet. After three years of fame, his star seems to be falling. This month his show was canceled, and he has had to rely on Facebook and audio CDs to make his points. But it is not the end of the conspiracy.

“Someone else will be front row very soon,” said Manan Ahmed, a professor of Pakistani history. “It is the mood of the country at the moment.”
823 2010-05-26 ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — Ethiopia appeared to solidify its return to a one-party state on Tuesday, as the country’s election board released provisional results showing Prime Minister Meles Zenawi’s governing party winning nearly every seat in Sunday’s parliamentary elections.

Mr. Meles’s party, the Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front, won 534 of 536 seats, with the results for 11 seats still unannounced, the board said.

At a rally here in the capital, members of the governing party chanted slogans against Human Rights Watch, which has documented an extensive harassment and intimidation campaign against the opposition by Mr. Meles’s supporters. “What prevailed today is democracy, it’s not only the E.P.R.D.F.,” the prime minister told the crowd.

Johnnie Carson, an American assistant secretary of state, criticized the elections as failing to meet international standards, Reuters reported. Still, opposition leaders accused the Obama administration and Britain of keeping silent about the abuses.
824 2010-05-26 For much of the postwar 20th century, Japan built an empire of private companies closely tied to and favored by the state. It erected a trade colossus whose exports were pumped up — American critics said — by an artificially depressed yen. Japanese manufacturers were accused of arrogating American technologies to churn out low-cost electronics. Japan’s retail and financial markets were all but impenetrable to American competitors.

The United States trade deficit with Japan outraged Congress and helped prod Washington in the 1980s to orchestrate a wholesale appreciation of the yen’s value against the dollar to help protect American manufacturers.

China today also has a stable of mega-corporations, although unlike Japan’s they are explicitly state-owned and often viewed as instruments of government policy. Broad sectors of the economy, including finance, communications, energy and some crucial manufacturing sectors, are effectively off limits to foreigners and even to most domestic competitors.

The renminbi, China’s currency, is in global opinion — save in China — held unduly low to keep China’s export machine revved up. When Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner arrived here on Sunday, an opening argument to his counterparts was that Chinese rules were forcing American companies to surrender their technological jewels just for a ticket to compete in the Chinese market.

Some of these tactics come straight from the playbook of Japan and other developing nations that have sought to raise their export-driven economies to a higher level.

China is different in two respects that may seem contradictory. On one hand, major industries like oil, telecommunications, banking and aviation are deemed strategic and are under tight state control. Of the 22 Chinese corporations listed on the Fortune Global 500, 21 are controlled by China’s central government or state-run banks. Just one, Shanghai Automobile, is run by a local government. None are privately owned.

These “national champions,” as the government deems them, are the vanguard of China’s push into global markets, and the evangelists of Chinese economic values.

On the other hand, light industry, retailing and the nation’s booming export sector are more free to play by Adam Smith’s rules. In contrast to Japan, in China Western retailers and consumer goods, from Wal-Mart to Snickers to Tesco, are ubiquitous and compete vigorously with homegrown competitors. And many of China’s leading exports, like iPods and Nike sneakers, are manufactured by or for foreign multinationals that retain most of the profits from their sale.

By Chinese logic, there is no contradiction. Like free speech, human rights and any number of other societal basics, private enterprise in China is vibrant and open to outsiders, but only as long as it does not threaten the state’s interests.

If this formula seems anathema to Western capitalists, Beijing’s three decades of jackrabbit growth speak for themselves. Even a senior Treasury Department official in Beijing for this week’s meetings said that China’s fiscal stewards had basically perfected the art of balancing conflicting forces in an economy of 1.3 billion people.

Less clear, many economists allow, is how long this formula will work. China itself is rapidly changing: already, low-cost competitors like Vietnam are siphoning some of the labor-intensive industries that powered Beijing’s rise. The worldwide economic slowdown and the fact that China already dominates some crucial industries suggest that it can no longer count on ever-rising exports as a major source of growth.

Beijing has pledged to ease its reliance on exports by raising domestic consumption. But that requires a turnabout in spending habits by a population accustomed to saving for contingencies, like education and medical care, rather than spending. Turning that around may take time.

And then there is China’s debt. Some influential economists argue that China has grown in part by seizing people’s savings to finance high-speed trains, steel factories and speculative real-estate investments.

How productive that state-led investment will turn out to be is a matter of debate. It has clearly aided China’s development up to now. But just as exports cannot increase endlessly, at some point the returns from building new roads and factories are likely to diminish as well.

The central government has surmounted several debt crises in the past decade, bailing out its banks after unwise investments. Many analysts anticipate more bailouts after the government flooded the economy with cheap money in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.

Japan’s economic miracle ended with the collapse of a phenomenal real-estate bubble and was worsened by a series of policy errors that led to a long period of stagnation. China’s economy is still at an earlier stage of development, and its government is likely to seek to avoid the mistakes that exacerbated Japan’s slump.

But whether the state-driven investment and export-led development that has made China an economic power can be replaced soon by new sources of growth has become a more pressing question.

“The Chinese fundamentals are good,” Huang Yasheng, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management, said in an interview. “All I am saying is that the policy has not changed. You cannot rely on an artificial external stimulus to keep your economy going.”
825 2010-05-26 Tampering rules prohibit teams from contacting Jackson or his representatives directly while he is under contract. The soonest he could entertain offers would be July 1.

Jackson is in the final season of a contract paying him $12 million a season — by far the richest coaching deal in the N.B.A.

He has sent mixed signals about his future, at times hinting that he may retire. He recently told reporters in Los Angeles that if he did not retire, there was a 90 percent chance he would remain with the Lakers.

When asked Tuesday if that were still the case, Jackson said, “The probabilities are great.”

“I’ll leave it open and just say that as of now, I have not made up my mind about coaching or not coaching next year,” he added. “That’s all I can say, really, truthfully.”

For the second time this month, he ruled out a return to the Bulls, the team he led to six championships, saying, “I have no, no — at all — desire to go back to Chicago and coach the Bulls.”

Jackson was just as dismissive of the rebuilding Nets, although he would presumably receive a lucrative offer from their new owner, the Russian billionaire Mikhail D. Prokhorov.

“I’d like to have a vodka with him at some point,” Jackson said, smiling. “He seems like a very interesting young man.”

Jackson usually waits until the summer to decide his future, after he has had time to recover mentally and physically and have a battery of medical tests. He had heart troubles in 2004 and has a variety of physical ailments.

The Lakers’ owner, Jerry Buss, wants Jackson to accept a pay cut in light of the sagging economy and declining revenue. But that is not considered a deal-breaker, as Jackson could accept several million less and still be the league’s highest-paid coach.

He has little incentive to leave the Lakers, with Kobe Bryant and Pau Gasol still in their prime. The Lakers have made two straight trips to the finals, winning the championship in 2009.

It is considered doubtful that Jackson, who turns 65 in September, would leave Los Angeles at this stage of his career. He enjoys his life on the West Coast and is in a long-term relationship with Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ executive vice president for business operations and the daughter of Jerry Buss.

Jeanie Buss addressed the reports via her Twitter account on Tuesday, saying, “Fellow Lakers fans — let’s not get distracted by all the rumors MOST important thing is 2nite. Lakers must focus & play their way. GO LAKERS!”

Although Jackson is fond of Chicago, where he served as the coach from 1989 to 1998, he prefers the milder climate of Southern California, particularly in light of his health. He is coping with bad knees, one of which is so bad it will probably require surgery. He also has chronic back pain stemming from his playing career. Jackson moves better now than he used to, after having both hips replaced in recent years.

Jackson steered the Bulls to six championships in the 1990s, then won another four titles with the Lakers. He has coached three winners of the Most Valuable Player award — Michael Jordan, Shaquille O’Neal and Kobe Bryant, none of whom had won a ring before being coached by Jackson.

Jackson could be intrigued by the prospect of taking James to the championship level. But the Bulls, the Nets and the other teams that plan to chase James are already interviewing coaches and may not have the luxury of waiting until mid-July for Jackson to decide his future.

He called the reports linking him to the Nets and the Bulls “a disservice to coaches that are really seeking jobs and have an opportunity to go to those towns.”
826 2010-05-26 Unfortunately, many investors used debt to buy their derivatives. When the value of the derivatives fell, the investors had little margin for error. The fact that most deals were done privately — rather than through a clearinghouse, with prices everyone can see — made the situation worse by creating uncertainty.

The House bill would force some trades into a clearinghouse but would allow far too many exemptions. The Senate bill is stronger. It’s probably too strong, in fact. It effectively bans many big firms from trading the most lucrative type of derivatives. That’s not so different from a ban on subprime mortgages, which, of course, also helped cause the crisis. Both derivatives and subprime mortgages can play a useful role. They just need to be closely watched.

The Senate rule, however, does have a silver lining. Wall Street lobbyists have devoted so much energy to fighting the ban that they have not had as much time to fight other (better) parts of the bill that they also dislike — like the Senate’s clearinghouse.

CONSUMER PROTECTION Why didn’t any government agency prevent banks from issuing mortgages that homebuyers obviously could not repay?

There were two main reasons: the responsibility for doing so was spread across a handful of agencies, and the most important of those agencies, the , has never been good at protecting consumers.

So both the House and Senate would create a new consumer watchdog for credit cards, mortgages and other financial products. In the House version, the watchdog is a separate agency. In the Senate version, it is housed inside the Fed — which is less than ideal, given the Fed’s history of deferring to banks. But it’s not a disaster, because the Senate was careful to create an independent budget for the group and let the White House appoint its director.

As Elizabeth Warren, the law professor who developed the watchdog idea, told me, “The consumer agency in the Senate bill is strong, but there is no margin for error.” You can expect lenders, ranging from big banks to car dealers, to try to weaken the agency during House-Senate talks.

FED CREDIBILITY The Fed still has accepted almost no responsibility for its mistakes during the housing bubble. “Like other regulators, there were some things we could have done, at least with hindsight,” , the chairman, recently said. “But we had neither the mandate nor the tools to be the financial system’s supercop.”

Reading that, you might think that the bubble was evident only in retrospect and that, regardless, the Fed was powerless to stop it. That’s simply not the case. A fair number of people did recognize the bubble as it was inflating. The Fed’s leaders, by contrast, went out of their way to claim real estate was not in a bubble.

Imagine if Mr. Bernanke and had used their bully pulpit to point out how high house prices were relative to rents or incomes. Or imagine if they had cracked down on delusional mortgages, as their consumer protection powers gave them the authority to do — and as they finally did only after the bubble burst.

Despite the Fed’s failures, Congress is giving it vast new powers, largely because there is no better alternative. Most important, the Fed will decide how much debt banks can take on, a standard that will help determine how well they weather the next crisis. Yet neither the Fed’s leaders nor , who reappointed Mr. Bernanke, has explained why we should believe the Fed has learned from its errors.

Congress can do better. The Senate bill calls for an audit of the Fed’s actions during the crisis (which were, in fact, pretty heroic). Why not expand the time frame to the run-up to the crisis? The Senate would also create an independent unit inside , the Office of Financial Research, that could identify problems even if the Fed did not.

The more checks and balances on the Fed, the better the odds of avoiding another crisis. Fool me once, right?

BAILOUTS No matter how much those odds are reduced, however, they won’t be eliminated. Banks will get in trouble again, just as they have for hundreds of years. The government may then need to prop up a bank to avoid another panic.

The Senate bill — which is likely to win on this point, because the White House agrees — would cover the costs of any such bailout by collecting money later from surviving banks. The House would collect fees up front and place them in a fund. Both approaches have their problems. The House’s fund seems too small, and the Senate’s after-the-fact fee may not be so easy to collect after a crisis has passed.

A better approach is a permanent tax on banks, based on how much debt they have and how risky their holdings appear. This has the double advantage of discouraging risky behavior while also making sure taxpayers are made whole. And if banks end up paying more in than they eventually need in bailouts, that’s O.K. They have enjoyed plenty of subsidies and plenty of bailouts over the years.

A bank tax will not make it into this bill. But Congressional leaders have said they may take up the issue later this year. As flawed as the Senate bill is on this issue, it at least does not get in the way of a future tax.

It’s worth remembering that whatever bill Congress passes will not be the last word on financial regulation. How well the Fed and other agencies carry out the law will matter greatly, and Congress will probably need to pass other, albeit smaller, bills in the future.

“This bill isn’t remotely perfect, but I think it gets us two-thirds of the way to where we ought to be,” said Douglas Elliott, a finance expert. “In the real world, that’s pretty good.”

Here’s hoping the House, the Senate and the White House can get a little further — say, three-quarters of the way to perfection — in the next few weeks.
827 2010-05-26 The magazine reported that representatives of Apple’s iTunes music service were asking the labels not to participate in Amazon’s promotion, adding that Apple punished those that did by withdrawing marketing support for those songs on iTunes.

Apple is by far the largest seller of online music in the , with 69 percent of the market, according to data from the NPD Group, a marketing consultancy. Amazon’s MP3 store was in second place, with an 8 percent share. Apple is also the largest seller of music, with 26.7 percent of the overall market, up from 12 percent in 2007.

Though the Justice Department’s inquiry is preliminary, it represents additional evidence that Apple, once the perennial underdog in high tech, is now viewed by government regulators as a dominant company with considerable market power.

Through its iTunes store, Apple sells TV shows, films and applications for its , Touch and hand-held computing devices. Apple has also begun to sell electronic books.

“Certainly if the Justice Department is getting involved, it raises the possibility of potential serious problems down the road for Apple,” said Daniel L. Brown, an antitrust lawyer at Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton.

“Without knowing what acts or practices they are targeting, it’s difficult to say exactly how big a problem this is,” Mr. Brown added. “But it’s probably something Apple is already concerned about.”

The inquiry is one of several by the federal government involving Apple. The Federal Trade Commission is moving ahead with a separate investigation of Apple’s rules for developers who create applications for the iPhone operating system, according to a person familiar with that discussion.

That inquiry, initiated by complaint from , the maker of the Flash format for Internet video, is said to be in its early stages as well.

The Justice Department has also reportedly been investigating the hiring practices at Apple and other top technology companies, including , and , asking whether the companies have improperly agreed to avoid hiring each other’s employees.

The music investigation signals the elevated scrutiny of technology companies under the antitrust agencies of the Obama administration.

The Federal Trade Commission recently spent six months reviewing Google’s proposed acquisition of Admob, a mobile advertising start-up. Although the commission said the combination created “serious antitrust concerns,” it approved the deal, noting Apple’s own entry into the market for mobile advertising.

Apple first released its iTunes software in early 2001, giving people an easy way to organize their music collections on a Mac computer, and later, a PC. It opened the iTunes store in 2003 and has since sold more than 10 billion songs, providing a significant source of revenue for the music industry.

While iTunes persuaded many people to pay for music, rather than download pirated copies of songs free, the music industry has chafed because Apple sets prices and controls the relationship to the music buyers.

More recently, Apple has encouraged new kinds of competition in the online music marketplace by allowing streaming music applications from companies like Pandora and Rhapsody onto Apple devices.
828 2010-05-26 DETROIT — Nissan’s chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, said Tuesday that the company had already received 19,000 orders in the United States and Japan for the electric car that it would start selling at year-end.

More than six months before the car, the Nissan Leaf, arrives at dealerships, the preorders mean that the car is sold out for this year and that the company might stop taking reservations, Mr. Ghosn said during a visit to the Detroit Economic Club.

“The preorders are such that we are very comfortable with what we have undertaken,” Mr. Ghosn said after the speech. “The more we advance into it, the more comfortable we are with it.”

Nissan plans to break ground Wednesday in Smyrna, Tenn., for a plant to build batteries for the Leaf and eventually other models, part of its goal to sell at least 500,000 electric cars worldwide starting in 2013. The first Leafs will be made in Japan, with assembly in Tennessee planned to start in 2012.

Mr. Ghosn’s enthusiasm for electric vehicles contrasts with some recent studies and with comments from other automakers, including Honda, suggesting that pure electric vehicles have little short-term potential.

General Motors is scheduled to begin selling a battery-powered plug-in car, the Chevrolet Volt, later this year, but the Volt also has a small gasoline engine so that drivers can go beyond the battery’s expected range of 40 miles a charge.
829 2010-05-26 Microsoft disclosed a series of management changes on Tuesday that will alter the shape of its business unit responsible for products like the Zune music player, Xbox gaming console and phones.

Most notably, Robbie Bach, the head of the entertainment and devices group, will retire from Microsoft after 22 years at the company. As a result, Mr. Ballmer will take a more hands-on role in Microsoft’s gadgets and games by having various division heads report directly to him.

In a statement and in discussions with reporters, Microsoft representatives stressed that Mr. Bach would leave the company on good terms.

Mr. Bach’s division has had a number of successes, including the Xbox, but has also produced some of the company’s greatest disappointments, including lackluster phone software and the slow-selling Zune. It also botched its approach to the tablet computer market.

“For the past 22 years, Robbie has personified creativity, innovation and drive,” Mr. Ballmer said in a statement. “With this spirit, he has led a division passionately devoted to making Microsoft successful in interactive entertainment and mobility.”

Mr. Bach, 48, will remain at Microsoft until the fall, at which point he plans to spend more time with his family, Microsoft said. During a meeting with reporters and editors at The New York Times on May 14, Mr. Bach did not mention any plans to leave the company, instead focusing on the future of the Xbox and new phone software.
830 2010-05-26 “For me today’s victory is like a Grand Slam victory,” said Michael Krumm, the German race car driver who married Date in 2001 and encouraged her to return to tennis.

“I felt always like, like everybody else thought in Japan probably: What a waste to stop so young,” he said, adding, “I met her after she retired, but I thought she’s so healthy, so young, so fit that it’s crazy to stop.”

The inspiration for the return was an exhibition match in Japan in late 2007 against Steffi Graf. And when Krumm began playing practice matches against youngsters at home to get ready, she struggled to win even a game. But she did not reach No. 4 in the world in the 1990s by happenstance, and she eventually started beating her practice partners and then beat Graf, too.

With her desire back, Krumm, whose unusual style — full of rhythm changes and slice and tactical forethought — provides the element of surprise over much younger opposition, has climbed back to No. 72 in the rankings. Krumm, who will turn 40 in September, will climb higher still with the points she acquired on the Suzanne Lenglen court Tuesday.

“I don’t like so much red clay, but today I beat Safina, so it’s a big, big memory again,” said Krumm, who beat Iva Majoli on the Lenglen court on her way to the semifinals in 1995.

Krumm was not the only member of her generation to advance. The American Jill Craybas, the second-oldest woman in the draw at age 35, also won in three sets against the unseeded Briton Katie O’Brien.

But O’Brien has never been No. 1 in the world. Safina had fond memories of her own on Roland Garros’s second show court. It was where she rallied to defeat Sharapova in 2006 and then again in 2008, from match point down, on her way to the first of two consecutive French Open finals.

But her loss to Svetlana Kuznetsova here last year — in which she lost control of her nerve and, too often, her serve — was the beginning of a downward spiral. And as stirring as it was to see Krumm think and punch through barriers, it was also painful to see Safina so full of doubt.

Lower back problems have limited her play this season. She has played only six tournaments, failing to get past the quarterfinals in any of them, and has a losing record (5-6) for the year. After losing in the first round in Madrid to Klara Zakopalova, she split with her longtime coach Zeljko Krajan and was working in Paris with the former Argentine men’s tour player Gaston Etlis.

Krajan, a former player from Croatia, motivated Safina to reshape her physique and improve her questionable mobility. “I mean definitely he did the best job everybody could make with me,” Safina said. “But I decided that I wanted to stop, and that’s it. I won’t say anything more.”

Safina has yet to win a Grand Slam singles title and does not look ready to change that anytime soon. She was seeded ninth in Paris and will drop out of the top 10. There has always been a mechanical quality to her tennis, as well as remarkable power, but the problem Tuesday appeared to be between the ears. She led by 5-0 in the first set before Krumm worked her way into the match. Safina then blew a 4-2 lead in the second set and a 4-1 lead in the third, when Krumm was struggling to continue.

“I got tight,” said Safina, who finished with 17 double faults. “I was more thinking about her than myself and what I have to do. I lost the momentum.”

Krumm may have trouble generating more momentum here this year. Her second-round opponent is Jarmila Groth, an Australian who is much less accustomed than Krumm to Grand Slam pressure. But Krumm’s calf problem is clearly a concern; it has been recurring since last year and forced her to retire from the tournament in Estoril, Portugal, on clay last month and withdraw from Warsaw. She planned to have medical examinations Tuesday night before deciding whether to play on.

Whatever happens from here, she and the man who urged her to use her talent again will always have Paris in the sunshine on Tuesday. And when it was over and she hobbled across the clay toward the players’ box with the largely French crowd voicing its full approval, she was soon locked in a tearful embrace with her husband.

“Really we can’t define a goal, because I think it’s just trying her best and at the moment we can see she’s consistently still going up,” Michael Krumm said. “It’s a process, and it’s just I think a matter of how long will the body hold? I think mentally she has much less stress than 12 years ago.”
831 2010-05-26 “The majority of the matches I win aren’t pretty,” Roddick said. “But I’ve made a career out of that.”

His forward progress may be aided by a friendly draw. Although a few dangers lurk, he would not face a top-20 seed until at least the fourth round.

But a deep run, as unexpected as it might be, could prove a distraction to Roddick’s broader ambitions. His primary focus is on the slick grass courts of Wimbledon, where he lost an epic five-set final to Roger Federer last year; the fifth set was 16-14. For someone who won the United States Open in 2003 but has not won a major tournament since, the motivation now is largely on securing a legacy. Wimbledon, and the United States Open, are Roddick’s primary chances to build his.

He reached the quarterfinals at the Australian Open in January, the finals at Indian Wells, and then won at Miami in March. It was the last match Roddick played until Tuesday.

After the match, Roddick was open about his complicated mind-set toward clay. He admitted that the springtime clay season is a period he will always use to catch up his “responsibilities elsewhere.” This year, that included spending time with his wife, the model Brooklyn Decker, on their first anniversary.

“I hadn’t seen Brook in a while,” Roddick said. “I think at that point in the year, that was always going to take precedence for me. That was a time that we had blocked out for us, and, you know, that’s necessary.”

But when asked whether he would prefer to jump from the winter hardcourt season to the summertime grass, avoiding clay entirely, he said he would not.

“I know the press, it seems that way to you guys,” he said. “But this is also part of the year, part of lead-up. Having to battle against, you know, my own style on a surface — it is all a learning experience. So I don’t think I would fast-forward anything.”

Nieminen, 28, is no no-name, finding a place in the world’s top 20 about three years ago, but he, too, has never mustered much success on clay. He has reached the quarterfinals of all the other Grand Slam events, but only once has reached the fourth round at Roland Garros, in 2003.

Before this tournament, Nieminen played four clay-court tour events, making the second round at Casablanca and losing in the first round at Monte Carlo, Barcelona and Nice.

Beating Roddick would have been considered a big upset, if not a monumental one.

The two men adjusted their hardcourt games for a compelling match. Roddick’s play, still centered on the tour’s most overwhelming serve (19 aces) and a powerful forehand, pushed the pace of play on many points by spinning backhands and rushing the net.

Nieminen played along gamely, showing speed in chasing down balls and sending some of Roddick’s artful attempts whizzing past him.

Still, the two struggled mightily to break each other’s serve. Roddick finally broke the scrum in the fifth game of the fifth set, then did it again to end the match.

“The ceiling is a little bit different on clay for me, but the mind-set of going into a day doesn’t change,” Roddick said. “You go in and you try and battle and do the best you can. You see what happens.”
832 2010-05-26 “Rates are creeping higher, but the system is still working,” said Jim Caron, an interest rate strategist at Morgan Stanley. “That’s what’s different to the crisis in 2008, for now.”

On Tuesday, investors again flocked to United States Treasury securities, the financial equivalent of stuffing money under the mattress. That is good news for many borrowers in the United States — including the federal government — since the hunger for Treasuries is holding down interest rates here.

Investors also rushed to buy dollars and yen, traditional havens in financial storms, and sell the beleaguered euro. And they drove up prices of German government bonds, sending the yields on those investments, which move in the opposite direction of their prices, to their lowest levels since 1990. The tensions on the Korean Peninsula only added to sense of unease in the markets.

The focus of Europe’s problems is rapidly shifting from Greece to Spain, one of the world’s largest economies. The decision by Spanish authorities to seize a savings bank over the weekend and then encourage the merger of four other troubled banks raised questions about the health of Spain’s broader banking system.

While banks in the United States have relatively little exposure to their Greek counterparts, Spanish banks owe American financial institutions about $197.7 billion, according to the Bank for International Settlements. According to Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, Spanish borrowers in both the government and private sectors owe foreign investors about $1.1 trillion. In comparison, Greece’s external debt is closer to $236 billion, he estimates.

“Spain is the focus now,” he said in a note.

In credit markets, those worries helped push up the three-month London interbank offered rate — the interest rate at which banks are willing to lend money to each other — for the 11th consecutive day on Tuesday, to 0.536 percent, the highest rate since July 2009 and about double the rate at the beginning of this year.

Such a rise is generally seen as a sign of stress in the banking system, and according to the futures market, the rate could double again by December, helped higher by positive growth in the United States. Libor is still far below the 5 percent witnessed at the height of the financial crisis in 2008.

Another measure of stress in the markets, a measure of volatility known as the VIX, has also risen sharply over the last few weeks but it remains about half its level in 2008.

Since April, as nervousness over Europe has grown, the flight to safety has played out in markets around the world. Investors have sold emerging market bonds and relatively risky currencies like the Australian dollar. Many instead piled into Treasuries.

On Tuesday, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.16 percent, one of the lowest levels it has reached in a year. The German bund yield fell to 2.56 percent, its lowest level since 1990. The flight from risk has hit stock markets — in Britain, the FTSE 100 closed down below 5,000 for the first time since October.

“The bottom line is risk aversion has gone up,” said Adrian Cronje, chief investment officer of Balentine.

In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average which had gone as low as 9,774.48, closed down 0.2 percent at 10,043.75. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed up 0.04 percent at 1,074.03. Adding to the fear factor on Tuesday, analysts said, was the standoff between North and South Korea, which only seemed to propel the rush by investors around the world to safe haven assets.

The impact of all this on the economy is still an open question. Some home mortgage rates are pegged to Libor, so the convulsions in Europe could have an effect on the economy here by making borrowing more costly. Then there is the sharp appreciation of the dollar against the euro and a feared slowdown in European growth, which could hurt American exports.

Investors are making an unequivocal assumption that fiscal cutbacks will slow global growth. Oil and copper, both barometers of economic expansion, have fallen sharply in recent weeks. But some economists say they think cheaper raw materials could be a spur to growth down the road.

As the markets tumbled, the top United States economic policy makers, Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, were concluding a meeting in Beijing with their Chinese counterparts. Mr. Bernanke is scheduled to speak Wednesday in Tokyo at a conference sponsored by the Bank of Japan.

In London, James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said he did not think the financial turmoil in Europe was likely to set off another global economic downturn.

“The U.S. may actually be an unwitting beneficiary of the crisis in Europe, much as it was during the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s,” Mr. Bullard said. “This is because of the flight to safety effect that pushes yields lower in the U.S. Of course the U.S. also has its own fiscal problems that must be directly addressed in a timely manner if the nation is to maintain credibility in international financial markets.”
833 2010-05-26 BANGKOK — Thailand’s criminal court on Tuesday approved an arrest warrant on terrorism charges for the fugitive former prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, accusing him of involvement in recent street protests in Bangkok that left more than 85 people dead.

Mr. Thaksin, ousted in a coup in 2006, is abroad evading a prison term on an earlier conviction for corruption, and the government has been trying for years to secure his extradition.

The government said Tuesday that it believed that the terrorism charge would make it easier to gain the cooperation of foreign governments in repatriating Mr. Thaksin.

A late-night curfew was extended Tuesday for four more days as the government moved aggressively against members of the red shirt protest movement, arresting people who took part or helped in the protests and extending the detention time of several opposition leaders. In addition, financial transactions by people suspected of supporting the protests have been blocked, antigovernment radio stations have been closed, and four governors have been removed in provinces where protesters burned city halls or government buildings.

Mr. Thaksin has been a figurehead of the protests, organized by an antigovernment association known as the United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship or U.D.D., which paralyzed parts of Bangkok for more than two months. He is accused by many people of helping orchestrate and finance the protests, but there has been no proof offered, and Mr. Thaksin has denied any direct involvement.
834 2010-05-26 TIPOGRAPH--Joan, our loving daughter-in-law. Joan loved life and her beloved family - her husband Peter, her children Lindsey and Austin. Our hearts go out to Joan's parents, Cathy and Dr. Nat Stockhamer. It is with much grief and sadness that we ...
835 2010-05-26 TIPOGRAPH--Joan. Our hearts cry out in profound sorrow at the untimely loss of our beloved niece and cousin. Joan faced unspeakable odds with enormous courage. Our heartfelt condolences to her bereaved husband, Peter, and her loving children, Lind...
836 2010-05-27 In light of the Walt Disney Company insider trading case, White Collar Watch wonders whether the government may turn to reverse sting operations to try to ensnare more offenders....
837 2010-05-27 The State Department has issued a Travel Alert for South Africa, pegged to the coming World Cup, which takes place June 11 to July 11....
838 2010-05-27 A 13th-hour agreement between the governor and the Legislature will reopen 58 state parks and historic sites that closed last week....
839 2010-05-27 The State Department has issued a travel alert for South Africa, pegged to the coming World Cup....
840 2010-05-27 An amendment from Sen. Olympia Snowe would require the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to consider how its proposed regulations would affect the cost of credit to small firms....
841 2010-05-27 A chain-smoking baby, a falling building: If something isn't photographed, did it really happen?...
842 2010-05-27 Facts that, you know, aren't true....
843 2010-05-27 In 1 Police Plaza: "Stop and frisk" is discussed from all angles, and a new poll is good news for the police commissioner. (If he cares.)...
844 2010-05-27 Michelle Obama. Anderson Cooper. Adlai E. Stevenson. Alan Alda. They all went to college in the metropolitan region, and now students, some aware, some not, live in their old rooms....
845 2010-05-27 The Treasury secretary said that the United States and Europe were in "broad agreement" on the need for financial regulatory reform but stressed that they would take different paths when necessary....
846 2010-05-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
847 2010-05-27 Smile Brands Group, the dental services provider, withdrew its plan for an initial public offering....
848 2010-05-27 Warren E. Buffett, the chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, will testify next week before the panel examining the causes of the deep financial crisis....
849 2010-05-27 Stock markets continued their roller-coaster performance in Asia on Thursday, reversing morning losses to stand slightly higher by early afternoon....
850 2010-05-27 Apple, the maker of iPods, iPhones and iPads, shot past Microsoft on May 26, 2010, supplanting the computer software giant as the world’s most valuable technology company. This changing of the guard caps one of the most stunning turnarounds in business history for Apple, which had been given up for dead only a decade earlier. The rapidly rising value attached to Apple by investors also heralds an important cultural shift: Consumer tastes have overtaken the needs of business as the leading force shaping technology. Related Article »
851 2010-05-27 Federal regulators moved Wednesday toward requiring a uniform system for tracking all securities orders on American exchanges, in hopes of making it easier to investigate market disruptions like the plunge on May 6....
852 2010-05-27 The new health care law does not allocate nearly enough money to cover the estimated 5.6 million to 7 million Americans with pre-existing medical conditions who will qualify for temporary high-risk insurance pools, according to a report scheduled for release on Thursday.

The government-operated insurance plans are intended to serve as a stopgap until 2014, when insurers will be prohibited from denying coverage to people with health problems. But an analysis by the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonpartisan research group, concluded that the $5 billion earmarked for the pools might cover as few as 200,000 people a year.

“This could leave hundreds of thousands of potential participants with serious medical problems unable to obtain coverage,” the report stated.

That fear — along with partisan considerations — prompted officials in 20 states to decline to establish their own federally financed pools, opting to leave the task to Washington. Officials in those states, predominantly Republicans, worry that they would face intense pressure to pick up the burden if the money runs out.

The high-risk pools may open in some states as early as July 1. Although the existing state pools typically charge rates that are well above the market, and thus unaffordable to many of the uninsured, the new pools must have premiums equivalent to standard rates for healthy enrollees. What cannot be predicted yet is how many of the uninsured will be able to afford even those standard rates.
853 2010-05-27 BP’s decision was “without a doubt a riskier way to go,” said Greg McCormack, director of the Petroleum Extension Service at the University of Texas at Austin. Several other engineers agreed with Mr. McCormack’s assessment of the BP document.

Andrew Gowers, a spokesman for BP, said that there was no industry standard for the casing to be used in deepwater wells and that the approach by the Deepwater Horizon had not been unusual. “BP engineers evaluate various factors for each well to determine the most appropriate casing strategy,” he said.

The role of financial and time pressures in the rig blast is one focus of a series of hearings by the Coast Guard and the Minerals Management Service that began Wednesday in Kenner, just outside New Orleans.

Douglas H. Brown, the chief mechanic for the Deepwater Horizon, testified Wednesday that he witnessed a “skirmish” on the rig between a BP well site leader and crew members employed by Transocean, the rig’s owner, the morning of the blast.

Mr. Brown said the disagreement followed BP’s decision to replace heavy drilling fluid with lighter saltwater before the well was sealed with a final cement plug.

“Well, this is how it’s going to be,” the BP official said, according to Mr. Brown.

Mr. Gowers declined to answer questions about workers’ accusations or about whether cost may have factored into the company’s decision to use the casing system it chose for the Deepwater Horizon.

BP executives will probably face tough questioning about cost-cutting measures on Thursday when they testify before the House Committee on Natural Resources. As more details come to light about the events that led to the explosion, investigators are trying to determine which decisions and incidents — or combination of them — may have led to the accident, which killed 11 workers.

For example, Representative Nick J. Rahall II, Democrat of West Virginia and the chairman of the committee, said BP executives would face questions about why they let workers from Schlumberger, a drilling-services contractor, leave the morning of the accident without conducting a special test on the quality of the cement work.

Engineers have described these tests, called cement bond logs, as an important tool for ensuring cement integrity.

The decision about the casings will also come up during the hearings.

Professor McCormack said that while the type of casing that BP chose to use was more expensive in the short term, it was ultimately the more cost-effective and versatile alternative because it would have allowed the company to more easily drill deeper in the same hole if they decide to do so later.

But, the BP records explain, the casing chosen by the company may also cause problems if drilling mud or cement is lost or pushed away from the well into porous rocks as it is pumped.

Federal and company records indicate that that is just what happened, on more than one occasion. The rig lost all of its drilling mud in an incident in March, and in the days immediately before the explosion, records show. The well experienced several other instances of minor losses of drilling fluid and gas kicks, according to interviews with workers from the rig.

The April 20 disagreement between the BP well site leader and Transocean officials is also a growing focus of the investigation.

At a briefing in Washington on Wednesday, investigators laid out a chain of events, beginning with an operational error, that appear to have led to the accident.

The findings are preliminary, and come from BP, which owns the lease on the well and has pointed fingers at other companies for the problems on the rig, including Transocean.

The BP officials said that rig workers apparently had not pumped in enough water to fully replace the buffer liquid between the water and the mud, which stayed in the blowout preventer, the stack of safety valves at the wellhead.

This thick liquid, which is about one-third solid material, may have clogged the pipe that was used for crucial “negative pressure” tests to determine whether the well was properly sealed. The result was a pressure reading of zero (because the pipe was plugged, not because there was no pressure in the well) and the workers apparently misinterpreted that result as indicating a successful test.

Rig workers declared they were “satisfied” with the tests and started to replace drilling mud in the pipe to the seabed with water. About two hours later, the blowout and explosion occurred.

Evidence began emerging Wednesday that BP officials may have had an incentive to proceed quickly.

A member of the federal panel investigating the cause of the blast said that before the explosion, the company had hoped to use the Deepwater Horizon to drill another well by early March, but was behind schedule.

BP applied to use the Deepwater rig to drill in another oil field by March 8, said Jason Mathews, a petroleum engineer for the Minerals Management Service.

Based on an estimate of $500,000 per day to drill on the site, the delay of 43 days had cost BP more than $21 million by the day of the explosion on April 20, Mr. Mathews estimated.

A Transocean official — Adrian Rose, the company’s health, safety and environmental manager — confirmed that BP leased the rig for $533,000 per day. He could not confirm where the Deepwater Horizon was planning to go next, but he said it was going to undertake another drill, probably for BP.
854 2010-05-27 A federal hearing into possible misconduct by Brooklyn prosecutors in a murder trial was postponed on Wednesday because the lead lawyer representing the district attorney’s office might be called as a witness.

The hearing, in United States District Court in Brooklyn, was to explore accusations that Brooklyn prosecutors withheld information that could have been used to impeach the credibility of three witnesses who testified in the 1995 murder trial of Jabbar Collins.

Mr. Collins, who is serving a sentence of 34 years to life, is seeking not only to have his conviction vacated under habeas corpus, but also to have the district attorney’s office barred from retrying him because of the “egregiousness” of their errors.

The judge overseeing the case, Dora L. Irizarry, indicated on Tuesday that she would throw out the murder conviction against Mr. Collins, but that she would conduct a habeas corpus hearing to determine whether he should be released unconditionally or face the prospect of being retried.

But soon after the hearing began on Wednesday, the district attorney’s office asked for a delay because its lead prosecutor in the case, Monique D. Ferrell, might be called as a witness and could therefore not otherwise participate.
855 2010-05-27 Ballet, because it is centrally concerned with the differences between man and woman, frequently addresses the same issues as feminism, though seldom with the same goals. Its very being arises out of an either/or dualistic view of gender. The woman goes on point, whereas the man does not. It is expected that he will partner her, not she him.

Usually everyone takes these things for granted about ballet. And it’s likely that many people will watch John Neumeier’s 1979 “Lady of the Camellias,” which received its first performance by American Ballet Theater on Tuesday evening at the Metropolitan Opera House, as if it were yet another transporting ballet story of romantic love. In this three-act version of the beloved tear-jerking tale by Alexandre Dumas fils — best known from Verdi’s opera “La Traviata” or the Garbo movie “Camille” — love occurs between the courtesan Marguerite Gautier and the rich, young Armand Duval. What’s most striking about Mr. Neumeier’s version, however, is how close it comes to being a feminist exposé. Though not well choreographed, and often unclear in terms of dramatic action, it’s cleverly shaped so as to place itself at the end of three centuries of unthinking sexism.

In “Traviata” or “Camille” it’s the singular features of this story that matter: the heroine’s fatal consumption, the social stigma of her work as a courtesan, the brutal conservatism of Armand’s father. But Mr. Neumeier’s version, taking his cue from the Dumas novel, interweaves the 19th-century story of Marguerite and Armand with the 18th-century one of the courtesan Manon Lescaut and her ill-fated romance with the aristocratic Des Grieux. And so he shows that the consumptive with the camellias is only another in a series of male fantasies about illicit or adulterous love. Like the rest, this one demonstrates how its hero would never have married its heroine; why he really thought he loved her more than any woman he might merely have taken as his bride; and why the great love of his life has to die.

Neither heroine is a free agent. Neither even makes a choice (though both heroines certainly make choices in the novels). Men control their narratives; men contort their bodies. And what’s most creepy is that love, sex, suffering and partnering all join in one masochistic nexus after another.

Manon and Marguerite are supposed to be torn between the life of a courtesan and the life of a woman sincerely in love. But Mr. Neumeier’s choreography suggests that they’re not really torn at all. Love is just another form of female victimhood. They look much the same whether it’s their customers or Mr. Right holding them aloft and shunting them around the stage. And it’s always Mr. Right who exerts the most drastic manipulation of all.

In a ballet with two Messrs. Right, you can imagine how things become when the going gets busy. Manon isn’t just sandwiched between Des Grieux and Armand; she’s processed between them like sausage meat. Though elsewhere sketching ideas of 18th- and 19th-century style, Mr. Neumeier uses only late-20th-century idioms when it comes to partnering. Manon is hoisted high by her customers in just the same fashion that Marguerite is later hoisted high by Armand. Every high is followed by a crashing fall. And throughout the ballet other women are manipulated in this manner. Apparently this is the way of the world, not just of the demimonde. Call it prostitution or call it love; in Mr. Neumeier’s ballet it all looks alike. No wonder the two passive heroines find regular moments for some sisterly bonding across the centuries.
856 2010-05-27 WASHINGTON (AP) — Federal regulators moved Wednesday toward requiring a uniform system for tracking all securities orders on American exchanges, in hopes of making it easier to investigate market disruptions like the plunge on May 6.

Members of the Securities and Exchange Commission proposed, on a 5-0 vote, requiring exchanges to maintain an audit trail covering trading orders from start to routing to execution.

The regulators said that would make it easier to investigate market disruptions like the so-called flash crash this month that sent the Dow Jones industrials down nearly 1,000 points in less than 30 minutes.

The new system, however, would be phased in under the S.E.C. proposal and would not be fully operational for three years, S.E.C. officials said at a public meeting. It would cost market players, including exchange monitoring bodies and brokerage firms, about $4 billion, and an additional $2 billion a year to operate, according to S.E.C. estimates.

The proposed rule could be formally adopted sometime after a 60-day public comment period, possibly with changes.
857 2010-05-27 Microsoft depends more on maintaining the status quo, while Apple is in a constant battle to one-up itself and create something new, said Peter A. Thiel, the co-founder of PayPal and an early investor in . “Apple is a bet on technology,” he said. “And Apple beating Microsoft is a very significant thing.”

As of Wednesday, Wall Street valued Apple at $222.12 billion and Microsoft at $219.18 billion. The only American company valued higher is , with a market capitalization of $278.64 billion.

The companies have comparable revenue, with Microsoft at $58.4 billion and Apple at $42.9 billion. But in their most recent fiscal years, Apple had net income of $5.7 billion, while Microsoft earned $14.6 billion.

Microsoft has more cash and short-term , $39.7 billion, to Apple’s $23.1 billion, which makes the value assigned by the market to Apple, essentially a bet on its future prospects, all the more remarkable.

Microsoft’s chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, shrugged off the shift Thursday morning. "No technology company on the planet is more profitable than we are," he said in New Delhi, where he had come to tout Microsoft’s cloud computing plans.

"On any given day, the stock market is a voting machine,’’ he said, and only ‘‘in the long run is it a weighing machine."

Apple’s climb to the top of the heap cements the reputation of Mr. Jobs, who once operated in the shadow of Microsoft’s co-founder, .

“It is the single most important turnaround that I have seen in Silicon Valley,” said Jim Breyer, a venture capitalist who has invested in some of the most successful technology companies.

While Apple is at the top of its game, it faces a new and powerful rival in , which is battling Apple in mobile devices with its Android operating system, and mobile advertising.

Google, with a market cap of $151.43 billion, also appeared to leap ahead of Apple in a new potentially important area, Internet-connected televisions. And Google is steering consumers toward yet a new model of computing in which Internet applications, rather than or desktop applications, rule.

“The battle has shifted from Microsoft against Apple to Apple against Google,” said Tim Bajarin, a technology analyst who has been following Apple since 1981. “Apple has a significant lead. But Google is going to be a powerful competitor.”

Apple and Microsoft initiated the personal computing revolution in the late 1970s, but Microsoft quickly outflanked Apple and grew to be one of the most profitable businesses ever created.

A little more than a decade ago, Apple, which had pushed out Mr. Jobs in 1985, was widely believed to be on the path to extinction.

, the founder and chief executive of computer, went so far as to suggest that Apple should shut down and return any money to shareholders. (The computer maker is now worth about a tenth of Apple.) Around the same time, Microsoft’s chief technology officer called Apple “already dead.”

But with the return of Mr. Jobs to Apple in 1996 — and an investment by Microsoft of $150 million — the company began a slow path to recovery. Apple’s rebirth began in earnest with the introduction of the music players, and Mr. Jobs began to gain a reputation for anticipating what consumers want. The company elbowed aside and came to dominate the music distribution business with the iTunes online music store.

It later upstaged , the dominant brand in mobile phones, by introducing the iPhone in 2007. And this year, Mr. Jobs shook things up again, with the introduction of the , a tablet computer that has the potential to create a new category of computers and once again reshape the way people interact with their devices.

Mr. Jobs helped create “the best desktop computer, the best portable music device, the best smartphone and also now the best tablet,” said Steve Perlman, a serial entrepreneur who was an executive at both Apple and Microsoft and is now the chief executive of OnLive, an online gaming company.

As Apple grew increasingly nimble and innovative, Microsoft has struggled to build desirable updates to its main products and to create large new businesses in areas like game consoles, music players, phones and Internet search. Microsoft, which is a component stock of the Dow Jones industrial average, has lost half its value since 2000.

Mr. Ballmer said Thursday that while Microsoft has “some very good competitors,” the company is a very good competitor itself. Yet Mr. Ballmer seemed to concede that Microsoft needs improvement in some areas.

“Windows phone – boom! We have to deliver devices with our partners this Christmas,” he said. Feedback so far has been good, he said, but the company still has “a lot of work to do.”

Still, Microsoft is a hugely powerful and profitable company in the tech world. Its Windows software runs 9 out of every 10 computers, while more than 500 million people use its Office software to perform their daily tasks, like writing letters or sending e-mail messages. These two franchises account for the bulk of Microsoft’s annual revenue.

But Apple has the momentum. “Steve saw way early on, and way before Microsoft, that hardware and software needed to be married into something that did not require effort from the user,” said , the co-founder and longtime chief executive of Microsystems.

“Apple’s products are shrink-wrapped and ready to go.”
858 2010-05-27 A top Kremlin aide said Wednesday that Russia was guided by its own long-term interests, and that “our position can be neither pro-American, nor pro-Iranian.”

The aide, Sergei Prikhodko, went on to say that Russia rejected extremism and unpredictability in the global arena, and that “those who speak on behalf of the fraternal people of Iran” should not forget this.

“No one has ever managed to save his authority by making use of political demagoguery,” Mr. Prikhodko said in remarks carried by Interfax, a Russian news agency. “And I am sure that the thousand-year-long history of Iran itself proves that.”

Russia has historically opposed sanctions against Iran, which it considers an important regional ally. That position began to shift late last year when Iranian leaders rejected a United Nations-brokered uranium enrichment plan, which Russia had helped draft, to defuse the standoff over Iran’s nuclear program.

With the threat of sanctions looming, Iran revived elements of the proposed compromise, striking a deal with Brazil and Turkey this month to send parts of its stockpile of enriched uranium abroad for further processing.

But that new agreement is also causing friction, particularly between the United States and Brazil. Angry at Washington’s dismissal of the deal, Brazilian officials on Wednesday provided a full copy of the three-page letter President Obama sent to President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil in April, arguing that it laid the groundwork for the agreement they reached in Tehran.

“There continues to be some puzzlement” among Brazilian officials about why American official would reject the deal now, a senior Brazilian official said. “The letter came from the highest authority and was very clear.”

In the letter, Mr. Obama wrote that an agreement by Iran to transfer about 2,600 pounds of low-enriched uranium out of the country “would build confidence and reduce regional tensions by substantially reducing Iran’s” uranium stockpile. But he also made clear that the United States would continue to pursue sanctions while leaving the “door open to engagement with Iran.”

Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said the letter from Mr. Obama to Mr. da Silva should not be taken in isolation. “No one document or discussion captures the totality of the discussion and their mutual understanding,” she said.

A number of countries led by the United States suspect that Iran has been enriching uranium because it wants nuclear weapons. The Security Council has repeatedly told Iran to halt the enrichment. The Iranians have ignored the demand, saying they are within their rights to enrich uranium to relatively low levels for use in reactors.

Last week, Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, offered cautious support for a draft Security Council resolution that would impose a fourth set of sanctions on Iran. But he emphasized that the draft needed approval from the council’s nonpermanent members, and he encouraged Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to consider Tehran’s newest proposal to enrich uranium in Turkey.

Tension has also been building between Moscow and Tehran over a proposed sale of S-300 antiaircraft missiles to Tehran, a contract that Russia has suspended but not canceled. Washington has pressed Moscow not to deliver the weapons, which could help Iran shoot down American or Israeli warplanes should either try to bomb its nuclear facilities.
859 2010-05-27 LONDON (Reuters) — The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said on Wednesday that financial markets wanted to see a $1 trillion plan to provide back-up financing for European governments put into action.

The fund, provided by the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, aims to provide assistance to euro zone governments if they have difficulty raising debt from capital markets, and was started because of worries that Greece might default on its debt.

However, it has so far failed to stem a crisis of confidence about economies in the euro zone.

“It’s a good program,” Mr. Geithner said, who added that it had “the right elements.”

But, “what markets want to see is action,” he said at a joint news conference in London on Wednesday with his British counterpart, George Osborne.

Washington has been dismayed by how far the Greek crisis has spread to the rest of the euro zone, once again putting the global banking system under threat because of what it regards as a lack of decisive and early action.

It was the United States Treasury that initiated this month’s G-7 emergency conference calls that led to the huge rescue fund for the euro zone, but there is rising concern that this may not have been enough.

Mr. Geithner will later travel to Frankfurt for a dinner meeting with the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet.
860 2010-05-27 The United States appears to be in a stronger position than the euro area, he said, helped by better financial market conditions and “a number of more favorable elements on the fiscal side,” notably the outlook for stronger tax revenues, which means it can delay debt reduction steps until 2015.

At the same time, the shift in liquidity from developed markets to such places as China and India, and the weak fiscal position of the euro-area countries present risks, the report stressed.

“As activity gathers momentum, global imbalances are beginning to widen again,” it said, citing in particular the “magnitude of capital inflows in emerging-market economies and instability in sovereign debt markets.”

The recent debt crisis centered in Europe has “highlighted the need for the euro area to strengthen significantly its institutional and operational architecture to dissipate doubts about the long-term viability of the monetary union,” the O.E.C.D. said. “At a minimum, surveillance of domestic policies needs to be strengthened, taking on board broader competitiveness considerations.”

Mr. Padoan noted that there had been an “acceleration in the sense of urgency” among European countries to try to bring their deficits under control. Yet despite the recent spate of announcements, most of the policies will not take effect until next year.

And these efforts may not be enough to avoid continued volatility in debt markets, the report warned. “Bolder measures need to be taken to ensure fiscal discipline, along a continuum that ranges from stronger surveillance and more effective sanctions for non-compliance, to external auditing of national budgets, all the way to de facto fiscal union.”

Mr. Padoan cautioned that it was wiser for countries like Spain, France and Britain, which are trying to rein in long-term liabilities, to focus on raising revenue through indirect or consumption-related taxes, rather than higher direct taxes, which can have a more harmful effect on growth.

“The whole continent must change its political morale and perhaps its social welfare and state model,” Giulio Tremonti, the finance minister of Italy, told an economic forum at the O.E.C.D. “We are confronted with hard choices. The public coffers are not unlimited.”

Italy became the latest euro-area country to announce austerity measures when it proposed budget cuts Tuesday aiming to cut its deficit to below 3 percent of G.D.P. by 2012, from 5.3 percent last year. The measures center on cuts to public spending; no new taxes will be introduced and no existing taxes will be raised.

Mr. Tremonti said the government’s aim was to “maintain what is necessary for social cohesion.” As a result, it did not plan to reduce spending on health and social security, but instead would seek less spending at the regional and municipal level while “better integrating” central services.

On a more positive note for the region, the recent decline in the euro could help the outlook, by lifting the competitiveness of exporters. “The euro was bit overvalued,” Mr. Padoan said, adding its decline will help “rebalance” global economic disequilibrium.

Here, China can also play a role by allowing its currency to climb, Mr. Padoan said, describing such a move as “low hanging fruit” for the authorities. That, and lower interest rates, would help to offset rising inflation pressure in China and reduce the risk of an economic hard landing, after years of surging growth rates.

The report forecast a moderate decline in Chinese growth to 9.7 percent next year, from 11.1 percent this year, with consumer prices steady at an annual rise of 2.5 percent for both years.

“Overheating in emerging-market economies also poses a serious risk,” the report said. “A boom-bust scenario cannot be ruled out, requiring a much stronger tightening of monetary policy in some non-O.E.C.D. countries, including China and India, to counter inflationary pressures and reduce the risk of asset-price bubbles.”

The O.E.C.D. said that given these risks, monetary policy in advanced economies needs to be “normalized,” after a period where central banks took extraordinary steps to inject cash into the system to prevent a collapse of the financial system. Support is already being removed in several countries and exit strategies must take into account nascent fiscal consolidation “so as to facilitate it without putting undue pressure on interest rates.”

Over all, the organization said that the outlook for inflation remains “benign” in the advanced economies due to considerable economic slack. The main risk of inflation becoming “unanchored” is if strong growth in emerging-market economies keeps pushing up energy and commodity prices.

The report forecast real growth in gross domestic product in the United States of 3.2 percent this year and next year. That was higher than a forecast made in November of 2.5 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2011. The U.S. jobless rate is expected by the O.E.C.D. to fall to 8.9 percent in 2011 from 9.7 percent this year.

“The Federal Reserve and the administration should gradually with draw policy stimulus as economic growth becomes self-sustaining,” the report said

Growth in the euro-area was estimated at 1.2 percent this year and 1.8 percent next year. That was an improvement from the November figure of 0.9 percent this year and 1.7 percent next year. Unemployment will remain high in the region, at 10.1 percent next year, it said.

For Britain, the O.E.C.D. forecast growth of 1.3 percent this year, held back by high inflation and lingering effects of the credit crunch, before rising to 2.5 percent next year, when household consumption and business investment start to build momentum. Inflation should start to fall back next year as the effects of a recent sales tax increase start to wane

For Japan, the economy was forecast to expand 3 percent this year and 2 percent in 2011. The recovery has been driven by exports, despite the significant appreciation of the yen, and fiscal stimulus.

The O.E.C.D. said the Bank of Japan should keep its ultra-loose monetary stance until “underlying inflation is firmly positive.”

For India, the organization forecast strong growth rates of 8.3 percent this year and 8.5 percent next year. Brazilian G.D.P. was forecast to grow 6.5 percent this year and 5 percent next year.
861 2010-05-27 LOWERRE-JAMBOIS--Emilie, died peacefully at home on May 25th, her 61st birthday, surrounded by her loving family. Beloved wife of Thomas Jambois, loving sister of Mary Lowerre, Timothy Lowerre, Donald Lowerre, Thomas Lowerre (Diane), Donna Kjeldse...
862 2010-05-27 The new health care law does not allocate nearly enough money to cover the estimated 5.6 million to 7 million Americans with pre-existing medical conditions who will qualify for temporary high-risk insurance pools, according to a report scheduled ...
863 2010-05-28 Joe McGinniss is reporting out a book on Sarah Palin from the house next door....
864 2010-05-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
865 2010-05-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
866 2010-05-28 Wisdom, insights and random observations from this weekend's Arts & Leisure section....
867 2010-05-28 Monologue | Thursday night on "The Tonight Show With Jay Leno" on NBC: Well, folks, here's the latest update. I guess this is good news. B.P. officials say the "top kill" plan is working. The bad news -- B.P. officials are a bunch of lying weasels...
868 2010-05-28 A judge finds that Gov. David A. Paterson violated negotiated contracts when he sought to furlough tens of thousands of state workers....
869 2010-05-28 But Nick Jonas, the teenage heartthrob and member of the Jonas Brothers, may join the cast of London's "Les Misérables" as Marius....
870 2010-05-28 Priceline acquired TravelJigsaw, an online car rental service based in Manchester, England, that operates in 80 countries, including Brunei and Zimbabwe....
871 2010-05-28 Mitt Romney will campaign for former rival John McCain in Arizona next week....
872 2010-05-28 Lamborghini is recalled 428 Murciélagos for a fuel pump problem....
873 2010-05-28 What's the moral when your former adviser is sentenced to eight years in prison?...
874 2010-05-28 It only took me a second to do the math: $60 a day x 365 days x 7 years = $153,300....
875 2010-05-28 The expansion of insurance coverage for children up to the age of 26, a test of online travel promotions and other consumer-focused items from Friday's Times....
876 2010-05-28 Economic and budget woes have helped reshape the admissions landscape at the University of California, which had a record 100,000 applicants this year....
877 2010-05-28 World leaders are not holding their breath awaiting Washington's prescriptions for financial regulation, an economist writes....
878 2010-05-28 The Bank of Spain has said that the country's banks must acknowledge their bad debts and put aside up to 30 percent reserves on real estate holdings, with the goal of bringing international confidence back to the Spanish financial system, The Tele...
879 2010-05-28 Russian lenders say plans to withdraw emergency liquidity this year may shackle credit and confound government efforts to push banks to lend more, Bloomberg News reports....
880 2010-05-28 The Nasdaq Stock Market on Thursday said it will delist the common stock of Frontier Financial, a month after the bank was seized by regulators....
881 2010-05-28 Pacificor, a California hedge fund, on Thursday said it retained the William Morris Endeavor agency to represent it in the sale of all rights to the "Terminator" franchise....
882 2010-05-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
883 2010-05-28 A positive mood on Wall Street carried over to Asia on Friday, making for a third straight day of gains in the region despite continued underlying nervousness about Europe's debt troubles....
884 2010-05-28 Once again, the stock market swung wildly on Thursday -- only this time, it swung up, as investors rallied around a bit of good news: The Chinese government dismissed reports that it might pare its European investments....
885 2010-05-28 Organizers of the Tour of Missouri canceled this year’s race after state tourism officials declined to help finance it. Mike Weiss, the chairman of the race, said Thursday that organizers pulled the plug after Gov. Jay Nixon’s administration refused to support it. The race, which started in 2007, was considered one of the world’s top five cycling events outside Europe.
886 2010-05-28 The question that had been foremost on the minds of fans — whether this would be the week Mickelson supplanted Tiger Woods atop the rankings where he has spent the past 501 weeks — had given way to another, admittedly hypothetical, question.

He just might. In a trend that started at the Tour Championship last season, Mickelson seems to have been saving his best performances for tournaments in which Woods was also playing.

In fact, of the last five tournaments in which both were in the field, Mickelson won three, finished second in one and tied for 17th in another. He finished first at the 2009 Tour Championship, first at the ’09 W.G.C.-HSBC Champions, first at the Masters, second at the Quail Hollow Championship and tied for 17th at the Players Championship, fading to a closing 74 after starting the day five strokes off the pace before Woods had to withdraw with a neck problem.

Before the Woods as Motivation theme is dismissed, it should be mentioned that in Mickelson’s first seven events preceding this year’s Masters, during which Woods was absent, Mickelson had only one top-10 finish (tied for eighth at AT&T Pebble Beach) and no other finishes higher than 19th.

There will be no prima facie evidence of the theory either way until the two are in the same event, probably next week at the Memorial Tournament, to which both have committed. Mickelson would have to vault from his current position of tied for 89th to victory in order to knock Woods off his No. 1 perch — not impossible but not likely.

What Mickelson will be doing for the rest of the week will be trying to sort out exactly how he managed to birdie the first two holes at Colonial, have reasonable birdie chances at the next two holes and then, as he put it, “the last 14, I hit the ball terrible.”

He wasted no time getting in touch with his instructor, Butch Harmon.

“I will have some work to do,” Mickelson said. “Already I was in there texting Butch so I’ve got some direction in the morning. I will probably get out here for an early session.”

Mickelson might have been overworked when he started on Thursday. He did corporate outings on Monday and Tuesday with his sponsor KPMG, the first in Minnesota and the second in Fort Worth. He then played a six-hour pro-am on Wednesday and signed autographs for 35 minutes afterward.

Not that he is making any excuses.

“Maybe energy was a factor,” he said. “I’m not sure. There is no excuse. There is no wind. The golf course has been in perfect shape and there are a lot of scores out there. I just wasn’t one of them.”

And Woods was not here to post one. It might have made a difference; it might not have made a difference. But shooting a poor round did not change one thing about Mickelson’s postround routine. When he finished his interviews, he went over to a rope lined with spectators and signed autographs for 25 minutes.
887 2010-05-28 Prudential, the British insurer, is in talks to reduce the $35.5 billion purchase price for the Asian life insurance unit of the American International Group, people briefed on the matter said Thursday.

Prudential has asked for a lower price after shareholders complained that the deal was too expensive. Prudential shareholders are set to vote on the deal on June 7. Approval is needed by 75 percent of the shareholders.

Two months ago, A.I.G. had said the sale of the unit, known as American International Assurance, or A.I.A., was a major step toward paying back its multibillion-dollar bailout from the federal government. Should the deal fail, it would most likely turn to a fallback plan to hold an initial public offering of A.I.A. in Hong Kong, these people said.

The two sides have yet to reach a compromise on a new price, though Prudential is likely to seek a price of less than $30 billion, these people said.

It was not clear whether the Treasury Department, A.I.G.’s largest shareholder with a 79.9 percent stake, would support a sale for less than $32 billion.
888 2010-05-28 The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requires all companies to provide safe work environments for their employees. But when it comes to the special risks faced by biotechnology workers, OSHA’s current rules are spotty.

The agency has specific standards for blood-borne pathogens, as a result of the H.I.V. and hepatitis scares of the 1980s, but not for other infectious agents that might be spread through skin contact or the air.

Much stricter and more specific guidelines have been spelled out by the National Institutes of Health, covering federal laboratories and other organizations that conduct genetic engineering work using federal funds. The rules are meant to protect workers and the public in general.

The N.I.H. guidelines specify four levels of safety measures for different organisms, depending on the danger level. Levels 3 and 4 are reserved for the most dangerous organisms.

But there can also be serious accidents in Level 2 labs — of the sort that harmed Malcolm Casadaban, the University of Chicago scientist who died last September after apparently being infected with a version of the bacterium that causes plague; Jeannette Adu-Bobie, who lost both legs and one arm to a meningococcal infection contracted in 2005, probably at a New Zealand lab; and Ru-ching Hsia, a scientist in an Agriculture Department food safety lab in Beltsville, Md., who went into a coma for a month after being infected by E. coli bacteria in 2003.

Becky McClain, who successfully sued Pfizer, worked in a Level 2 lab in Groton, Conn.

Pfizer, and many other companies, say they voluntarily adhere to these N.I.H. standards even if they do not receive government grants.
889 2010-05-28 The H. J. Heinz Company said Thursday that its quarterly profit rose 10 percent, helped by sales in Asia and the Pacific.

The company, which makes Ore-Ida potatoes, Classico pasta sauce and its signature ketchup said cutting costs and raising prices helped offset higher ingredient costs.

Heinz raised its 2011 dividend 12 cents, to $1.80, and offered a forecast for the next year in line with Wall Street analysts’ estimates.

The company said it earned $192.4 million, or 60 cents a share, in the quarter, up from $175.1 million, or 55 cents a share, a year earlier.

Revenue in the period, which ended April 28 and was the fourth quarter of Heinz’s fiscal year, rose 8.3 percent, to $2.72 billion. Sales volume rose 1.6 percent, led by ketchup and sauces.

Stock in Heinz, which is based in Pittsburgh, rose 54 cents, to $44.80 a share.

The company said much of its growth resulted from a 63 percent increase on marketing spending.
890 2010-05-28 Glazer said, “I have a partner to deal with and we’re trying to get a supplement line certified by the N.F.L.”

Glazer’s arrangement is unusual, at best, and raises questions about how he balances his competing interests. While some N.F.L. reporters and sportscasters cover the sport for more than one news media outlet, Glazer reports on some of the same players and teams who pay him for his training expertise.

And Fox, which is pleased with his reporting and trusts him to stay objective, asked him to develop and co-host a weekly series on FoxSports.com that features his and Couture’s business, MMAthletics.

“They see how popular and successful M.M.A. is,” Glazer said. “It was a no-brainer for them.”

The first of three episodes drew 226,000 unique visitors, the most of any premiere in a weekday online programming block called “Lunch With Benefits” that made its debut in September.

The show is an off-season replacement for “The After Party,” with Glazer interviewing N.F.L. players via Skype in his freewheeling, friendly, inside-the-locker-room style.

Glazer’s football content — news and video — accounted for 15.8 million visitors on FoxSports.com last season. Ed Goren, the president of Fox Sports, said he was not concerned about potential conflicts of interest arising from Glazer’s overlapping careers.

“Jay knows what his primary business is, and it’s the business of journalism,” Goren said. “If there’s an issue, he’s going to report it, whether it’s about a friend or someone he doesn’t know.”

Goren described Glazer’s M.M.A. business as a “part-time job” that does not impede his reporting.

Greg Aiello, a spokesman for the N.F.L., said, “Jay is not employed by the N.F.L. and Fox is comfortable with the arrangement.”

But Bob Steele, an ethics expert at the Poynter Institute, said Glazer’s entangled roles created “competing loyalties.” He added: “You can only scrutinize what he reports. But you can’t scrutinize what he does not report, so we don’t know what he didn’t ask an athlete. He might be making legitimate journalistic choices, but you can’t tell because you can’t see beneath the surface.”

Glazer said that the evidence of his objectivity rested in his criticism of Cushing and his willingness to be tough on any player, whether he is a friend, a client or someone he does not know. He conceded that there was no guidebook for someone in his position, but he said he believed that his warnings to clients protected him against ethical conflicts.

“I tell them: If you mess up, I’ll be harder on you than anyone else,” he said. “Just because I work with you doesn’t give you a free pass.” He added, “They have to separate the N.F.L. insider from the M.M.A. cross-trainer.”

Glazer is an intense, boisterous personality with a short wrestler’s body, who left an off-screen reporter’s role for “The NFL Today” on CBS to join “Fox NFL Sunday” in 2004. A colleague at Fox, Michael Strahan, the former Giants player, is a close friend. Strahan was the best man at Glazer’s wedding in 2006. (The marriage ended quickly.) And Glazer wrote Strahan’s autobiography.

“Most people love him or hate him,” Strahan said. “If you get past the onslaught of Jay, you love him. It’s a childlike quality. He says anything. He just doesn’t care.”

Glazer’s zeal for reporting and befriending players has generated exclusive reports on the New England Patriots’ videotaping scandal, which was called Spygate, and a variety of others about Brett Favre.

“I’m not trying to be a regular N.F.L. insider,” he said. “I’m trying to build a brand.”

As his star has risen at Fox, so has his interest in mixed martial arts. Glazer wants to prove that the sport, once maligned as human cockfighting, has matured and that it can be adapted to train athletes in many sports. He and Couture have developed position-specific exercises to improve players’ leverage, endurance and flexibility.

Current and former clients include the Atlanta Falcons, the St. Louis Rams, Chris Long, Ryan Grant, Patrick Willis, Keith Rivers, Matt Leinart and Jared Allen. Glazer hopes to bring in more football players and athletes from other sports. “We want to revolutionize athletic training,” he said.

Glazer’s strong network of player relationships can serve as a promotional platform for his M.M.A. business. And bonding with players through intense training can generate news articles for Fox.

“My relationships were terrific already, and this only helps, so when Patrick Willis signed his new contract, I had the story,” he said of the 49ers linebacker. “I’d like to think I would have gotten the story otherwise.”

Grant, the Green Bay running back, trained with Glazer in kickboxing and muay Thai last month to help open his hips and improve his balance and leg drive. “And I’m going back after minicamp,” Grant said. He added: “Jay builds a connection with players to where guys trust him. He hasn’t done anything to take that trust away.”

Glazer’s two careers led him to meet with the Falcons at the N.F.L. combine in February.

“Jay and Randy were setting up meetings with different teams,” Falcons Coach Mike Smith said. He said that he and Jeff Fish, his director of athletic performance, listened to their M.M.A. training pitch and hired them to train 16 players in wrestling, boxing and muay Thai during off-season conditioning from late March to early May.

“Some of our guys were already doing it on their own, so we felt why not bring in experts from the M.M.A.,” Smith said. “It’s very intense, a different kind of training than our guys were used to because of the different movements and styles, and it’s heavy on the conditioning side. Jay really has the passion.”

He called Glazer’s role as a reporter “a nonissue for me; he and Randy are offering us a service.”
891 2010-05-28 A Chinese court has handed down a suspended death sentence to a Tibetan man accused of taking part in the riots that ravaged the Tibetan capital more than two years ago, the state news media reported.

The same court also sentenced five other people to lengthy prison terms for their role in harboring the man, Sonam Tsering, who was convicted of “rioting and inciting the public to riot,” according to the Lhasa Evening News, which said the trial took place on Tuesday.

Prosecutors accused Mr. Tsering of standing atop a police vehicle and waving a knife in the air while shouting antigovernment slogans. The five others were convicted of “harboring a criminal” and given sentences ranging from three to seven years, the newspaper said.

A woman who answered the phone Thursday at the Lhasa Intermediate Court hung up when asked about the convictions.

At least four people have been executed and three others have been given suspended death sentences for their role in the unrest of March 2008, which left at least 19 people dead, the majority of them ethnic Han Chinese.
892 2010-05-28 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 284.54 points, or 2.85 percent, to 10,258.99. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 35.11 points, or 3.29 percent, to 1,103.06, and the Nasdaq was up 81.80 points, or 3.73 percent, to 2,277.68. Global markets have been volatile and skittish because of the uncertainty in the financial markets, with only occasional short-lived rallies interrupting a generally downward trend. The reasons for the slide — concern about the wider fallout from the European debt crisis and worries about China’s efforts to control the pace of its booming growth — are likely to keep dogging the markets.

The American market has seemed particularly unnerved recently as investors have been reluctant to hold their positions and have dumped equities, sometimes late in the day, knowing that they will be subject to the dictates of Asian and European markets overnight.

On Wednesday, for example, trade was higher for most of the day until the last hour, when the market started falling, sending the Dow to its lowest close since February. Some analysts cited reports of officials in Beijing meeting with foreign bankers to discuss China’s investment in euro zone debt.

But on Thursday, a statement by the People’s Bank of China dismissed reports that the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which is responsible for assets of more than $600 billion, was evaluating its investment in euro zone debt, reflecting concerns that some European nations might eventually default on their debts.

In its statement, China’s central bank said it was committed to long-term investment in Europe. It also said it supported the European integration process and the stabilization measures worked out this month by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, and that the euro zone would be able to overcome its difficulties.

As the day wore on, American equities rallied and strengthened.

“It definitely helped the equities market,” Kevin Giddis, president of fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan, said of the Chinese statement. “You saw it in the futures run-up. And it had an impact on Treasuries.”

Mr. Silverblatt said it was only the second time this year that the Standard & Poor’s index closed 3 percent higher. Intraday index movements have averaged about 2.8 percent over the past 20 days, or 2.4 percent when removing the unusual market movements of May 6.

“People have been waiting for this correction, and it is here,” Mr. Silverblatt said. “You’ve got more buying and selling matching up. The bulls and the bears are coming out.”

Since the American market will be closed on Monday for Memorial Day, investors on Friday might be asking themselves whether they want to hold on to their positions over the long weekend, particularly since markets will be open in Europe and Asia.

“That adds a little bit of uncertainty,” Mr. Silverblatt said.

Thursday’s rise was broad, with energy, technology, financial and materials shares all substantially higher. Citigroup shares were up 16 cents at $4.02 after the Treasury announced that it had sold 1.5 billion shares of Citigroup, or about a fifth of its holdings, at a profit of $1.3 billion. Most Citibank rivals were up at least 3 percent.

Microsoft led the Nasdaq higher, closing up 99 cents at $26. Apple shares rose 3.8 percent to $253.35.

“We were due for a bounce,” said Philip J. Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors. “We had some strength overseas in Asia and Europe overnight and we just sort of took our cues from there.”

Before the open in New York, the government reported that the economy grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the first quarter, slightly less than the initial estimate of 3.2 percent. Economists had expected growth of 3.4 percent. In addition, filings for first-time unemployment claims dropped less than expected.

But it was the report about Europe, rather than economic indicators that some described as a disappointment, that the market seemed to respond to. While the support from Beijing helpedlift the euro and stocks, it also served to remind that global confidence in Europe’s ability to solve its debt problems remains fragile.

In Berlin, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, told a news conference attended by Wolfgang Schäuble, his German counterpart, that the United States and Europe were working closely together to ensure that problems in countries like Greece would not spread.

The Treasury’s 10-year note fell 1 14/32, to 101 6/32. The yield rose to 3.36 percent, from 3.19 percent late Wednesday.

European and Asian shares also rose. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue-chip companies, gained 3.5 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London rose 3.1 percent. All major sectors advanced, led by shares of banks and industrial companies.
893 2010-05-28 But there was, he stressed, the need for the right balance. “We all agree you want to have more conservative constraints on leverage and capital,” Mr. Geithner said.

The G-20 nations are trying to reach a consensus on new rules to avoid “regulatory arbitrage” in which some banks or hedge funds move their activities to whatever location offers the loosest oversight.

The United States — along with several European countries — have been at odds over Germany’s plan to introduce a ban on naked short-selling of sovereign debt securities and financial shares. Regulators from other European countries have not followed Germany.

Leaders on both sides of the Atlantic agree on requiring banks to hold more capital in reserve during good times so they are more resilient during crises. But there is disagreement on other points, like a bank levy to create a fund that would be used to wind down sick banks during a financial crisis.

Michel Barnier, the European Union commissioner for the internal market, on Wednesday proposed that banks be required to pay such a levy. But American lawmakers have been reluctant to impose a bank levy, and Britain and France have resisted creating a separate fund, preferring the money go into general coffers instead.

Germany has annoyed its allies by acting alone on some regulations, for example its unilateral move last week to ban so-called naked short-selling of the shares of 10 German financial institutions. On Tuesday, Mr. Schäuble proposed banning the practice, which is already restricted in the United States, on all stocks as well as on bonds issued by euro area governments.

Short-selling is a method used by some investors to bet that a share or other security will fall in price; naked short-selling means making that bet without actually having control of the shares.

Despite Mr. Geithner’s remarks that the United States and Europe were in broad agreement over the need for tighter market regulation, Mr. Schäuble made it clear that Germany would continue to act unilaterally.

“I know the American approach is somewhat different” regarding naked short-selling,” Mr. Schäuble told reporters. Germany, he added was “right” to go it alone “given the intensification of the debate.”

Besides, he said, Germany could not wait until October, when the European Union intends to present its own regulatory proposals for the bloc.

Mr. Schäuble acknowledged that Germany had been criticized for its unilateral stance on financial regulation. But he also justified it. “We have done our national homework,” he said. “We have to keep moving forward.”

Michael Offer, a spokesman for the German finance ministry, said earlier this week that Mr. Schäuble was ready to introduce a German or European Union-wide financial activity tax or financial transaction tax if efforts to reach a coordinated approach at the G-20 meeting failed.

The European Union decided this month to offer loan guarantees of 750 billion euros (nearly $1 trillion) for governments in danger of defaulting on debt.

At the same time, several governments, including Germany, Spain, Portugal and Italy, have announced plans to reduce their budget deficits by introducing cutbacks across the public sector.

Mr. Geithner said that he welcomed such moves but that it was necessary that the United States and Europe work together “to make sure that we are strengthening and reinforcing the global recovery.”
894 2010-05-28 Cases brought before the court, he added, are increasingly being “seen for what they are: serious crimes to be investigated and prosecuted, as opposed to political issues to be resolved through diplomatic channels.”

The Amnesty report applauded the court for issuing an arrest warrant for the Sudanese president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, charging him with war crimes and crimes against humanity in the Darfur region. It was the first warrant issued for a sitting president.

But the report said the refusal of the African Union to cooperate with the court on Darfur was “a stark example of governmental failure to put justice before politics.”

In addition to its criticism of governments, Amnesty also found fault with international rights agencies and institutions, pointedly mentioning the United Nations Human Rights Council’s “paralysis over Sri Lanka.”

The organization said the council in 2009 passed “a deeply flawed resolution” that had been undermined by “global politics and expediency.” The measure rejected calls for an inquiry into widely reported atrocities by the Sri Lankan military in its war against the secessionist Tamil Tigers. The resolution, Amnesty said, “actually commended the Sri Lankan government.”

“By the end of the year, despite further evidence of war crimes and other abuses, no one had been brought to justice,” Mr. Cordone said. “One would be hard pressed to imagine a more complete failure.”

The Human Rights Council’s so-called Goldstone Report calling for accountability for the bloody conflict in Gaza that ended in early 2009 “still needs to be heeded by Israel and Hamas,” Amnesty said. Its report reiterated that “Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups unlawfully killed and injured civilians.”

The Amnesty report cited specific abuses in most countries and every region, including the exploitation and abuse of millions of migrants in South Korea, Japan and Malaysia; the Pakistani government’s chronic denial of rights to millions of citizens living along the Afghan border; mass forced evictions in many countries in Africa; increasing domestic violence, sexual abuse and murders of women in Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Jamaica; election violence and political murder in the Philippines; and “a sharp rise in racism, xenophobia and intolerance” in Europe and Central Asia.

Asia, as a region, performed especially poorly last year, according to the report.

“The theme of the overall report is a global justice gap, but in Asia it’s an accountability abyss,” said Catherine Baber, Amnesty International’s deputy program director for Asia. “Violations of all kinds go on with impunity.”

In China, the Internet, the media and religious affairs were tightly monitored and controlled by the authorities; human rights activists and defense attorneys were arrested, prosecuted and “subjected to enforced disappearances;” and “strike hard” campaigns led to mass arrests of Uighurs in the Xinjiang region in western China.

The hard-line regime in North Korea and the military junta in Myanmar both continued to stifle nearly all political dissent, the report said, principally through state security organs and control of the news media.

The government in Myanmar extended the house arrest of the opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and harassed members of her National League for Democracy. Ethnic minorities also were widely and brutally oppressed, notably the Rohingya people, and the junta continued to hold an estimated 2,200 political prisoners.
895 2010-05-28 As college-bound seniors look forward to the schools they will call home next fall, it is a good bet that many have no idea just how steeped in history their future homes are.     A search of archival records at several universities reveals how ea...
896 2010-05-28 LOWERRE-JAMBOIS--Emilie, died peacefully at home on May 25th, her 61st birthday, surrounded by her loving family. Beloved wife of Thomas Jambois, loving sister of Mary Lowerre, Timothy Lowerre, Donald Lowerre, Thomas Lowerre (Diane), Donna Kjeldse...
897 2010-05-29 The Astros and Roy Oswalt may be uncomfortable partners until the team accommodates his trade request....
898 2010-05-29 The N.H.L. commissioner's news conference covered a wide range of topics, including the New Year's Day Winter Classic, the future of the Phoenix Coyotes and New York Islanders, the prospects for more franchises in Canada and the N.H.L.'s participa...
899 2010-05-29 The chamber music series made famous by Charles Wadsworth and now led by Geoff Nuttall was first in the lineup....
900 2010-05-29 The top-seeded American twins Bob and Mike Bryan were upset in the second round of doubles by unseeded Brazilians Marcelo Melo and Bruno Soares, 6-3, 7-6 (6)....
901 2010-05-29 Curtiss Anderson, who edited The Ladies Home Journal in the early 1960s during a particularly tumultuous period in the magazine’s history, and as an editor with Hearst Magazines helped create Country Living and Smart Money, died on May 22 at his home in Tiburon, Calif. He was 81.

The cause was cancer, his wife, Anne, said.

Mr. Anderson succeeded the celebrated editing team of Bruce and Beatrice Gold at The Ladies Home Journal in 1962. The longtime leader among women’s magazines, The Journal had recently been overtaken in circulation by its archrival, McCall’s, a development that ushered in a period of frantic self-reinvention, with sudden hirings and firings throughout the Curtis Publishing Company. Its other flagship magazine, The Saturday Evening Post, had also lost ground.

Mr. Anderson fell victim to the turmoil. A year into the job, he was ousted, after clashes with top executives over The Journal’s content and direction. “An editor has to run his own magazine,” he said on stepping down.

He was soon picked to edit Venture, a start-up travel publication sold only to American Express cardholders. Subtitled “The Traveler’s World Magazine,” and initially published in hardcover, it went out of business in 1971, but earned widespread attention in the industry for its daring graphics and 3-D photography using the xograph method.

After becoming the editor of magazine development at Hearst Magazines in 1979, Mr. Anderson helped develop Country Living, Smart Money and other publications, as well as a Sunday magazine for The San Francisco Examiner, where he was an adviser to the publisher, William Randolph Hearst III.

“I have always subscribed to the idea of the professional editor — the individual who can edit any magazine with taste and imagination,” he told The New York Times in 1963.
902 2010-05-29 The drug maker Teva said Friday that it would cease production of its sedative propofol, which could intensify a shortage of one of the most common anesthetics in the United States. The drug is hard to manufacture and the company gets little or no profit from it, said Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva Pharmaceutical Industries. The company had to halt production and recall some of the drug last year because of manufacturing issues, and it is facing a raft of propofol-related civil lawsuits. Dr. Alexander Hannenberg, the president of the American Society of Anesthesiologists, said propofol was by far the most common intravenous anesthetic in the nation, used for general anesthesia and for sedation because when it is used properly, patients wake up quickly and side effects are rare. Dr. Hannenberg said the drug was often used in surgery and was becoming more popular in procedures like spinal or epidural anesthesia. The Food and Drug Administration says there has been a shortage of the drug since last fall because manufacturing problems forced both Teva and Hospira to suspend manufacturing and recall some of their versions of the sedative. With no American companies making the drug, the agency authorized the importation of a version approved in Europe.
903 2010-05-29 OmniVision Technologies, which makes semiconductor image sensor devices, posted a fourth-quarter profit as revenue rose 76 percent and forecast first-quarter revenue ahead of Wall Street expectations. The company forecast first-quarter revenue of $190 million to $210 million, above analysts’ estimates of $170.85 million. OmniVision posted fourth-quarter income of $3.5 million, or 7 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of $20.1 million, or 40 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $157 million, from $89 million. The company, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., posted results after the close of trading Thursday and on Friday its shares rose $1.07, or 5.87 percent, to $19.29.
904 2010-05-29 Organizers of a flotilla of up to nine vessels carrying hundreds of pro-Palestinian activists and thousands of tons of supplies for Gaza protested on Friday against what they called an Israeli disinformation campaign aimed at their mission. Israel has vowed to stop the boats from reaching Gaza, which is controlled by the Islamic militant group Hamas, and insists that there is no humanitarian crisis in the Palestinian coastal enclave. “For over four years,” the organizers said in a statement, “Israel has subjected the civilian population of Gaza to an increasingly severe blockade, resulting in a man-made humanitarian catastrophe of epic proportions.” The boats were expected to approach the coast sometime over the weekend. The aim, the organizers said, was to break through the “illegal” Israeli blockade “in non-violent direct action.”
905 2010-05-29 That has left lobbyists for fund managers searching for ways to mitigate the tax increase. In fact, in the hours before the House vote, opponents of the measure managed to postpone the date it took effect until Jan. 1, 2011. In the coming weeks, they hope to persuade lawmakers to have the tax increase phased in over several years and have a lower percentage of carried interest considered as ordinary income.

Douglas Lowenstein, president of the Private Equity Council, said he and other lobbyists were also trying to scale back a provision in the bill affecting what they call the “enterprise tax.” That provision would require the founders of hedge funds to pay ordinary income tax rates on proceeds they received from selling their firms.

“If you sell a building, a bond, or a business, you are taxed for capital gains in this country,” said Pam Olson, a former Treasury official who now represents the private equity industry. “This would make us the only business in America denied capital gains treatment, which is discriminatory and unfair.”

The protracted fight over carried interest underscores the difficulty Congress faces in trying to close tax loopholes for businesses, even at a time of sprawling budget deficits and widespread public dismay about Wall Street’s influence in Washington.

Fund mangers are typically paid a 2 percent management fee plus 20 percent of any profit they generate, the portion known as carried interest. Because their compensation is based on investment performance, they have argued that that money should be taxed at the lower capital gains rate.

But Victor Fleischer, the University of Colorado professor whose paper on the subject helped prompt Congress to act, said that carried interest should not qualify as capital gains because fund managers risk mostly other people’s money rather than their own. “They’re being paid a fee for a service, so it’s fair that they would pay the same rates as others who perform services,” Mr. Fleischer said.

As recently as January, the prospect of any change in taxes on carried interest appeared remote. Senate leaders had privately assured fund managers that if they needed revenue to pay for a package of tax breaks for certain industries, including wool production and publishing, they would close a loophole that lumber companies had used to claim billions of dollars in clean energy credits.

But in March, two factors changed. First, Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who had long championed the tax change for carried interest, became chairman of the Ways and Means committee, which writes tax policy.

Then Congress closed the lumber industry loophole in an effort to provide financial support for President Obama’s health care bill.

As the Senate Democrats sent signs that they were open to a tax increase, investors and their lobbyists mobilized quickly, warning that the proposal could stifle investments that create jobs.

The Real Estate Roundtable was among those who tried to negotiate an exemption for real estate investment trusts, arguing that the higher tax rates would hurt the recovery of the real estate market.

Robert L. Johnson, founder of the Black Entertainment Television, said the tax change would inadvertently squeeze out minority entrepreneurs because, he contends, they rely heavily on start-up financing from venture capital and private equity firms.

“This legislation would cause a rapid decline in minority private equity firms and possibly eliminate minority participation in this important financial sector of the American economy,” he said.

By early this week, Congressional leaders had agreed to reject exemptions for any type of investment fund.

“This is an issue of fundamental fairness,” Mr. Levin said in a conference call on Tuesday.

During floor debate Friday, carried interest received little mention, except from several Republicans who warned that a tax increase for fund managers would slow the economic recovery.

“This is not a time to raise taxes on investments in business. That’s a sure way to kill jobs,” said Representative Lee Terry, Republican of Nebraska.

As the bill moves to the Senate, lobbyists say they are focusing on a handful of Democrats — including Robert Menendez of New Jersey, Maria Cantwell of Washington and the chairman of the budget committee, Kent Conrad of North Dakota — to reach a further compromise that would lessen the sting of the change. One proposal would lower the amount subject to ordinary rates to 60 percent, from 75 percent.

Mr. Lowenstein of the Private Equity Council said he was encouraged by some of the last-minute changes made this week, before Congress breaks for a weeklong recess, and hoped to further lessen the impact.

“We will press our case during the recess and hope to build support for an outcome that is pro growth and advances the recovery,” he said.
906 2010-05-29 There doesn’t seem to be anything terribly unethical about the White House offer of an unpaid advisory position to Joe Sestak if he would bow out of the Pennsylvania Democratic primary, in which he later defeated Senator Arlen Specter. There does, however, seem to be something strikingly unintelligent about it.

Why would the White House, using former President Bill Clinton as its agent, offer Mr. Sestak a job on the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board for which he was ineligible as a sitting House member? (It takes about 30 seconds to Google those rules, approved in 1993 by President Clinton himself.)

Why would President Obama’s White House waffle and obfuscate about the matter for three months, allowing Republicans and the conservative blogosphere to hyperinflate it into the grave scandal it turned out, on Friday, not to be?

Why, finally, can’t the White House avoid such unforced errors and get its political act together? (And we haven’t even brought up the fact that William Jefferson Clinton does nothing quietly.)

Meddling in Congressional races is an expected and even an important part of any White House political operation, even those that claim to be different from their predecessors. If Mr. Obama had meddled a little earlier and more intensively in the United States Senate race in Massachusetts earlier this year, he might have been able to prevent the election of a Republican, Scott Brown, to the seat long held by Edward Kennedy.

But when the White House does get involved, it too often flails ham-handedly and winds up bruising only itself. Its attempt last year to get Gov. David Paterson of New York not to run for re-election looked like a brass-knuckled shove out the door, angering black leaders and many voters. The result: the angry governor refused for months to bow out.
907 2010-05-29 For opponents of the ban against homosexuals serving openly in the military, the steps by Congress this week to repeal the policy, known as “ don’t ask, don’t tell ,” were a major victory. But now they are girding for what may be an equally difficult task: the transition to a force where straight and openly gay servicemen and women live, work and fight alongside one other.

Some homosexuals in the military say they are worried about how that process will work and whether they will be treated differently if they publicly acknowledge their sexual orientation. Some raised concerns about being harassed, assigned to separate barracks or shunned by colleagues who had been friendly before.

“In an idyllic world, getting rid of ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ and saying ‘Everyone here is welcome’ is great,” said a 29-year-old lesbian in the Army National Guard, who asked that her name be withheld because she could still be discharged under the rule.

“But the policy actually allowed for a lot of protections,” the soldier said. “Getting rid of it completely without modifying it is kind of worrisome. The number of incidents against gays in the military is going to increase.”

Indeed, both opponents and supporters of the ban say a host of thorny practical questions will face the Pentagon if Congress gives final approval to legislation allowing the repeal of the ban, which could happen this summer.

Will openly gay service members be placed in separate housing, as the commandant of the Marine Corps has advocated? What benefits, if any, will partners or spouses of homosexual service members be accorded? Will all military units be required to treat homosexuals the same? And what training will heterosexual officers and enlisted troops receive to prepare them to serve with openly gay soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines?

“The reality is, getting rid of ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ doesn’t ensure that all lesbian and gay service members will be equal on that day,” said Aubrey Sarvis, executive director of the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network. “There will continue to be challenges to make full equality for gays and lesbians in the armed forces a reality.”

Similar questions were asked when blacks were allowed to integrate previously all-white units. But that transition was not without its difficulties too, including instances of racial violence.

A Pentagon panel has begun studying the issues around gays serving openly as part of a broad review of homosexuality in the military, which will include surveys of thousands of service members and their families. The panel, led by Gen. Carter Ham, the commander of the United States Army in Europe, and Jeh C. Johnson, the Pentagon’s top legal counsel, is supposed to deliver its report by Dec. 1.

Under an amendment moving through Congress, once that report is finished, the White House and senior Pentagon leadership must certify that repealing the ban will not be disruptive to the military. Once that certification is made, final repeal will occur within 60 days.

The House approved the amendment on Friday as part of the bill authorizing more than $567 billion in Pentagon programs and spending. The Senate Armed Services Committee approved the amendment on Thursday, and the full Senate is expected to take up the authorization bill later this summer.

“It could be late 2011 before this is implemented,” said Alex Nicholson, executive director of Servicemembers United, a nonprofit organization.

Supporters of “don’t ask, don’t tell,” who still hope they can stop it from being repealed, fear the effect on the military if it is.

Elaine Donnelly, a leading supporter of the ban on homosexuals serving openly, said she expected major fights over housing issues, including whether gay couples should be allowed to live together on bases, as married heterosexual couples are. “Same-sex couples in family housing will become a reason for families to decline re-enlistment or a change in station,” she said.

Ms. Donnelly, president of the Center for Military Readiness, a nonprofit policy group, also predicted fierce debate over rules governing antidiscrimination policies toward homosexuals. She said she and other supporters of the ban worried that service members who oppose homosexuality on religious grounds would be denied promotions, a policy she called “zero tolerance” toward anti-gay discrimination.

“Over a period of time, not all at once, people who find themselves out of step with zero tolerance will not re-enlist,” she said.

Mr. Nicholson called such concerns “political posturing,” asserting that tens of thousands of gay people already serve in the military, many open to their closest peers, without problems.

Gay advocates said that federal law would prohibit same-sex spouses from receiving the financial and health care benefits that heterosexual spouses receive from the military. But they said some privileges, like hospital visitation rights, might be given to same-sex partners. That issue, too, is likely to be a subject of much debate, they said.

Many service members interviewed this week said they knew homosexuals in the military and did not mind serving alongside them.

“If you trust a soldier with your life, that’s what is most important, not being gay,” said Specialist Kevin Garcia of the Army, who has done two tours in Iraq and is now stationed at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio.

But Keith Johnson, a petty officer first class with the Coast Guard and a former Marine, said he opposed homosexuality on religious grounds and thought repealing the ban would hurt morale. “If I don’t know, it’s a whole lot better than someone parading it around in my face and me having to deal with it,” he said.

More than 13,000 service members have been discharged for homosexuality since the law was enacted in 1993, though the rate of discharges has declined. One of those who was discharged, Joseph Rocha, a former petty officer third class, said he planned to join the Navy again if the ban is repealed. “My heart is set on becoming an officer,” said Mr. Rocha, 24. “Before yesterday, that wasn’t an option.”

Amid their celebratory talk, gay rights groups on Friday also warned that the ban remained in effect. Indeed, Lt. Col. Victor J. Fehrenbach, a decorated Air Force fighter pilot of 19 years, could be discharged any day under a ‘don’t ask’ investigation that began two years ago.

After being accused of sexual harassment in 2008, Colonel Fehrenbach, who had flown combat missions over Iraq and Afghanistan, admitted to being gay, even discussing his sexuality on “The Rachel Maddow Show” on MSNBC. Though the allegations were dismissed, a board recommended that he be discharged. His case is now before the secretary of the Air Force.

“It just seems incomprehensible that they could justify final discharge, given that Congress is moving toward ending the policy,” Colonel Fehrenbach said in an interview. “I’m afraid people will see headlines and think ‘don’t ask’ has been repealed. And that isn’t the case.”
908 2010-05-29 One of those players is Toews. When Dale Tallon, then the Blackhawks’ general manager, announced last season that Toews had been made captain, he said: “He’s so serious, so dedicated, so committed. Why wouldn’t you want to follow this guy?”

Toews, the youngest captain in the N.H.L., is trying to become the second youngest to hoist the Cup, after Sidney Crosby, who was 21 when Pittsburgh won last year. Toews led Canada in scoring at the Olympics with one goal and seven assists and was voted the tournament’s top forward.

Toews scored 24, 34 and 25 goals in his first three N.H.L. seasons, and this spring he has a point in 13 straight games, breaking the Blackhawks’ record of 11 set by Stan Mikita in 1962.

“I guess I’ve always been a pretty responsible, ambitious guy,” Toews said. “I’m aware of that Captain Serious stuff, and I am very serious about playing hockey, but it’s pretty hard to be serious around these guys all the time.”

Toews’s fellow young gun on the Blackhawks, Patrick Kane, said that the Captain Serious reputation was “overblown” and that Toews could cut up “like any other 22-year-old.” But, he conceded, Toews is “our hardest worker, the first guy in here every day, always in the weight room — and he’s probably our best player.”

Richards has a remarkable résumé, too, one that includes the Memorial Cup, the world junior championship and an American Hockey League title.

His individual achievements are also impressive, with 28, 30 and 31 goals the last three seasons. Richards is the only N.H.L. player to have scored three career goals with his team playing two men down, and he is tough. Upon completing the 2008-9 season, in which he played 79 games, he had surgery on both shoulders.

He has been compared to Bob Clarke, who was 24 when he was the captain of the Flyers as they won their first Stanley Cup in 1974.

“There are a lot of similarities not only in the way they play but the way they go about their business,” said Flyers General Manager Paul Holmgren, who played alongside Clarke for eight seasons. “Clarkey wasn’t the most vocal guy, didn’t like drawing attention to himself, and Mike’s the same way.”

Richards feuded with the local news media through much of the Flyers’ rocky regular season, after reports of carousing that, Richards pointed out, singled him out and also his teammate Jeff Carter. Chris Pronger, the Flyers’ newly acquired lockdown defenseman, made a general statement about professional athletes needing a “thick skin,” which led to reports that Richards and Pronger were at odds in the Flyers’ dressing room.

Whatever animosity there might have been between Richards and the 35-year-old Pronger, who won a Stanley Cup with Anaheim in 2007, seems to be gone.

“In order to be an elite player in this league, you have to show up to play with your ‘A’ game every night,” Pronger said of Richards. “And that’s what he does.”
909 2010-05-29 Re “Sea-Based Missile Tests: The View From the Pentagon” (letter, May 22):

The letter from the Pentagon completely confirms that it has no credible response to our analysis.

Essentially all expert analysis, including that of the Missile Defense Agency, concludes that the kill vehicle must directly hit the warhead for the defense to reliably stop the warhead from continuing to the ground and exploding. But the consistent failures to hit the warhead eight to nine times out of 10, and the description of the tests as successful intercepts, is hardly the primary problem revealed by the Pentagon’s own test data.

The overwhelmingly larger problem confirmed by the Standard Missile 3 data is that the Pentagon’s own data confirm that the same method of infrared homing used in both the SM-3 and the ground-based midcourse ballistic missile defense, or G.M.D., kill vehicles has not demonstrated that either the SM-3 or G.M.D. systems will ever be able to reliably find and hit warheads.

The inability to find aimpoints also translates into an inability to select warheads when they are separated from the rocket body and surrounded by credible decoys.

The SM-3 experimental data therefore show that in combat both the SM-3 and G.M.D. kill vehicles will never be able to select warheads except by chance.

Dr. Lewis is associate director of the Peace Studies Program at Cornell University. Dr. Postol is professor of science, technology and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
910 2010-05-29 Mr. Davis, 55, is successful at navigating this mainstream swath of the film business partly because he has a rare ability to charm reluctant rights holders, said Emma Watts, the president of production at 20th Century Fox, where Mr. Davis has a first-look deal through 2014. “He’s very adept at securing rights that have been historically hard to get,” she said.

Some of his tricks are standard operating procedure for a producer. “I kept calling the agents and calling the agents and calling the agents,” Mr. Davis said, referring to “Mr. Popper’s Penguins.”

Counterintuitively, he also advises rights holders to lawyer up. “You have successful rights holders who have done it their way and don’t understand the studio ways,” he said. “I often recommend they hire a great entertainment attorney so it doesn’t feel like they’re dealing with alien culture. They will know what studio precedents can be changed and not changed.”

If a historic property has never been made into a movie, there is usually a protective owner behind it who is worried about what Hollywood will do.

“This is why you have to become personally friendly with the rights holders,” Mr. Davis said. Take Jim Davis (the men are not related), the creator of Garfield and friends. “Getting that deal done took a tremendous amount of time,” Mr. Davis said. “This was Jim’s baby.”

Marmaduke, a galumphing Great Dane, pales in the shadow of Garfield, of course. The “Garfield” strip, published since 1978, appears in more than 2,500 publications worldwide. “Marmaduke” was created by Brad Anderson in 1954 — that makes the character roughly 392 in dog years — and appears in about 500 newspapers around the world, according to Doug Stern, the chief executive of United Media, which owns the property.

The single-panel canine cartoon has seen its popularity increase in recent years — as the butt of jokes. A 2008 headline in the satirical newspaper The Onion read, “Some Old Man Still Churning Out Marmaduke.” Blogs have sprung up to mock the comic, including Joe Mathlete Explains Today’s Marmaduke (marmadukeexplained.blogspot.com).

Even so, a parade of producers has tried to obtain the movie rights and failed, Mr. Stern said. “I’ve had a lot of interest in movies built around that character over the years,” he said, “but I finally decided to do it with John because he has a reputation for getting stuff done. John is also wonderfully unslick.”

That’s true enough, and surprising for someone with Mr. Davis’s pedigree. He has worked on more than 80 movies — including “Predator,” “The Firm,” “Grumpy Old Men” and “Norbit” — that, combined, have earned more than $4 billion at the worldwide box office. He is the oldest son of Marvin Davis, the billionaire oilman and onetime owner of 20th Century Fox, who died in 2004.

But like any good showman, Mr. Davis does have a flair for the dramatic. To pitch the idea of “Marmaduke” to Fox, he put a Great Dane inside a Mini Cooper — the dog was so large that its head stuck prominently through the sun roof — and parked it outside the office of the studio’s co-chairman, Tom Rothman. Fox ordered the movie, teaming with New Regency Pictures for a budget of about $50 million.

Like “Family Circus,” the “Marmaduke” cartoon is the product of the Eisenhower era and is written with little irony or attitude. The challenge for Mr. Davis was to figure out how to retool the character in a way that would reliably tickle modern funny bones. The solution: move the dog from Kansas to California and remake him as an awkward teenager trying to fit in with a bunch of snooty purebreds.

“He took a brand and then found a story that updates the character and makes it feel fresh again,” Ms. Watts of Fox said. Owen Wilson supplies Marmaduke’s voice; George Lopez voices the dog’s feline sidekick, Carlos.

Box office expectations for “Marmaduke,” to be released on Friday, range from a spare opening weekend of $10 million to a solid $25 million, according to surveys that monitor advance interest.

“Cinema snobs may roll their eyes, but from way back in film history, talking animals have been a very good business bet,” said Jeanine Basinger, the chairwoman of the film studies department at Wesleyan University. As an example, Ms. Basinger gave Francis the Talking Mule, which starred in seven Universal Pictures comedies in the 1950s.

Mr. Davis said he would move away from animal pictures — he was also behind the “Dr. Dolittle” series starring Eddie Murphy — as his three children get older. Now in their early teens, they have been motivation, Mr. Davis said, in his pursuit of family movies. Still, he does have a soft spot for furry performers.

“For ‘Dr. Dolittle 2,’ I auditioned four bears on a sound stage,” he said. “Do I have a great job or what?”
911 2010-05-29 The West End won’t be keeping its “Hair” past September, but the London theater district may be getting some interesting hair in another musical. Producers for the West End revival of “Hair,” a transfer of the Tony-winning Broadway production that brought its American cast (including Darius Nichols, above, as Hud) to Britain, said the show would close after its Sept. 4 performance. The musical had received strong reviews at the Gielgud Theater but its producers, who include Cameron Mackintosh, said a confluence of factors had contributed to its closing. In a statement, they wrote: “Cameron and the U.S. producers have decided not to recast ‘Hair’ when the Broadway company finish their London engagement. The fall in tourism, the ash cloud and the election has caused a drop in audience figures, which has also affected shops, restaurants and hotels across London.” Meanwhile, another of Mr. Mackintosh’s West End productions may soon gain another familiar American face. The Daily Mail reported that Nick Jonas, the teenage heartthrob and member of the Jonas Brothers, would join the cast of London’s “Les Misérables” as Marius for three weeks starting June 21. Mr. Jonas played Gavroche in the musical’s 2003 Broadway revival.
912 2010-05-29 Raymond V. Haysbert Sr., a former chief executive of the Parks Sausage Company and a longtime leader in Baltimore’s black community, died Monday in Baltimore. He was 90.

The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Reginald said.

During World War II, Mr. Haysbert joined the Army Air Corps and became a member of the Tuskegee Airmen, a celebrated unit of black fighter pilots. He served in Africa and Italy.

After the war he moved to Baltimore to join Parks Sausage, a small company started by Henry G. Parks Jr. in 1951 and long based near Camden Yards. It became known throughout the Northeast for its commercials, which featured a hungry boy requesting, “More Parks Sausages, Mom, please.” Mr. Parks died in 1989.

In 1969, when Mr. Haysbert was general manager, Parks Sausage became one of the first minority-owned companies to go public.

In 1977, Mr. Haysbert oversaw the company’s acquisition by the Norin Corporation, but in 1980 he led a group that bought back the company.

Parks Sausage ran into trouble in the mid-1990s at a time of consolidation in the food industry and changing consumer tastes. It filed for bankruptcy protection in 1996 and eventually changed hands again.
913 2010-05-29 KAMPALA, Uganda — Rwandan authorities on Friday arrested an American lawyer who is representing a leading Rwandan opposition figure, the latest sign of an increasingly repressive atmosphere there.

Peter Erlinder, a law professor at William Mitchell College of Law in Minnesota, is being charged with denying the Rwandan genocide and was being interrogated Friday night at police headquarters in the capital, Kigali, Rwandan officials said.

The Rwandan government seems to be getting increasingly sensitive in the months before national elections in August and recently lashed out at the American government, one of its biggest donors, for complaining about restrictions on the media and human rights groups.

The Rwandan government has barred a Human Rights Watch researcher from working in the country and closed down several independent newspapers. Some opposition supporters have been attacked inside government offices; others have been jailed.

Mr. Erlinder previously defended genocide suspects at the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in Arusha, Tanzania, and recently helped file a lawsuit in Oklahoma against Rwanda’s president, Paul Kagame, which may have provoked the government’s ire.
914 2010-05-29 The day felt like an old variety show, with stars of varying wattages trading time in front of appreciative audiences. As Nadal left one court, Roger Federer took another, while Novak Djokovic played on a third. Henin replaced Nadal on Court Philippe Chatrier, and soon left the stage to Venus Williams.

Each won in straight sets. Federer, the top seed, and Venus Williams, No. 2 among women, were the first to charge into the fourth round. Federer beat Julian Reister, 6-4, 6-0, 6-4. Williams beat No. 26 Dominika Cibulkova, 6-3, 6-4.

Among the men, No. 4 Andy Murray (over Marcos Baghdatis), No. 5 Robin Soderling (over Albert Montanes), No. 8 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga (over Thiemo de Bakker), No. 15 Tomas Berdych (over No. 17 John Isner) and No. 20 Stanislas Wawrinka (over Fabio Fognini) also reached the Round of 16.

Caroline Wozniacki, seeded third, was among those who joined Venus Williams there for the women. She will play No. 14 Flavia Pennetta, another Friday winner.

Most of the field was still trying to get through the second round, and the favorites had little trouble. Nadal, seeded second, beat Horacio Zeballos, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3, then was asked how his game compared with that of 2005, when he won the first of four consecutive French Open championships. No wonder he is still considered the favorite, despite falling short last year.

“I think I am serving better, I have a better backhand, a little bit better forehand, too,” Nadal said. “I have the position on court much better than 2005.”

As he spoke, Djokovic was on Court 1 dispatching Kei Nishikori, 6-1, 6-4, 6-4.

No. 1 Serena Williams needed only 55 minutes to beat Julia Goerges, 6-1, 6-1. It was so routine that the first six questions she was asked by journalists after the match were about things like her fingernails and her recent trips to Africa.

“I have a question about tennis, if that’s O.K.,” a reporter said.

The mood was festive across Roland Garros as the tournament began its slow turn toward the second week. The field has narrowed, and few of the top seeds have been ousted. Scintillating matchups are on the way.

The first may be Saturday’s third-round match between Henin and Maria Sharapova. The two have met four times in Grand Slam tournaments, usually as top-five players, never before the quarterfinals. Roland Garros may never have seen a more intriguing 12 vs. 22 matchup.

The last time they played on clay was a French Open quarterfinal in 2005, when Henin was seeded 10th and Sharapova second. Henin won, 6-4, 6-2. Two matches later, she won her second French Open (the first was in 2003), and she won again in 2006 and 2007 before retiring — and, in September, unretiring.

“I expect a big fight as we always had in the past,” Henin said after polishing off Klara Zakopalova in a match suspended Thursday because of darkness.

“It’s going to be exciting to play her again, you know, in the second career.”

Sharapova had just finished beating Kirsten Flipkens with ease. It was that kind of day — name a player, and chances are that he or she played Friday.

Players generally play every other day during a two-week Grand Slam event, and as the tournament heads toward its climax, men and women are funneled to separate days.

Friday was an anomaly. Since it was the second and third rounds, many of the players with no hope of contending had been dismissed.

Almost all of those with championship aspirations remained. The lineups were as welcomed as the sun.

Court Philippe Chatrier’s schedule featured Nadal, Henin, Venus Williams and Tsonga, the eighth-seeded Frenchman. The French hopeful Aravane Rezaï, the 15th seed, played the two-time semifinalist Nadia Petrova, seeded 19th, all the way until darkness stopped the spirited match at 7-7 in the third set. The old stadium might never have played host to more stars spread over more matches in a day.

Court Suzanne Lenglen had Serena Williams, an all-French contest in which Marion Bartoli beat Olivia Sanchez, and then matches with Federer, No. 4 Andy Murray and No. 5 Elena Dementieva.

Court 1 had two No. 3 seeds (Djokovic and Wozniacki), a No. 6 (Kuznetsova in the last scheduled match) and a No. 7 (Fernando Verdasco, a four-set second-round winner over Florent Serra).

Those three courts are the only ones of 20 at Roland Garros to require special reserved-seating tickets. But the tennis talent was so widespread that even fans holding only the basic grounds passes could nuzzle into prime action at the general admission courts.

Little Court 6 has a capacity of 971. Last Sunday, the first day of the French Open, it hosted four matches. Only one of the eight players was seeded, at No. 32.

On Friday, however, Court 6 featured matches for No. 9 David Ferrer and the former champion Juan Carlos Ferrero, both winners. It had Berdych’s victory over Isner.

The grandstand was packed. It was one of those days.
915 2010-05-29 Investors have been concerned that what started out as mostly a problem with Greece’s public finances would spread to other European countries, generally adding to the possibility of an economic slowdown that would spill over into the United States economy.

This week Spain took steps to address its budget deficit and the Spanish central bank released new guidelines regarding provisions for bad and doubtful loans. The move came after its rescue of CajaSur, an Andalusian bank that had been paralyzed by property-related losses and had failed to find a merger partner.

On Thursday, the Spanish Parliament approved additional spending cuts of $18.5 billion, but the vote was a tight one, highlighting the immense challenges facing policy makers in Europe in their efforts to rein in large budget deficits.

In its report Friday, Fitch said it thought the Spanish government could find it difficult to carry out some of the cuts. The agency said Spain’s unemployment rate, its high level of indebtedness and other factors would hurt private consumption and investment in the medium term.

It cut Spain’s rating to AA+ from AAA, saying that the downgrade reflected Fitch’s assessment that Spain’s adjustments would “materially reduce the rate of growth of the Spanish economy.”

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 122.36 points, or 1.19 percent, to 10,136.63. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 13.65 points, or 1.24 percent, to 1,089.41, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 20.64 points, or 0.91 percent, to 2,257.04.

“This should serve as a reminder that while the news stream out of Europe was generally quiet this week, the potential and risk is for more bad news to emerge from time to time and roil markets,” Mr. Thin wrote in a research note. “Spain is coming increasingly into the cross hairs due to negative developments in its banking system, and the lines of contagion from Greece are growing.”

“The euro is, of course, taking it on the chin and has given up all of today’s gains,” Mr. Thin said.

The downgrade pushed the euro lower, to $1.2287 from $1.2378 late Thursday.

Worries about Spain’s indebtedness have helped push the three-month London interbank offered rate to 0.536 percent, the highest rate since July 2009 and about double the rate at the beginning of 2010.

In addition, Spanish banks owe American financial institutions about $197.7 billion, according to the Bank for International Settlements.

Seeking the safety of fixed income securities, investors turned to United States Treasuries, and the benchmark 10-year note rose 18/32, to 101 24/32, driving the yield down to 3.29 percent from 3.36 percent late Thursday.

On the stock market on Friday, all sectors traded lower, with financials and energy stocks especially hard hit.

Citigroup lost 6 cents, to close at $3.96. Bank of America fell 44 cents, to $15.74.

The downward trend in the United States could be reversed in the coming days after the Labor Department releases its monthly snapshot of the jobs market on Friday. A strong report could lure investors back to the market.

Earlier on Friday, the Commerce Department reported that consumer spending was unchanged in April while personal incomes rose 0.4 percent. Both numbers were less than forecast, and the stagnant consumer spending raised concerns about whether the recovery could slow. In addition, the savings rate rose 3.6 percent in April, from 3.1 percent in March.

The Institute for Supply Management reported that manufacturing in the Midwest expanded in May. The index fell to 59.7 in May, from 63.8 in April, but figures greater than 50 signal expansion.
916 2010-05-29 Maj. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the army’s Central Command, which is responsible for the West Bank, said Friday that “there are continuing security concerns,” explaining the significant army presence along the road. Major Lerner said the risks to Israelis included drive-by shootings, explosive devices or explosive-laden vehicles. Still, he said, the army is “fulfilling the court ruling by the letter.”

Highway 443 encapsulates some of the starkest motifs of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It was closed as a result of terrorism, and has become a symbol in the fight by civil rights groups against the system of segregated roads in the West Bank.

The new checkpoints and miles of fencing and razor wire along the road reflect Israel’s continuing wariness of the Palestinians, even as the two sides have resumed indirect peace talks.

Leaders of half a dozen Palestinian villages in the area held a news conference this week to register their dissatisfaction with the new arrangement.

“On one hand, the Supreme Court decision was good in that it finally recognized us as people with a right to use the road,” said Hassan Mafarjeh, the mayor of Beit Liqya, another village. But when it comes to carrying out the decision, he said, it appears that the authorities are playing “games.”

The Palestinian villagers and the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, the Israeli organization that argued their case in the Supreme Court, said the army did the bare minimum necessary to comply with the court ruling.

Highway 443 connects Jerusalem with Israel’s densely populated coastal plain and serves Israelis as an alternative route to Tel Aviv. The roughly 10-mile stretch that runs through the West Bank, constructed on land that was expropriated from the Palestinian villages, has a military checkpoint at each end. West Bank Palestinians need a special permit to cross to either Tel Aviv or Jerusalem.

When the land was confiscated in the 1980s, the Palestinian villagers objected, saying they had no interest in a new road. But the military contended that the villagers would be the main beneficiaries of the highway, and the court yielded to that argument, saying occupied land could be developed for the benefit of those living there, not for the occupiers.

The highway was closed to most Palestinian traffic in 2002, at the height of the second Palestinian uprising, after six Israelis were killed in shooting attacks on their cars. The military placed concrete blocks at all entrance and exit points to Palestinian villages along the highway, banning access for West Bank Palestinian cars. Palestinians from Jerusalem, who carry Israeli identity cards, were still able to use the road.

On Friday, the military opened two entry points, including the one at Beit Sira, and four exit points serving the Palestinian villages. Several others remained closed. Each Palestinian vehicle passing through the new checkpoints onto the highway undergoes thorough inspection.

An old road to Ramallah twists through the mountains. The military paved a shorter, alternative route two years ago, but it has just reopened after being closed months for repairs.

The villagers say the lack of quick access to Ramallah, with its universities and hospitals, can have tragic consequences. Johar Taleb Daraj, from the village of Kharbata al-Misbah, said that his sister-in-law gave birth in a car on the old road to Ramallah nine months ago, and that the baby died.
917 2010-05-30 The business cards have been retired for now, but a dimly beautiful bar forges on....
918 2010-05-30 Audiences have noticed. “The quality of the sound is more joyful and full-throated,” said Vance George, director emeritus of the San Francisco Symphony Chorus and a regular at Chanticleer shows. “The guys are singing out. But at the same time, I also find them capable of intimate, soft delivery.”

Other changes are also afoot. Chanticleer is touring more widely than ever before. In June it will make its second visit to China in a year. And there are signs that Chanticleer and groups like it are inspiring a new generation. The inaugural National Youth Choral Festival, held in San Francisco this spring, was attended by more than 400 high school students from around the country. The newly formed Louis A. Botto Choir, a small youth chorus for Bay Area singers aged 14 to 20, named after the musicologist and tenor who founded Chanticleer, will hold auditions throughout the summer and have its first rehearsal over the Labor Day weekend.

Chanticleer has come a long way since the late 1970s, when a collection of talented amateur singers led by Mr. Botto, who died in 1997, began performing mainly Renaissance music. After struggling financially early on, the group ultimately became a fully professional ensemble, though turnover among the singers has been particularly high in recent years, partly because of the grueling touring schedule.

In addition to appearing regularly in the Bay Area, the ensemble has performed in halls like the Barbican Center in London, the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles. When not traveling, performing or rehearsing for four hours a day, five days a week, the singers spend much of their time involved in outreach programs in schools nationwide.

Despite the changes, Mr. Oltman still honors Chanticleer’s past; for example, he remains passionate about Renaissance music. This week Chanticleer performs a series of concerts featuring music by 16th- and 17th-century English composers like Thomas Tallis, William Byrd and Orlando Gibbons. Mr. Oltman also intends to continue commissioning new works, especially by young composers and arrangers like Vince Peterson. He is arranging “Cells Planets,” by the New York indie rock band Little Grey Girlfriend, for the ensemble’s tour next season.

Although the spirituals that Mr. Jennings favored aren’t as prominent in Mr. Oltman’s programming (Mr. Jennings’s roots lie in the Deep South, Mr. Oltman’s in Iowa), the new music director retains some in the choir’s repertory in honor of his predecessor. Last year’s Christmas program, as usual, included a medley of seasonal spirituals arranged by Mr. Jennings.

Mr. Oltman seems to be off to a good start. With 42.6 million Americans singing in some 270,000 choruses, according to the latest statistics by the choral service organization Chorus America, Chanticleer has the potential to reach a vast audience, especially if its maintains its current level of touring and educational pursuits.

But challenges remain. Mr. Oltman has to continue to improve the performance of an already high-quality group in light of turnover among the members. Balancing the audience’s expectations of the more formal side of Chanticleer with its newer, more casual side will require careful management. The mild-mannered Mr. Oltman must also forge an identity for himself independent of that of Mr. Jennings, a charismatic leader of international reputation.

Mr. Oltman is seemingly aware of the hurdles ahead. “Continuing to make progress is daunting,” Mr. Oltman said. “But it’s a good kind of daunting.”
919 2010-05-30 “This is the forgotten story of immigration,” said Angelo Paparelli, a prominent immigration lawyer in California. “The headlines deal with Arizona and border crossings, but these are real people too. This is what happens when you play by the rules.”

In denying the Franks’ renewal application last year, immigration officials said their restaurant had become a marginal business. The government sets no specific dollar amount, but it defines a marginal enterprise as one that “does not have the present or future capacity to generate more than enough income to provide a minimal living” for the visa holder and his family.

The Franks were surprised and confused to learn last year that they were deemed marginal. Their tax returns show that their gross annual income in 2008 was $64,000, in addition to rental income of $16,800. Their gross profit for the year was $38,800, which was down from their gross profit in 2007 of $50,700 because of the recession, which hit most businesses. They said they barely needed more than enough to provide for minimal living because that is how they live — minimally.

“We live frugally, we don’t drink, we don’t smoke, we don’t party, and we live within our means,” Mr. Franks said by phone earlier this year from Nova Scotia, where friends had given them use of an empty house. “We pay all our bills, we don’t have car payments, we pay our credit cards off every month, and that seems to count against us.”

Daniel Maranci, a lawyer in Boston who represented the Franks, said the couple met the test of earning more than enough to make a living because they had enough to hire three or four Americans as waiters and to pay for their properties.

“The marginality requirement is fairly subjective,” Mr. Maranci said. “U.K. nationals are saying there has been a shift generally in the way these cases are being adjudicated, with a more draconian view of marginality.”

Over the last two and a half years, 8,468 requests for E-2 extensions have been filed, and their approval rate does appear to have dropped, according to figures provided by William G. Wright, a spokesman for the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. So far in the 2010 fiscal year, he said, 82 percent of the applications have been approved. In 2009, 84 percent were approved, and in 2008, 91 percent. The service does not track the reasons for denial, so the extent to which marginality was a factor is not clear.

The Franks said the vagueness of the standards made them hard to meet. “Because there are no hard and fast rules, they can get you on whatever they want,” Mrs. Franks said.

Mr. Wright, who said he was speaking generally about the process and not about the Franks’ case, said that the most recent internal reviews of the decision-making process showed that adjudicators abided by proper standards in 97 percent of cases. “The adjudicators are doing their job,” he said.

Mr. Paparelli, the California immigration lawyer, said that in recent years, E-2 visa holders were being foiled by a confluence of trends, including an increased vigilance by government officials after the Sept. 11 attacks; a perception by officials that “evil people” may be using these visas fraudulently to get into the United States; a bureaucratic disinclination to take the time to examine applications by mom-and-pop operations; and immigration officers’ perceptions that local economies already hurt by the recession and job losses could not sustain more businesses.

In England, Mr. Franks, 45, had been a financial adviser, and Mrs. Franks, 42, worked as a chef. But they were not happy and decided in 2000 that they wanted to open a restaurant in Maine, where they spent many vacations and married.

While they came to pursue the American Dream, they said, and wanted to become Americans, they are now fed up with what they see as an arbitrary system that had allowed them to run a business for almost a decade until the day it did not.

“I can honestly see why people come into the country illegally, because to do it legally is almost impossible,” Mr. Franks said from Nova Scotia.

“They have tossed us aside like a used tissue,” he said.

They sought help from local politicians and started a letter-writing campaign. At the Web site E2Reform.org, they found other British citizens facing the same fate. Learning that some had successfully had their visas renewed at the American Embassy in Barbados, the Franks flew down there. But they had no luck and returned to Nova Scotia, where they sat out the winter.

In mid-April they decided to drive to the Maine-Canadian border, with a letter from their lawyer, Mr. Maranci, explaining their situation. After two hours of questioning, they were allowed back into the United States for three months to wrap up their affairs.

They have put the restaurant and the adjoining house on the market for $399,000 and are also selling their home in Arundel, where they are holding yard sales to get rid of their possessions and earn money for food, since they no have no income.

“We can’t do anything until something sells,” Mrs. Franks said earlier this month, sitting at an empty table in the dim restaurant, where the plates, cups and cutlery were stacked by the counter. “All our money is tied up here and in our house.”

They find themselves without work, without an income and without a country. Gradually, they are emptying out their freezers and working through their larder of cans of assorted foods, leading to what Mrs. Franks described as “some very strange dinners.” They worry that they will not be able to sell their properties before their time expires, when they expect to go to Canada.

“I love America,” Mr. Franks said, but he has become embittered because their hard work and frugal ways seem to count for nothing.

“You can go from ‘illegal’ to ‘green card holder,’ but we’re going from ‘legal’ to ‘no way you can get a green card,’ ” he said. “We did it wrong. If we came here illegally, we’d have a chance of becoming citizens.”
920 2010-05-30 To the mere mention of open, public exchanges for derivatives, you should always respond, “That will destroy liquidity in these fragile and complex markets.” Most people don’t even know what “liquidity” means, or what causes it or why they actually need to have more rather than less of it — or what, even, the point is of a market that requires privacy to operate. They will assume that you must understand it better than they do. For that reason alone it is useful.

The other point you should make to our elected officials (privately, please) is that our profits function as a fixed point in an uncertain universe. If they curtail our ability to shaft German investors in one way, we will simply find some other way to do it.

Shockingly, the Senate version of the bill more or less would require us to cease to trade derivatives entirely. This unpleasant idea was introduced by Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, and it leads me to a point that is worth underscoring: We do not have a problem with the American people, we have a problem with American women. Elizabeth Warren, our TARP supervisor, continues to ask questions about what we did with our government money; Mary Schapiro has used her authority at the S.E.C. to sue Goldman Sachs. Of the four Republican senators who crossed over to vote with the Democrats, two were women — and one of the guys posed naked for Cosmopolitan magazine.

Going forward, we should discourage women from seeking higher office — or indeed, any position in which they might exert influence over our activities. More immediately, in your private conversations with Larry Summers, Tim Geithner and male Republican senators, you should simply refer to Blanche Lincoln as “unhinged.” They’ll get it.

2. Our slow cousins at Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s are likely to suffer a blow to their already lowly status. They are virtually certain to be stripped of their designation as Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations. Whatever that means, it presents no threat to our way of life. Just the reverse: the more miserable it is to work at Moody’s, the less capable (and more manipulable) Moody’s employees will be.

The lone remaining risk to the status quo is the Franken amendment — introduced by Senator Al Franken of Minnesota — which would prevent us from personally selecting the ratings agencies that offer opinions on our offerings. It creates a board inside the Securities and Exchange Commission to assign ratings agencies, thereby removing the direct incentive the raters have to please us. (Of course, it preserves their indirect incentive: that is, that we might one day offer them jobs.)

The Franken amendment thus gums up what has been heretofore a very cleanly rigged system. In addition to encouraging public references to Stuart Smalley and Mr. Franken’s other theatrical embarrassments, we should remind our friends on Capitol Hill and in the press that “the Franken amendment will give the federal government the same control over finance it has seized in health care.”

3. There is a slight, but real, risk that public opinion will yank us in some unexpected direction. Over the past few months, a curious pattern has emerged: the more open the debate, the more radical the outcome.

In private, reasonable discussions we were able to persuade our friends in the Senate to prevent votes on amendments hostile to our interests — the worst of which, I might add, was dreamed up by yet another female senator. But the minute a vote was held, and senators sensed the cameras watching, even our friends abandoned us to the mob. All of these people are continually engaged in the same mental calculation: are the votes I might gain with this remark or this idea or this position greater than the votes I can buy with the money given to me by Wall Street firms? With each uptick in the level of public scrutiny — with every minute of televised debate — our money means less.

In the short term, we must do whatever we can to dissuade Representative Barney Frank from allowing any part of these discussions between senators and representatives to be televised. In the longer term we must return to the shadows. Do your work in private; allow your money to speak for you; and remember, the only way we’ll get the financial reform we need is if we pay for it. No one else can afford it.
921 2010-05-30 I GREW up in a family of limited means. Both my grandfathers were ministers. Church, family and sports were important. I have five brothers, so we always had enough kids for a team.

At the end of sixth grade, as field day was approaching, I tried to sign up for the high jump. The coach said I couldn’t. I went home and told my mother, who took me back to school. We walked because we didn’t have a car. My mother asked the principal why I had been turned down, and he suggested girls should sign up for volleyball, dodge ball or hopscotch. My mother politely suggested that he rethink that.

A few days later, when she found out I still wasn’t permitted to sign up for the high jump, we returned to his office. She told him that our request wasn’t just about me, that other girls might want to enter the event, too. He relented, and I won the event. I learned that you should raise your hand when you want something, and that it’s not always about you — it’s about opening doors for others.

I enrolled in Pomona College in Claremont, Calif. At the time, going away to college was radical for a Hispanic female in the United States. The next summer, I got a job as a contract associate at a development company. I’d go to construction sites where there were no bathroom facilities for women.

My mother advised me to start small and think big. I started my company in 1976, building curbs and sidewalks, and I quickly learned not to sign my proposals with my first name.

I was in my early 20s, married and pregnant, when I submitted a proposal to a client for a $5 million project. Later, I met with the procurement manager to learn why my company wasn’t chosen. He told me I was very young, I didn’t have a long track record, and no woman had ever applied before. He said, “Does your mother know you’re doing this?”

Ironically, it reaffirmed for me that I should continue on this path. I could develop a track record, my financial situation would improve and I wouldn’t always be so young. Today, Alvarado has offices in five states and builds projects across the United States and Latin America.

In 1992, I was one of a group of investors who won the franchise for a new Major League Baseball expansion team, the Colorado Rockies. Writing such a big check was a risk but also a defining moment. It was another chance to support minorities as I’ve been supported. In baseball, where the rules are the same for everyone, people have a chance to compete for jobs on an equal basis and level playing field. The same should be true in corporate America.

After I had been in business 15 years, a colleague said that I was doing well but that I had two problems. I thought he meant cash flow, or union negotiations, or maybe the cost of insurance. But he said no, you have a Hispanic company name, so you may be stereotyped. Second, when you walk into a conference room to negotiate, you look like a woman. I laughed.

Another time, shortly after arriving at a client meeting with my team, we sat down at a conference table. Thinking I was the secretary, the architect asked if I would check in the hall to see if the coffee had arrived. My employees were shocked, but I did it and I wasn’t offended. A few minutes later we introduced ourselves around the table and the architect nearly died.

When my son was in kindergarten, I spoke at career day along with a male nurse who had a child in the class. Afterward, he and I discussed our parallel experiences in the work world. The teacher asked my son, “When you grow up, do you want to be a contractor like your mother and build sports facilities and schools?” My son said, with disdain, “No, that’s women’s work.”
922 2010-05-30 FOR decades, until Congress did away with it 11 years ago, a Depression-era law known as Glass-Steagall ably protected bank customers, individual investors and the financial system as a whole from the kind of outright destruction we’ve witnessed over the last few years.

The two bills that the Senate and the House are currently chewing over as part of what may be a momentous financial reordering weigh in at a whopping 3,000 pages, combined.

Yet despite all that verbiage, there are flaws in both bills that would let Wall Street continue devising financial black boxes that have the potential to go nuclear. And even if the best of both bills becomes law, investors, taxpayers and the economy will remain vulnerable to banking crises.

Some will argue that these bills, at around 1,500 pages each, have to be weighty and complex if they are to curb the ill effects of convoluted and inscrutable financial instruments. That makes it doubly disappointing that the bills don’t go far enough in bringing greater transparency and better oversight of everyone’s favorite multisyllabic wonderment these days: derivatives.

Certainly the banks and the Wall Street trading shops that have so richly scored in the derivatives market are happy to keep the status quo — after all, profits flourish where opacity rules. But for most of the rest of us that’s an unsatisfactory, and possibly dangerous, outcome.

Despite their ubiquity and the pivotal role they play in modern finance, many derivatives don’t trade openly on exchanges as stocks and other instruments do. When an institution buys a derivative like a credit-default swap, for example, to protect itself against the default of an investment like a bond, that transaction is a private contract, struck between it, the seller and perhaps an intermediary, like a bank.

Because private transactions like these can mask big and risky exposures in the markets (think American International Group), financial reformers decided to make derivatives trading more transparent, which is a good thing. Both the Senate and House bills require standardized derivatives to be traded on an exchange or a swap execution facility.

But the devil is always in the details — hence, two 1,500-page bills — and problems arise in how the proposals define what constitutes a swap execution facility, and who can own one.

Big banks want to create and own the venues where swaps are traded, because such control has many benefits. First, it gives the dealers extremely valuable pretrade information from customers wishing to buy or sell these instruments. Second, depending on how these facilities are designed, they may let dealers limit information about pricing when transactions take place — and if an array of prices is not readily available, customers can’t comparison-shop and the banks get to keep prices much higher than they might be on an exchange.

Nobody lets auto dealers, airlines, hardware stores or an array of other businesses sell their wares without a price on the window, the ticket or the tag, but Wall Street is still getting away with obscuring prices in the derivatives market.

To resolve problems that might arise from derivatives dealers controlling trading facilities, the House bill bars them from owning more than 20 percent of a swap facility. The Senate bill, however, has no such limitations.

It is unclear, therefore, what the final bill will allow on this crucial matter. What is certain is this: Banks will lobby hard to be allowed to own swap facilities.

Another part of the Senate bill that keeps derivatives markets opaque resulted from a tiny change in the proposal’s original language.

Initially, the Senate bill’s discussions of derivatives platforms defined them as “trading” facilities, a term of art from the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000. In that law, a trading facility refers to a system in which multiple participants place bids and offers and in which price transparency exists both before and after a trade is made. Such a definition usually excludes making deals over the telephone because negotiating on the phone may not provide access to as many different prices as an exchange does.

But the word “trading” was eventually struck from the final Senate bill’s definition of derivatives platforms. That change would allow dealers to make derivatives deals over the phone, hardly a victory for transparency. Dealers love trading by phone because it makes it harder for customers and investors to see prices and comparison-shop, which, of course, bolsters dealer profits.

Because the House bill never specifically took on the issue of “trading” facilities, it is unlikely that the reconciliation of the two proposals will bring back this important distinction — leaving derivatives trading more opaque than it should be.

Finally, lawmakers who are charged with consolidating the two bills are talking about eliminating language that would bar derivatives facilities from receiving taxpayer bailouts if they get into trouble. That means a federal rescue of an imperiled derivatives trading facility could occur. (Again, think A.I.G.)

Surely, we beleaguered taxpayers do not need to backstop any more institutions than we do now. According to Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va., only 18 percent of the nation’s financial sector was covered by implied federal guarantees in 1999. By the end of 2008, his bank’s research shows, the federal safety net covered 59 percent of the financial sector.

IN a speech last week, Mr. Lacker said that he feared we were going to perpetuate the cycle of financial crises followed by taxpayer bailouts, in spite of Congressional reform efforts.

“Arguably, we will not break the cycle of regulation, bypass, crisis and rescue,” Mr. Lacker said, “until we are willing to clarify the limits to government support, and incur the short-term costs of confirming those limits, in the interest of building a stronger and durable foundation for our financial system. Measured against this gauge, my early assessment is that progress thus far has been negligible.”
923 2010-05-30 His feet do not move well on the clay, his shots do not carry the same ferocity, and his heart is usually on the next voyage across the English Channel, where Wimbledon awaits each June.

But losing like this was stunning. On a cool and cloudy Saturday, Roddick was overwhelmed in the third round by a big-hitting qualifier ranked 114th in the world. Teimuraz Gabashvili, a 25-year-old Russian, pounded Roddick off the red soil in straight sets, 6-4, 6-4, 6-2. 



"I fought through a couple of matches that were a little dicey," Roddick said of his first two rounds. "Today I got outplayed from the first ball."



It was an upside-down day for the American men. The only one left in the singles draw is the veteran Robby Ginepri, who had won one tour-level match all season. He continued his unlikely run at Roland Garros by beating No. 16 Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain, the 2003 champion here. 



Playing in breezy conditions that had players and fans at Court No. 1 occasionally covering their eyes from the dust, Ginepri won the first two sets, lost the next two, then broke Ferrero to serve for the match at 5-3. 



He could not secure the victory, but broke Ferrero again, raising his arms in triumph as Ferrero's backhand sailed long. 



The 7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 2-6, 6-4 victory sent Ginepri to the fourth round to play No. 3 Novak Djokovic for a spot in the quarterfinals. One more victory, and Ginepri would become the first American man to reach the quarterfinals since 2003. 



It is an amazing turnaround for a player ranked 98th in the world. After a quick exit from the Australian Open, Ginepri had surgery to stanch inflamed nerves in his neck that had made it difficult to serve and, at times, even turn his head.



"That's really what I'm more pleased about than actually being in the fourth round," Ginepri said. "That I'm feeling healthy again."



The exclamation on the strange day for American men came when the usually dependable Bryan brothers, Bob and Mike, tumbled from the doubles tournament. The Bryans, ranked No. 1, have won eight Grand Slam tournaments, including the recent Australian Open. But they lost, 6-3, 7-6 (6), to unseeded Marcelo Melo and Bruno Soares of Brazil.



They last lost before the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam event at the 2004 United States Open, and had reached at least the third round in all attempts since the 2001 United States Open. 

For a time, it appeared that even the top American woman, No. 1 seed Serena Williams, would join the others in the upset bin. Fighting dizzy spells and needing an on-court doctor, Williams eventually beat No. 29 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, 6-1, 1-6, 6-2, to advance to the fourth round. She will play No. 18 Shahar Peer. 



Roddick became the highest-seeded man to exit Roland Garros. If such a defeat occurred at any Grand Slam event other than the French Open, it would be one of Roddick's most devastating losses. But he did not appear fazed. 



The last time Roddick lost to such a low-ranked player in a Grand Slam event was in the first round of the 2007 French Open. Igor Andreev was 125th then, but has been as high as 18th in the world. 



Gabashvili, who was born in Georgia but moved to Moscow at age 9, has no such credentials. He has not been ranked higher than 59th. He arrived to the French Open qualifying tournament with a 1-6 record this season, including 0-2 on clay. Americans Sam Querrey and Donald Young had beaten him. Gabashvili spent most of his season on the lower-tier Challenger tour. 



Now he is in the fourth round at the French Open. He played his way into the main draw, then beat Daniel Koellerer and his fellow qualifier Grega Zemlja in the first two rounds. He has not lost a set, and controlled Roddick from the outset.



"I don't think about where am I and it's Roland Garros out there," said Gabashvili, whose other big victory in his career was over No. 7 Fernando Gonzalez in the first round of the 2007 United States Open. "I just go in match and play. So we will see how far I can go with this game."



Roddick's service, one of the fastest in the game, is always among the most difficult to defend. Yet the moist clay surface slowed the ball after the bounce, and Gabashvili beat back most of Roddick's offerings. 



"Serves probably don't matter as much out here," Roddick said. "But he was taking control of the points and getting good hits on the first balls and the rallies. I felt like I was playing from behind in a lot of the points."



Roddick had only four aces, and his serve was broken four times. 



"The tricky thing is for him normally is having enough time to take those kind of swings at the ball," Roddick said of Gabashvili. "Today, he definitely had plenty of time to take swings at the ball, so, you know, it was tough for me to penetrate him."



Roddick never broke Gabashvili in 14 service games, and Gabashvili had a huge edge in winners, 58-14. 



He also displayed a degree of sportsmanship. When a Roddick serve was called out early in the second set, Gabashvili walked to look at the spot. The chair umpire descended and reversed the call. 



Roddick will head to the friendly surface of grass, where he sees Wimbledon as an opportunity to add another Grand Slam title to the United States Open he won in 2003. He has made the finals at Wimbledon three times, including last year, when he lost a five-set thriller to Roger Federer. 



Wimbledon, it seems, is Roddick's anti-French. Still, his preparation for that tournament was given a surprising head start. Roddick was asked about his immediate plans.



"I'll go to London," he said.
924 2010-05-30 FOR years, the residents of Ho-Ho-Kus, Glen Rock, Ridgewood and other nearby towns in Bergen County had Kevin Oppici and his eclectic American cuisine pretty much to themselves, if only for lunch, takeout or catered events. Then, in September 2008, he started serving dinner, and the secret began to get out.

Born in Jersey City, Mr. Oppici grew up in Lyndhurst. At 12 he was conscripted by his big brother, a busboy, into working as a pot washer. At 13 he was a line cook.

After culinary school and an internship at Mustards Grill in the Napa Valley, he worked under Catherine Alexandrou Bourdeaux at Chez Catherine in Westfield — and picked up a few tips from her friend André Soltner of Lutèce — before settling in as executive chef at Above the Salt in Franklin Lakes. He had plans to buy the place, but its owners surprised him by selling to someone else. He went on his own instead (and, he notes tartly, Above the Salt soon closed).

Mr. Oppici, 43, had been catering on the side for years, working first out of a church in Wyckoff, then from the Ramsey home of his business partner, Pat Kelly, where early-morning dog walkers would see him frying crab cakes on her porch. But he had his eye on an abandoned catering kitchen on Maple Avenue in Ho-Ho-Kus, with its big patio, then little more than a junkyard. And in 2005, after extensive renovations, he and Ms. Kelly opened Kevin’s Thyme.

Not the cleverest pun, but the point was clear: It was finally his moment.

Catering is still the main focus of the enterprise, but for Mr. Oppici, cooking dinner is like holding a jam session at a nightclub after a full week in a military band. He improvises the menu minutes before the first guests arrive, depending on his mood and what’s in the fridge; patrons, mainly a local crowd, seem to enjoy the suspense. The only fixtures are his fluffy and fragrant wasabi crab cake and the tender, cornmeal-crusted fried calamari. In two visits, other repeated offerings were limited to a savory pan-roasted duck breast and confit; seared scallops with a turnip purée and beet pinot noir reduction; and a spicy salmon penne pasta with plum tomatoes, scallions and red pepper providing the zing.
925 2010-05-30 “It’s like, O.K., winter’s officially over,” said one of the opening-day winners.

Ms. Mears said customers in search of a continuous supply of her signature hot lobster rolls on round buns have urged her to open year round — and at the start of the season, when she’s energetic, she has contemplated it. But only then. “October rolls around and do I really want to do this?” she asked rhetorically, noting the 14-hour days. “I can’t imagine doing that year round.”

At Rose’s Berry Farm in South Glastonbury, Breakfast With a View — served from mid-June to late October on a deck attached to an old barn — has been attracting customers for about 20 years. Sandi Rose, the owner, said the decision to serve an outdoor breakfast on the family’s 160-acre, 102-year-old farm stemmed from a desire to put their commercial kitchen to greater use and find another outlet for their berries, like cooking them for toppings on pancakes, waffles and French toast.

At the Golden Lamb Buttery, a restaurant in Brooklyn best known for its prix fixe dinner menu, the decision to be seasonal was a simple matter of warmth. “Because we’re a 200-year-old barn and we can’t heat it,” answered Katie Bogert, whose grandparents opened the restaurant in 1963. “That’s the God’s honest truth.”

Even so, the Golden Lamb stays open until New Year’s, a couple of months beyond the best business period, fall leaf season. “We put the heat at 95,” Ms. Bogert said, exaggerating a bit and explaining that there is heat in the dining room but not the rest of the barn, and no insulation.

Like other family operators, Ms. Bogert has learned to balance the nostalgia longtime patrons want with more contemporary food trends. So the Golden Lamb’s menu — duck, chateaubriand, salmon and rack of lamb — hasn’t changed much, but the Bogerts now grow a lot of their own herbs and vegetables and obtain as much as possible of the rest locally.

At Harry’s Place in Colchester — about 90 years old, said Suzanne Caruso, whose family has owned it for more than 30 — the well-known little round burgers and lobster rolls stay the way they’ve always been, but new items, like broccoli cheddar cheese bites and mini corn dogs, are added every year.

The original structure is on the National and Connecticut Registers of Historic Places and can’t be altered, Ms. Caruso said, and it is unlikely that the old unheated drive-in and outdoor picnic table seating can ever be winterized, though she admitted thinking about it. “We fight for the fryolator and the grill on the cold days,” she said. “And fight to not be on them on hot ones.”

“It has crossed my mind,” she said about the possibility of running a year-round business, “and we don’t see any way to do it here in this location.” Most of her customers come from the summer beach traffic, and besides, the excitement of opening for the season — which starts at Harry’s on St. Patrick’s Day, often with people in parkas shivering in line — would be lost.

For the Blue Oar in Haddam, set in a rickety 1940s boathouse in a Connecticut River marina, that excitement has been timed to coincide with Mother’s Day for 14 years. This year was no exception. Jody and Jim Reilly, the owners, started preparing for opening day weeks before, as was evident in fresh coats of Miami Beach pastel paints on the outdoor tables and chairs.

“It’s like opening a new restaurant every April,” Mr. Reilly said. “The squirrels have moved in and it’s time to say, ‘O.K., it’s our turn.’ ”

The Blue Oar offers customers a selection of creative entrees — from Cajun catfish with tomatillo sauce to goat cheese with watermelon and avocado over field greens, as well as traditional favorites like barbecue ribs, rib-eye steaks and burgers. But when the marina closes for winter, Ms. Reilly said, most of their business goes with it. “It’s a summer place — it’s not meant to be year round,” she said; then, noting the amount of work, she added, “And it’s just fine with me.”

That sentiment is echoed by Vaughn and Gary Knowles, who own the Place Restaurant in Guilford. The brothers have run the Place for 40 years, after working at its predecessor as teenagers. Tree stumps serve as seats, and a sign tacked to a tree warns, “Danger, Men Cooking.” And they are — lobsters, bluefish and their signature clams, all grilled outside over a huge wood fire. A red and white striped tent top can be rolled out in rainy weather, but the question of considering a permanent indoor structure elicited a one-word direct response from Vaughn Knowles.

“No,” he said. “When you have something that works, you tend not to want to mess with that. People like the rusticness and they like the outdoorsiness of it.”

True, there are now chairs for customers who find the stumps tough to take, and “veggiebobs” for the meat-averse, but the seasonal nature of the place and the food remain unchanged.

“I have been cooking clams since 1963,” Mr. Knowles said. “It was a summer job when I was in high school, and it’s still a summer job.”

Catch ’Em While You Can

Nearly all the following restaurants offer standard summer fare in a wide price range — from burgers and hot dogs for as little as $3.25 to lobster rolls that typically run $14 to $16 to a three-pound-lobster dinner for $36. Most have plenty of outdoor seating but do not offer full table service or take reservations (although it’s best to call ahead in bad weather to make sure they’re open); several accept credit cards. Exceptions are noted below, along with food specialties.

BRIDGEPORT The Restaurant at Captain’s Cove, 1 Bostwick Avenue. (203) 335-7104; captainscoveseaport.com/restaurant.htm. Open May 7 through the end of September. Seafood.

BROOKLYN The Golden Lamb Buttery, 499 Wolf Den Road. (860) 774-4423; thegoldenlamb.com. Open April through New Year’s. Prix fixe dinner, $75. Table service; reservations accepted.

COLCHESTER Harry’s Place, 104 Broadway. (860) 537-2410; harrysplace.biz. Open St. Patrick’s Day through the Sunday after Halloween. Hamburgers, hot dogs, ice cream; no alcohol. Cash only (A.T.M. on premises).

GUILFORD The Place Restaurant, 901 Boston Post Road. theplaceguilford.com; (203) 453-9276. Open late April through the fourth weekend in October. Wood-fire grilled clams, lobster, fish. B.Y.O.B. Table service. Cash only.

HADDAM The Blue Oar, 16 Snyder Road. (860) 345-2994. Open Mother’s Day weekend through Columbus Day weekend. Ribs, grilled fish and meat. B.Y.O.B. Cash only.

NIANTIC Dad’s Restaurant, 147 Main Street. (860) 739-2113. Open April through September. Seafood, ice cream. Beer and wine only.

NOANK Abbott’s Lobster in the Rough, 117 Pearl Street. abbotts-lobster.com; (860) 536-7719. Open May 7 through Oct. 11. Steamed lobsters, lobster rolls; no fried food. B.Y.O.B. Cash only.

Costello’s Clam Shack, 145 Pearl Street. (860) 572-2779; costellosclamshack.com. Open May 28 through Sept. 6. Fried seafood. B.Y.O.B. Cash only.

rosesberryfarm.com. Open Sundays, June 13 to Oct. 24, for breakfast (8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.). Pancakes, waffles, French toast with fresh local fruit. Table service.
926 2010-05-30 Emily Alyssa Barson and Matthew Henry Thornton are to be married Sunday at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. Rabbi Seth Goren is to officiate.

The bride, 29, is keeping her name. She is the director of scheduling for Kathleen Sebelius, secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in Washington. She graduated, summa cum laude, from George Washington University. The bride is a daughter of Janet Barson and Kalman Barson of Bridgewater, N.J.

The bridegroom, 31, is the communications director for Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island. The bridegroom graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, where he also received a master’s in government administration. He is a son of Jacque Marie Darbyshire of Dayville, Conn., and of Mike Thornton of Wichita, Kan. He is a stepson of Mike Darbyshire and of Mary Thornton.

The couple met in Philadelphia in 2004 on the campaign to elect Allyson Y. Schwartz, now a Democratic congresswoman from Pennsylvania.
927 2010-05-30 Alissa Ida Bersin and Zachary David Miller are to be married Sunday at the Hotel del Coronado on Coronado Island in California. Rabbi Robert N. Levine is to officiate.

The bride, 31, works for the McDevitt Company, a commercial real estate firm in Philadelphia; she helps design and execute expansion strategies for retailers. She graduated magna cum laude from Harvard and received a master’s in European cinema studies from the University of Bath in England.

She is the daughter of Elisabeth R. Bersin of Santa Monica, Calif., and Alan D. Bersin of San Diego. Her father is the commissioner of the Customs and Border Protection division of the federal Department of Homeland Security. From 2005 to 2006, he was California’s secretary of education. Her mother, who is retired, was a preschool teacher at Sinai Temple in Los Angeles. The bride is a stepdaughter of Judge Lisa Foster of California Superior Court, who presides in San Diego.

The bridegroom, also 31, is pursuing an M.B.A. at the University of Pennsylvania, from which he graduated magna cum laude. In June, he is to become a summer associate at the Stamford, Conn., office of McKinsey & Company, the management consultants. He received a master’s in film from the University of Southern California. He was a producer of the film “The Messenger” (2009) and until last year, he ran the film division of GOOD, a multimedia company in Los Angeles.

He is the son of John Miller of New York and the late Joan Miller. His father owns Aries Worldwide Partners, an apparel and textile importing and manufacturing company in New York.
928 2010-05-30 Koren Danielle McCaffrey and Jacob Judah Waldman are to be married Sunday at Newman University Church Our Lady Seat of Wisdom in Dublin. The Rev. Hugh Kavanagh, a Roman Catholic priest, is to perform the ceremony.

The bride, 30, is keeping her name. Ms. McCaffrey is a flutist and performs regularly as a freelance musician with the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra in New York. She graduated from the University of Michigan and received a master’s degree in flute performance from the Manhattan School of Music.

She is the daughter of Eileen McCaffrey and Dr. Brian McCaffrey of Modesto, Calif. Her father is a urologist in private practice in Modesto, where her mother, who is retired, was an administrator.

The bridegroom, 34, is counsel to the New York law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld. He is a graduate of Dartmouth and received his law degree from Columbia.

He is the son of Brenda Waldman and David Waldman of New York. His mother retired as an acting justice of the New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan. His father, also retired, was a lawyer for Lawyers for Children in New York.
929 2010-05-30 Anna Fang-mei Huang and Alison Mary Stocking were married Saturday at the Garden Education Center of Greenwich in Connecticut. Judge Barrington D. Parker Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York officiated, with Judge John Gleeson of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York taking part.

Ms. Huang (left), 30, is completing a medical degree from Cornell and will begin an internship at the University of California-San Francisco/San Francisco General Hospital in June. She graduated from Rice University.

She is a daughter of Yvonne Huang and John D. Huang of Naperville, Ill. Her father is a retired director of product marketing for Lucent Technologies in Naperville, where her mother works as a product manager.

Ms. Stocking, 32, is an associate specializing in litigation at the New York law firm Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received a law degree from Yale.

She is a daughter of Mary H. Stocking and John A. Stocking of Hartland, Wis. Her father is a partner at the Milwaukee law firm Petrie & Stocking. Ms. Stocking’s maternal great-grandfather William S. Harley was a founder of Harley-Davidson Motorcycles.
930 2010-05-30 Logan Isadora McClintic-Smith, a daughter of Miranda McClintic and James R. Smith of Ware Neck, Va., was married Saturday at her parents’ home to Joseph Leigh Ferguson, the son of Linda E. Ferguson and Leigh M. Ferguson of Signal Mountain, Tenn. The Rev. Daniel O. Worthington Jr., an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.

The couple met at Davidson College in Davidson, N.C., from which they both graduated, she cum laude.

Mrs. Ferguson, 28, is an architectural historian at Powers & Company, a historic preservation consultancy in Philadelphia. She received a master’s degree in historic preservation from the University of Pennsylvania.

Her father is an architectural designer in private practice in Ware Neck. Her mother curates art collections for individuals and is the author of “Modernism and Abstraction: Further Treasures from the Smithsonian Museum.”

Mr. Ferguson, 29, is a first-year medical student at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia. He received a doctorate in physical therapy from Drexel.

His father is the senior developer at Bayer Properties, a commercial real estate developer in Birmingham, Ala.
931 2010-05-30 If I were in the eighth grade, I’m pretty sure I’d love Simon Rich’s first novel, “Elliot Allagash.” I might even press it on my friends. (“It’s about this 13-year-old evil genius who does whatever he wants because he’s, like, a billionaire. And it’s funny. And short.”) But since more than 45 years have passed since I took up space in a middle school, I simply like it, very much — while wishing this flippant little parable about the puerility of greed had a deeper, sharper bite. Rich is a writer for “Saturday Night Live,” and his fondness for the broadest kind of sketch comedy is evident on almost every page.

The narrator, Seymour Herson, is an adolescent isolate at Glendale Academy, a second-tier private school in Manhattan. Nicknamed “Chunk-Style,” he can’t run, can’t swim, can’t dribble a basketball. He’s a clumsy, self-­conscious video gamer whose parents — his father is an assistant professor of economics at Fordham, his mother a speech therapist — spend a large percentage of their income on his tuition while “secretly terrified” their investment is money wasted.

With the arrival of Elliot Allagash at Glendale, Seymour acquires both a friend and a tempter. Previously expelled from a dozen better schools and able to quote Iago’s soliloquies verbatim, Elliot is a scion of America’s largest fortune. (An ancestor invented paper.) We’ve met his kind before (eats watercress sandwiches, quaffs martinis, hangs out in his billiards room, berates the servants), and while Rich consistently makes Elliot comic in his sheer awfulness, he never connects Elliot’s monstrous feelings of entitlement to our current money-trumps-everything cultural moment. Elliot Allagash remains a junior robber baron, like some dissolute visitor from the late 19th century, a Kid Rockefeller rather than, say, L’il Enron — too bad!

As in “Cinderella” or “Pygmalion,” Elliot is determined to transform Seymour into the most popular boy at school. “Remember,” he says, “I’m not doing this out of kindness or generosity. I’m doing this purely for sport. It’s an intellectual exercise — a way to occupy my days during this hellish period of my life.” With scarcely a pang of conscience (it’s hard to tell whether Rich, who is a son of the New York Times Op-Ed columnist Frank Rich, means this to be satire or just assumed behavior) Seymour abets his mentor in boosting exams, ruining reputations, rigging a student government election. Corruption complete, he basks in his preposterous new celebrity.

The story jumps ahead four years. Thanks to unearned high grades, a padded résumé and an unctuous ghost­written application essay, Seymour is admitted to Harvard. Dishonesty rocks! At least it does until our compromised hero is smitten by Glendale’s nerdiest senior, Ashley, a girl whom Elliot’s — and Seymour’s — machinations once landed in a mental hospital. As Seymour grows closer to Ashley (so generously forgiving), he drifts away from Elliot’s absolute dominance. Whereupon Elliot exposes his former protégé’s gross deceptions for all the world to see.

It makes for an enjoyable little dose of poisonous cynicism. But then Rich flinches, tacking on a gloppy family-hug of a coda and minimizing consequences. Seymour matures, and darn quickly, into a Nice Young Man With a Girlfriend He Does Fun Things With, while Elliot, being Elliot, recruits another schlub for a make-over. It’s as if Rich grew so beguiled by his own characters he couldn’t stand to punish them. Or maybe he was just thinking of his potential younger readers, who might well consider any severe comeuppance not very nice at all, even mean. Or, considering what eighth and ninth ­graders have seen of the world in their short lifetimes, possibly the author felt they might reject it as unrealistic.
932 2010-05-30 Kids and Cars campaigned for such a requirement to be written into the Cameron Gulbransen Kids Transportation Safety Act of 2008. But it was not among the important safety measures mandated by the legislation, which included automatic-reversing power windows, standards for rearward visibility and brake pedal-gear shift interlocks.

“When our efforts to get child-left-behind legislation in that bill were unsuccessful, we took a step back and asked how can we take care of both the hyperthermia issue and other problems,” Ms. Fennell said.

As a result, Kids and Cars is proposing that a requirement for safety belt latching reminders for all seating positions be attached to the next Transportation Department reauthorization bill. The proposed regulation would also mandate a child-left-behind warning, which could share electronics with the belt reminder.

Even as Kids and Cars pushes for action, a solution from the auto industry seems some way off. Asked about warning devices over the last two months, many automakers said they had conducted research, but none provided specifics. A few addressed the issue in general terms.

For example, an Audi spokesman, Bradley Stertz, said that the Volkswagen Group was working on systems that could be adapted to child detection. Among these are interior cameras, heat sensors and motion detectors that are intended for other uses, but could possibly play a role in a detection device.

“The short answer is, the concept is on the table with a range of other occupant-detection systems,” Mr. Stertz said. “But there’s no firm timetable on when it will move closer to market.”

Volvo investigated a solution for the problem of left-behind children almost a decade ago.

A spokesman, Dan Johnston, said in a telephone interview that Volvo developed a heartbeat-sensing device in 2001. While the technology was intended to detect a child or pet left behind, it proved unfeasible. It was later modified to detect a hidden intruder when the driver activated the system.

“Liability problems are part of the issue,” Mr. Johnston said, referring to the potential for lawsuits if a child-detection system failed to alert a driver.

Ford, which owned Volvo when the technology was in development, offered only a brief comment on the issue. A spokesman, Wesley Sherwood III, said in an e-mail message that Ford had not announced plans to market automobiles with child-occupant warning devices.

Though automakers were not eager to discuss technical solutions, a rocket scientist was. William Edwards, a senior engineer at NASA’s Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va., led an effort to develop a child-left-behind warning device after a child died of hyperthermia in the center’s parking lot.

The NASA device is simple. When a child is placed in the car seat, a sensor under the cushion, working through a module mounted on the side of the seat, establishes communication with an alarm on the driver’s key ring. If the driver walks away from the car while the child is still in the seat, the alarm sounds — and can be turned off only by removing the child.

The NASA device was designed to be added to existing cars, and the research center is looking for a commercial partner to further develop and market a product based on the technology.

Mr. Edwards said he believed an automaker could offer a similar device as a factory-installed feature.

“There’s no reason that couldn’t happen if a manufacturer wanted to do it,” he said.

Ken Waller agrees. Mr. Waller was a Ford design analysis engineer and an expert witness in safety liability cases. He is now retired.

“A warning device is technically feasible,” he said. “But what I see here is low incidence. Every case is tragic, but the rate of occurrence is minimal. Product planners would probably say we can’t penalize every back-seat car in regard to cost. It would take regulation before a car company would do it.”

Some automakers are coordinating their efforts on the forgotten-child matter through an industry trade group, the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an association that includes BMW, Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, Mitsubishi, Porsche, Toyota and Volkswagen. An Alliance spokesman, Wade Newton, said, “Right now we’re working to raise awareness of the issue.”

Without addressing specific efforts to develop warning systems, Mr. Newton said he believed that automakers across the board were always looking at safety but had not found a way to design out the role of the caregiver.

On its Web site, the Alliance says it has “joined Safe Kids USA and more than 40 other interested organizations in efforts to increase awareness and urge parents and caregivers to never leave a child alone in a vehicle.”

Safe Kids USA is a program of the Children’s National Medical Center, a pediatric hospital in Washington. A spokeswoman, Lorrie Walker, said in a telephone interview that among many child-safety causes that the organization promoted was “Safe Kids Buckle Up,” a multifaceted safety program financed by General Motors that included efforts intended to prevent injuries and deaths that could result from children being left alone in vehicles.

The organization has suggestions for caregivers. One is that drivers leave something they need next to the child — a purse or cellphone, for example. The assumption is that if the item is remembered, the child will be as well.

On the question of whether Safe Kids is pressing automakers for a warning system or supporting legislation that would require one, the group’s stance is less clear-cut.

“It’s a very ticklish subject,” Ms. Walker said. “We’re all for advancing technology. For right now, people need to have tools so they don’t forget their child. The whole idea of a warning light or warning bell may or may not work.”

She added: “People don’t always pay attention to technology. Are we going to rely 100 percent on technology, or are we going to help the driver remember that there’s a child in the back seat?

“We’ll support technology when it becomes available,” Ms. Walker said. “But we’ll keep hitting this hard until that happens. General Motors has been instrumental in making sure we have the funds to do that.”

When asked if the sponsorship from G.M. colored the organization’s positions, the executive director of Safe Kids, Alan Korn, said that G.M.’s support had made it possible for the organization to provide child-safety services. As an example, he cited the organization’s seminars on child-safety seats and the free seats it provided to low-income parents.

Among the supporters of the Safe Kids program is Ms. Fennell of Kids and Cars.

“They have coalitions all around the country, and I work with them on a lot of different issues,” she said. “I’ve spoken at their conferences. They’re fabulous people.”

But, she said, remember that Safe Kids’ funding for automotive safety programs comes from G.M.

“Safe Kids didn’t support the Cameron Gulbransen Kids Transportation Safety Act of 2008,” Ms. Fennell said. “In fact, they said, ‘We’re not sure if technology works.’”

In support of this, Ms. Fennell provided a document she said Safe Kids sent to safety advocates. It was in response to a consumer group’s request that Safe Kids support a petition urging Congress to pass the Cameron Gulbransen act.

“It is our understanding that many technologies are expensive and could add significant expense to a new car,” the document said. “Safe Kids Worldwide is not inherently against new technology, but we want to know the facts before making any decision about proposed legislation.”

The statement went on to clarify the organization’s approach to one provision of the act.

“In the interim, Safe Kids supports a ‘low’ technology approach to deal with the issue of children being backed over by cars.”

Mr. Korn confirmed that this excerpt accurately stated the organization’s view and that the Safe Kids’ position regarding a child-left behind warning device was essentially the same.

A G.M. spokesman, Bill Grotz, said that the Safe Kids forgotten-child awareness program had been a main focus of the automaker.

Mr. Grotz said that while G.M. had made efforts on the technology front, it was not ready to release details.

In a follow-up e-mail message, Mr. Grotz said, “We have evaluated a variety of technologies that detect the presence of children left unattended in vehicles and alert people near the vehicles of the situation. However, the technologies we looked at were not reliable enough in the wide range of environmental circumstances that a vehicle is subject to in its lifetime. We’ve concluded that the most effective way to deal with this issue is to build awareness among parents, caregivers and passers-by.”

Ms. Fennell said she believed that while caretaker awareness was important, technical solutions could not be dismissed. She said a child-left-behind warning system was critically needed and that her organization would continue to fight for it.

“If we leave the headlights on or keys in the ignition, we get a buzz,” she said. “Somehow we have decided that it’s more important not to have a dead car battery than a dead baby.”
933 2010-05-30 Andrew Rice writes that the creator of True/Slant picked “its name off a list of compound words that were made up by a Web developer.” Surely, though, the anonymous developer borrowed that particular pairing of words from Emily Dickinson:

Tell all the Truth but tell it slant —

Success in Circuit lies

Too bright for our infirm Delight

The Truth’s superb surprise.

Andrew Rice describes True/Slant as “not so much a unified publication as a loosely connected commune of bloggers, who generate a continual stream of content with minimal editorial intervention.” True/Slant might be packaged nicely, but drivel is still drivel. Writers cannot consistently create in a vacuum, which is essentially what these sites are, and True/Slant’s creator, who says writers are “the sole producer, creator, programmer of your content,” misses the point if he thinks he will give birth to any Pulitzers.

Most of these new Web sites, masquerading as journalistic endeavors, are modest money plays, many of which will fail, but as a citizenry we are all the poorer for the loss of decent writing and editing with the closing of so many print newspapers and magazines.
934 2010-05-30 SOME people claim to be fearless. Others have a healthy aversion to snakes, to heights or (dunnn-DUN...dunnn-DUN) to sharks.

Those in the last camp are unlikely to mess with Chris Kentis and Laura Lau, the husband-and-wife team responsible for the movie “Open Water,”in which two marooned divers are surrounded by (dunnn-DUN... dunnn-DUN...) sharks. Mr. Kentis wrote and directed; Ms. Lau produced; they share a director-of-photography credit.

To film the movie, they got in the water with the actors and those big, scary fish. Now, the two are re-entering shark-infested waters. They have put their brownstone in Park Slope, Brooklyn, on the market. The asking price is $3.1 million.

“One problem with brownstones is they’re sort of dark in the middle,” said Hal Lehrman, a principal broker of Brooklyn Properties, which has the listing. “But they’ve put these amazing skylights on the top floor, and the floors of the stairwells are frosted glass, so light pours straight through to the parlor floor.”

The couple, who paid $2.1 million for the place in 2005, also opened up that parlor floor, which was originally three spaces, into one large room. They took off most of the back wall, creating a wall of glass that faces south toward a garden.

Mr. Kentis and Ms. Lau hired MESH Architectures to do the renovations, and their friend, Miro Gal, a visual artist, was their on-site representative. Mr. Gal is also the listing agent.
935 2010-05-30 FENNESSY--Anne McCormack. Wife of the late Gerard, proud alumna of St. Joseph's College of Brooklyn ('32), devoted public school teacher, and New York City's greatest fan, died Thursday at age 98. She is survived by her children John, Ruth and Rev...
936 2010-05-31 Despite the dense verbiage in the Senate and House financial regulatory overhaul proposals, flaws in both bills would let Wall Street continue devising financial black boxes that have the potential to go nuclear, Gretchen Morgenson argues in her l...
937 2010-05-31 Preventing another flash crash boils down to make sure that the nation's various exchanges are operating under one set of rules, instead of the many we have now, former New York Stock Exchange chief Richard Grasso writes in The New York Post....
938 2010-05-31 An adviser to China's immense state pension fund is planning to return to the world of hedge funds by starting up JT Capital Management, a China-focused fund, Bloomberg News reported....
939 2010-05-31 Hisanori Takahashi was to start for the Mets on Monday with the man who is his personal trainer, cook, translator, massage therapist and confidant back in Japan....
940 2010-05-31 Apple announced Monday that it had sold two million iPads since the device debuted on April 3....
941 2010-05-31 Companies have little incentive to provide excellent customer service for problems that occur only rarely, an economist writes....
942 2010-05-31 The finals will be colored in green and white, purple and gold, and several shades of redemption. The Lakers want payback, after getting pummeled by the Celtics two years ago. The Celtics are seeking validation, after having their title defense short-circuited by injuries last year.

“It’s a great challenge for us, to see how much we’ve improved, how much we’ve gotten better, to be able to go up against this team in a playoff series,” Kobe Bryant said Saturday night, after the Lakers closed out a six-game victory over the Suns.

The Celtics are seeking an 18th championship to add to their record total. The Lakers are seeking their 16th title, their 11th in Los Angeles, and their fifth since 2000.

If the Lakers win the championship, it will also be Jackson’s 11th, further separating him from the Celtics patriarch Red Auerbach (nine).

Bryant would earn his fifth ring — breaking a tie with Tim Duncan and Shaquille O’Neal, among the biggest stars of the post-Michael Jordan era. He would be one shy of tying Jordan, the league’s modern standard-bearer. And he would further separate himself from LeBron James, who has won the last two Most Valuable Player awards but has yet to distinguish himself in the postseason.

But mostly this will be about a rivalry renewed, about legends forged over four decades.

“Obviously, this is a matchup that’s very easy to talk about,” Bryant said. “There’s a lot of things that people can write about and talk about. It’s a sexy matchup.”

Much has changed since the Celtics humiliated the Lakers in a 131-92 rout in Game 6 at Boston.

The Lakers were essentially missing two critical players then: center Andrew Bynum, who was out with a knee injury, and forward Trevor Ariza, who played sparingly against the Celtics after returning from a broken foot. Bynum will play this time, although he is limited by a knee injury. Ariza has departed, replaced by Ron Artest, one of the fiercest defenders in the league.

The Celtics’ starting five from 2008 remains intact, although the power sources have shifted over time. Rajon Rondo was a willing role player two years ago but is now a star, on par with the Big Three of Pierce, Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen.

The Celtics are missing five key reserves from their title team — James Posey, Eddie House, P. J. Brown, Leon Powe and Sam Cassell — but their bench remains strong, with Rasheed Wallace, Glen Davis, Tony Allen and Nate Robinson.

Two years ago, the Celtics frustrated Bryant with physical, persistent defense, limiting him to 40 percent shooting in the series. They knocked around Pau Gasol and Lamar Odom, who were tagged with the “soft” label when they failed to match the aggression of Garnett and Kendrick Perkins.

Gasol has grown stronger and more assertive, showing a sharper edge in helping the Lakers beat the Orlando Magic last June in the finals and in persevering in a tough series against the Suns the past two weeks.

“Our bigs have to play, have to play well,” Jackson said. “I thought we were outplayed by their bigs the last time we played them in the ’08 series. Andrew will give us some help in that regard.”

The Lakers certainly need the 7-foot Bynum, their most imposing big man, to present some resistance in the lane. But he is playing with a torn meniscus in his right knee and averaged only 18.2 minutes in the Western Conference finals.

“Andrew’s going to give us what he can,” Jackson said. “He’s not 100 percent.”

The difference could come down to Artest, a burly small forward, whom the Lakers signed last summer to provide toughness and defense. He will be assigned to guard Pierce, the most valuable player of the 2008 finals.

“Pierce is a very tough matchup,” Bryant said. “He’s very smart. He’s one of the few players that has a long ball, has a midrange game, can get to the basket. I think that makes him tough to cover, but Ron is up for the challenge.”

The series could have far-reaching consequences for both teams.

Jackson is about to become a free agent. The Lakers want him to take a pay cut. He is also weighing retirement, and has said he will base his decision in part on whether the Lakers win the title.

Celtics Coach Doc Rivers has also publicly mused about walking away this summer, to spend more time with his family. Boston also has to consider its aging core. Ray Allen turns 35 in July and will be a free agent. Garnett is 34. Wallace turns 36 in September. Their window could be closing.

For the Celtics, the 2008 championship was a celebration of sacrifice and teamwork. Allen, Garnett and Pierce, three icons of their generation, had never known N.B.A. success until they became teammates that season. When they won, Garnett proclaimed it “the happiest day of my life” as a player.

The Lakers remember only anguish, and an arena filled with the scent of cigar smoke, a tribute to Auerbach.

“There’s nothing worse than losing in a finals,” Jackson said. “It’s about as low as you can get after riding a high, getting through three series, going into the fourth one. I had hoped I’d never experience it, but I’ve done it twice now. So I know it’s a real difficult summer after that.”
943 2010-05-31 Idaho, reeling like so many other states from a steep budget deficit, proposed saving money on maintenance by closing several parks along the Snake, including Niagara Springs. And that is why Brother Speed, not known for generous civic acts, is opening a whole new throttle. Now the park is staying open, the party goes on and Brother Speed is suddenly encountering newfound respectability.

On Saturday, the bikers were the guests of honor at a picnic hosted by Mayor Brad Christopherson in Wendell, a tiny farming town next to Niagara Springs that has come to count on their patronage.

“I grew up here,” said Mr. Christopherson, 47, who was elected last fall, “and it was always quite exciting as a kid to see this big group of 200 to 300 bikers come to town.”

Of course, the welcome is not warm everywhere. The Idaho Department of Correction says at least seven members of Brother Speed are either in prison or on parole, most for dealing or possessing methamphetamine.

“The fact that they’re mowing a lawn,” said Jeff Ray, a spokesman for the department, “should not lead us to have a perception that that is not so.”

The bikers insist that they are harmless and dismiss claims that they are a gang. At least one state agency, the Idaho Department of Parks and Recreation, appears to have no problem with them.

“They’re good folks,” said Jennifer Wernex, a spokeswoman for the department. “They clean up after themselves. We’re very, very thankful they’ve stepped up.”

Beyond mowing, Brother Speed has planted trees and upgraded the wiring at Niagara Springs so bands can perform there. Nick Stock, who builds custom bikes, pointed out that there is another advantage to having motorcyclists around: many are obsessive tinkerers. His father, a longtime member who has helped mow, was struck by the worn state-owned landscaping equipment.

So, Mr. Stock said, “he fixed all the weed eaters.” WILLIAM YARDLEY
944 2010-05-31 But a late caution for a crash involving Marcos Ambrose with 24 laps to go took it out of McMurray’s hands. McMurray led most of the leaders down pit road, but was beaten back to the track by Busch and Matt Kenseth. Jeff Gordon was the first of three cars not to pit, and restarted as the leader with 19 laps remaining.

Busch blew past the three lead cars and steadily pulled away from the pack. McMurray quickly moved into second, but ran out of time to run down Busch.

“I thought about the Ganassi car behind me,” Busch said in victory lane, “he wasn’t getting by us.”

Ganassi did not seem to mind the defeat.

“It was a great race, Jamie did a great job,” he smiled. “My old buddy Penske beat me tonight.”

Kyle Busch rallied from a midrace crash on pit road to finish third for Joe Gibbs Racing. Mark Martin finished fourth — the highest finishing Hendrick Motorsports car — and David Reutimann, who won this race last year, was fifth for Michael Waltrip Racing.

Gordon wound up sixth and was followed by Clint Bowyer, Paul Menard, Ryan Newman and Matt Kenseth.

While Kurt Busch celebrated, his younger brother was getting an earful on pit road from a furious Jeff Burton.

Burton was eighth on the final restart, running right next to Kyle Busch, when there was contact between the two cars. Burton faded to 25th.

“Kyle made it three wide on the restart, trying to make something happen, which I don’t have a problem with,” Burton said. “So he runs into me and cuts my left-rear tire, then I have a problem with it.

“He’s real aggressive. That’s cool. But when he starts affecting me with his aggressiveness, I just will not put up with it.”

It soured yet another stellar comeback for Kyle Busch, who was leading when a bizarre sequence of events on Lap 167 changed the race.

The four-time defending series champion Jimmie Johnson was running fourth when he inexplicably hit the wall, and Denny Hamlin, running fifth, had to weave low through the grass to avoid hitting Johnson. Nascar called for a caution that sent everyone to pit road.

Kyle Busch, who at the time had the strongest car in the race, ran into Brad Keselowski on pit road and was flagged for speeding. It dropped him all the way back to 26th.
945 2010-05-31 Many economists regard deflation as more dangerous than inflation, because it prompts consumers to delay purchases as they wait for lower prices, creating a downward spiral of lower demand and production. Deflation is also bad for debtors like Greece, because they may have to pay back money that would be worth more than it was when they borrowed it.

Economists like Mr. Weinberg — and a few policy makers as well — are beginning to worry that a danger of deflation in Europe, similar to the one that strangled Japanese growth for most of the 1990s, is a bigger threat than inflation.

Prices fell in Ireland in April, while inflation was below 1 percent in five other euro zone countries. The problem also extends outside the euro zone.

“We all share some risks and problems in common with Japan circa 1995,” Adam S. Posen, a member of the Bank of England’s monetary policy committee, told an audience at the London School of Economics on May 2.

The United States is also at risk, Mr. Posen said, though he rated the chances of deflation there as low. But just as Japan did in the 1990s, the European Central Bank and the United States Federal Reserve have cut interest rates close to zero while pumping huge amounts of credit into their economies. That means the two central banks would have limited policy tools left with which to combat a collapse in prices and demand.

The downward pressure on prices has its roots in the economic decline that followed the 2008 financial crisis, but Europe’s sovereign debt problems are likely to add extra impetus. Governments, including those of Spain and Germany, are sharply reducing spending to lower their deficits, which will inevitably curb consumer demand and employment, hindering growth.

Inflation in the euro zone — the 16 countries that use the euro — rose slightly in April, to an annual rate of 1.5 percent, from 1.4 percent in March. Declines in categories like recreation and culture, communications and vacation tour packages blunted the impact of higher transportation costs. And so-called core inflation — which excludes energy prices and which most economists consider a better measure for policy-making purposes — declined to 0.7 percent in April from 0.8 percent in March. By either measure, the overall rate was still well below the central bank’s target of about 2 percent.

The real challenge for policy makers will occur in the coming months and years as Spain, Greece and Portugal struggle to regain their competitiveness on international markets. Without their own currencies to devalue, they have little choice but to cut wages and keep them well below those in countries like Germany and France. Pay cuts and lower government spending will put downward pressure on prices.

A mild decline in prices in a few euro zone countries can be managed, economists say, but it will add to the risks of deflation. And the central bank will face more difficulty than usual in devising a monetary policy that fits both the ailing countries and the faster-growing economies like Germany and France.

“The E.C.B. has a careful balancing act to do,” said Dennis Snower, president of the Kiel Institute for the World Economy in Germany.

The central bank has remained firm in its focus on containing inflation. Jean-Claude Trichet, the bank’s president, has said he considers inflation a tax on the poor. And the bank’s charter obliges it to serve foremost as guardian of price stability.

As recently as Friday, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, a member of the bank’s executive board, defended the wisdom of the mandate. In a speech in Rabat, Morocco, he said permitting inflation to rise to make it easier for European nations to repay their debts, as some have urged, would backfire.

The resulting decline in the value of government bonds would inflict “major losses on the banks and financial institutions which have been heavily investing in these markets, potentially undermining the recovery,” he said.

Nevertheless, Mr. Trichet has been under fire, especially from critics in Germany, ever since the central bank began the unprecedented bond purchases to halt a sell-off of Greek, Portuguese and Spanish government debt.

By buying government bonds on the open market, and being coy about how much it was spending, the bank was able to reduce the high premiums investors were demanding for debt from the weakest countries. A continuation of the market rout would have raised the interest rates that Spain and other countries had to pay to sell new bonds, aggravating their already grave fiscal problems.

The problem was that, to buy the bonds, the bank had to expand the assets it held on its books. So to prove that it had not stooped to printing money, the bank promised to offset the bond purchases, which totaled 26.5 billion euros ($32.6 billion as of May 24, the most recent data available), by taking in a like amount in short-term deposits from banks. In effect, it siphoned off as much liquidity as it had added.

The bond purchases were only the latest of a series of extraordinary moves that Mr. Trichet has pursued to stabilize the European banking system. Since the beginning of the financial crisis, the central bank has been essentially keeping banks afloat by providing almost unlimited loans at 1 percent interest.

Mr. Trichet is eager to squash any doubts that such moves represent a shift in the bank’s focus on inflation, said Mr. Snower of the Kiel Institute. “The E.C.B. is showing very clearly that its objectives have not changed.”

Other economists say that scale of the bond purchases would not increase the money supply enough to pose an inflation risk. And the money supply is falling because of a decline in bank lending.

In addition, factories are operating below capacity and euro zone unemployment is at 10 percent. Extra money in the system would not create scarcities of goods or labor that could drive up prices, Mr. Weinberg of High Frequency Economics said.

“You don’t have to pay any more to get those workers to come out of unemployment,” Mr. Weinberg said.

The recent decline of the euro against the dollar could create some inflation. Oil and other commodities are priced in dollars and could become more expensive in euros.

Still, few economists see prices rising. “There is no reason to fear high inflation for the time being,” Simon Junker, a Commerzbank analyst, said in a note.

Much of Mr. Trichet’s anti-inflation stance seems aimed at mollifying Germany’s anxiety over the bank’s bond purchases.

After the purchases, Mr. Trichet gave interviews to three leading German publications, an unusually high number in such a short period. In each case, he tried to reassure Germans on inflation and convince them that the euro is as solid as the German mark that they reluctantly gave up 11 years ago.
946 2010-05-31 But above all else, the technical complexities of switching parties remain the biggest hurdles Mr. Levy has to overcome.

If he does not win just over 50 percent of the weighted vote at the convention, he will not be eligible to be included on the primary ballot, effectively killing his chances as a Republican candidate for governor.

Mr. Cox aggressively courted Mr. Levy because he believed he would be better able to raise money and would be a more dynamic candidate than Mr. Lazio, having attracted conservative support for his inflammatory comments on illegal immigration and his battles with labor unions. But some Republicans believe Mr. Levy hurt himself by waiting too long to switch parties.

“Catching fire is difficult when you start off not being a Republican,” said John Graziano, Albany County Republican chairman and one of Mr. Levy’s earliest backers. “What he’s done, whether it’s enough or not, I guess we’ll quickly find out.”

Bill DeProspo, the Orange County Republican chairman, said, “The last thing I should have to be doing as a county chairman is explaining why the state party chair is recruiting Democrats to run for office.”

“It’s the worst possible move for what could have been the best possible time for the Republican Party in New York,” he added.

But Mr. Cox said he was convinced Mr. Levy would prevail.

“I believe that Steve will be the designated candidate at the convention,” Mr. Cox said, adding that more county party leaders would be shifting their endorsements as the convention neared, though he would not name any. He also said that enough county committee members who were supporting Mr. Lazio or who were undecided would shift toward Mr. Levy.

“He talks like a Republican; he’s acted like a Republican for years,” Mr. Cox said. “He is now registering as a Republican. Are you going to say to him we’re not going to treat you like a Republican?”

Jay Savino, the Bronx Republican chairman and a Levy supporter, said: “He’s going to be fine, and I think he’s going to make it. I think it’ll be close. I don’t believe either side has a landslide expectation.”

Gauging the outcome of a vote involving about 450 committeemen and women from around the state is difficult. Mr. Lazio’s campaign said it had endorsements from the leaders of 30 county parties that make up 54.6 percent of the weighted vote at the convention. By contrast, Mr. Levy’s campaign said it had endorsements from 22 county leaders that make up 30 percent of the convention vote.

But there are further complications, including the fact that committee members often do not vote with their county leaders. Mr. Levy’s best chance could come in the second of two rounds of voting for the governor’s race at the state convention this week. In the first round, the party will seek to designate a candidate who wins a majority as their preferred nominee, though any registered Republican who gets 25 percent of the votes gets a spot on the primary ballot.

Because Mr. Levy switched his party registration only in March, he needs to get over 50 percent to get on the ballot and does not have the option of undertaking a petition drive. However, even if Mr. Levy does not win the first round, Republicans are holding a second vote to determine if he is authorized to be on their primary ballot. He could pick up support if backers of other candidates are willing to allow their chairman’s choice a spot on the ballot.

Mr. Cox appeared to rule out making any rule changes at the convention to guarantee Mr. Levy a spot on the ballot.

“New York’s election law provides that a majority of a quorum of the committee is required,” Mr. Cox said. “That’s the way the committee has done it in the past, and that’s the way we have always intended to do it.”

The candidates remained confident heading into the convention, which begins on Tuesday in Manhattan.

“Not only do I think it is completely unrealistic that they get to 50 percent. I think there’s a real chance they don’t get to 25 percent,” Mr. Lazio said, referring to Mr. Levy. “I am very confident that we’ve got well over 50 percent.”

For his part, Mr. Levy said, “When we add up those who have publicly committed and those who have privately committed, we feel we’re in a very good place.”

“What I hear over and over from people about Rick Lazio is that he’s a nice guy, we knew him from his race against Hillary, we’ll endorse him if no one else is in the race, but we don’t think he can win,” he added.

Bruce N. Gyory, a veteran Democratic consultant, said Mr. Levy gambled heavily by agreeing to switch parties when the Republican field was already occupied.

“The classic rule of American politics is don’t switch parties unless you’re guaranteed to have no primary,” he said.

Mr. Levy said he had no regrets.

“Listen, I could have sat back, taken a pass on this race and won easy re-election next year,” he said. “But this is the year where my skill set is needed, and you get maybe once in this lifetime where the stars and the moon are lined up.”
947 2010-05-31 Credit: Josh Anderson for The New York Times
948 2010-05-31 President Obama has given his top aides a deadline of the next few weeks to resolve the issues with Pakistan, the officials said. That pressure to deliver results has prompted senior officials like Gen. James L. Jones, the national security adviser, and Leon E. Panetta, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, to warn senior Pakistani leaders of the risks to the country’s relationship with the United States if a deadly terrorist attack originated in their country.

Some American aides have told Pakistani officials that the United States might be forced to increase airstrikes in Pakistan in the event of such an attack, though two senior American military officials said there was no special planning under way for such action.

“Terrorists are enemies of both Pakistan and the United States, who need to discuss how to enhance cooperation and that is what we are doing,” Husain Haqqani, Pakistan’s ambassador to the United States, said in a text message on Sunday. “Pressuring an ally is not the way forward, and both sides understand that.”

Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, declined to comment Sunday on any military planning, and said American and Pakistani officials were working closely to hunt Qaeda leaders who are hiding in Pakistan’s tribal areas.

“We’re very concerned about that part of the world,” Admiral Mullen said on “Fox News Sunday.” “That’s where Al Qaeda leadership lives. We know that. And we’re working with Pakistan and, quite frankly, with Afghanistan to continue to put pressure on that leadership.”

In their visit to Islamabad two weeks ago, General Jones and Mr. Panetta presented Pakistan’s president, Asif Ali Zardari, and other top civilian and military officials with a description of links between the Pakistani Taliban and Faisal Shahzad, the Pakistani-American arrested by the American authorities as the main suspect in the Times Square case, an administration official said.

General Jones and Mr. Panetta thanked the Pakistanis for their cooperation in the investigation, but they also prodded their hosts to take tougher steps against the Taliban and other groups, and to resolve several issues that Pakistan has delayed.

The United States is proposing to open a new consulate in Quetta, in southwestern Pakistan, where the C.I.A. would most likely have a sizable presence.

The White House also wants Pakistan to end a months long dispute over refusing to grant visas to American government workers and contractors in the country.

“In the wake of the failed Times Square terrorist attack and its direct links to extremist groups based in Pakistan, the president instructed General Jones and Director Panetta to go deliver a clear message to Pakistani authorities of the need to step up our counterterrorism cooperation to prevent an attack on the homeland and to address a common terrorist threat,” Michael A. Hammer, a National Security Council spokesman, said in an e-mail message on Sunday.

The airline passenger issue, which General Jones and Mr. Panetta also raised in their meetings, is particularly contentious but has remained largely out of public view. “We are offering to assist the Pakistanis with their border control challenges, including providing them technology and expertise that will allow them to better manage and monitor travel into and out of Pakistan for security purposes,” said a senior administration official.

Analysts at the National Targeting Center in northern Virginia, an arm of United States Customs and Border Protection, could, for example, examine the travel patterns of Pakistanis with known links to militant groups who fly to Persian Gulf countries where donors to Al Qaeda and the Taliban live.

But it would be explosive with Pakistani public opinion for the government to be seen as cooperating with the United States on the identities of Pakistani passengers. A recent poll by a Western embassy in Islamabad showed that only 4 percent of the respondents had a favorable view of the United States, so sharing individual names with the American government would be immensely unpopular.

“We know this is sensitive for the Pakistan government, and we’re trying to strike the right balance,” a senior administration official said.

The renewed urgency in the negotiations comes against the backdrop of evidence that both Mr. Shahzad and Najibullah Zazi, a former airport shuttle bus driver arrested last fall as the main suspect in a failed plot to bomb three New York City subway lines, received training in Pakistan’s tribal areas.

The talks also come about two months after Mr. Obama approved a new security protocol for people flying to the United States. The intelligence-based security system was created to raise flags about travelers whose names do not appear on no-fly watch lists, but whose travel patterns or personal traits create suspicions. The system is intended to pick up fragments of information — family name, nationality, age or even partial passport number — and match them against intelligence reports to sound alarms before a passenger boards a plane.
949 2010-05-31 Re “Hard Times Spur Ideas for Change” (front page, May 25), about state proposals to address large budget deficits:

Talking up the idea of dramatic changes in state and local government budgets, an elected official in Wisconsin is quoted as saying “the public is already there.”

It may be true that voters agree conceptually with generalized spending cuts and reduction of government bureaucracy. But survey after survey finds that, when asked about cutting or dramatically changing specific services like education and health care, voters aren’t nearly so supportive.

And when elected leaders try to force significant cost efficiencies, or call for consolidating even tiny local governments, advocates of the status quo often find it a simple task to rile up the populace in opposition.

The recent decline in state tax revenues nationwide is the worst in more than half a century. Costs in areas like health care and public-employee benefits continue to climb, with no end in sight.

The Government Accountability Office warns that the fiscal picture for state and local governments will grow far worse over the next several decades, unless there is significant action to restrain spending and/or increase revenues.
950 2010-05-31 MONROVIA, Liberia — How much money did Charles G. Taylor , the deposed president of Liberia, siphon out of his destitute, war-shattered country, and where is it?

For almost seven years, since an international warrant was issued for his arrest, the search has stretched from the mangrove swamps and diamond fields of West Africa to Swiss banks and shell corporations — a state-of-the-art version of the sweeping asset hunts that have accompanied the fall of autocrats since the shah of Iran’s demise in the 1970s.

Investigators have crawled in the dirt under porches and buildings in this impoverished capital to seek out financial records. They have confronted bankers and government officials on four continents. They have cross-referenced mazes of documents charting the transfer of millions of dollars into and out of dozens of accounts.

But they have come up dry for any money in Mr. Taylor’s name. In fact, four years ago, Mr. Taylor was classified as “partially indigent” by the Special Court for Sierra Leone at The Hague, where he is charged with instigating murder, mutilation, rape and sexual slavery during intertwined wars in Liberia and Sierra Leone that claimed more than 250,000 victims from 1989 to 2003.

That has left donor nations — the United States being the largest — to cover his monthly $100,000 legal bill and the broader costs of his $20 million trial.

But the investigators push on, and a review by the International Herald Tribune of court transcripts, bank records, and newly available government receipts and confidential prosecution memos indicates why they are reluctant to give up the hunt.

Some of the records show how the country’s largest timber company sent tax payments to Mr. Taylor’s private account rather than the national treasury. Others trace huge payments made by the dominant cellphone company to people suspected of being Taylor cronies. Others depict a web of front companies and banks from Hong Kong to New York involved in the movement of millions of dollars into Mr. Taylor’s accounts in Liberia.

“Money would go to an arms dealer or an ally and from there to a money management firm and then back to Liberia, then cashed out and moved to another bank account,” said Thomas R. Creal, an accountant from Chicago who for five years has led the search for the United Nations.

Retained by Liberia, he and three law firms are developing a new strategy involving filing civil damage claims against companies, governments and international banks that they contend aided Mr. Taylor in illegal transactions. The goal, after investigators have succeeded in freezing only about $8 million held by Taylor relatives and associates, is to win judgments for Liberia even if Taylor accounts cannot be found.

The estimates of hidden wealth — believed to have been extracted from Liberia’s timber and diamond trades, its international merchant shipping registry, tax coffers and the government of Taiwan — run from as high as $3 billion to a middling range of $280 million. Mr. Taylor’s own estimate is zero.

Last year, the flamboyant former warlord taunted prosecutors in court, dismissing the financial investigations as efforts to demonize him. “I challenge any human being or organization in this world — I mean this planet — to bring one bank account that Charles Taylor has money in,” he said. “I have heard the prosecutor blatantly lie, saying, ‘We found millions.’ Bring the millions here.”

Stephen Rapp, the U.S. ambassador at large for war crimes issues and a former chief prosecutor on the case, said the hunt could continue for years. “You will never find an account listed under Charles Taylor,” he said. “In all of these asset recovery cases of former leaders who have been accused of corruption or worse, it has taken a long time to achieve recovery. So this is not going to end.”

In the banking world, investigators call high-profile targets, like deposed heads of state or military officials, P.E.P.’s — “politically exposed persons.” Financially speaking, Mr. Taylor is one of the most elusive.

The list has included Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines and Sani Abacha, the Nigerian military dictator who pocketed as much as $5 billion through front companies and Swiss bank accounts, Swiss investigators say.

Since 1999, the Nigerian government has recovered more than $700 million with Switzerland’s assistance.
951 2010-05-31 The diagramed deal, from the John Roberts Teams in Henderson, Nev., this month, featured a brilliant defensive play by Geoff Hampson.

At both tables South was in three no-trump. In the given auction one no-trump showed 15 to 17 points. Two spades was either a quantitative raise to two no-trump, or based on a long club suit with weak or game-forcing values. Three clubs promised a maximum no-trump.

Each West led the diamond ace and continued with a low diamond to dummy’s jack. The two declarers played on hearts, East getting in with his ace.

What did Hampson (East) do now?

In the other room East led back a diamond, West taking his two tricks in the suit, then safely returning a heart. Now, though, South could cash his top spades to find out about the 4-2 break, then return to dummy with a heart to take the club finesse. He won three spades, three hearts, one diamond and two clubs.

No doubt West wished he had led the diamond ten at Trick 2. Then East could have won the fourth round of diamonds and shifted to a club. But that diamond-ten play could have been very silly.

Hampson knew that his side had only three diamond tricks. He could also read South’s honor cards, including the club jack, for his three-club rebid.
952 2010-05-31 A new museum for contemporary art and architecture opened in Rome on Sunday, The Associated Press reported. The more than $200 million National Museum of XXI Century Arts, or the Maxxi Museum as it is being called, was designed byZaha Hadid, who b...
953 2010-05-31 MANNIX--Mary Louise (Buisson), at home, in Concord, MA, May 29. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, Nantucket, MA and Vero Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late James J. Mannix Sr., loving mother of Bernadette Louise (Mannix) Feeney and her husband Michael J....
954 2010-05-31 Apple has again changed its mind.     Earlier this week, it rejected the iPhone app of a Republican opponent to Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, a Democrat, saying it was a personal attack on Mr. Waxman. But on Tuesday, Apple reversed...
955 2010-05-31 The strangest business cards I ever saw used to be in circulation at the Paris Blues Bar & Lounge, a drinking establishment at Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard and 121st Street in Harlem. Printed in vivid royal blue, they listed not only the prop...
956 2010-05-31 PHOENIX -- In the mystical, everything-Zen universe of Phil Jackson, happenstance and happy endings are a way of life.     Not long after winning the championship last summer, Jackson, the Los Angeles Lakers coach, visited his daughter's apartment...