1 2008-01-01 The Republican candidate continues to defend his lack of knowledge on the intelligence surrounding Iran's nuclear plans....
2 2008-01-01 Zion's Bancorpororation is taking more losses from an off balance sheet investment vehicle. This is the second time in two weeks that Zions has done that. You can read David Milstead's commentary on this here. You have to think the accounting is l...
3 2008-01-01 Senator John McCain, who has long touted his own experience on matters of national security and foreign policy as top credentials, is now taking the fight directly to Mitt Romney on the topic....
4 2008-01-01 Scientists will never be able to answer those questions for migrations that have been wiped out. The journeys of tens of millions of buffalo on the Great Plains will remain a mystery.

But today, scientists are inventing new ways to learn about the surviving migrations. They can tag dragonflies with tiny monitors and analyze the chemistry of feathers to discover the hidden wintering grounds of birds.

Unfortunately, a lot of what they are learning is about all the threats a human-dominated world poses to migrations.

Animals are particularly susceptible to hunting as they migrate, because they swarm in vast groups at predictable times and places. The survival of migratory animals depends on all the habitats along their journey. And a migratory bird’s numbers may dwindle if the forests where it winters are cut down, or if its summering grounds are destroyed, or if its stopovers are eradicated.

At least the birds enjoy the luxury of flying; when salmon in the Pacific Northwest swim from the oceans into rivers to reach their spawning grounds, they now must struggle past chains of dams. Redfish Lake in Idaho was named for the color it turned when it filled with thousands of sockeye salmon that had just swum the 900 miles from the sea. This year only four sockeye reached the lake.

In “No Way Home,” Dr. Wilcove also describes threats that have only recently come to light. Cowbirds can devastate migrating songbirds in the United States by parasitizing their nests, for example. Cowbird mothers throw out the songbirds’ eggs and lay their own instead. It turns out that fragmenting forests are an excellent habitat for cowbirds.

In years to come, Dr. Wilcove warns, global warming may come to have a huge effect on migrations, by dismantling ecosystems and leaving migrating animals without the food they depend on.

It is difficult to come up with a strategy to preserve a phenomenon as multifaceted as an annual migration. If a species of tree that lives only in part of Florida is endangered, the solution is straightforward: try to conserve that little patch of habitat. But migratory animals don’t respect international borders. The preservation of their migrations demands that countries to work together to find solutions. Dr. Wilcove points to some good models — Tanzania and Kenya’s conservation of the Serengeti plains, and the United States and Canada’s efforts to protect the sandhill crane.

But a bird like the red knot, which summers in the Arctic and winters in Tierra del Fuego, the southern tip of South America, stopping along the way to refuel in North and South America, will require an unprecedented level of cooperation.

It is, Dr. Wilcove writes, a worthy fight: “It all adds up to one of the most daunting yet rewarding challenges in wildlife conservation.”
5 2008-01-01 The Boeing Company said that the budget airline Jeju Air Company had ordered five 737-800 airplanes, valued at $370 million at list prices. In a statement, Boeing said it had recorded orders for more than 4,400 737s, and has unfilled orders for more than 1,900 airplanes worth more than $140 billion at current list prices.
6 2008-01-01 The United States and Sweden advanced to the semifinals of the world junior championship Monday in Liberec, Czech Republic.Colin Wilson had a hat trick for the United States, which also got goals from Tyler Ruegsegger and James van Riemsdyk, in a 5-3 victory over Finland. Jeremy Smith made 10 saves and Joe Palmer added 8.The Americans automatically advanced to the semifinals by taking first place in Group B, going 4-0 to earn 12 points. The only other time the United States won its first four games was in 2004, when it captured its only gold medal in the event.Sweden beat host Czech Republic, 4-2, to go 4-0 and win Group A.
7 2008-01-01 North Korea remained silent as the last hours of 2007 passed and it missed a year-end deadline to give a full accounting of its nuclear weapons. It gave no explanation for breaking its promise to the United States, China, Japan, Russia and South Korea, and it faced no outcry. “We’ve seen these kinds of delays or other things occur in the process as we move along, and in some ways I think you have expect those things,” said Tom Casey, a State Department spokesman. In Crawford, Tex., where President Bush was vacationing, a White House spokesman, Scott M. Stanzel, said: “I think we had all hoped that North Korea would meet the Dec. 31 deadline. We hope they will do that as soon as possible.” The Japanese Foreign Ministry called the missed deadline “unfortunate.” The South Korean Foreign Ministry said it was “regrettable.” Russia and China were silent on the issue.
8 2008-01-01 The teenage brother of an 11-year-old Queens boy who was shot in the chest on Sunday night after he answered the front door of their home said he believed that the bullet had been intended for him.

It was “a message someone wants me dead,” Tony Falconer Jr., 16, said in a hushed voice outside his home in Springfield Gardens before going to visit his brother, Tyshaun, who was in stable condition at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. “Three weeks ago, a cousin got shot — it was over a girl. They know I’m related to them.”

Tony told the police on Monday that he believed the shooting outside his home was related to the earlier one. But he said he did not know the identity of the hooded gunman.

Police said that the investigation into Tyshaun’s shooting was continuing, and that they were exploring a possible connection to the earlier shooting.

On Monday, detectives continued to canvass the neighborhood of well-tended single-family homes, and retrieved videotape from a neighbor’s security camera. Meanwhile, Tyshaun’s father, Tony Falconer Sr., 43, recounted the shooting and the chaotic moments that followed.
9 2008-01-01 To many, the outdoor setting, except for advertising banners and work crews putting sets together, represents the roots of the game.

Sabres forward Maxim Afinogenov learned to play on outdoor rinks during Moscow winters. “You feel like you’re back in the old days,” he said.

The teams will look a little like the old days, too. The Sabres will wear throwback jerseys from the 1995-96 season, and the Penguins will be hardly recognizable in light blue uniforms from the 1970s.

Afinogenov said he was unaffected by the cold during practice and would add only a turtleneck for the game.

“It’s not chilly at all,” he said. “It feels good.”

Penguins center Jordan Staal learned hockey on an outdoor rink tended by his father on the family’s 500-acre farm in Thunder Bay, Ontario. Two of his brothers play in the N.H.L. and another is a top prospect.

“We just enjoyed the game so much,” Staal said of backyard games with his brothers. “It’s kind of got that same feeling out there today.”

He added, “It really feels like hockey when you’re out in the cold, and you’ve got that neck warmer on.”

Still, for the players involved, and for more serious N.H.L. fans, the game is not merely a chance for a spectacle. Two points are at stake in what has shaped up to be a tight Eastern Conference playoff race.

Only 2 points separate the Sabres and the Penguins in the standings. The Penguins, with 42, are tied for sixth place, and the Sabres (40) are tied for ninth. Pittsburgh gained those 2 points in a 2-0 victory over Buffalo on Saturday.

“I think tomorrow is going to mean business,” Staal said. “Obviously it’s a big game for us. No matter what the atmosphere is around us, we got to get the 2 points.”

Perhaps the only factor that could ruin the event is the weather. The forecast is for the temperature to cool throughout the day, with rain turning to snow. “We have eight people here on the ice crew,” said Dan Craig, the facilities operation manager for the N.H.L. “We will probably have four people on skates, and I will be on skates, and we will make sure everything is taken care of all around the rink.”

If weather halts the game, it will be rescheduled for 7 p.m. Wednesday. A few inches of snow sat on the field surrounding the rink Monday, hiding the tubes and wires that help the ice surface stay near an ideal 21 degrees. As the Sabres skated, the skies darkened and snow flurries began to fly, causing the stadium’s lights to go on.

The Winter Classic will be the fourth outdoor game in recent years at the N.H.L. or N.C.A.A. level. Several of the Sabres and the Penguins have played in those games.

In October 2001, Michigan State played Michigan to a 3-3 tie at Spartan Stadium in East Lansing. Buffalo’s Miller and Pittsburgh’s Adam Hall were playing for Michigan State.

In November 2003, the N.H.L. staged the Heritage Classic in Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton, Alberta. The Montreal Canadiens defeated the host Oilers, 4-3, before a crowd of 57,167. Penguins goaltender Ty Conklin and forward Georges Laraque played for the Oilers.

In February 2006, Wisconsin defeated Ohio State, 4-2, at Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wis.

“I really want them to enjoy — enjoy the day, enjoy the preparation for tomorrow,” Sabres Coach Lindy Ruff said. “This might be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to play in a game that is this special.”
10 2008-01-01 Ultra-safe Treasuries and risky emerging markets both rewarded investors. For the first time since 2002, when the last bear market ended, Treasuries outperformed the S.& P. 500 as investors sought a haven in government debt. Including dividends and interest payments, the S.& P. returned 6.2 percent while a Merrill Lynch index that tracks government-backed debt returned 8.5 percent.

“There was a flight to quality,” said Douglas M. Peta, chief market strategist at J.& W. Seligman, an investment firm based in New York.

Investments that had even a slight taint of risky subprime mortgages were battered. A Merrill Lynch index that tracks floating-rate securities backed by home loans fell 10.9 percent through November, after including interest payments. MBIA, a company that guarantees those debts, fell 74.5 percent for the year.

Financial stocks tumbled 20.8 percent for the year and shares in the consumer discretionary sector, which includes home builders and retailers, sank 14.3 percent. Other areas of the market rose, but the decline in these two big sectors hurt benchmark indexes. Together the sectors accounted for about one-third of the stock market’s valuation at the start of 2007; they account for about one-fourth now.

As investors bailed out of investments perceived as risky at home, they sought out growth elsewhere. Billions of dollars flowed from the developed world into fast-developing economies in Asia, Latin America, Africa and Eastern Europe.

Shares in Shanghai and Shenzhen, China, were up 179 percent; the Nifty 50 index in India was up 74 percent and the Bovespa index in Brazil was close behind at 73 percent. By contrast, the Nikkei 225 index in Japan ended the year down 5.3 percent.

“Typically, you would expect in a flight to safety that investors would flee emerging markets,” Mr. Peta said. “That they haven’t shows that there is a strong desire to invest in growth.”

The growth in developing economies also has helped propel the prices of commodities like oil (up 58 percent), wheat (68 percent) and gold (31 percent). And the United States dollar has fallen against many currencies, including the Chinese yuan, Indian rupee, the euro, the British pound and the Canadian dollar.

Many investors believe that the slower growth of the American economy will not hobble its trading partners in Asia, Europe and Latin America. Their view also reflects a belief that the dollar will continue to sink, making stocks elsewhere more attractive. From the start of 2007 through Dec. 26, investors had put $141 billion into foreign equity funds, compared with just $49 billion in domestic stock funds, according to AMG Data Services, a research firm.

But some specialists are unsure that developing economies, many of which rely heavily on exports to developed countries, will continue to thrive. Bernard Connolly, the global strategist for Banque A.I.G. in London, said that European countries were also starting to contend with housing and credit problems.

“World demand, which has been extremely buoyant for a couple of years, is visibly melting away,” Mr. Connolly said. “Sitting here in London, it’s very easy to see.”

Mr. Levkovich of Citigroup said he was also concerned that foreign stock markets might be overvalued. But unlike Mr. Connolly he is more upbeat about the American stock market, at least through the first six months of the new year. In the second half of the year, he worries, corporate profit margins could come under pressure.

Mr. Levkovich also asserts that most American stocks are not overvalued as they were in 2000 at the height of the tech boom. The price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500 index, for instance, stands at 18.6, down from 30 in early 2000 but still higher than the long-run average of about 16. The stock market, he said, has punished companies that were most closely tied to the mortgage mess but has been kind to others, a pattern he thinks will continue.

“If you were very credit sensitive, you got hammered, and if you were not, you did not,” Mr. Levkovich said. “Equity markets didn’t have the same kind of bubble conditions that the credit markets had.”

Still, the stock market’s fate will be closely tied to the housing and credit markets, specialists say. The economy will be most vulnerable if banks are not willing to lend to businesses and consumers with good credit histories. Without access to capital, businesses will not be able to expand or invest in new products. It would also be hard for consumers to move for new jobs and pay for education and training.

“The linchpin for the U.S. is how quickly do the credit markets behave normally,” said Robert C. Doll, vice chairman at BlackRock, the asset management company.

In an indication that at least some parts of the market are beginning to unlock, the interest rates banks charge one another to borrow have been falling since the Federal Reserve started lending to banks through a new auction system in mid-December.

The three-month interbanking lending rate fell to 4.7 percent Monday, from 5.1 percent on Dec. 11. The difference between that rate and the cost at which the federal government borrows also fell over the same period, to 1.5 percentage points on Monday from 2.2 percentage points, though it remains very high relative to historical norms.

“It’s going to be a challenge getting back to a normalized level,” Mr. Peta said. But the recent drop “does say to me that things are improving.”

Following are the results of Monday’s auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills.
11 2008-01-01 Billick’s specialty was offense; he was the offensive coordinator in Minnesota when the team set the season scoring record that was broken Saturday night by the Patriots. But his legacy in Baltimore may be that he failed to develop a consistent offense and never uncovered a franchise quarterback to complement the team’s superb defense. As the season collapsed, Billick also seemed to lose the support of some players.

“Sometimes the message can get repetitive after a while,” the 12-year offensive tackle Jonathan Ogden was quoted by The Associated Press as saying Monday.

Billick was the only coach fired on a day that is usually studded with dismissals and resignations. But with so much turnover in recent years — 16 teams have had new coaches in the last two seasons — even the most unsuccessful coaches this season kept their jobs. The only other head-coaching vacancy is in Atlanta, where Bobby Petrino came and went in less than a year.

The Miami Dolphins could soon join the search for a new coach. Cam Cameron, whose team had the worst season in franchise history in his first season in Miami, is expected to meet with Bill Parcells on Tuesday to learn his fate. Parcells wasted little time beginning to remake the Dolphins, firing General Manager Randy Mueller on Monday, only five days after Parcells assumed his duties overseeing all football operations.

“If we’re not sitting here in this situation, none of this happens,” said Cameron, who was close to Mueller. “If we win football games, none of this happens. I’m charged with that, and I accept that responsibility.”

With an abysmal record in recent drafts, the player personnel department will be overhauled, too, before the Dolphins make the first pick in April’s draft.

In Buffalo, an era came to an end when Marv Levy announced that he was stepping down as general manager, 10 years to the day after he announced he was resigning as the team’s coach. Levy, who is in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, returned to Buffalo two years ago to help the owner Ralph Wilson turn the franchise around. The Bills hired Coach Dick Jauron, and despite a staggering series of injuries this season (17 players finished the season on injured reserve), Buffalo finished 7-9 for the second year.

Levy, 82, had the option to renew his two-year contract but instead will return to his Chicago home after he helps Wilson through a period of transition. Jauron, who has been praised by Wilson for keeping the team afloat despite the injuries, is expected to return.

Levy said he believed the team, which has not made the playoffs in eight seasons, was on the right track. “Despite an unprecedented number of season-ending injuries, Dick Jauron, his coaching staff, and an admirable core of high-character players are heading in the right direction,” Levy said in a statement. “If my contributions to their efforts have been meaningful, I then take my leave from 1 Bills Drive, thankful and gratified.”

YOUNG’S STATUS IN QUESTION Tennessee quarterback Vince Young will be day to day this week after reinjuring his right quadriceps muscle Sunday. His status for Sunday’s American Football Conference wild-card game with San Diego could be in question. “I have a good feeling he’ll be back on the practice field, and we’ll see how he goes,” Coach Jeff Fisher said. (AP)
12 2008-01-01 “This happens every once in a while,” Ms. Crane said. “But it’s rare for the roads to be closed this long.”

The National Weather Service called for light snow and diminishing winds for the area, with the weather clearing, by and large, on Tuesday.

After the storm first struck on Sunday, the Colorado State Patrol conducted search-and-rescue missions to make sure the roads were clear of vehicles that had spun out because of the wind and snow, said Master Trooper Ron Watkins, a spokesman for the patrol.

Trooper Watkins said that there were “more accidents than I could even hardly count,” but that there had been no reports of serious injuries or deaths.

The Red Cross set up nine shelters at recreation centers and schools on Sunday night, most of them in Summit County, said Christine Benero, chief executive of the Mile High Chapter of the Red Cross. On Monday, some people chose to leave the shelters in search of alternative roads back to Denver, she said, but the relief agency was prepared to keep the shelters open on New Year’s Eve if need be.

“Longtime Summit County residents and colleagues that we’ve worked with said this was the worst storm they’ve seen in 30 years,” Ms. Benero said.

Those stuck at the shelters were trying to stay upbeat after the storm threw a wrinkle in their holiday vacation plans.

Chase Healey, 23, of Lincoln, Neb., spent Sunday skiing at the Keystone Resort with his girlfriend and another couple, before trying to drive to Denver.

But with traffic on the highway nearly at a standstill because of blowing snow, and conditions growing worse by the hour, Mr. Healey and his friends ended up pulling off the road and staying the night at the Silverthorne Recreation Center, where the Red Cross had set up a shelter.

“There were times it was a straight whiteout and I couldn’t see 10 feet in front of me,” he said. “It was definitely scary at times.”
13 2008-01-01 Nasdaq Stock Market obtained clearance on Monday from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States to sell a stake to Borse Dubai, paving the way for Nasdaq’s eventual acquisition of the OMX exchange in Stockholm.

Cfius (pronounced SIF-ee-us), as the federal panel is known, examines whether acquisitions by overseas buyers compromise national security.

As part of a transaction announced Sept. 20, Nasdaq will withdraw its own offer for OMX and will support Borse Dubai’s all-cash bid of 265 Swedish kronor ($40.90) a share for the exchange.

Once Borse Dubai owns at least 67 percent of OMX, it will transfer all the shares to Nasdaq, the exchange said in a statement. Borse Dubai will simultaneously make a minority investment in Nasdaq, and Nasdaq will make a minority investment in the Dubai International Financial Exchange.

Nasdaq announced on Friday that Cfius had approved the transaction, but retracted the statement the same day, saying it had been released erroneously.

Cfius is headed by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and includes his counterparts at the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Commerce and State.
14 2008-01-01 WASHINGTON (AP) — Sales of previously owned homes nudged up in November, but that was not enough to improve the broader picture of a housing market racked by record-high foreclosures and harder-to-get credit.

The National Association of Realtors reported on Monday that sales of existing single-family homes, condominiums and town houses rose 0.4 percent in November from October, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of five million units. Even with the small increase, the pace of sales was still the second-lowest on record going back to 1999. The lowest pace — 4.98 million — was in October.

“There’s little reason to pop open any Champagne corks,” a real estate analyst at Weiss Research, Michael Larson, said.

Sales are down 20 percent from November 2006, underscoring the problems plaguing the housing sector. Economists had been predicting that sales would either move up slightly or hold steady for November.

Home prices continued to sink. The median price of a home sold in November was $210,200. That was a 3.3 percent drop from a year ago. It was the fifth-biggest annual decline on record. The median price is the point at which half sell for more and half sell for less.

By region of the country, sales were mixed. Existing home sales jumped 10.3 percent in November from October in the West. They were flat in the Midwest. However, they fell 2 percent in the South and 3.3 percent in the Northeast.
15 2008-01-01 Travelers Companies, the commercial insurer, reached an agreement with attorneys general from several states to pay $6 million to resolve an investigation into fees it paid to brokers.

Travelers also expects to settle a lawsuit by shareholders who said the company should have disclosed the fees, the company said in a regulatory filing today.

Terms of Travelers’ agreement with the nine states and the District of Columbia are subject to court approval, the filing said. A spokeswoman for Travelers, Jennifer Wislocki, said the company had no comment.

The Florida settlement ends an investigation into accusations that Travelers paid the insurance broker Marsh & McLennan Companies to win business without the knowledge of clients, regulators said Monday in a statement. The investigation also examined whether Travelers had created the illusion of competition on insurance deals by submitting fake bids.

Travelers said in December 2006 that it had expected to end the payment of so-called contingent commissions in 2008. It has made changes to its practices, the Florida statement said. Contingent commissions, paid to brokers based on how much coverage they sell, are not always known by insurance buyers at the time of a deal.

Marsh & McLennan, the Aon Corporation and the Willis Group Holdings, the world’s three biggest insurance brokers, banned contingent commissions in 2004, giving up more than $1 billion in annual revenue to settle conflict-of-interest investigations by Eliot Spitzer, then New York’s attorney general. Mr. Spitzer said the fees were tantamount to kickbacks, encouraging brokers to steer business to the most lucrative insurers.
16 2008-01-01 The chairman of the Taiwan Stock Exchange Corporation, Wu Rong-I, said that the exchange, Asia’s seventh-biggest equities market, planned to sell a stake of as much as 25 percent of itself to overseas bourses.

Several, including the New York Stock Exchange, the Deutsche Börse, the CME Group and the Nasdaq Stock Market, are in initial talks with the Taiwan exchange, Mr. Wu said Monday in Taipei.

Globally, exchanges have announced more than $50 billion of takeovers and alliances in the last three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

“Consolidation among exchanges has become an inevitable trend,” said Charles Chen of JF Asset Management in Taipei, Taiwan. “Such a move can help bourses add platforms or channels for trading. That will be a very positive story.”

Exchanges benefited from record transactions this year after the collapse of subprime mortgages in the United States led to swings in the equity and debt markets.

The Taiwan exchange is also interested in cross-shareholdings with foreign bourses, Mr. Wu said, adding that formal talks would not materialize until the planned initial public offering, which could come this year. A Deutsche Börse spokeswoman, Nina Lux, declined to comment.
17 2008-01-01 “When Shielding Money Clashes With Elders’ Free Will” (front page, Dec. 24) is a fine example of medical journalism. You have served the public interest well by reporting on the vulnerabilities of the elderly to the machinations of individuals and corporations to defraud them.

The rapid loss of financial security exemplified by your subject is not unusual, and it is not peculiar only to those with cognitive impairment. Those of us involved in the care of the elderly grapple with issues of autonomy, decision-making capacity, judgment and so on — concepts hard to quantify.

While we are becoming more sensitized to issues of elder abuse and are able to recognize the physical and verbal kind, we are not equipped to identify elder victimization like the one in your article.

Autonomy also carries with it risks both to self, family and society at large when one is making financial decisions, driving or handling firearms, to name some of the contentious issues.

Your series of reports this year dealing with elder issues should help our Legislature come up with legal remedies to protect this vulnerable segment of our society without sacrificing autonomy.

Mohammed A. Nurhussein

Brooklyn, Dec. 27, 2007

The writer is the director of the Geriatric Fellowship Program at SUNY Downstate Medical Center.
18 2008-01-01 By next month, all American medical schools will have abandoned a time-honored method of teaching cardiology: operating on dogs to examine their beating hearts, and disposing of them after the lesson.

Case Western Reserve School of Medicine was the last to use the method, but the dean, Dr. Pamela Davis, said it would no longer do so after this month.

On Nov. 19, New York Medical College in Valhalla joined New York’s 11 other medical schools and announced that it would close its dog laboratory.

Among the 126 American medical schools, 11 still sacrifice animals for teaching, according to the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy group that tracks the practice. Other than Case, none of them use dogs.

Francis Belloni, a dean at New York Medical College, said his students now used echocardiograms to study heart function, and the subjects were live medical students rather than live dogs. Dr. Belloni said the use of animals was not done lightly and had value, but added that students would “become just as good doctors without it.”
19 2008-01-01 Still, the country is a long way from a comprehensive response equal to the challenge. That is what the Democratic candidates are proposing. Senators Joseph Biden, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, former Senator John Edwards, Gov. Bill Richardson and Representative Dennis Kucinich have all offered aggressive plans that would go beyond the Senate bill and reduce emissions by 80 percent by midcentury (90 percent in Mr. Richardson’s case), much as called for in the United Nations reports.

These plans would rest primarily on a cap-and-trade scheme that imposes a gradually declining ceiling on emissions and allows power plants, refineries and other emitters to figure out the cheapest way to meet their quotas — either by reducing emissions on their own or by purchasing credits from more efficient producers. The idea is to give companies a clear financial incentive to invest in the new technologies and efficiencies required to create a more carbon-free economy.

None of the Democrats trust the market to do the job by itself. All would make major investments in cleaner fuels and delivery systems, including coal-fired power plants capable of capturing carbon emissions and storing them underground. Every Democrat except Mr. Kucinich says that carbon-free nuclear power has to be part of the mix, although all are careful to say that safety issues and other concerns must first be resolved.

Internationally, the Democrats say they would seek a new global accord on reducing emissions to replace and improve upon the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. Winning agreement among more than 180 nations will be slow-going, so several candidates, including Mrs. Clinton, have suggested jump-starting the process by bringing together the big emitters like China very early in their administrations. China and the United States together produce about 40 percent of the world’s total emissions and neither has agreed to binding reductions.

The only Republican candidate who comes close to the Democrats with a plan for addressing climate change is John McCain, one of the authentic pioneers on the issue in the Senate. In 2003, along with Joseph Lieberman, Mr. McCain introduced the first Senate bill aimed at mandatory economywide reductions in emissions of 65 percent by midcentury. He also regularly addresses the subject on the campaign trail.

The other leading Republican candidates — Mitt Romney, Rudolph Giuliani, Fred Thompson, Mike Huckabee — talk about energy issues almost exclusively in the context of freeing America from its dependence on foreign oil. All promote nuclear power, embrace energy efficiency and promise greener technologies. Only Mr. Huckabee has dared raise the idea of government regulation, embracing, at least theoretically, the idea of a mandatory cap on emissions. The rest prefer President Bush’s cost-free and demonstrably inadequate voluntary approach, which essentially asks industry to do what it can to reduce emissions.

So far, the Democratic candidates seem more engaged with the issue than some of their interrogators in the news media. In a recent study, the League of Conservation Voters found that as of two weeks ago, the five main political talk-show hosts had collectively asked 2,275 questions of candidates in both parties. Only 24 of the questions even touched on climate change.

One result is that even the candidates who urge comprehensive change have not been pressed on important questions of cost: How do they intend to pay for all the new efficiencies and technologies that will be necessary? And what kind of sacrifices will they be asking of people who almost certainly will have to pay more for their electric bills and their greener cars?

Addressing these questions will require more courage of the candidates than simply offering up broad new visions. The voters deserve an honest accounting and the candidates should be prepared to give it.
20 2008-01-01 Yet a senior member of the party, Khawaja Tariq Rahim, predicted that Mr. Zardari would be the kingmaker — consolidating his hold on the party by creating his own clique of advisers — and that some of those close to Ms. Bhutto would fade away.

During the days of shock and mourning since Ms. Bhutto’s death, the Pakistan Peoples Party has held together. It has settled the succession question quickly and announced its determination to run in elections next week, if they are not delayed.

While Mr. Bhutto Zardari brings the much-needed continuity and symbolism of the family name, it is his father who will be the critical figure over the next several years. But his reputation and history promise a far from smooth ride for the party, with some fearing a potential split.

During Ms. Bhutto’s two terms as prime minister, the couple was charged with embezzling $1.5 billion in government funds. Mr. Zardari became known as “Mr. Ten Percent” for the kickbacks he reportedly collected on government contracts. For the past three years, he has lived in a lavish apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

Ms. Bhutto and Mr. Zardari denied the accusations of corruption, saying that they were politically motivated and that none of the cases resulted in convictions. As part of a political agreement with Ms. Bhutto in October, President Pervez Musharraf signed a decree giving amnesty to all those with pending corruption cases, and the government withdrew from several cases lodged abroad against her and her husband.

Still, the accusations tested some of Ms. Bhutto’s most loyal political allies, much as the recent deal with Mr. Musharraf angered several senior legislators in the party. But her charisma and political vision kept the tensions from fracturing the party.

Critics question Mr. Zardari’s ability to follow in his wife’s footsteps. There is a sizable anti-Zardari contingent in the party, several politicians have acknowledged. “In the past he was not the least interested in governance, but in deals,” said Talat Masood, a political analyst. “The party should not be allowed to split,” he warned.

In Washington, Pakistan experts expressed mild puzzlement at the selection of Mr. Bhutto Zardari as party chairman.

“He’s the dauphin, and I don’t think anyone expected the son to be brought into this,” said a State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity in order to talk candidly about Pakistani politics. “The kid’s too young to play in this scene. But carrying on the Bhutto name and legacy has some value. He’s the symbolic leader but not the day-to-day manager of public affairs.”

The choice may indeed prove a clever move by Mr. Zardari to keep the party loyal to the memory of Ms. Bhutto and her father, the founder of the party, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. Bilawal Zardari added his mother’s maiden name, Bhutto, to his own after her death to make the point.

On Sunday night, Mr. Zardari explained his decision to make his son the party chairman. “In this country, symbols matter,” he said.

Mr. Bhutto Zardari has his mother’s good looks, and a quiet steadiness, those close to the family say. “He is very intelligent and very dedicated,” said Farooq Naik, a senator and lawyer to the family. “He would not talk a lot, but would absorb things and then talk,” he said.

Ms. Bhutto was clearly grooming her son for a political career at some point.

She brought him to an interview with reporters for The New York Times at the Algonquin Hotel in New York in August. During the hourlong interview, he listened attentively as his mother discussed her plans to return to Pakistan and her discussions with Bush administration officials about a possible power-sharing deal with Mr. Musharraf.

Dressed in casual, Western clothing, he remained quiet during most of the meeting and stayed out of the political discussion entirely.

He and his two sisters, Bakhtwar, 17, and Aseefa, 14, had been separated from their parents and their home country much of their lives because of Pakistan’s turbulent politics.

In her autobiography, “Daughter of the East,” Ms. Bhutto wrote of how after her first government was dismissed in 1990, her mother advised her to send her children away to her sister in London for their safety. There had already been a suspected kidnapping attempt of Bilawal in Islamabad in 1989, after Ms. Bhutto first became prime minister.

“It was heart-rending for me to be parted from Bilawal, who had turned two in September 1990, and Bakhtwar who was not yet one,” she wrote. By 1991, he was attending a pre-kindergarten in Queen’s Gate in London, and she decided to take her daughter back with her but leave her son.

“He was staring at me silently and stoically with the saddest brown eyes in the world as I took Bakhtwar with me and left him behind,” she wrote.
21 2008-01-01 But a Bowl Championship Series bowl with no career-defining farewell payoff? No thank you, and just for the record, Rodriguez seems to have no intention of honoring the $4 million buyout in his West Virginia contract, a university’s main disincentive in protecting itself from the generic program-jumping weasel.

Strange but true: Right about the time Michigan hit pay dirt with Rodriguez, its third choice after rejections by State’s Les Miles and Rutgers’s Greg Schiano, Bobby Petrino was turned into a piñata by the news media for running out on the Atlanta Falcons in the dog days of a disheartening season, back to the college game (to ) from whence he came.

The television talking heads jabbed their pencils at us like unsharpened swords, so furious were they at Petrino for his inglorious exit. But which was worse? Abandoning professionals paid millions of dollars to deal with a cold, transitory lifestyle or student-athletes who mistook Rodriguez for their leader?

By the time public discussion got around to Rodriguez, there were few angry outbursts, more rationale that he was, after all, leaving for a penthouse job and, what the heck, everybody does it.

Well, not everyone. Perhaps if Carr, 62, had felt less under siege, more appreciated for managing over the years to steer a successful and scandal-free program, he would have gone on being a proud Michigan lifer rather than graciously stepping aside.

This isn’t to say that Michigan didn’t have the right to want to beat more and believe that a more contemporary offense was the way to do it, or that Rodriguez was not entitled to pursue what anyone outside Morgantown would admit to be a better job after seven fine years at West Virginia. But the way it works in college sports is that people often rail against easy targets like Petrino while seldom do they celebrate virtues like continuity, dignity and academic integrity, unless it slaps them across the face.

Dishonor, bad; honor, nice, as long as you’re making an annual run at No. 1.

“The problem is that people only want to talk about the guy who won last week, not last year,” said Jerry Moore, who surely didn’t help Carr’s case when he took his Appalachian State team into Ann Arbor and shocked the Wolverines in the season opener.

In the ensuing pandemonium, Carr never found Moore on the field to shake his hand but called him in , N.C., the next day to say, “I didn’t want you to think I was a jerk.”

Who in college football ever thought that? Not Moore, who in a recent telephone interview was more than happy to ridicule the notion that Michigan had been in a state of disrepair, or in the hands of a man whom the sport had passed by.

“We heard the same thing here in 2004,” said Moore, 68, remembering how part of the nice, rural community he had charmed with many a playoff run turned against him. Then he junked the power-I formation for a single-back offense, turned a good Division I-AA program into a great one, and is on a current run of three consecutive national titles.

Even an old guy can change, Moore said, “If people can just have patience.” That is no doubt easier in Boone than in Ann Arbor, where it could be argued that Moore’s high-powered offense heralded the coming of Rodriguez’s.

Just so the Michigan faithful have been forewarned: your new model coach is not of the traditional Carr cloth, having already cut and run from the place he once called home.
22 2008-01-01 A TUMULTUOUS YEAR Stocks fell, ending a year that left some financial firms wounded but other parts of the market and the world with huge gains. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the year up 3.5 percent, slightly less than inflation. The...
23 2008-01-02 The deadline for the removal of colorful flower decals from the city taxis was midnight of the new year, but the art is still seen around New York. Next up for the floral paintings: New Orleans....
24 2008-01-02 The maven of S.&P. numbers, Howard Silverblatt, points out that today ranks No. 6 among the worst first days of a year for the S.&P. 500. The index fell by 1.4 percent. Every one of the previous five came when the economy was in a recession, or no...
25 2008-01-02 One last stop before the Republican candidate jetted off to Iowa for one last round of campaign visits there....
26 2008-01-02 Mitt Romney opened a news conference here attacking his main rival in New Hampshire, John McCain, instead of Mike Huckabee, his primary foe in the caucuses in Iowa tomorrow....
27 2008-01-02 At the New York Times, we're very proud of the intelligence of our readers, but we've never been able to figure out how to put their combined smarts to work. Until now. Looking around at content users had given us, I came up with a novel idea of h...
28 2008-01-02 A few minutes ago we hung some new wallpaper on the home page of T Online. You may recognize the actress Marion Cotillard from her appearance on the cover of T's Fashion & Beauty Winter 2007. She also appears in the film "La Vie en Rose" playing E...
29 2008-01-02 Wednesday was not just the first trading day of the year. It was also the first working day for Jeffrey Bewkes in his role as the new chief executive of media octopus Time Warner. Mr. Bewkes's move to the C.E.O. chair, recently occupied by Richard...
30 2008-01-02 The hedge fund industry remains on course to beat stock market returns in 2007, The Financial Times said, citing data from Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research. While The Financial Times noted that calculating hedge fund returns is difficult, the two...
31 2008-01-02 RAB Capital, the second largest shareholder of Northern Rock, the troubled British lender, has bought shares in the company for the second time in two days, raising its stake to 7.5 percent ahead of a January shareholder meeting, according to a fi...
32 2008-01-02 Warren E. Buffett is apparently in no mood to quit. At 77, Mr. Buffett, the country's most famous investor, is in the midst of his hottest streak in almost a decade. And he is capping his run with a flurry of deal-making. Late last week, Mr. Buffe...
33 2008-01-02 Magic Software Enterprises, a maker of tools for business software development and integration, said it sold its Advanced Answers on Demand subsidiary to a private equity firm, Fortissimo Capital, for $17 million. The agreement calls for payment i...
34 2008-01-02 A digital music start-up, SpiralFrog, said Friday that it had raised $2 million from private investors, bringing the total investment to date to $13 million as it expands its offerings of free, downloadable tracks. The New York-based company lets ...
35 2008-01-02 The Commodities Futures Trading Commission formally fined MF Global, a New York-listed futures broker spun off this year by the Man Group, for allegedly helping to conceal losses at a client's hedge fund, bringing the company's total legal bill fo...
36 2008-01-02 The Saigon Beer Alcohol Beverage Corporation, Vietnam's largest brewer, plans to raise at least $557 million by selling 20 percent of its shares in an initial public offering late this month. The I.P.O. was delayed from August 2007 because governm...
37 2008-01-02 Wall Street’s hopes for a bullish start to the year faded on Wednesday after oil prices surged to the symbolic $100 mark and manufacturing activity unexpectedly shrank in December, reviving fears of an impending recession.

Stock markets dropped sharply, with the Dow Jones industrial average sliding 220.86 points, or 1.7 percent, to 13,043.96. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 21.20 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,447.16, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 42.65 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,609.63.

The slide paused momentarily after minutes from the last Federal Reserve meeting showed central bankers were likely to cut interest rates again this month. Policy makers appeared concerned about a significant drop-off in growth in 2008 but said there was a low risk of inflation, opening the door for a fourth consecutive reduction to the overnight lending rate for banks.

Investors usually cheer an impending rate cut, but the Fed minutes only fueled anxiety that the economy will fall into a recession in the coming months. Fed officials said they expected consumer spending to weaken and overall growth to be “more sluggish than they had originally anticipated.” They said the economy was in a time of “heightened uncertainty.”

The Fed’s cloudy outlook further rattled a market already grappling with a batch of poor economic data. Oil prices leaped $3.64, to $99.62 a barrel, and at least one $100 trade was made on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The symbolic moment came after violence in Nigeria spurred concerns over supply levels and signaled the culmination of a months-long run-up in the price of crude oil, which was hovering around $50 a year ago.
38 2008-01-02 The government reopened what used to be the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall in central Taipei as Democracy Memorial Hall and unveiled an exhibition there titled “Goodbye Chiang Kai-shek.” It was the latest move in a campaign by President Chen Shui-bian and his party to diminish the legacy of Chiang Kai-shek, who fled to Taiwan when his rule on the mainland was overthrown by the Communists in 1949 and then ruled the island with an iron fist until his death in 1975. “We have turned a hall that was originally a temple at which to worship an authoritarian dictator into a place for Taiwan people to reflect, study and explore the freedoms of democracy and human rights,” Mr. Chen told 100 invited guests. The authorities have also renamed the Chiang Kai-shek International Airport and a park in Taipei and have removed scores of statues from public places.
39 2008-01-02 “Nothing against the Cotton Bowl,” Missouri tight end Martin Rucker said. “We just felt that we deserved, that we had earned to be in a B.C.S. game.”

Temple, a 5-foot-9, 200-pound senior, broke the 53-year-old Cotton Bowl record for rushing yards of 265 set by Rice’s Dicky Maegle in 1954. Three players, including Maegle, had shared the rushing touchdown mark of three. The last player to tie the mark was Syracuse’s Jim Brown, in 1957.

Aside from the records, Temple overshadowed the Arkansas junior tailback Darren McFadden, who likely played his last collegiate game. While Temple signed autographs on the T-shirts of children as Tigers fans chanted, “Tony! Tony! Tony!” McFadden solemnly walked off the field and was jeered.

McFadden, who finished second in the Heisman Trophy voting the past two years, rushed for 105 yards and Arkansas’s only score on 21 carries.

“No disrespect,” said Missouri quarterback Chase Daniel of Temple, who was named the game’s outstanding offensive player, “but I wouldn’t trade my back for anything,”

Temple’s 40-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter was his most impressive of the game and put him over 1,000 yards this season. He broke a tackle, eluded defenders with a spin move and then carried cornerback Jerell Norton into the end zone.

“Watching a running back do that against you is a hard thing to watch,” McFadden said. “You’ve got to give him full credit. He came ready to play and he did a heck of a job running the ball today.”

Arkansas routinely dropped 9 to 10 defenders into pass coverage in an attempt to slow Missouri’s high-powered passing game, so the Tigers turned to Temple. He opened the scoring with a 22-yard touchdown run with 2 minutes 29 seconds left in the first quarter.

On a six-play, 82-yard scoring drive in the second quarter, Temple carried four times for 66 yards, which included a 4-yard touchdown run. After each of his carries, Temple said he told his offensive line, “Let’s go, Let’s go.”

Daniel said he campaigned for more carries for Temple during the game, telling Pinkel, “Keep feeding Tony the ball.”

Temple gained 159 yards in the first half as Missouri took a 14-0 lead. Another 4-yard touchdown run by Temple gave the Tigers a 21-0 lead on their first possession of the second half.

Just over six minutes later, Missouri safety William Moore returned an interception 26 yards for a touchdown to extend the Tigers’ lead to 28-0 with 7:37 left in the third quarter.

McFadden scored a 3-yard touchdown later in the quarter before Missouri added a field goal and Temple’s final touchdown in the fourth quarter.

“Games like this, you can’t dream about,” Temple said. “Guys talk about being in the zone. I was in the zone today.”

The Arkansas interim coach Reggie Herring, the defensive coordinator who took over when Houston Nutt resigned in November but is unlikely to be retained by the new coach Bobby Petrino, said Temple was “running on air” against the Razorbacks.

“It was a bad day defensively,” Herring said. “We never played the run that poorly.”

Asked if he had played his last college game, McFadden sidestepped the question. “That’s something that I’m going to sit down with my parents with and decide here in a little while,” he said.
40 2008-01-02 GREENBURGH, N.Y. — Knicks fans may see their splintered team in full Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden. Then again, maybe they won’t. From game to game, the makeup of the team has become anybody’s guess.

The Knicks (8-21) listed Jamal Crawford as probable Tuesday, but Crawford said he was definite for the game against Sacramento. Stephon Marbury is questionable, but reporters still cannot ask him any questions. And Coach Isiah Thomas again said he would not know his starting lineup until game day, as has become the norm.

After trying and failing to inspire his team via coddling and vitriol this season, Thomas, in his latest attempt to right the Knicks’ sinking ship, has been shuffling the lineup. Eight different players have started in the past three games.

“Hopefully you can rattle enough emotions or stir up enough anger that you get a fire lit,” Thomas said. “And if you get a fire lit, you blow a lot of air on it to try to keep it going.”

Crawford, who has a bruised right hand, sat out Sunday’s 100-83 loss to Chicago. He has been limited in practice this week and has worn a padded glove, which he may wear Wednesday. He practiced in full on Tuesday.
41 2008-01-02 Senator John McCain’s presidential campaign introduced a new Web video on Tuesday that portrays his Republican rival Mitt Romney as dismissive of the need for foreign policy experience in a dangerous world, where war and terrorism continue to pose threats to American security.

ON THE SCREEN The spot opens dramatically with video of a bomb blast on an undisclosed city street. The scenes are taken from what seems to be an Arabic news channel, because writing at the bottom of the screen is in Arabic. After the explosion, there is a cut to the aftermath. Sirens wail amid a cacophony of voices and cries. A man, possibly dead, is dragged from the carnage by several other men.

It then cuts to what appears to be a terrorist training camp. Masked men parade their weapons, proudly displaying some kind of Islamic text as they hold machine guns in the air. Then it cuts to an image of Mitt Romney with the words “President doesn’t need foreign policy experience” on the screen. The last image is of Mr. McCain looking pensively into the distance.

SCRIPT There are few words in the spot. After the graphic images, a narrator says simply: “Mitt Romney says the next president doesn’t need foreign policy experience.”

ACCURACY Mr. Romney has been pressed in recent days about his foreign policy credentials given the situation in Pakistan. In his own defense, he has tried to distinguish between direct foreign policy experience and matters of judgment.

The advertisement uses Mr. Romney’s words to imply that he does not think foreign policy is important, which is not what he was saying. But he did say there was no need for a president to be an “expert” on foreign affairs. The full quotation from the interview cited in the spot is as follows:

“Well, if we want somebody who has a lot of experience in foreign policy, we can simply go to the State Department and pluck out one of the tens of thousands of people who work there. They, of course, have been doing foreign policy all their careers. But that’s not how we choose a president. A president is not a foreign policy expert.”

THE BUZZ The spot is incredibly graphic and blunt, which is perhaps why it is not being shown on television. Even though it takes Mr. Romney’s own words to create an impression he did not intend, the commercial serves a larger point: redirecting the debate to foreign policy experience.

A discussion over who has more national security credentials is not the ground on which Mr. Romney is most secure, particularly given Mr. McCain’s intimate involvement in Iraq and in broader foreign affairs. The Romney campaign has yet to respond in a coordinated way, but going into the final days before the Iowa and New Hampshire voting, a discussion about world affairs is certainly where Mr. McCain would like the focus to be, as opposed to, say, immigration, where he is considered vulnerable.
42 2008-01-02 Leonard B. Meyer, a pioneering musicologist whose 1956 book, “Emotion and Meaning in Music,” remains one of the most significant scholarly works in the field of music cognition, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89.

His death was confirmed by his daughter Carlin Meyer.

“Emotion and Meaning in Music,” adapted from his doctoral dissertation at the University of Chicago, placed Mr. Meyer at the forefront of the emerging field that connects music theory and aesthetics to psychology and neuroscience. In the book, considered his most important, Mr. Meyer sought links between emotional responses and musical patterns, especially those in which an expectation is built up and then delayed or diverted — for example, the “deceptive cadence,” a chord progression figuring prominently in Mozart’s compositions in which the dominant chord (based on the fifth note of the scale in question) resolves in an unexpected way rather than returning to the key’s “home” chord, or tonic.

Mr. Meyer was among the first scholars to explore the relationship between game theory and music composition, and suggested that the value of a musical work was in direct correlation to how well the complexity of the work engaged the listener. For instance, works in which the audience’s every expectation was met were found to be ultimately unsatisfying. So, too, were works in which no expectations were met.

Fifty years later, “Emotion and Meaning in Music” remains in print and has sold more than 60,000 copies. Mr. Meyer expanded on his early ideas in several books, including “The Rhythmic Structure of Music” (1960), with Grosvenor Cooper; “Music, the Arts and Ideas: Patterns and Predictions in 20th-Century Culture” (1967); “Explaining Music: Essays and Explanations” (1973); “Style and Music: Theory, History and Ideology” (1989), in which he traced a cognitive history of 19th-century music; and “Spheres of Music: A Gathering of Essays” (2000).

Born in New York City and reared nearby in Westchester County, Mr. Meyer learned Shakespeare sonnets from his father at a young age and honed a sense of theatricality through family readings of plays by George Bernard Shaw and Oscar Wilde. He studied at Bard College before enlisting in the Army in World War II, during which he earned a Bronze Star for service in Normandy and at the Battle of the Bulge.

After the war, he transferred to Columbia University, where he received a bachelor’s in philosophy and a master’s in music. While at Columbia, he studied composition with Stefan Wolpe, who, as Mr. Meyer liked to recount, told him he could be “the Gossec of your era” — referring to a famously minor 18th-century Belgian composer — and later with Otto Luening and Aaron Copland. It was Copland, Mr. Meyer said, who, spying his former student in a deli one day, announced that there might be a job at the University of Chicago.
43 2008-01-02 What is to become of the $1.5 billion 33-acre mixed-use development plan remains unclear. As it was proposed, the Bridges would have created a retail destination covering 350,000 to 450,000 square feet; a Westin, the city’s first new full-service hotel in decades; and more than 1,000 housing units, as well as a riverfront promenade, a marina and a public attraction called Mythica, a kind of theme park devoted to exploring the myths of cultures from around the world.

The failure of the project was not for a lack of trying. Mr. Trooien waged a marketing campaign, including weekly full-page newspaper advertisements, lasting years and said he had spent nearly $20 million on planning and creating models of the proposed developments. “I’ve spent $2 million worth on hotel drawings alone,” Mr. Trooien said.

But many people here say the real problem was not Mr. Trooien’s marketing of the Bridges but the plan itself. He failed to acknowledge, critics say, that community leaders long ago decided that the riverfront should not compete with downtown for large-scale development or retailing nor block views of the river.

Mayor Chris Coleman was the councilman representing this part of St. Paul 10 years ago when the city undertook a three-year planning process to formulate principles that would guide development. The guidelines envisioned a lower-density midrise development on the south side of the Mississippi, so the expansive views of the river and of distant residential neighborhoods would not be blocked.

The planning effort resulted in the formation of the St. Paul Riverfront Development Corporation, a private nonprofit agency that oversees the use of the framework. “We created a ‘development’ framework, not a ‘stop development’ framework,” said Patrick Seeb, executive director of the development corporation. “But there are rules that a lot of people were involved in creating, that the community bought into, including developers who don’t want to see downtown jump the river.”

Jumping the river with a large-scale project was not the only point of contention. Because downtown St. Paul sits on a bluff and the development site is in a flood plain (in fact, the bridges that span the river slope downward), the Bridges proposal called for a large parking deck to raise the grade level.

Mr. Trooien and his master planner, Roland Aberg of Hart Howerton, a San Francisco-based architecture and planning firm, envisioned raising the development 20 feet above current ground level. They argue that this did not so much block views as “frame” the river.

But others saw it as compromising a distinctive aspect of St. Paul: the grassy vistas from downtown. What’s more, entering the site — which could be done only by car, as there is no mass transit — would require ascending a steep incline.

“By building a parking deck and creating this faux urbanism up in the air on the wrong side of the river from where all the infrastructure is, it made every mistake that we’ve come to learn over the last 30 years,” said Thomas Fisher, dean of the College of Design at the University of Minnesota. “It doesn’t connect to existing streets or the rest of the fabric of the city.” Objections to the project focused not only on the size, he said, but also on its placement. “This would work fine on the other side of the river,” he said.

Meanwhile, the economics of the project caused concern among City Council members. Not only was Mr. Trooien asking for substantial tax deferments, but the entire project was to be built all at the same time, raising concerns about whether a city with a population of 300,000 could absorb it at once.

Still, Mr. Aberg and Mr. Trooien maintain that it could not easily have been phased in, and that the economics of a smaller scale project just do not work on the site. Although supported by the building trades unions and the St. Paul Area Chamber of Commerce, the project was doomed, according to Tim Murnane, senior vice president of Opus, a national real estate development company headquartered in Minneapolis. “Here was situation where the vision of the city and the vision that Jerry had were different, and you add in other market conditions and it was going to fail,” Mr. Murnane said. “The city might have done Jerry a favor.”
44 2008-01-02 Mr. Cook, who teaches American literature at the University of Missouri, St. Louis, examines these and other paradoxes with a discerning eye. He is conscientious and thoroughgoing. But as a biographer, he faces some daunting obstacles, not all of them surmountable.

In the first place, Kazin skimmed the cream. His autobiographical trilogy, “A Walker in the City,” “Starting Out in the ’30s” and “New York Jew,” constitutes a memorable, impassioned chronicle of his own life and times. Mr. Cook relies heavily on these works, but he also introduces, with a deft hand, hundreds of illuminating passages from Kazin’s unpublished journals to round out the picture, identify pseudonymous figures and correct the record, which Kazin, by his own admission, shaped for artistic purposes.

Mr. Cook can do little about the life itself, however. Once Kazin scored a triumph with “On Native Grounds,” he embarked on a decades-long odyssey of book reviews, grants, temporary teaching appointments, lectures, academic conferences and, in later years, accolades. Mr. Cook scrupulously records it all, leaving the reader to contend with many sentences of this sort: “In the fall, he arranged with Houghton Mifflin to write an introduction to the Riverside edition of ‘Moby-Dick.’”

In Mr. Cook’s hands Kazin emerges as an arresting hybrid, a somewhat old-fashioned man of letters, whose critical models were Van Wyck Brooks and Edmund Wilson, with the fervent heart of a first-generation proletarian Jew enraptured and infuriated by America.

The 1930s, a decade of radical politics and economic misery, made him and held him to the last. By temperament and social circumstances, Kazin gravitated to the great realists who set out to take the measure of industrial America in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, writers like Theodore Dreiser and Frank Norris. To a great extent, Mr. Cook argues, literary time, for Kazin, stopped with the rise of fascism, the collapse of the socialist dream and the onset of World War II.

Throughout the 1950s Kazin felt himself adrift, a self-described Emersonian, aflame with “humanistic moral passion,” confronting the inward-looking, alienated fiction of the cold war and the Beat Generation. He disliked experimental writing. He hated the New Criticism and the theory-driven bent of literary studies in the academy. His best writing would be inspired by his own life, and by the classic American writers who had captured his imagination in his youth.

Mr. Cook suffers from excessive politeness. He bends over so far to be fair that you can almost feel the sinews straining. Kazin was not, by most accounts, a pleasant person. He could be self-absorbed, rude, condescending and humorless.

“I do take myself seriously as a writer and do feel important to myself and other people,” he once said in an interview. Emotionally demanding, a serial philanderer, he made life more than difficult for his first three wives. On this score Mr. Cook really does take his subject to task. Bravo.

Kazin shrank from political battle. Mr. Cook, you feel, disapproves. He becomes enthusiastic when Kazin, uncharacteristically, enters the lists against the neoconservatives associated with Commentary and The New Criterion during the Reagan years and shows himself a fighting liberal. More than 20 years on, however, these face-offs seem less like the Lincoln-Douglas debates than like the petty squabbling of a small population of New York intellectuals.

As a literary critic, Kazin remained true to himself and his moment. This was his strength and his weakness. Everything, for him, was personal. A critic who could lash out at bedroom wallpaper for being sickening “with its irrelevance,” he engaged writers with an almost audacious presumption, feeling the contours of their psyches and clutching them in an intimate, passionate embrace.
45 2008-01-02 WÜSTHOF-TRIDENT:If your roots are in Europe, yourgrandmother probably had a meat cleaver much like this, the Classic. It’s made in Germany with a stain-resistant high-carbon steel blade in a triple-riveted composition handle. I like thethickness of the 6-inch blade, especially the spine (back) side,which can be struck with a malletor used to pound meat — carefully— to tenderize it. $78.95 at Broadway Panhandler, (212) 966-3434 or (866) 266-5927, 65 East Eighth Street(Broadway), broadwaypanhandler.com; $74.98 at Zabar’s, (212) 496-1234 or(800) 697-6301, 2245 Broadway (80th Street), zabars.com.

KERSHAW SHUN: For its sheer beauty and versatility I loved this meat cleaver, designed by Ken Onion for KershawShun, a division of the Japanese company Kai. The ergonomically designed handlefeels comfortable, and the 7-inch blade hasmore of a curve than most cleavers, lettingyou rock it like a chef’s knife when chopping.Its heft and balance allow for a satisfying swing, but its compact shape makes it easy to maneuver. $299.95 at Williams-Sonoma, (877) 812-6235, williams-sonoma.com.

GLOBAL: Made in Japan, this model has a 6-inch blade that is entirely stainless steel, and a hollow handle, so it feels comfortably hefty without excessive weight. Its high-tech design has no rivets or seams to trap food, and distinctive indentations in the handle ensure a good grip. It also has a feature that the others don’t: a wide flattened handle end (called a rear bolster) with a slight curve, which can be used to crush spices or herbs. $112.98 at Zabar’s; $118 at Broadway Panhandler.

CHINESE CLEAVERS: Chinese cleavers are not for whacking through anything hard or tough, but are rather for slicing anddicing, and they are designed to be compact and maneuverable. Sharpened to a more acute angle (10 to 16 degrees, in contrast to 17 to 25 degrees on European knives), their thin edge gets heft from the width of the blade and balance from the handle. The back of the blade can pound and tenderize meats. All the cleavers here are made of high-carbon stainless steel,which has a very sharp, long-lasting edge and resists rust. Also, Chef’s Choice has an electric diamond sharpener for Asianknives, Model 315S, for a little less than $100. In less than a minute it put an edge like new on a well-worn Chinese cleaver.

KERSHAW SHUN: This was my favorite Chinese cleaver. With a ripple-patterned blade, an extremely sharp edge and a handle of Pakkawood (a resin and hardwood fusion), it is handsome and functional. The blade is slightly wider and morerounded than those of the German knives. The smooth handle felt comfortable,and its flat metal bolster can crush peppercornsor lemon grass stalks. $171.95 plus shipping at cooking.com, (800) 663-8810; $171.95 including shipping at cutleryandmore.com (800) 650-9866; $179.99 including shipping at Fantes, fantes.com, (800) 443-2683.

HENCKELS TWIN SIGNATURE: While Japanese companies are making European-style knives, European companies are offering Asian cleavers. This German-made one has a long ergonomically designed handle. $44.99 with free shipping at amazon.com; $44.95 plus shipping at cutleryandmore.com.

WÜSTHOF-TRIDENT: Another German knife, this “gourmet Chinese cleaver” has a traditional short, straight handle. Wüsthof also makes a “gourmet heavy Chinese cleaver” for cutting through light poultry bones and cartilage and fish bones. The gourmet cleaver is $59.95 at Broadway Panhandler, (212) 966-3434 or (866) 266-5927, 65 East Eighth Street (Broadway), broadwaypanhandler.com; $59.98 at Zabar’s, (212) 496-1234 or (800) 697-6301, 2245 Broadway (80th Street), zabars.com. The gourmet heavy cleaver is $75.95 at Broadway Panhandler, $74.98 at Zabar’s.

JAPANESE CLEAVERS: Two types of Japanese knives are sometimes called cleavers. The usuba is a rectangular square-ended knife for slicing fruits and vegetables; it is traditionally made with a single-beveled edge ground to a razor-sharp 16-degree angle and is available in right or left-handed versions. The nakiri is a usuba with a double-bevelededge, for either hand. When these knives have a downward curve at the top of the blunt edge and a bit of a point at the very tip of the cutting edge they are called kamagata. Ideal for close quarters, the six-inch long blunt-tipped blades are safer than pointed knives. Unlike European chef’s knives, which have a curved blade for rocking against a cutting surface, usuba and nakiri have straight cutting edges so sharp you can slice vegetables with just the lightest of touches. More than any other knife, they depend on a razor edge.

KYOCERA: The ceramic nakiri knife has a double-beveled edge that is very sharp, but because the white ceramic blade is inflexible and brittle, care must be taken not to twist it, drop it or chip the cutting edge. The knife is light, which some may prefer, but I like to have a little more weight to bear down while slicing. $99.98 at Zabar’s, (212) 496-1234 or (800) 697-6301, 2245 Broadway (80th Street), zabars.com; $89.95 plus shipping at amazon.com; $89.95 plus shipping at mysimon.com.

GLOBAL: The vegetable knife has a slightly extended tip useful for carving decorative details. It has a double-beveled 7-inch granton blade — elongated dimples extend from the edge, keeping food from sticking to it. $84.98 at Zabar’s; $93 atBroadway Panhandler, (212) 966-3434 or (866) 266-5927, 65 East Eighth Street (Broadway), broadwaypanhandler.com.

SAKON: The Damascus nakiri was my favorite of all the cleavers I tested. A double-beveled beauty with a delicate watery pattern on the blade, a buffalo horn ferrule and an ebony handle, it produced gossamer slices of tomato, shreds of chicken and beef, and paper-thin slices of apple. $209.95 plus shipping at the Epicurean Edge, (425) 889-5980, epicedge.com.

KUMAGOROThe single-beveled (left-handed) kamagata usuba I tested was made of blue-carbon steel forge-welded to wrought iron, with a natural colored ho wood handle. It has a pointed tip useful for fine carving. While not as attractive as some others, it felt good in the hand. $134.95 plus shipping at epicedge.com.
46 2008-01-02 WEINSTOCK--David. Born in Poland in 1924; passed away on January 2, 2007, in NYC. David immigrated to the United States after the War to begin Crucible, a business for the design and manufacturer of furniture, for 50 years catering to the design/a...
47 2008-01-02 A REVERSAL ON WALL STREET      In most years on Wall Street, brokers make  money even when their customers suffer. But 2007 was not one of those years. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose a respectable 3.5 percent, but big financial firms h...
48 2008-01-03 Richard Arens and the $100 barrel of oil....
49 2008-01-03 Crunch time at the World Junior Championship...
50 2008-01-03 A former Goldman Sachs associate accused of masterminding one of the most unusual insider-trading conspiracies in recent memory, one that reaped about $6.7 million, was sentenced Thursday to nearly five years in prison. Eugene Plotkin, 28, a Harva...
51 2008-01-03 Tibetan Arms and Armor at the Met
52 2008-01-03 One thing I like about Patrick Byrne, the chief executive of Overstock.com, is his willingness to engage in plain talk. (There are a few things I don't much like, including his assumption of a conspiracy involving everyone who criticizes his compa...
53 2008-01-03 Several members of our Open Caucus group have been intently following the goings-on in Iowa and New Hampshire, weighing their choices and also watching as the larger-state primaries loom closer to their homes. We asked them to talk about their lat...
54 2008-01-03 The United Kingdom could soon hear the tune - familiar to "Law & Order" fans - of "dun dun." NBC Universal is close to signing a pact with a British production company to create "Law & Order: London" for ITV. Stephen Garrett, the managing director...
55 2008-01-03 Shares of Marsh & McLennan rose Thursday, extending the previous day's gains, following a report that a key executive at its insurance brokerage unit had resigned and that a reorganization of the group was imminent. Reuters said Thursday that Phil...
56 2008-01-03 The landscape for mergers and buyouts shifted drastically last summer, but one theme remained constant in 2007: If there was a big deal, Goldman Sachs was probably involved. As in previous years, the firm was the top adviser on mergers as measured...
57 2008-01-03 If it weren't so ridiculous, you'd almost have to admire the quixotic, archaic, almost misanthropic way that college football organizes its postseason, which, after all, is theoretically the most exciting portion of its schedule," Will Leitch writ...
58 2008-01-03 In this lesson, students consult The Times to conduct thorough inquiries into the 2008 presidential elections that can be revisited throughout the election period....
59 2008-01-03 The following is a transcript of Senator John McCain's address to supporters after the Iowa Caucuses, as provided by Congressional Quarterly via The Associated Press.

SENATOR JOHN MCCAIN: Thank you very much. Thank you. I’d like to say that I just left a voice message, and I’m sure I’ll talk to him later on tonight to congratulate Governor Huckabee for his victory.

He’s run a very good, strong, positive campaign. And I think he can be very proud of it. I’m very proud of our campaign in Iowa. As we know, because of our financials, we didn’t run any ads, and we were predicted to finish very badly. I’m proud of the team that we had on the ground and the work that we did. And I’m glad we were out there working hard.

I think that the lesson of this election in Iowa is that, one, you can’t buy an election in Iowa; and, two, that negative campaigns don’t work. They don’t work there, and they don’t work here in New Hampshire. They’re not going to work.

Some time tomorrow, we will have our 100th town hallmeeting here in the state of New Hampshire. We just had a great one tonight with my friend, Joe Lieberman.

We can feel the momentum that -- the same kind of momentum we felt in 2000. I’m very confident with a strong positive finish here that we’re going to win here in New Hampshire and go on to Michigan and South Carolina.
60 2008-01-03 Netflix could be a beneficiary of the writers' strike, as TV viewers fill their empty lives with DVDs....
61 2008-01-03 Letterman and Leno strut back onto the airwaves, just in time for the real election year. We haven't found anyone to fill their shoes, uh, mouths, in the meantime....
62 2008-01-03 Arinze Onuaku scored a career-high 23 points and pulled down 12 rebounds, Donte’ Greene added 22 points, and host Syracuse held off St. John’s, 76-70, in the Big East Conference opener for both teams Wednesday night.

It was the fifth straight victory for Syracuse (11-3) and the third loss in four games for St. John’s (6-6).

Jonny Flynn had 14 points and 7 assists, and Paul Harris had 8 points and 7 assists for the Orange, which shot 47.4 percent (27 for 57) and held St. John’s to 38.7 percent (24 for 62). The freshman guard Scoop Jardine, in his fourth start in place of the injured Eric Devendorf, had 7 points, 4 assists and 4 steals. The freshman forward Justin Burrell had 21 points and 12 rebounds to lead St. John’s.

NORTH CAROLINA 90, KENT ST. 61 Tyler Hansbrough scored 25 points to lead No. 1 North Carolina to a victory at home. The Tar Heels (14-0) matched their longest winning streak under Coach Roy Williams — whose 2004-5 team won 14 straight games on its way to the university’s last national title. Haminn Quaintance scored 20 points for Kent State (10-3).

INDIANA 79, IOWA 76 The freshman Eric Gordon scored 25 points, and No. 11 Indiana held off a furious late rally by host Iowa in the Big Ten opener for both teams. D. J. White added 16 points and 15 rebounds for the Hoosiers (12-1). The Hawkeyes (7-7) were missing two starters.
63 2008-01-03 The German industrial conglomerate Siemens has agreed to buy Morgan Construction of Worcester, Mass., a provider of rolling-mill products used in the metals industry, the two companies said. Siemens said Morgan Construction had annual sales of $180 million and about 1,100 employees in the United States, China, India, Britain and Brazil and would strengthen Siemens’s position in metals technologies. Financial details were not disclosed.
64 2008-01-03 The Boeing Company said that the Brazilian airline GOL Linhas Aéreas had completed an order for an additional 40 Boeing 737 passenger airplanes with a median list value of $3 billion. Boeing said GOL, the parent company of the low-cost airlines GOL Transportes Aéreos and VRG Linhas Aéreas, also confirmed purchase rights for 40 additional 737 aircraft. GOL said last month that it had exercised firm orders for 34 Boeing 737-800 aircraft.
65 2008-01-03 I.B.M. bought an Israeli data-storage provider, XIV, to meet growing demand for digital archiving. Financial terms were not disclosed. I.B.M., based in Armonk, N.Y., has bought about two dozen data-management companies since 2001 to bolster sales of software for storing, gaining access to and analyzing data. XIV, which is privately held, was founded in 2002 by five graduates of Talpiot, an Israeli military technology training program. The company, based in Tel Aviv, has about 50 employees.
66 2008-01-03 Nokia Siemens Networks, a maker of wireless networks, agreed to buy Apertio for about 140 million euros ($206 million) to expand its subscriber data management services. Apertio has 237 employees and had sales of about 28 million euros in 2007, Nokia Siemens said. Nokia Siemens, which is a joint venture of Nokia and Siemens and is based in Espoo, Finland, expects the acquisition to close in the first quarter of this year. Apertio’s products are used by wireless and fixed phone operators. Apertio, based in Bristol, England, has operations in Continental Europe, Asia and the United States.
67 2008-01-03 Beijing will deploy about 80 sniffer dogs to patrol the subway system for fireworks and firecrackers before the Chinese New Year next month, the official Xinhua news agency reported. It quoted a policeman who said the patrol would be “good practice” for the dogs before the Olympic Games this summer.
68 2008-01-03 Attorney General Jim Hood, left, a Democrat, filed a Circuit Court complaint challenging the Nov. 4 date set by Gov. Haley Barbour, a Republican, to elect a successor to Senator Trent Lott. Mr. Barbour said he followed state law in scheduling the election for the same date as this year’s general election. Mr. Hood said that the law required a special election much sooner and that to wait until November “denies voters their constitutional and statutory right to vote.” On Monday, Mr. Barbour appointed Representative Roger Wicker to replace Mr. Lott, who resigned Dec. 18. Mississippi law states that after receiving notice of a Senate vacancy, the governor has 10 days to announce an election. It must be held within 90 days of the announcement, unless the vacancy occurs during a year when “there shall be held a general state or Congressional election.”
69 2008-01-03 Richt made a telling point before the Sugar Bowl. He said that if Oklahoma had started the season as the No. 1 team in the country, it probably would be playing for the national title instead of Louisiana State. Each team lost two games during the season, which magnifies how important perception is in this Bowl Championship Series era of college football.

That was why Richt stressed to his team the importance of finishing strong for the carryover to the next season.

“You want to be ranked as high as you can,” Richt said. “You want to give yourself a chance.”

Hawaii Coach June Jones certainly did not need much convincing of the Bulldogs’ potential as national title contenders next season. Jones’s team opened against Southern California three seasons ago in the midst of its Matt Leinart and Reggie Bush run of dominance.

He said that it was hard to compare the two teams, but he made a point about the speed of the Bulldogs’ defense that will surely be brought up time after time before next season.

“U.S.C. had a lot of talent,” Jones said. “I don’t know that they had as much team speed on defense as this team has. But they had some guys that certainly were.”

Watching from home before traveling down to the title game, the performance of Georgia was not lost on Ohio State Coach Jim Tressel.

“Georgia, they were something last night,” said Tressel, who hands out compliments judiciously. He later added that the Bulldogs “certainly showed that they’re one of the top teams in the country.”

The most dominant player in the Sugar Bowl was Georgia defensive end Marcus Howard, who had three sacks, forced two fumbles and generally dominated. Howard’s eligibility has expired, but the next-best-looking Georgia player returns.

That would be Moreno, a tailback from Belford, N.J., who ran for 61 yards on nine carries. Moreno did not start the game; he played behind the senior Thomas Brown, who had 73 yards on 19 carries. But it was obvious who was the best tailback on the field.

Moreno said that when he was deciding where to go to college, he picked Georgia over Florida, and that he never gave Rutgers a long look. Richt said he considered beating out Florida for Moreno a huge recruiting victory.

Jones said of Moreno: “He’s a north-south runner and very strong. He’s going to make a giant step next year.”

Jones was liberal in his compliments of Georgia, but he hinted at what would be the biggest obstacle in its competing for the national title. Georgia quarterback Matthew Stafford appeared erratic and threw without polish or touch. He finished the game 14 of 23 for 175 yards and a touchdown, but he appeared to make bad reads and not have a good feel for the game.

Jones, a quarterback guru, did not criticize Stafford but said that he would be the key to the Bulldogs’ season in 2008.

“They definitely have a chance to contend,” Jones said. “A lot of it has how fast their quarterback comes along.”

A bowl victory as thorough as Georgia’s on Tuesday means that an off-season of optimism is inevitable. And while Richt spoke of the difficulty of playing in the Southeastern Conference, he welcomed the challenges with starting at the top.

“To think that you can predict being in contention at the end is pretty brash,” Richt said. “And I’m not going to do that. But I do think that we’re going to have a more veteran team than we’ve had in a while, and I think we’ll have some good depth, and I think we’ll have a chance to make a run at it.”
70 2008-01-03 “We’re going to see sharply higher prices this spring; we’re going to see sharply higher heating oil and diesel prices immediately,” said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. But, he added, “if I had to bet what we would see first, $115 oil or $85 oil, I’d bet $85.”

Gasoline prices have so far lagged behind the rise in the price of oil, currently at a nationwide average of $3.05 a gallon for regular grade, according to AAA, the automobile club. That is below the peak in May of $3.23 a gallon, but 73 cents higher than at this time a year ago.

The immediate impetus for Wednesday’s rise in oil prices appeared to arise from an attack by rebels in the Nigerian oil center of Port Harcourt and rough weather in the Gulf of Mexico that had slowed Mexican oil exports.

The price of oil has been flirting with $100 for months, and there has been added price pressure in recent weeks because of turbulence in after the assassination of former Prime Minister .

There is no shortage of explanations for the escalation of oil prices by about 60 percent over the last year. The price of a barrel was below $25 as recently as 2003 and, almost unimaginably, below $11 in 1998, a time when there was a glut in the world markets.

Booming economies in recent years have led to more consumption of oil-derived products like gasoline, jet fuel and diesel. Political tensions in countries like , and have threatened world supplies, while important fields in , the United States and other countries are aging and producing less.

Big oil companies, though flush with cash from record profits, are having trouble finding promising new fields to bolster supplies. Newly found fields in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico and off the coast of will take years to develop.

The Bush administration has further tightened supplies by announcing that it would add to the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve in the coming weeks, a move that some leading Democrats have urged President Bush to suspend in order to ease the tight oil market.

Investors and hedge funds have contributed to the run-up. Oil, like other commodities, has become a perceived safe haven for traders who are skittish about the weakening dollar and fallout from the tight credit market in the United States.

“There is a momentum for higher prices because of the lack of cushions and because surprises are everyday events,” said a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation, Larry Goldstein. “When anything goes wrong now, it gets immediately priced in not by pennies, nickels or dimes but by dollars.”

Oil is now within reach of its inflation-adjusted high, reached in April 1980 in the aftermath of the Iranian revolution when oil prices jumped to the equivalent of $102.81 in today’s dollar. The brief stab at $100 on Wednesday broke the previous intraday trading record of $99.29, reached on Nov. 21. The price at the end of the day, $99.62, surpassed the record close of $98.18, set on Nov. 23.

Other commodities also rose, spurring more speculation that inflation could be a problem this year. Spot gold climbed over $860 an ounce, and soybeans, wheat, platinum, heating oil and natural gas soared.

Unlike the oil shocks of the 1970s and 1980s, the current spike in oil prices has not caused a recession or blunted consumer spending in a major way so far. But it has widened the trade deficit and raised concerns about inflation at a time when a growing number of economists fear a recession may be coming.

Mr. Gheit of Oppenheimer said that if there was a recession “oil prices will definitely go down because demand will go down, and the speculators will take a dip as a leading indicator and they will jump first, and that will cause a meltdown.”

Of the trader who sent oil to $100 in New York on Wednesday, Mr. Gheit added, “He’s probably going to frame the ticket and sell it on for $100,000.”
71 2008-01-03 “It’s a Mall World” plays out, of course, in a mall, where six youthful characters, including one played by Mr. Ventimiglia, confront real-life situations (“Harper’s got 2 tickets to Coldplay. And everybody wants in on the action.”). One character in the soap opera just happens to work at an American Eagle store.

Ms. Savitt credited the MTV showings of “It’s a Mall World” with increasing traffic on the company’s Web site by more than 20 percent on the nights they were shown. She said more than 75 percent of those who watched also made a purchase. Those figures led the company to seek out more content.

Once again, American Eagle approached Mr. Ventimiglia, who runs an independent production company in Los Angeles called Divide Pictures, and asked him to produce a round of Web shorts. His latest effort, called “Winter Tales,” came out on Dec. 4 and practically ignored American Eagle’s name and products.

The 12 episodes of “Mall World” showed real actors whose clothes were easily recognizable as coming from the chain’s signature laid-back lines, but the Claymation characters in the five episodes of “Winter Tales” wore generic casual clothing. In the new series, the only item that was identifiable as an American Eagle product was a striped scarf worn by the character Tiny Tim in an episode called “Devil’s Peak.”

Mr. Ventimiglia drew on some big names from his e-Rolodex for the 3- to 5-minute shorts. The “Devil’s Peak” episode is narrated by Pete Wentz of the popular band Fall Out Boy; another episode features the voice of Kristen Bell, whom many American Eagle customers will know as a star of “Heroes,” “Gossip Girl” and “Veronica Mars.”

“‘Winter Tales’ is all about association,” Mr. Ventimiglia said. “We’re trying to tell a story and associate the great feeling that you get from that with American Eagle.”

Ms. Savitt said that the goal of the second series had been to tell a story with “irreverence and wit.” She declined to say how “Winter Tales” had fared or whether the series, which lacked the MTV tie-in, had successfully increased apparel sales. Jani Strand, an American Eagle spokeswoman, said that “Winter Tales” had been as successful as “Mall World.”

As pure entertainment, the new series does not seem to have caught fire, judging from traffic on YouTube. One episode, “Home for the Holidays,” has been viewed nearly 25,000 times, but others have drawn far less traffic; one called “Mistletoe” had about 1,900 views on Wednesday. (For comparison’s sake, a wildly popular viral video can garner millions of views in a matter of weeks, even if its origins were as advertising.)

Ms. Savitt said that there had been “hundreds of thousands of views” of “Winter Tales” on the many sites to which it had been posted, and that the company expected it would one day gain as many impressions as “Mall World,” which has had 150 million impressions. “Winter Tales” will remain on the site indefinitely, Ms. Savitt said, and American Eagle has another original-content project to be released around spring break.

Other consumer brands, including some that do not court a youth demographic, have been experimenting, too, releasing short episodes that tell a story while soft-peddling their brands. Last fall, Procter & Gamble promoted Tide detergent with 10 three-minute episodes, called “Crescent Heights,” where the product was seen but was not the center of the series.

Like “Crescent Heights,” “Winter Tales” can be seen on cellphones. Subscribers to Virgin Mobile’s opt-in mobile advertising program called Sugar Mama have access to the episodes.

“We’re seeing a real rise in viral video marketing,” said Kelly O’Keefe, a professor of brand management at Virginia Commonwealth University. “It’s definitely a more indirect advertising approach.” The risk, he said, is “when you do something that’s so far away from the direct brand connection.”

James A. Taylor, vice chairman of Harrison Group, a marketing strategy consultancy, said that indirect media approaches “have enormous resonance with kids” and that American Eagle was wise to court young trendsetters.

The Harrison Group used an independent company to gauge shopping preferences of those age 13 to 18. The 1,277 people who responded to an online poll in September and October ranked American Eagle as the third most popular shopping destination. According to the survey, only Foot Locker and Aéropostale were more popular.

The customer base for American Eagle, as with other retailers aiming for the teenage market, is constantly outgrowing the brand, so creating videos that can be seen as fresh by the next generation may be a good strategy, Mr. Taylor said. Building up a stockpile of this kind of content “greatly increases the probability the brand will last, something that’s especially difficult with that age group,” he said.
72 2008-01-03 “People say that health care is a Democratic issue,” he said. “Baloney.”

John Edwards of North Carolina has a ready answer when asked about immigration at rallies here — a subject that rarely if ever came up at Democratic gatherings a year ago. He drew cheers at a New Year’s Day rally in Ames when he said that while he would support a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, he would insist that none could become naturalized “until they learned to speak English.”

Part of the shift appears to stem from the reduction in violence in Iraq after President Bush’s decision to send more troops there last year. Mrs. Clinton, who once faced intense opposition from her party’s left over her vote to authorize the war, now is rarely pressed on it, though Democrats say it continues be a drag on her in this state. Senator John McCain, a strong proponent of increased troop levels, is off of the defensive and now positions himself as having been prescient about what would work to quell the violence.

“You see much more concern about the economy,” said Mark Penn, Mrs. Clinton’s chief strategist. “You see much more concern about health care. When we started it was principally concern about the war, and now it’s a mix of war, the economy and health care.”

Alex Castellanos, a senior strategist for Mr. Romney, said much the same thing was happening on the Republican side and suggested that it may have contributed to the success of Mike Huckabee, the Republican former governor of Arkansas.

“As concern in the economy grows, you’ve seen in both parties this populist strain of appealing to voters,” Mr. Castellanos said.

The shift in emphasis is also a reflection of the fact that New Hampshire is, politically, a very different place from Iowa, especially for Republicans. A central part of the Republican appeal here has been to social conservatives on issues like abortion and same-sex marriage; they have far less sway in New Hampshire.

In that state, where the primary is held Jan. 8, Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney and Mrs. Clinton have begun broadcasting advertisements that talk about cutting taxes and reducing government spending. Both those issues have historically proved to have great resonance with New Hampshire voters, and particularly with independents who are allowed to vote in either primary.

This is not to suggest that Iraq is no longer a pressing issue for many voters. Senator Barack Obama points to his unwavering opposition to the war in a television advertisement being broadcast in the final hours here, and Mr. McCain is pointing to his early advocacy of increasing troop levels in Iraq as evidence that he had more national security credentials than Mr. Romney.

What has changed, though, is that the war in Iraq is far from the only issue driving this election, the result of the decline in carnage there and daily reports that the nation’s economy might be in trouble.

“I still think the war is a real important issue,” said David Axelrod, a senior strategist for Mr. Obama. “But the sense of economic insecurity has grown and pushed those other issues up on the list of concerns.”

That has become increasingly evident in what the candidates are hearing from voters. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama were pressed on Social Security, gaps in Medicare coverage, the economic threat to middle class from the alternative minimum tax and rising energy costs. All the candidates are hearing, at virtually every stop, questions about immigration and trade deals.

And it was increasingly evident in what the candidates were choosing to say at a time when they were enjoying as big as a stage as they will during this caucus season. In his speeches, Mr. Obama is spending less time speaking about the war than he once did, instead talking about a “retirement system that is in tatters,” and the loss of jobs to Mexico. Mr. McCain talked about Iraq and Pakistan, but moved to on to talk about education, health care and global warming.

“There are a number of challenges facing us domestically,” Mr. McCain said Wednesday in Londonderry, N.H.

Mrs. Clinton is devoting a long portion of her closing speech to health care. Mr. Huckabee’s closing stump speech is devoted to economic anxiety, as he criticizes Wall Street and hedge funds managers and says that the wealthy cannot understand the concerns of everyday people.

And Mr. Edwards on Wednesday seized on the news that oil prices had reached $100 a barrel to reprise the populist message that long ago eclipsed the war as the central thrust of the campaign. “Today’s report that the price of oil has reached $100 a barrel is just another example of how corporate greed is squeezing the middle class,” he said.
73 2008-01-03 The record prices can be credited largely to Manhattan’s wealthiest buyers. The number of apartments that sold for more than $10 million tripled in the past year, according to data tracked by two other brokerages, Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property. Many of these deals were at 15 Central Park West and at the Plaza, two buildings in which 94 of the 1,342 condos sold in Manhattan in the fourth quarter are located.

Gregory J. Heym, an economist who prepared the reports for Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens, said that sales at those two buildings helped drive up average condo prices by $500,000.

Mr. Miller said that he had not seen the luxury market drive Manhattan real estate prices so profoundly since 2000, when buyers poured wealth from the dot-com boom into high-end apartments.

That is not to say that these high-end transactions will shield Manhattan real estate from a slowdown in 2008.

Real estate brokers predict that sales prices may not keep up this pace through 2008 because more buyers could have trouble taking out large mortgages and some Wall Street bankers may receive smaller cash bonuses.

“I’m not forecasting high appreciation,” said Dottie Herman, the president of Prudential Douglas Elliman. “I’m forecasting that the market will be flat” in 2008.

Co-ops, which typically cost less than condominiums, are clearly lagging behind condos in terms of financial performance. According to the Prudential Douglas Elliman report, the average condo price jumped by 17.8 percent in the last quarter of 2007 over the same period a year earlier, the average co-op price rose by 9.1 percent. Mr. Miller said that the inventory of co-ops for sale dropped by 26.2 percent, at least in part because some sellers took their co-ops off the market, hoping to try again in the spring.

Still, real estate brokers and economists point out that the overall market has performed just as well as the luxury market. In fact, half of the sales in Manhattan involved apartments that sold for less than $828,0000, according to data tracked by Halstead Property and Brown Harris Stevens.

“The marketplace is not being held afloat by just the high end,” said Diane Ramirez, president of Halstead Property. “We have great demand across the board.”

Buyers paid high prices for apartments in Harlem, where condos drove up average prices by 93 percent, to $895,000, , largely because of new construction. Apartments at the new condominium building at 111 Central Park North, which accounted for 21 of the 108 sales in Harlem, sold for an average of $2.2 million.

Some outlying neighborhoods in Manhattan, however, are already experiencing a minor slowdown. The median sales price for apartments in Inwood dropped by 4 percent, to $299,000, in the past year and by 5 percent, to $412,500, in Hudson Heights, according to Halstead Properties.

Barak Dunayer, president of Barak Realty, said that prices were definitely flat in those neighborhoods and that fewer owners there were putting their apartments up for sale.

While Brooklyn co-ops and condos sold for an average of $661,000, compared with $613,000 at the same time the year before, some segments of the market experienced a slowdown, according to data tracked by the Corcoran Group. Median prices on two-bedroom Park Slope apartments dropped by 4 percent, to $637,000. Median prices for two-bedroom apartments in Fort Greene and Clinton Hill dropped by as much as 14 percent, to $462,000.

Pamela Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group, which also studied Manhattan figures, attributed the price drops to fewer closings for apartments in high-priced new buildings. She said that Brooklyn over all has settled into a stable rhythm because it was not experiencing the drastic price jumps of recent years.

“Brooklyn showed its maturity this year because the appreciation was much more steady,” she said.
74 2008-01-03 A Simsbury electrical contractor who told investigators that he gave former Gov. John G. Rowland expensive cigars and Champagne in exchange for access to state business was sentenced on Wednesday to five years in prison for hiding personal assets from a bankruptcy court. The contractor, Kurt Claywell, was convicted in July of conspiracy to commit bankruptcy fraud for attempting to conceal more than $200,000 in assets during a 2005 bankruptcy filing.
75 2008-01-03 The move could help transform Netflix from a successful company with a cumbersome dependence on physical media and the Postal Service into an important player in a rapidly emerging digital media landscape.

That landscape has recently been characterized by a frenzy of experimentation, as technology and media companies try to figure out how to bring the unlimited media choices of the Internet to the traditionally restricted confines of the television.

The players include cable, satellite and telephone companies. Newer entrants include Amazon.com, which lets customers buy movies over its Unbox service and download them to their TiVo boxes. Wal-Mart, which experimented with movie downloads on its Web site, pulled the plug on the service last month when Hewlett-Packard, its partner in the project, stopped supporting the technology.

Then there is the digital media heavyweight Apple. At the annual Macworld expo opening on Jan. 15, the company plans to announce a deal to allow users of its iTunes service to rent films from some Hollywood studios and watch them on their computers and iPods.

Richard Doherty, research director of the Envisioneering Group, a market research firm, said Netflix’s model had the virtue of being free to existing subscribers and relatively easy for consumers to understand. “You’re already a subscriber and you don’t pay anything extra. That’s called a slam dunk in most businesses we follow,” Mr. Doherty said.

The companies said LG products with Netflix’s movie service would begin shipping in the second half of this year. They did not say which devices would have it.

Mr. Doherty, who was briefed on the Netflix announcement and LG’s other plans to be unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas next week, said LG could integrate the Netflix service into a future version of its dual-mode HD DVD/Blu-ray DVD player, which now sells for $799, and a new line of high-definition TVs with wireless connections to the Internet, among other products.

Mr. Hastings said the new service would combine the benefits of an Internet browser with the luxury of watching movies and TV shows on large, high-definition TV screens. He said subscribers would be able to go to the Netflix Web site to create lists of movies they wanted to see. The Netflix service on the TV would offer a simple way to watch those movies.

“We think we have solved the real fundamental problem, which has been that choosing movies on a television has been extremely challenging,” Mr. Hastings said. “Video-on-demand companies worked at it for a long time, but choosing movies on the TV just doesn’t have the power of the Web.”

The Netflix streams will not initially be in high definition, and there are some limits to how many programs customers can watch. For example, customers who pay Netflix’s most popular $17-a-month rate are allowed 17 hours of viewing on their PCs, though a spokesman said the company had been experimenting with unlimited digital viewing.

Netflix says it is able to offer the online service free to subscribers because when customers watch online, the company does not have to spend the money to mail them a DVD.

The deal with LG is something of a strategy shift for Netflix. The company had been experimenting with building its own Netflix-brand set-top box. Last spring, to help create the device, the company hired Anthony Wood, the founder of ReplayTV and a pioneer of the digital video recorder.

But Mr. Hastings said that integrating Netflix into other companies’ devices made more sense. He said Mr. Wood would soon leave Netflix to return to another company he founded, Roku.

Michael Gartenberg, an analyst with JupiterResearch, said the move was a wise one. “Software and services companies that get into hardware and try to sell hardware usually don’t end up doing particularly well,” he said.

Mr. Hastings said that the company’s new digital effort did not augur the end of its valuable DVD-by-mail business, which helped the company earn around $1.2 billion in 2007. “If anything, we are going to see some extra life and growth in DVD rental,” he said. “This doesn’t reflect a view that DVD rental is going to shrink any time soon.”
76 2008-01-03 A federal judge has ruled that Amnesty International and other human rights groups can assert the same privileges that journalists use, allowing them to better protect anonymous sources.

The magistrate judge, Viktor Pohorelsky of Federal District Court in New York, said in an order issued Tuesday that the group did not have to disclose the names of lawyers quoted anonymously in a report about them being videotaped while talking to their clients in prison.

“Amnesty is part of the press in terms of gathering information and disseminating it; they serve that function,” said Wallace Neel, a lawyer representing Amnesty International.

An official with Human Rights Watch said any ruling that increased protection for human rights organizations was positive.

“Our sources depend on confidentiality to come forward,” said the official, David Fathi.

The issue came up in a 2004 lawsuit in which lawyers complained that employees at a federal jail in New York City had surreptitiously recorded their conversations with clients arrested after the Sept. 11 attacks.

Lawyers for Legal Aid, which provides legal services to the poor, brought the suit, claiming jail managers and administrators ordered or sanctioned the recordings. The overall case has yet to be heard. Amnesty International was drawn into the suit because a report it issued in March 2002 said some lawyers were concerned about being recorded.

Lawyers for jail officials wanted Amnesty International to disclose the names of lawyers quoted anonymously in the report but the group refused in all but the case of one lawyer, Bryan Lonegan, who waived his confidentiality.
77 2008-01-03 Their builder is Levitt & Sons, a unit of the Levitt Corporation, which ran out of cash in October and declared bankruptcy in November. All work on this planned 460-home development for retirees, grandly named Seasons at Prince Creek West, has ceased. The Levitt employees were laid off, the subcontractors put down their tools, and the Costanzos found themselves in limbo.

The collapse of Levitt, the first big home builder to fail in the current slump, illustrates how the turmoil in real estate is spreading far beyond subprime borrowers who cannot pay their mortgages. Levitt had a fabled brand, decades of experience and enthusiastic customers with good credit, but none of that was enough to save it.

Paul S. Singerman, Levitt’s bankruptcy lawyer, said that as the real estate market in Florida went into “an absolutely unprecedented and catastrophic downturn,” the builder’s customers across the Southeast became victims. “There is a bad story, an unfortunate story, about every customer that placed a deposit,” Mr. Singerman said.

Seasons is less than a quarter finished. About 90 buyers have paid a total of $3.48 million in deposits for houses in varying stages of completion, ranging from all but done, like the Costanzos’, to unadorned dirt.

Another 90 houses are occupied, but many of these residents are, if anything, even more unhappy than the depositors. Levitt sold them on a community where everything would be taken care of. Those assurances mean little now.

“I can’t believe we’re dealing with Levitt & Sons,” said Nancy Harth, 59, who moved in last March. “It feels like a start-up company.”

The initial popularity of Levitt’s 18 retirement communities — at least 4 of them are now in as much disarray as Seasons — is testament above all to the durability of a name.

Sixty-one years ago, Levitt began mass-producing homes on a patch of Long Island potato fields. It quickly built tens of thousands of houses in Long Island, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, creating the modern suburb in the process.

In recent years, the builder has been concentrating on projects for the children of the Levittown generation, the 78 million aging baby boomers. Its sales strategy leaned heavily on both the company’s long operating history and its long-ago achievements.

Christine Roberts was born in Queens in 1966. Six months later, her parents moved to Levittown, and Ms. Roberts lived there for 38 years. “Buying at Seasons meant I was still going to be part of a Levitt community,” she said. “We thought that was so cool.”

She and her husband, Richard , like the Costanzos, are now full of uncertainty. They sold their Long Island home a year ago in preparation for their move to Seasons, and spent $10,000 on new furniture. With their Seasons house unfinished, they have been living in a trailer they own in the Poconos. Their furniture is in storage in South Carolina.

“We didn’t think anything bad was going to happen,” said Ms. Roberts, a former worker with the United States Postal Service. “We really and truly had the utmost faith.”

Many of the Seasons buyers came from the New York area. South Carolina offered a milder climate, lower taxes, less congestion and more golf. The development is about five miles south of Myrtle Beach, S.C.

“We raised our children. We’ve done the grandchildren thing,” said Karin Beaupre, who taught elementary school in Lynn, Mass., for 30 years. “It was time for us. So we took all we had and put it into this.”

Nancy Darr, 61, has macular degeneration, an eye condition that prevents her from driving and makes her unable to distinguish between a flower and a weed. She wanted a house, but couldn’t do the upkeep.

Seasons promised to take care of her concerns. The gated community would have 24-hour security. An activities director would arrange entertainment. Owners would not have to mow their lawns. Even their bushes were to be fed by a central irrigation system.

Best of all was the promise of a clubhouse.

The 29,000-square-foot recreation center would have tennis and bocce courts, a fitness center, and indoor and outdoor pools. There was to be a ballroom with a stage, a room for card games and another for billiards. Levitt promoted it as “a luxury cruise ship on land.”

“If you wanted to socialize, you could walk over and just mingle,” Ms. Darr said.

Everyone had plans for the clubhouse. Ms. Darr wanted to swim and work out. Andy and Pat Hudak were looking forward to dancing the jitterbug, as they used to.

“We didn’t buy a house; we bought a lifestyle,” said Mr. Hudak, 68, who ran a messenger service in New Jersey. They signed a contract in March 2006, paying $58,508 for a deposit and upgrades.

Thanks to the builder, Time magazine noted approvingly in a 1950 cover story, buying a house was suddenly easier than buying a car. The original cost was $6,990, about $70,000 in today’s dollars; government-backed mortgages and low down payments smoothed the way. A second Levittown rose in Pennsylvania and a third in New Jersey (now called Willingboro).

William J. Levitt, son of the company founder and chief engine of its success, took the company public in 1960. It was acquired by International Telephone & Telegraph in 1968, and then sold in a court-ordered divestiture three years later. The company went through a succession of owners, relocating to Florida in 1979 and declining into insignificance.

In 1999, BankAtlantic Bancorp purchased Levitt. Under the leadership of BankAtlantic’s chief executive, Alan B. Levan, the builder began acquiring large chunks of land, first in Florida and then in neighboring states. The Levitt Corporation became a public company in 2004.

The product changed in a half-century, of course. The houses at Seasons are not the tiny boxes of the original Levittown but expansive dwellings with whirlpool tubs and marble vanity tops. With upgrades, prices reached $450,000.

But they were still sold as Levitt houses. Home movies of early Levittown residents dancing on their lawns played in the sales center and on the Web site. A pamphlet giving a detailed history of Levitt’s glory years was passed out to prospective buyers.

Nancy Darr, who had once watched her condominium developer go bankrupt, asked her Levitt salesman whether the company could fail.

“This is Levitt & Sons, America’s oldest home builder. We built Levittown,” Ms. Darr remembers him replying. “It’s a solid company. It’s listed on the stock exchange. This could never happen.”

Gary Drejza, a former Seasons salesman, confirmed that such assertions were routine. “We felt they were the truth,” Mr. Drejza said. “We believed.”

He must have, because he bought a house himself. “Want to see it?” he asked, pointing from the window of his Mercedes-Benz at Lot 49, still a pile of dirt.

Mr. Drejza now has a somewhat different view. “A name was purchased, that’s all. There’s really no remnant of the old Levitt. None of the family,” he said.

That might be no guarantee of satisfaction either. William J. Levitt, trying to make a comeback in Florida in the late 1970s and early 1980s, was forced to refund thousands of deposits when he failed to build the homes.

Booms are great, until the hangover. Mr. Drejza’s conclusion is that Levitt got “caught up in the madness,” buying too much land for too many new developments for too much money.

Analysts echo that view. “They tried a national expansion at the very worst time,” said Eric Landry, an analyst at Morningstar, the investment research firm.

In the bankruptcy, the Levitt Corporation is trying to sever itself from its Levitt & Sons division. Only the latter is insolvent. Mr. Levan, the chief executive of the Levitt Corporation and BankAtlantic, declined through a spokesman to be interviewed. BankAtlantic is based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Seasons residents express confidence that another developer will finish the neighborhood, including the clubhouse. But privately, many acknowledge a lot of misery. “By the time the clubhouse is up,” said Jim Blake, 70. “I don’t even know if I’ll be alive.”

Damon Savino, who drove a truck for a lumber yard, feels particularly bad. He praised Seasons to his pals. Five of them bought houses; three are unfinished. “I’m losing friends here,” he said.

At a court hearing in Fort Lauderdale just before Christmas, Wachovia Bank, which is Levitt’s largest creditor, agreed to provide $10 million to finish at least 80 homes in Georgia, Florida and South Carolina.

The Costanzos, the buyers with the all-tile floors and the granite countertop, are optimistic. “We’re going to get our house,” said Mr. Costanzo, 64, a former shoe salesman for Salvatore Ferragamo.

Few of the other depositors seem as relieved. Sixteen of them held a conference call after the hearing. Fifteen said they did not want their house at the contracted price unless the clubhouse is built.

Mr. Singerman, Levitt’s bankruptcy lawyer, said he did not think that was likely anytime soon. Wachovia declined to comment.

Dave Whalen, a retired analyst with the New York City Transit Authority, does not have even the illusion of a choice about building or walking away. He put down $46,635 for a house that was never started by Levitt. That means Wachovia is unlikely to bother with it.

“We end with nothing,” said Mr. Whalen, 62. “I might as well have taken my deposit, put it in $1 bills, and let them blow off the front porch.”
78 2008-01-03 Paul McCartney underwent coronary angioplasty last year, Agence France-Presse reported, citing British news media reports on Wednesday. The procedure opens arteries to increase blood flow. A spokesman for Mr. McCartney, right, confirmed that the angioplasty took place. The Sun of London quoted an unidentified source as saying: “Paul had been complaining about not feeling well and saw a Harley Street specialist at the London Clinic. Tests were carried out, and the decision was taken to operate. Paul had the angioplasty in a private hospital. It was all very routine, but any work on your heart is a big deal.” The Sun quoted a friend as saying: “Luckily Paul is in very good shape. He does regular exercise and is fit. He eats well and does not carry any excess weight. He has always been in exceptional health, which is remarkable when you think of the rock and roll lifestyle he once had.” Although no specific date for the angioplasty was given, Mr. McCartney, 65, was well enough to perform with Kylie Minogue on a BBC New Year special.
79 2008-01-03 In fact, I laughed bitterly as I read about the world’s ever-growing stockpile of e-waste — there are 500 million obsolete computers out there and 130 million cellphones are retired annually, according to the federal government — because at least half of that junk was in my house.

My family is the problem. No one can bear to part with even the most useless, unidentifiable power cord. These are people who still believe they might one day find a new use for a dead rechargeable battery that came with the original Macintosh Powerbook we bought in 1992.

Every once in a while, my husband wakes screaming from a recurring nightmare about the time he authorized the disposal of a dusty old plastic thing that no one had used for years. The next week he realized that the thing was a charger for a very important walkie-talkie he had planned to take on a family car trip. I guess it was too much for him to simply talk to the people in the backseat.

Faced with a house about to implode, our only choice was to start recycling. Even if I didn’t live in California, one of seven states that has banned the disposal of electronics in landfills, I would feel guilty about tossing all that lead, mercury and plastic laced with flame retardants into a garbage dump.

My good intentions turned out to be more difficult to act upon than I had expected.

The complications started when I opened the nearest drawer to gather obsolete devices and their accessories. I inventoried my haul — six cellphones, three power supply cords, two iPods, two rechargeable computer batteries and a laptop — and designated them for elimination.

I phoned Barbara Kyle, the national coordinator of the nonprofit Electronics TakeBack Coalition, to ask her if she thought owning 426 power supply cords was a world record.

“I bet you don’t know what half of them go to anymore,” she said.

“I don’t know what even one of them goes to anymore,” I said. “Of course, I never did.”

Ms. Kyle steered me to Electronictakeback.com, where I waded through lists of recyclers — many of whom accept only certain gadgets or only those they originally made — to find those who were willing to accept my stuff without imposing a fee. Then I followed guidelines from online to make sure the recyclers I chose were on a list of those who promised not to export the waste to developing countries.

Next, I printed postage-paid shipping labels I found at Apple.com (which does not charge to recycle old iPods and cellphones) and Collectivegood.com (which recycles all cellphones at no charge).

To find out how to get rid of the batteries, I checked the Rechargeable Battery Recycling Corporation’s Web site at rbrc.org and learned the closest collection site was about two miles from my house.

Just as I was starting to stuff a handful of cellphones into a padded manila envelope, Clementine walked into the kitchen.

“You aren’t throwing those away?” she asked in what can only be described as an accusatory tone.

Before I could answer, she sounded an alert. “Ella, come quick! Mom’s throwing away your very first cellphone.”

Within seconds, everyone in my household was in the kitchen, grabbing the cellphones from me as if it were some kind of open-air bazaar, with shouts of “that one once belonged to Uncle Seth!”

Then they started taping labels to each phone that said things like, “Dad got this at a conference in China and it’s still good” and “No idea where this came from, but looks valuable.”

Then my husband stuffed all the phones back into the drawer.

He might have been hyperventilating.

A few minutes later, after the kitchen was quiet again and they had retreated to their video games, I carefully put the cellphones and their cords into the envelope, and drove to the post office to mail it. Then I drove 12 miles into San Francisco to drop off my old laptop at Green Citizen, a storefront recycler in San Francisco.

My family didn’t even notice when I returned. While I was gone, the FedEx truck had stopped by.

My husband and daughters were crowded around a big cardboard box as if around a manger. From it, my husband was gently lifting a new Amazon Kindle electronic reading gadget.
80 2008-01-03 In subsequent appointments at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital, cancer was found in the bones of the same leg, in one of her breasts and in one of her lungs.

In the space of three months, Ms. Cuevas went from being a single mother working two jobs to a single mother working no jobs, wondering how exactly to prepare two children for their mother’s imminent chemotherapy.

The doctors at NewYork-Presbyterian persuaded state officials to provide Ms. Cuevas with Medicaid coverage, but not before medical bills began dwarfing the other monthly payments she soon had no means of meeting.

The Children’s Aid Society, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, used money from the fund to pay $123.52 in electric bills and $91.13 in phone bills, arranged for public assistance to cover four months of outstanding rent and helped her obtain $1,325 in monthly Social Security benefits.

The agency also arranged for her older son, Argenis, 13, to attend counseling sessions, which Ms. Cuevas had hoped would inspire a more open conversation about the changes in her appearance: the shrinking of her frame, the disappearance of her hair.

“You won’t get better if you keep talking about it,” he has continued to tell her. “Please don’t talk about it.”

When he is home, which is not often, Argenis occasionally offers help.

“He’ll say, ‘Do you want a massage, Mami? Do you want me to straighten your bed?’” she said.

But he more often retreats into video games or avoids the apartment altogether, electing to extend his hours at Recycle-a-Bicycle, an after-school program in which he fashions whole bikes from abandoned parts collected on the street.

Andy, 6, whom Ms. Cuevas described as “stronger than his older brother,” also prefers not to belabor the obvious.

“He says, ‘Quiet, Mami, because I already know,’” she said.

The one time Andy seemed visibly distraught about his mother’s health was last month, when he was to perform “Jingle Bell Rock” in his school’s assembly and learned that she would not be in the audience.

Ms. Cuevas wanted very much to go, but lacked the strength to walk the two blocks.

Later, as Andy was singing his part — “What a bright time, it’s the right time, to rock the night away” — Ms. Cuevas was spending the afternoon as she usually does.

She thumbed through the reading that she keeps by her bed: “La Actitud Mental Positiva” (“The Positive Mental Attitude”) and “Cada Día Mas Sano” (“Every Day More Sane”). She tried to watch the news but could not. (“How I feel, I don’t need bad news,” she said.) She settled on “Girlfriends,” a sitcom about professionally successful women navigating romantic discontent.

Because she does not speak English, Ms. Cuevas never understands the dialogue. She turned up the volume anyway, she said, closed her eyes, and listened for the laugh track.
81 2008-01-03 The new Nikon, Olympus and Canon cameras offer something that’s been missing on S.L.R.’s until recently: live view. That’s where you compose the shot on the screen, just as you can on a pocket camera, rather than holding the camera to your eye.

Live view permits angles and heights that are impossible with the camera pressed to your face. Live view also helps with manual focusing, since you can magnify the preview on the screen.

And live view in most of the cameras lets you see changes in exposure, white balance and depth of field before you actually snap the shot.

Unfortunately, using live view entails compromises like delays in focusing and limited features; for example, the Canon can’t autofocus in live-view mode or use any of its scene modes (like Sports or Portrait).

All four of these cameras are supposed to shake off any dust that might have wandered onto the sensor during a lens change. (For Nikon, that’s a first.) That’s a relief to anyone who’s been getting shadow dots in the same place on every photo.

So here they are, in alphabetical order: the latest midrange S.L.R.’s in the $1,300 to $1,800 bracket — lens not included. A comparison table appears at nytimes.com/tech.(All the cameras accept the cheap and capacious Compact Flash cards; the Olympus also takes XD cards, and the Sony also takes Memory Stick Duo.)

Canon EOS 40D (10.1 megapixels, $1,215). On this massive camera body, there’s room for plenty of thoughtfully designed controls and buttons; between the four-way joystick and the rotating selection dial, you’re covered. (This is the only model of the four that’s not fully weather-sealed, however.)

This camera offers a gigantic three-inch screen, although it’s not as sharp as the Nikon’s or Sony’s. The mode dial offers not only some presets (like Sports and Night Portrait), but even has room to store three presets of your own. (You don’t have to burrow into menus to get to them.)

The pictures look sensational. Low-light, high-light sensitivity (high-ISO) shots are unusually free of mottled digital “noise” (speckles).

These days, the greatest high-tech gift to photographers is image stabilization, which prevents blurry shots when you’re zoomed in or shooting in low light. Canon, like Nikon, builds this technology into the individual lenses, rather than into the camera body. Of course, you wind up paying more, since you have to re-buy the stabilizer in every lens; but Nikon and Canon argue that matching the technology to the specific lens creates a more effective stabilizing effect.

Nikon D300 (12.3 megapixels, $1,820). At this price, you’d better be pretty serious about your photography. But if you’ve got the dough, you won’t feel cheated. This is a serious piece of gear.

Its numbers are stunning: 6 frames a second (8 if you buy the optional battery grip); ISO settings up to 6400, although the shots start getting grainy above 1600; and a category-leading 1,000 shots per battery charge.

There’s also an H.D.M.I. jack for displaying your photos on a high-definition TV; a percentage-remaining battery gauge (rather than just a four-segment graph); and a three-inch screen whose clarity is the envy of the industry.

The D300 is the most customizable camera here — you can tweak or customize almost everything — but also the most complex. You don’t even get a mode dial, as though to emphasize the D300’s “not for amateurs” mission. (The Olympus lacks scene modes, too.) But holy cow, what a camera.

Olympus Evolt E3 (10 megapixels, $1,650). Olympus claims that the E3, its new flagship model, has the world’s fastest autofocus. That’s hard to measure, but let’s put it this way: it’s darned fast.

The 2.5-inch screen is the smallest of this bunch, but it compensates with some deft moves: it flips out, swivels and rotates. That range of motion lets you aim the camera over your head, down low or even toward yourself—a feature that fits perfectly with live view.

Shooting with the eyepiece is a joy, too; it presents a bigger, brighter window on your subject than its rivals. Image stabilization is built into the camera; Olympus insists that its system is more, not less, effective than Nikon’s or Canon’s in-the-lens stabilizers.

The E3’s sensor isn’t as big as its rivals (17.3-by-13 millimeters, versus about 24-by-16 millimeters on the other more light-sensitive models). There are a few annoyances, too. For example, there’s no dedicated autofocus lamp to provide focusing illumination in low light. Instead, this model, like the Canon 40D, fires off an irritating series of flashes.

Note, too, that every time you turn on live view, you have to close the viewfinder shutter manually to prevent light leakage — a very silly requirement.

Sony Alpha A700 (12.2 megapixels, $1,330). The A700 is Sony’s second S.L.R., once again descended from the Minolta models that Sony acquired in 2006.

The three-inch screen looks terrific. If you’re willing to buy a special H.D.M.I. cable, you can use the included remote control to conduct high-def slideshows on your TV.

Unfortunately, the Sony is the only S.L.R. here that doesn’t offer live view. It’s also the only one with no top-mounted L.C.D. display that summarizes your camera settings, shots remaining and so on. That information appears on the main screen, which partly explains the relatively weak battery life (650 shots).

So what’s the bottom line? If you’re moving up from an older S.L.R., your lens collection may determine which brand you buy. None of these cameras will disappoint you.

If you’re new to S.L.R.’s, you might be happier with a sub-$1,000 S.L.R. instead. You’ll get essentially the same image quality—after all, you’ll use the same lenses and, in most cases, the same-size sensor — without the bulk, weight or complexity. Consider, for example, the Pentax K10D, Nikon D80 or Canon Digital Rebel XTi.

But if you consider yourself an almost-professional, you do get what you pay for in these tweener S.L.R.’s — better speed, less low-light noise, more customizable and all those cutting-edge features (like live view). People may still look at the camera dangling from your neck and assume you’re a tourist — but in your head, you’ll know that you’re the next Ansel Adams.
82 2008-01-03 BEFORE the first iPod-friendly glove for snow sports was released about two years ago, skiers and snowboarders who wouldn't be caught without music on the slopes had to remove their gloves to  adjust their players. As anyone who skis or slides in ...
83 2008-01-03 OIL REACHES $100 A BARREL  Oil prices began the year with a volatile surge, briefly reaching $100 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, left, before settling at $99.62. Said one analyst: ''It's the same usual suspects: the bad, bad world o...
84 2008-01-04 Credit: Jacob Silberberg for The New York Times
85 2008-01-04 Joe Stiglitz, today at the American Economic Association Meetings, talking about financial crises: "Once-in-a-hundred-years events occur every 10 years." He's thinking of the stock market crash of 1987, the Long Term Capital Management crisis of 1...
86 2008-01-04 Des Moines At Theodore Roosevelt High School, the Barack Obama flame sparked early. Democratic caucus-goers from Des Moines District 55 - a diverse neighborhood in the shadow of Drake University - started showing up at 5:30 p.m. on Thursday night,...
87 2008-01-04 Our roundtable of voters from towns and cities across the country weighs in on the results from this week, and what they might mean for the candidates going forward....
88 2008-01-04 Phil Lebeau discusses which aerospace giant is likely to win air supremacy in 2008.
89 2008-01-04 The barbs fly as the Republican rivals duel in the final push toward Tuesday....
90 2008-01-04 This time around, Iowa doesn't seem to have produced its Howard Dean moment, so we'll just have to live with the original ... ... and its many remixes:...
91 2008-01-04 Linda Lauerman and Frank Casso listen as a Yale representative talks to students at Elizabeth High School. Right, Bob Sweeney at Mamaroneck High School. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) Families today agonize over a bewildering ar...
92 2008-01-04 Appearing in New Hampshire, the Republican candidate interprets Iowa results as the desire of voters for a Washington outsider....
93 2008-01-04 Among the rumors of what Apple will announce at Macworld are computers with Blu-ray disk players and online movie rentals. It really could make a splash, however, with a version of its Apple TV that lets owners buy or rent movies from the Internet...
94 2008-01-04 Microsoft made a big splash with its $240 million deal to buy a sliver of Facebook. Now, some industry observers think the software giant should consider another social-networking deal. This time, the focus is on Plaxo, an early entrant into the s...
95 2008-01-04 Three exhibitions in New York pivot around one of modern art's most enduringly popular styles....
96 2008-01-04 John McCain responds to the results of the Iowa caucus. (NBC Video)
97 2008-01-04 The interview will be batting third, after a profile of a Boston mobster who murdered 20 people and a possible interview with President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan.

Wallace has interviewed people of greater importance than Clemens — presidents, a shah, prime ministers, corporate malefactors and civil rights leaders — but his one-on-one with Clemens will be examined for the questions asked and answered. Clemens will be challenged for the first time on the allegations of steroid use: he would not speak to George J. Mitchell’s investigators and issued a video denial on the Internet.

Whatever Clemens said in the interview taped last Friday remained cloistered within CBS News until Thursday, when Wallace said in a telephone interview that Clemens denied receiving injections of any sort from McNamee.

But hours later, CBS News issued a news release saying Clemens had admitted to getting B12 and lidocaine injections from McNamee, but not steroids or human growth hormone.

The release did not acknowledge what Wallace had said in the morning.

But Wallace and the news division were apparently not in agreement.

Jeff Fager, the executive producer of “60 Minutes,” did not address why Wallace’s statement contradicted the release. Wallace, through a CBS News spokesman, said his response focused only on if Clemens said he had been injected with steroids. “That’s what he meant,” the spokesman, Kevin Tedesco, said. “Steroids.”

Fager said that he had no doubt about the state of Wallace’s health or whether he remained formidable and, well, Wallace-esque.

“Mike is strong,” Fager said. “He’s just a marvel. When you watch him in the interview, he’s such a unique character and unique reporter. I think he does a terrific job. I feel lucky to have him on the air. He’s an icon.”

Fager said Wallace was working on a special scheduled for June and “who knows what else might pop up? He never wants to stop. He’s Mike Wallace.”

Wallace’s last piece for “60 Minutes,” about Dr. Jack Kevorkian, prompted some criticism from a writer for Public Eye, a CBS News in-house forum designed to bring public transparency to the division.

It wondered about Wallace’s objectivity, after Wallace was seen before the interview embracing Kevorkian, the assisted suicide advocate, upon his release from prison.

Wallace’s producer, Robert Anderson, told the Public Eye writer, Matthew Felling, that Wallace and Kevorkian had “mutual respect” for each other but were not friends.

Felling then analyzed Wallace’s questions; he felt that some were “chummy to the teeth-gritting point,” but added that “most of them were relevant to the case at hand.”

Kevorkian is ever-controversial, but Fager said he couldn’t recall any athletes in a hotter seat at the time of a “60 Minutes” profile than Clemens.

“This is the kind of story that a reporter hopes will come along,” he said.

Many athletes, faced with giving an exclusive to a sports TV outlet or to “60 Minutes” — like Alex Rodriguez last month or Jose Canseco, when he was pitching his book, “Juiced” — chose the venerable newsmagazine.

Not every athlete is subject to withering questioning, but not many of them are in hot water. Katie Couric’s Rodriguez piece was tougher than most, and contained a few testy moments between the correspondent and the extremely careful superstar. In an exchange about steroid use, which Rodriguez denied, she asked him who he thought owned the career home run record, Hank Aaron with 755, or Barry Bonds with 762.

“Well, I think Barry Bonds,” Rodriguez said. “He has 762.”

“But he has an asterisk next to his name,” Couric said.

“Does he?” he answered with steel in his voice. “Not yet.”

Rodriguez was clearly prepared to heap scorn on his agent, Scott Boras, for the news that he was opting out of his Yankee contract that emerged during a World Series game. He couldn’t have found a broader broadcast news forum to tell off Boras.

“Part of the our appeal is the size of our audience,” Fager said. “We’re the No. 1 newsmagazine. That’s an equation that most people evaluate when they come on: Is the risk worth the benefit? It can be a tough interview, but the benefit is the audience.”
98 2008-01-04 The weather has been cold, the snow deep, the long, dark evenings perfect for holing up with a book. In the past few weeks, I’ve read nine of Angela Thirkell’s Barsetshire novels. I expect to keep going right through all 29 of them, and when I’m done I may start over again. This is a confession of sorts. When I first came upon Thirkell, nearly 30 years ago, she seemed like a diverting minor writer. Minor now seems too slight a word to me for the purveyor of such major pleasures.

Thirkell wrote nearly a novel a year between 1933 and her death in 1961, all set in the fictional English county of Barsetshire — a landscape borrowed from Trollope, who was the prolific author of novels that once seemed more minor than they do now. Unlike Trollope, Thirkell is uninterested in money and politics and ecclesiastical power. Many readers would say she is interested in love, because each of her novels ends with an engagement — the formal sign that hers is a comic universe. But love is just the device that frames her books, that brings them to a point.

One of Thirkell’s characters is Laura Morland, an author of mysteries — one a year — set in the fashion world. “Not but what they are all the same,” Mrs. Morland explains, “because my publisher says that pays better.” Thirkell’s novels are all the same, too. If you cut only the scenes that take place during tea, half of Thirkell would be missing. I’d like to say that her countryside becomes more intricate, novel by novel, but it doesn’t. The war darkens it, and so does England’s dire postwar recovery.

But her continuing characters continue as they’ve always done. Mrs. Brandon wins the heart of every man she sees. Mrs. Morland is forever losing her tortoise-shell hairpins. A young heroine — determined and dutiful — is always falling at last into the arms of a sensible man, who is often her elder by more than a few years.

What interests Thirkell is people talking, and the nonsense they talk. It makes no difference who. It might be the chaotic English of a Mixo-Lydian refugee in a novel set during the war or the inane chatter of the beautiful Rose Fairweather, whose favorite adjectives are “dispiriting” and “shattering,” though she has never been dispirited or shattered. Or the effusive biographer George Knox who, in a fit of illness in the first of these Barsetshire novels, says to his friend, Mrs. Morland, “Even Wordsworth was more interesting that I am at this moment.”

These are novels full of what might be called applied literature, whole lifetimes of shared reading welling up allusively in conversation. The reader hears the constant sound of familiar authors passing back and forth behind the scenes, like servants heading from the kitchen to the dining room in great English houses. And yet the talk is wonderful because it is simply neighborhood gossip. The war encroaches on Barsetshire, but the gossip continues, against a broader, grimmer backdrop.

Thirkell has often been called nostalgic because she is describing a kind of life — English county life — that was vanishing even as her books were appearing. Yet there is nothing nostalgic or sentimental in her tone. She is brusque, judgmental, and also, somehow, tolerant, for without her tolerance these stories would never get off the ground. If she pokes fun at Miss Hampton and Miss Bent, a gay couple living in one of the Barsetshire villages, it is nothing compared to the fun they poke at everyone around them. For every Mr. Bissell — a schoolmaster fond of the word “Cappitleist” — there is a Mrs. Bissell, who is the soul of efficient goodness.
99 2008-01-04 Boeing said late Thursday that it had received orders for 1,413 commercial jets last year, setting a third consecutive annual record driven by demand from Asian and Middle Eastern airlines.

Orders for Boeing’s 737 narrow-body model finished 2007 with 846 orders followed by its new, fuel-efficient 787 Dreamliner with 369 orders, making it Boeing’s most successful sales campaign. Order tallies were posted to the company’s Web site.

Late in the year, orders for 152 airliners came from Vietnam, Brazil and the United Arab Emirates where airlines need planes to meet demand. Boeing booked 1,044 net orders in 2006.

Orders for larger wide-body aircraft were led by the 787 followed by 141 orders for the 777, 21 orders for the 747 and 36 orders for the 767, which will ultimately be replaced by the Dreamliner.

Earlier Thursday, the company said that it had delivered 441 airliners in 2007, the most since 2001.

Shipments rose 8.7 percent in the fourth quarter, to 112 planes, Boeing said in a statement. The 2007 results may still not be enough to surpass the rival Airbus, which says it expects to deliver more than 450 planes.
100 2008-01-04 The United Arab Emirates will keep a 30-year link between its currency, the dirham, and the United States dollar, after completing a review of its currency regime, said the central bank governor, Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi, left. “In 12 months I can say to you that the U.A.E. will maintain the peg,” Mr. Suwaidi said. “We have come to the conclusion that the inflation problem does not lie with the peg against the U.S. dollar.” The dirham is fixed to the dollar at 3.6725. “We were studying the causes of inflation, and we came to the conclusion that the causes are not in the dirham/U.S. dollar peg, therefore we need not do anything on that front,” Mr. Suwaidi said.
101 2008-01-04 SAN FRANCISCO — Intel said Thursday that it had chosen to withdraw from the One Laptop Per Child educational computer organization, which it joined in July after years of public squabbling between Intel’s chairman, Craig R. Barrett, and the group’s founder, Nicholas P. Negroponte.

The low-cost laptop, originally priced at $100, has captured the public imagination but also created intense controversy because it was viewed as a potential competitor for both Intel and Microsoft in the developing world.

The machine, which is based on the freely available Linux operating system and comes with educational software, is now built with a microprocessor made by Intel’s archrival, Advanced Micro Devices. The PC, called the XO, is being sold for about $200 apiece to governments and institutions.

On Thursday an Intel spokesman said the company shared with O.L.P.C. the vision of putting computers into the hands of children, but the two were not able to work out what he described as “philosophical” differences.

Intel did not attend a recent board meeting of the group in Florida, according to a person familiar with the events, who asked not to be named because he had not been given authority to describe the events. That set off a bitter private dispute, which led to the Thursday announcement.
102 2008-01-04 “I got those pads about a week before I got hurt,” he said. “I started wearing them and breaking them in, and then started using them in the game. Apparently, they haven’t gone through the N.H.L. I thought we cleared it. After warm-up, we found that we cleared it, but apparently, they weren’t satisfied with that. We just found out after the first period that I had to switch to the old ones.

“I guess it’s my fault, but I was under the impression that they had been approved. I thought I did the right thing. Once we found out after the warm-up that they hadn’t been approved, we called and let them know and measured them and made sure they were legal. Everything measured out fine. It’s their call.”

The victory gave Florida Coach Jacques Martin his 498th N.H.L. coaching victory, putting him in sole possession of 10th place on the career victory list. He passed Glen Sather.

Mike Comrie and Mike Sillinger scored power-play goals for the Islanders, and Bill Guerin also scored. DiPietro stopped 28 shots.

PENGUINS 6, MAPLE LEAFS 2 Evgeni Malkin had his first three-goal game and host Pittsburgh put Toronto away with three goals in 48 seconds early in the third period to run its winning streak to five games.

PREDATORS 5, OILERS 2 Alexander Radulov scored two goals and Dan Ellis stopped a penalty shot to lead host Nashville.

WILD 6, STARS 3 Marian Gaborik scored twice, Pierre-Marc Bouchard added a goal and two assists and Brent Burns had three assists to lead host Minnesota.

AROUND THE LEAGUE Tim Thomas stopped 31 shots for his first shutout this season as the host Boston Bruins beat the Washington Capitals, 2-0. ... Mikael Tellqvist stopped 25 shots to help the host Phoenix Coyotes defeat the Chicago Blackhawks, 4-2. ...The Montreal Canadiens scored three times in the third period for a 6-3 victory against the visiting Tampa Bay Lightning. ... Colorado Avalanche forward Ryan Smyth has a broken right ankle and will miss up to eight weeks. Smyth was hurt in a 4-3 overtime loss at Phoenix on Monday.
103 2008-01-04 City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn on Thursday nominated Hector L. Diaz, the longtime Bronx County clerk and a former assemblyman, to fill the open position of city clerk. The $175,000-a-year post was vacated in July, when Victor Robles stepped down. Mr. Diaz’s appointment requires the approval of the full Council. Mr. Diaz, 63, was the choice of Jose Rivera, chairman of the Bronx Democratic Party, whose support was critical to Ms. Quinn’s winning the speaker’s office in 2006 and will also be important if she makes an expected bid for mayor in 2009. Ms. Quinn’s office would not comment on the political implications of the nomination, but said Mr. Diaz was well qualified. If his appointment is approved, he said, he plans to begin his tenure with financial and performance audits of the office, which in addition to certifying city laws and maintaining records, performs civil marriages and enforces lobbying laws. The clerk serves a five-year term.
104 2008-01-04 An 8-month-old Brooklyn boy was mauled to death by his family’s Doberman pinscher on Thursday as the boy played on the floor of his apartment, the police said.

The boy, Andrew Stein, was bitten on the head, investigators said. The attack took place shortly after 1:30 p.m. in the family’s apartment, at 71 Ocean Parkway in Kensington, while Andrew was in the care of his grandmother.

It was unclear what, if anything, provoked the dog, Macabee, who is 7 years old and was adopted as a puppy by the Stein family. After interviewing Andrew’s grandmother, the police said Andrew had apparently touched the dog’s paw, which may have led to the attack.

Andrew was taken to Kings County Hospital Center, where he was pronounced dead at 3:06 p.m., the police said.

Emergency Services personnel who responded to a 911 call for help from neighbors shot the dog, who weighs about 80 pounds, with a tranquilizer dart and took him to a shelter operated by New York City Animal Care and Control. It had not yet been determined whether he would be euthanized. A police official, speaking on the condition that he not be identified, said infants are particularly vulnerable in such attacks because their skulls are soft and growing rapidly.
105 2008-01-04 HOUSTON (AP) — ConocoPhillips, the oil company, said on Thursday that its worldwide production of hydrocarbons probably rose in the final three months of 2007 from the third quarter, and oil and natural gas prices were also higher.

But the company said domestic refining margins fell significantly in most regions in the fourth quarter compared with the third, and also were off slightly from the fourth quarter of 2006.

Refining margins, which hurt many oil companies’ earnings in the third quarter, are the difference between what refiners pay for oil and what they are paid for the products they make from it.

The company provided the details in an overview of market and operating conditions for the recently completed fourth quarter. ConocoPhillips is scheduled to report fourth-quarter and full-year results Jan. 23.

The company said its production probably increased by the equivalent of 60,000 barrels of oil a day in the fourth quarter compared with the third. The production estimates include the company’s Syncrude operations in Canada but not its Lukoil business in Russia. It did not provide figures or comparisons to the year-ago quarter.
106 2008-01-04 How many people are watching the new Fox Business Network?

About 6,300, on average, on any given weekday, according to early estimates compiled by Nielsen Media Research. By contrast, Fox Business’s chief competitor, CNBC, attracted about 283,000 viewers each weekday from Oct. 15 through Dec. 14, the first two months that Fox Business was on the air, according to Nielsen’s calculations.

While Nielsen, at the network’s request, has measured the viewership of Fox Business since its premiere, Nielsen is not permitted to release or even confirm those figures publicly. That is because they are so low as to fall below Nielsen’s minimum standards for reporting, said Gary Holmes, a Nielsen spokesman.

Both Fox and CNBC, however, have purchased versions of those weekly ratings reports from Nielsen, and a person who saw those internal reports vouched for their contents on Thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity.

Mr. Holmes did confirm that Fox Business would have to reach a minimum threshold of 35,000 viewers — representing a tenth of a ratings point — before it could disclose the network’s audience publicly.

On the one hand, the low ratings for Fox Business during its first two months — a period in which it attracted ratings lower than most local television stations, let alone cable networks — are not surprising, given its upstart status. And while CNBC is available in about 90 million homes, Fox Business is thus far available in about 30 million.
107 2008-01-04 Merck & Company agreed on Thursday to pay a Swiss company, Addex Pharmaceuticals, as much as $702 million to help develop a new schizophrenia drug.

Addex will get $22 million now and payments that may amount to $680 million, the company said Thursday in an e-mailed statement.

Merck, which entered into an agreement with Addex last month to work on new treatments for Parkinson’s disease, will gain access to an experimental medicine and other compounds that may be tested in additional unspecified conditions.

The project with Merck will focus on a brain-signal transmitter linked to functions like mood and motor control. About 1 in 100 people have schizophrenia, which causes hallucinations and distorted thinking.

“We have now gained access to a promising drug candidate that potentially allows us to address an area of high medical importance where current therapies are clearly inadequate,” Darryle Schoepp, franchise head for neuroscience at Merck, said in the statement.

Under the agreement, Addex will get as much as $455 million in milestone payments for the first product developed for two conditions and as much as $225 million for a second medicine developed for two ailments.
108 2008-01-04 They have been spending heavily on television advertising, not going after one another directly but, instead, promoting lofty themes meant to appeal to the working families who make up a vast majority of voters.

The Republican fight here has been much more pointed — as reflected in cutting advertisements, with Mr. Romney, who has had to spend more time in Iowa sparring with Mr. Huckabee, blanketing the airwaves.

Here, Mr. Romney has focused on two main lines of attack on Mr. McCain, noting his opposition to the Bush tax cuts — while not mentioning Mr. McCain’s stated reason, that there was no corresponding cut in spending — and Mr. McCain’s support for immigration reform.

Bolstering his efforts on the air, Mr. Romney’s campaign has been criticizing Mr. McCain in phone calls to voters across the state. Dozens of voters said they had received more than three calls from Romney supporters, some going after Mr. McCain on the issue of taxes.

Mr. McCain has been the greatest presence here, often having the state to himself. Seizing on his clean sweep of endorsements from 26 newspapers in the area, he has been able to reinvigorate a campaign that six months ago was largely written off.

New Hampshire, whose voters pride themselves on their independence from party orthodoxy and who are interested in an array of issues not on the agenda in Iowa, is friendly territory for Mr. McCain — a point he is making in a new advertisement released Thursday recalling his victory here in 2000.

A remaining unknown factor will be what role independent voters, who make up nearly half of all registered voters in the state and were critical in Mr. McCain’s victory last time, will play in this election. Voters frequently say they are trying to decide between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, which seems striking, given their wide differences on issues, particularly the war in Iraq. But Mr. Obama’s victory in Iowa showed his strength in drawing independent voters to his campaign.

Mr. McCain is also focusing on issues important to many independent voters, like climate change and improving the United States’ image abroad by taking such steps as closing the prison at the American naval base in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, is lagging in the polls here. Mr. Giuliani has made sporadic efforts, spending heavily on advertising here before pulling back.

The Democrats could be more affected by the results in Iowa.

Even though Mr. Edwards has focused largely on Iowa, he has set up 17 offices and hired 80 field organizers here, but has spent only one-third of what Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have on television advertising here.

Mrs. Clinton is counting on her formidable New Hampshire operation to right her campaign after her loss in Iowa. She touches down in Manchester early Friday morning. She and former President Bill Clinton, whose second-place finish here in 1992 energized his campaign, will hold a rally in Nashua at 8 a.m.

Many longtime supporters of the Clintons are at the core of her political team in New Hampshire; both Clintons believe that Mrs. Clinton is more widely known and liked here than in Iowa, which they believe will give her an edge over a relative newcomer like Mr. Obama.

Mr. Obama, her closest challenger, according to recent polls, has courted independent voters, particularly in the southern part of the state. After his campaign began advertising on television a few months ago, Mr. Obama began to close the gap with Mrs. Clinton in polls.

He has been building an organization for nearly a year, with offices throughout the state.

In a move that could complicate the race, the New Hampshire attorney general released a report Thursday saying an investigation was unlikely to determine who was responsible for anti-Mormon calls made to voters in early November that seemed supportive of Mr. McCain. The McCain campaign had called for the investigation.

The report determined only that Western Wats, of Orem, Utah, made the calls, and that Moore Information Inc., of Portland, Ore., had hired Western Wats. It did not determine who had hired Moore, which said Thursday that it had never been involved in any such calls.
109 2008-01-04 Bridge and tunnel commuters will see expected increases in fares, while those taking PATH trains may get a little bit of a break after the Port Authority votes on proposals on Friday, according to an agency official.

If the board approves the proposals, the increases will take effect in the spring.

The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is expected to halve its proposed fare increase for PATH trains at its board meeting Friday, increasing the single-ride cash fare to $1.75 from $1.50, rather than to $2, as was initially proposed. The price of 20- and 40-ticket discount packages will increase by about 15 cents per ticket, instead of the 30-cent increase that was suggested in November, when the authority announced that it wanted to raise tolls and fares.

The board is expected to adopt almost all planned bridge and tunnel toll increases, according to the official, who was not authorized to speak for the board.

However, those car-pooling, who currently pay $1, may get an unexpected break as the rate for vehicles with three or more passengers could increase to $2, instead of the originally proposed $3.

The board is expected to approve a proposal increasing the fare to $8 from $6 for drivers paying cash to cross the George Washington Bridge, the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels and the three Port Authority bridges that connect Staten Island and New Jersey.
110 2008-01-04 Wall Street closed narrowly mixed Thursday as investors traded cautiously ahead of a report on December employment that will be released Friday. Inflation jitters remained high as oil prices set another trading record above $100.

Investors who sent shares skidding on Wednesday amid economic concerns and rising oil prices initially took some solace in a report released Thursday by the payroll company Automatic Data Processing. The report said the economy added 40,000 private-sector jobs in December, above the 30,000-job increase forecast by economists polled by Dow Jones Newswires.

Also Thursday, the Labor Department said the number of newly laid off workers seeking unemployment benefits fell last week. But investors were mindful that these weekly readings can be volatile, and the latest reflected unusual factors related to the Christmas holiday.

Wall Street has for weeks been holding out for the December jobs snapshot to be issued Friday. The report, from the Labor Department, should indicate whether the solid job market that existed last year can continue into 2008 and help sustain consumer spending.

In Japan on Friday, share prices plunged to their lowest finish since July 2006, losing ground after jittery trading on Wall Street amid concerns about the economy and rising oil prices.
111 2008-01-04 He said that in the past three months there had been 19 suicide bombings by the militant leaders Baitullah Mehsud and Maulana Fazlullah. Most of the attacks were against military and intelligence targets, he said, calling it a “joke” to suggest that the military and intelligence agencies would be using the same people who were attacking them for their own ends.

“No intelligence organization of Pakistan is capable of indoctrinating a man to blow himself up,” he said.

Mr. Musharraf said that he had invited Scotland Yard to help with the investigation into Ms. Bhutto’s death to alleviate suspicions of foul play by the government, and that he did not fear what the inquiry would reveal. “We don’t mind going to any extent, as nobody is involved from the government or agency side,” he said.

But Mr. Musharraf said the investigators would not be permitted to interview four government officials whom Ms. Bhutto singled out for suspicion last year. In a letter that she wrote before her return to Pakistan in October, she said she would consider the four responsible if anything happened to her. The president said her accusations were political and baseless.

He said the government provided adequate security on the day she was killed, Dec. 27. She was accompanied at all times by a police superintendent of her own choosing, while four police vehicles with 30 policemen were flanking her and 1,000 more police officers were deployed at the rally, he said.

He acknowledged that the government had made mistakes in its handling of the situation, issuing conflicting accounts of how she died before all the facts were known and hosing down the site of the attack too soon. But these were errors, he said, not a hasty effort at a cover-up.

Political analysts and opposition politicians have predicted that Ms. Bhutto’s death will be one calamity too many for the president, after months of blunders and falling popularity since he moved in March to dismiss the Supreme Court’s chief justice.

“I think he is in an extremely weak position,” said Rasul Bakhsh Rais, a professor of political science at Lahore University of Management Sciences. He suggested that Mr. Musharraf might still resort to extreme measures, like widespread election fraud or another period of emergency rule, to ensure that the party that backs him wins the elections and provides him with the necessary parliamentary support to continue as president. “This is an election that Musharraf cannot afford to lose,” he said.

Predictions of what government will emerge from the vote vary widely. Mr. Musharraf’s supporters predict that the faction that backs him, Pakistan Muslim League-Q, will be able to form a government. But opposition parties predict a disastrous turnout for the Q League, as the faction is known, which would represent a repudiation of Mr. Musharraf’s leadership.

Yet, far from appearing defensive, Mr. Musharraf showed an unshakable confidence and self-belief on Thursday. “There is a crisis, and I hope the solution is elections,” he said.

The election date, Feb. 18, is the same as his wife’s and daughter’s birthdays, he said. “I don’t know whether this is coincidence. I don’t know whether this is my birthday gift to them,” he said. “But this election is going to be free, fair and transparent.”
112 2008-01-04 Entry by foreigners to Pyongyang tends to be strictly controlled. But the tours to Kaesong, like those to the Mount Kumgang area in North Korea’s southeastern section, are open to all foreigners, including journalists, as long as they pay the fee of about $180 for a one-day trip.

The Mount Kumgang area has received outsiders for almost a decade now, but it remains a Potemkin-like resort fenced off from surrounding villages. By contrast, Kaesong is a real city, one that, judging from the hand-painted wooden traffic signs and total absence of cars on its often unpaved streets, the authorities have not tried to transform into a Pyongyang-like showcase.

An ancient capital that eventually fell to the North during the Korean War, Kaesong lies just north of the demilitarized zone dividing the Korean Peninsula and is a two-hour drive from Seoul. It is considered richer than other parts of the North because thousands of its residents work in a South Korean-run special industrial zone just outside the city.

The tours here start in Seoul around 6 a.m. and are run by Hyundai Asan, the South Korean company that developed the industrial zone and is planning to start regular tours to Mount Paektu, along the North’s border with China, and possibly to Pyongyang next spring.

One morning last week, most of the tourists were elderly South Koreans, though they included the young as well as non-Koreans.

Once inside North Korea, South Korean guides reminded the tourists that taking photographs from inside the bus, or of anything but approved tourist spots, was forbidden. The convoy went up the highway alongside the expanding special industrial zone and past hills denuded of trees.

“Let’s get rid of U.S. imperialism!” read a red-and-white banner on the side of a building next to the highway.

The first stop was Pakyon Falls. South Korean tourists posed for photos in front of the 121-foot waterfall, many of them trying to get the falls as well as a North Korean guide holding a big white bullhorn in the same picture. “Take a picture with the waterfall,” the guide told one man who had mustered up the courage to ask her directly to pose for him.

At a stall selling drinks, though, a saleswoman dressed in a Christmassy pink fur-collared costume welcomed photographs and said flirtatiously that she should be paid a modeling fee.

One of the many North Korean guides traveling inside the buses came over. Smiling broadly, the guide, who was in his 40s, said he had been dispatched from Pyongyang to help out with Kaesong’s opening.

“It would be good to normalize relations with the United States,” he said, expressing an opinion repeated by two other guides. “We could focus our resources on developing our economy. From the U.S. perspective, it would no longer be threatened by our nuclear arms.”

“Our relations began improving after our nuclear tests last year,” he added, dragging on a cigarette. “The U.S. is basically afraid of nuclear proliferation, and we showed them who we are.”

Another guide, in his 30s, said normalization would allow North Korea to shift its resources from defense so that it could become an “economic power.”

Compared with guides at Mount Kumgang or the Kaesong industrial complex a couple of years ago, some of the guides here, who wore elegant long overcoats and scarves, were indistinguishable from their South Korean counterparts.

“I also sell fresh mountain water,” the woman at the stall said in a sing-song voice. “I even sell hangover pills.”

One bus was filled with South Koreans who had grown up in Kaesong and were returning for the first time in six decades. Everything had changed, they said, except the very same tourist spots they were visiting.

On the steps leading to Sungyang, a Confucian lecture hall, another North Korean guide with a white bullhorn was dramatically interrupted by an old man who jabbed a large finger in the air and yelled out: “Why isn’t there a nameplate on the entrance? Every Korean house should have a nameplate.”

Flustered, the guide remained speechless as the South Koreans streamed past her into the hall. Inside, though, she said, “The Japanese imperialists took the nameplate and burned it during the occupation.”

Later, the man with the large finger, Lee Hee-tae, 80, who had lived here until the Korean War, said he was dissatisfied with the answer. “I don’t think the Japanese took it,” he said, “because I saw it after the end of the Japanese occupation.”

Overhearing his comments, a young North Korean guide asked, “Is there anything wrong?”

After listening to Mr. Lee’s explanation, the guide said simply, “I can’t believe you remember what happened 60 years ago.”
113 2008-01-04 If it weren't so ridiculous, you'd almost have to admire the quixotic, archaic, almost misanthropic way that college football organizes its postseason, which, after all, is theoretically the most exciting portion of its schedule. Essentially, college football builds up an avalanche of momentum, then pauses and says, "Hey, everybody, let's take a month off!"

This is no small offense. By the time college football gets around to playing its championship game, we're in the midst of National Football League playoff madness; next Monday's B.C.S. title game in New Orleans will come on the heels of the first weekend of wild-card action. Many fans will still be buzzing about the pro games instead of focusing on L.S.U. and Ohio State. We are an impatient sports society; by the time the college championship game comes around, it's difficult to remember who's even playing. Fortunately, this year's contest has a fitting bowl buildup; two days beforehand, we are treated to the International Bowl. Rutgers vs. Ball State. In Toronto. Feel the excitement.

For all its faults, the N.F.L. does its playoffs almost exactly right. (I think we could all do without the extra week before the Super Bowl.) Each week, half the teams are eliminated, in the most stressful, do-or-die way possible, and at the end we crown a champion. This does not make the N.F.L. special; this is how every almost sports league on the planet determines its best team. The drama is inherent in the process; it's why we watch. It takes a special brand of perversity to abandon this process, and one wonders if college officials and the N.C.A.A. even understand why they do it anymore.

Make sure to watch the national sports channels the day after the B.C.S. title game. It will dominate the news until about 2 p.m. ... and then we'll be on to the Celtics, the N.F.L. and more baseball hot stove talk. We will have moved on, immediately. In sports, absence never makes the heart grow fonder.
114 2008-01-04 SKI in with an offer; ski out with a bargain?

Steve Jones, an agent with McCall Real Estate, said he wouldn’t go that far, but he said that for the first time in Tamarack Resort’s four-year real estate history, prices for on-site resort housing have dropped, and asking prices for ski-in/ski-out properties are negotiable.

“We’re definitely seeing less action this year than in previous years,” he said, citing an increase in inventory of about 18 percent from June 2006 to June 2007. “However, the scarce stuff, such as ski-in/ski-out properties, is still really active.”

Prices for ski-in/ski-out properties at Tamarack, which is in southwestern Idaho about 20 minutes outside McCall and about two and a half hours from Boise, still hold steadier and higher than do their more general ski-house counterparts.

The convenience of walking out the front door and onto a chairlift is something buyers are willing to pay for. So is the opportunity. Even at Tamarack, which is one of the few Western resorts that developed ski-in/ski-out communities along the runs from the beginning, the high costs of slopeside construction (blasting, building retaining walls, hauling timber) and the restrictions imposed by public land conservation mean a limited inventory. Houses on a main ski run (as opposed to secondary or tertiary runs) come on the market only rarely.

At Tamarack now, there is only one active residential listing directly on the main ski run. It is an attached 1,200-square-foot town house for $1,145,000. And there are only a few ski-in/ski-out building lots available, most under an acre; their prices, on average, are about $1.2 million.

Tamarack has had a good run. Prices from 2004 to 2005 increased about 50 percent, and continued to rise through 2006. But will it stay that way? “We’re definitely seeing a trend of more people looking for less expensive second homes,” Mr. Jones said. “But there are always buyers who want ski-in/ski-out. They always sell. The question is what buyers will be willing to spend.”

This house is bordered by the Morel trail. To gain access to it, owners simply step off the deck. The stone-and-timber home, completed in 2007, is about 4,150 square feet. It has a cedar-lined dry sauna in its ski locker room. A stream runs through the three-quarter-acre property, and during warmer seasons, the trail is groomed for hiking and mountain biking. In addition to the large deck, there is an upper covered patio; a hot tub will be installed in the spring. The upper level has a game room. It also has a master suite with a balcony and a built-in fireplace in its bathroom. And there are two additional bedrooms with a Jack-and-Jill bathroom. At the center of the house is a great room with vaulted ceilings, floor-to-ceiling windows with lightly wooded views and a stone fireplace. The open kitchen has custom native wood cabinetry, a Wolf range and Sub-Zero appliances. The house can be sold furnished. There is a three-car garage. Taxes: $15,793. Senior sales associate: John Engel, Tamarack Resort Realty, (208) 271-6314; www.tamarackresortrealty.com.
115 2008-01-04 Big losers included Intel, the chip maker, whose shares were off more than 8 percent after an analyst said the company’s orders were slowing. Apple shares were down more than 7 percent, and Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines also showed big declines.

Investors ran for cover, moving into safe havens like gold and Treasury bonds. The dollar fell against the euro in anticipation of another rate cut in the United States.

The lone consolation for investors and workers was that the bad news seemed severe enough to force the Federal Reserve to again cut interest rates when it convenes at the end of this month. Lower interest rates decrease borrowing costs and encourage banks to lend more freely, spurring spending, hiring and investment.

The Fed has eased rates three times since September in a bid to inject confidence into jittery markets. But analysts cautioned that Fed governors may now feel constraints against bringing rates down more: Inflation is growing as a source of concern, particularly as oil hovers near the symbolic $100-per-barrel level.

Lower interest rates, over time, can generate the seeds of inflation, and could make an already weak dollar worth less against foreign currencies.

“The Fed is trying to juggle a two-sided sword,” said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management. “They’re trying to fight inflation moving higher and they’re trying to fight a slowdown in growth.”

Much of the Fed’s concern about the health of the economy centers upon a severe shortage of credit: Spooked by vast mortgage losses and general business uncertainty, banks around the world have gotten tight with their money, crimping economic activity.

To spur the economy, the Fed has been pumping cash through the banking system by auctioning off loans at discounted rates. On Friday, the Fed said it would expand by half a pair of auctions scheduled for later this month, offering up $30 billion.

For months, the economy has managed to grow vigorously despite a string of worrying developments, from the unraveling of real estate to the turmoil in mortgage markets. Through it all, economists have marveled at the resilience of the labor market, suggesting that if the economy can keep creating work and distributing wages, Americans will maintain the wherewithal to spend, and growth can carry on.

The jobs report for December shot a considerable hole in that scenario, heightening the likelihood of a recession, said many economists. The myriad negatives dogging the economy finally appear to be dragging it down.

“There’s no mystery as to why the unemployment rate went up,” said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research firm ITG. “The mystery is why it took so long.”

December’s addition of 18,000 jobs to nonfarm payrolls was an abrupt drop from the 115,000 created in November — a figure revised on Friday from an initial estimate of 94,000. It was a fraction of the 70,000 jobs anticipated by economists, and it put the annual rate of job growth at its lowest level since 2004.

Some areas of the economy continued to expand, according to the report. Health care added 28,000 jobs in December, and 381,000 for the year. Food services generated 27,000 new jobs in December.

But that growth was largely reversed by pain elsewhere. Retail lost 24,000 jobs in December, amid a disappointing holiday shopping season. Construction shed 49,000 jobs for the month, and financial services lost 7,000.

Despite the weak dollar, which has given American exports a boost and spawned hopes that sales abroad can compensate for weakness at home, the nation shed 31,000 manufacturing jobs in December.

“The economy tanked in December,” said Ellen Zentner, United States macroeconomist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York. “Domestic demand has slowed, so there’s less need for companies to hire.”

For the third straight month, wages grew at slower than the pace of inflation, meaning that many employees saw the value of their income decrease.

Among rank-and-file workers, who make up more than four-fifths of the workforce, average hourly earnings rose 3.7 percent last year, below the 4.3 percent rise in 2006..

Job growth has been slowing steadily for two years. During 2006, the economy added jobs at a rate of 1.68 percent per month, according to the Labor Department’s survey of payroll data. Last year, the growth rate slowed to about 1 percent.

But the unexpected jump in the unemployment rate, which was 4.7 percent in November, suggested that the job market is now deteriorating more swiftly than many have expected.

Last year, companies fretted about business conditions amid falling housing prices and tightening credit, but they largely held on to their workers. Many slowed hiring, but did not fire.

Now, many companies are seeing their stock prices battered, particularly in banking and retailing. Falling house prices are crimping the ability of homeowners to borrow — a brake on consumer spending, which amounts to 70 percent of the American economy. Many companies have apparently concluded they can no longer tough it out and hope for better days: They are feeling pressure to cut costs now and slow production, resorting to layoffs.

“December’s bleak jobs report represents the siren call that this business cycle is just about over,” declared Bernard Baumohl, managing director at the Economic Outlook Group, in a note to clients. “We’re about to tilt over to the other side of the economic curve and begin the downsizing.”

In calculating the unemployment figure, the Labor Department relies upon a sampling of payroll data and its own extrapolation of how many jobs have been created and destroyed. An accompanying survey of households presented an even bleaker picture, showing that the number of Americans employed plunged by 436,000 in December, the worst number in five years.

The household survey is notoriously volatile and thus treated with skepticism. But unlike the payroll data, the household survey is not subject to revision, other than for seasonal factors, making it a potentially better indicator when the economy is on the cusp of change, said Mr. Barbera. The household survey also captures self-employed people, who often feel economic troubles earlier than those on payrolls.

Between December 2005 and December 2006, the household survey showed jobs increasing by a total of 2.2 percent. Between December 2006 and December 2007, jobs grew by only .18 percent.

“That’s striking, “ Mr. Barbera added. “Every time we’ve gotten down to this level since 1956, there’s been a recession.”

The risk now is that the weakening job market will swell from a symptom of economic slowdown to a primary cause: As fewer jobs are created, spending power could dry up, prompting Americans to trim purchases. Faced with declining business, employers could further trim payrolls. Construction projects could be deferred or scrapped. More people could fall behind on their mortgage payments, leading more foreclosures, more losses at banks, and more layoffs.

“The risk of a vicious cycle setting in now is very high,” Mr. Zandi said. “ The job market’s operating at stall speed. Either it picks up soon or it quickly unravels.”
116 2008-01-04 STATE STREET'S TROUBLES The State Street Corporation, which serves institutional investors, ousted a senior executive and said it would set aside $618 million to cover claims stemming from investments tied to mortgage securities.       PICKUP TRUC...
117 2008-01-05 Melissa Etheridge gave us a call today, just to, ya know, chat about politics and lament Dennis Kucinich's exclusion from tonight's debate....
118 2008-01-05 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
119 2008-01-05 Take the semicircular stairway from the front room to the second floor and you come to Liza Lou’s big three-dimensional cartoon of a gnarly tree limb covered by zillions of tiny, gold glass beads. Jutting out from an inwardly curved wall with no other means of support, it is comical and mysterious. You might contemplate it while sitting on a wood and metal bench nearby, which happens to be a conceptually enigmatic sculpture by Mark Handforth.

A room to the left holds an early sculpture made of crushed auto-body parts by John Chamberlain. Its compacted Abstract Expressionist energy seems to be pushing everything else in the room — including works by Dan Flavin, Daniel Buren, Mark Grotjahn and David Hammons — up against the wall.

Seven pieces in a room on the other side of Ms. Lou’s rotunda are unified by a finely tuned sense of color. A wall-mounted Donald Judd box with a colored plexiglass panel built in casts an orange light, which is picked up by the burnt orange in a blow-torch painting by Yves Klein and by the central peach-colored square of a Josef Albers painting. Two metallic-gold stripe paintings by Rudolf Stingel provide a slightly greener shade of warmth, while a sculptural set of open white cubes by Sol LeWitt and a sheet of wrinkled, mirrored Mylar under plexiglass by Anselm Reyle add clear, colorless notes.

Eleven blocks to the south, in Vivian Horan’s luxuriously homey second-floor gallery, which has a wonderful carved marble Neo-Renaissance fireplace and an immense bay window in its main room, is a small, well-selected show of abstract paintings and sculptures called “Deconstructed Geometry.” It includes some of the same artists in the L&M show.

An orgasmic bouquet of brightly colored crushed metal parts by Mr. Chamberlain and a glossy Minimalist red box by John McCracken face off on pedestals, while a sumptuous, posthumously executed mural by Mr. LeWitt, who died in April, presides. The painting presents the image of a large cube with red, blue and purple sides on a mustard yellow field. Across the room a diminutive sculpture by Carl Andre consisting of five copper bars placed end to end in a 20-inch row rests on the floor.

Mr. Mangold turns up here too. His monochrome canvases with thoughtfully drawn lines suggest an inexhaustibly fruitful exploration of Euclidean subtleties.

Back up north, on 79th Street, Mr. LeWitt appears in yet another Upper East Side show, as a contributor to, and the subject of, a memorial exhibition organized by the sculptor Dove Bradshaw. Titled “Ten Artists/Ten Materials,” it is at the Bjorn Ressle Gallery, a bright and narrow high-ceilinged second-floor compartment whose most conspicuous feature is its hideous brown wall-to-wall carpet.

Mr. LeWitt is represented by an endearingly simple wall drawing penciled according to his 1972 instructions, which read, “A not straight line from the left side to the right, drawn at a convenient height.”

Appropriately, given Mr. LeWitt’s role as a father of Conceptualism, the exhibition includes a text piece from 1970 by Robert Barry. Mirrored vinyl letters applied to one wall spell out, “Something which can only be known as something else,” which becomes more interesting the more you think about it.

There’s also a LeWitt-like wall drawing of radiating lines by William Anastasi, who made it while blindfolded. In another LeWittish gesture, Merrill Wagner used four different brands of a color called Indian Red to create a washy wall painting of four horizontal bands.

Other works here have to do with seriality. They include a set of aluminum blocks by Mr. Andre; a collection of pod-shaped, palm-size white porcelain forms by Marcia Hafif; a set of heavy iron bars with angled ends by Richard Nonas; and geometric patterns by Melissa Kretschmer executed in pale yellow wax on the gridded panes of the gallery’s front windows.

Some monolithic forms are on hand too. A dark, mound-shaped cast-bronze sculpture on the floor, by Jene Highstein, and a flat white plaster triangle in slight relief on the wall, by Ms. Bradshaw, converse about heaviness and lightness. They might also discuss the mind-spinning intersection of past, present and future that happens regularly in art galleries all over the Upper East Side.
120 2008-01-05 Up to three American Airlines jetliners will be outfitted this spring with laser technology being developed and tested to protect planes from missiles fired by terrorists. Officials said the antimissile systems would not be tested on passenger flights. The tests, which could involve more than 1,000 flights, will determine how well the technology holds up under the rigors of flight, they said. The first Boeing 767-200 will be equipped in April or later, said Tim Wagner, an airline spokesman. American said it was “not in favor” of putting the systems on commercial planes but agreed to take part in the tests to understand technologies that might be available in the future.
121 2008-01-05 “Among the intelligentsia of the party, there is definitely a deep concern about Huckabee getting the nomination because a lot of them think he can’t win,” said John Feehery, a former senior House Republican aide and party operative. “Part of it is self-interested panic since they have their own horses in the race, and none of them are riding Huckabee.”

Mr. McCain, then — after a year in which his campaign nearly collapsed, the Iraq war and a controversial immigration bill eroded his popularity, and he was forced to continue his candidacy on a bare-bones budget — may be in the right place at the right time.

And Mr. McCain was campaigning Friday with gusto, attacking Mr. Romney before overflowing crowds at places like a V.F.W. hall in Hudson, on issues that included Iraq, spending and his own record on security.

“I’m the one with the record,” he said. “I’m the one that’s been involved in every national security challenge for the last 20 years.”

Mr. McCain said that while he was urging the dismissal of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Mr. Romney was “looking at his shoes.”

Mr. McCain’s schedule was somewhat different than it had been in recent weeks, with only one traditional town-hall-style meeting. Earlier in the day he popped into a shop in Hollis, but the throngs of news media representatives made it difficult to actually do any campaigning, as camera crews banged into shelves and elbowed voters out of earshot.

It was clear to Mr. McCain’s camp that such events would now be impossible.

Mr. McCain does face an obstacle that he has encountered at several other points: Balancing his effort to run as something of an insurgent with his effort to become the nominee of his party’s establishment. His difficulties at striking the balance accounted for some of his troubles earlier in the campaign.

But New Hampshire is the state where Mr. McCain defeated George W. Bush by 18 points in 2000. The state Republican chairman, Fergus Cullen, said that accounted for why he was in a particularly good position here on the weekend before the primary.

“I believe six months ago, when McCain was going through the darkest days of his campaign, he was still not being ruled out by a lot of voters here — McCain stayed in the mix,” Mr. Cullen said. “He has a deep reservoir of good will here that stretches back to 2000.”

Even before the Iowa vote, polls suggested that New Hampshire voters were embracing Mr. McCain and his slightly iconoclastic message the way they did in 2000. At the same time, they were moving away from Mr. Romney.

Advisers to Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney said they believed that Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, was already weakened before Iowa and was now even more vulnerable. Evidence of that could be seen in a furious exchange of attack advertisements between the two men Friday.

Complicating Mr. Romney’s life even more, Mr. Huckabee’s campaign manager, Ed Rollins, suggested he was entering something of a temporary alliance of interest with Mr. McCain against Mr. Romney. Mr. Rollins said Mr. Huckabee would be using the next several days to present what he said would be an unfavorable comparison of their records as governor.

“We’re going to see if we can’t take Romney out,” Mr. Rollins said. “We like John. Nobody likes Romney.”

Mr. McCain’s advisers said they did not view Mr. Huckabee as a particular threat here.

Mr. Cullen said that Mr. Huckabee’s campaign operation in the state was among the weakest in the field, and that he had not campaigned in the state enough to make a large impact on voters. In addition, his record and message is slightly out of step with the antitax sympathies of Republicans in New Hampshire.

As for Mr. Giuliani, Mr. McCain’s advisers had once viewed him as a threat since he was competing for many of the same moderate voters. But after spending a lot of money here on advertising and making numerous campaign visits, Mr. Giuliani has not been helped in any obvious way.

Mr. McCain’s bonds with this state have been repeatedly remarked on by the candidate and many of the state’s Republican leaders, though presumably those bonds are going to get tested in the days ahead. But Mr. McCain may prove to be an elusive target, at least in this state.

Mr. Romney began seeking on Friday night to portray Mr. McCain as a Washington insider, a criticism that seemed to be intended to strip away from him independent voters who were critical to his victory in 2000. (Independent voters here are permitted to vote in either the Republican or Democratic primary).

Several Republicans suggested that strategy might be difficult to pull off. “They are going to try to make him the Washington insider,” said Sara Taylor, a former White House political director. “He spent 10 years as the iconic guy in Washington fighting the status quo; so that is going to be hard.”

In many ways, Mr. Huckabee’s victory — and the possibility that he might actually win the nomination — may give Mr. McCain even more maneuvering room.

Among the top-tier Republican candidates, Mr. Huckabee has the fewest endorsements from members of Congress and has stirred some nervousness among Washington insiders.

“When you have an unexpected candidate surging to the top in the last three weeks of a campaign, that is telling you that somehow the party doesn’t know where it needs to go,” said Pete DuPont, a former governor of Delaware and Republican presidential candidate. “He is outside the establishment. He has won an election without any of their help, and the establishment hates it when that happens.”
122 2008-01-05 As a result, One Laptop’s XO computer comes with a processor built by Intel’s rival Advanced Micro Devices and open-source software, rather than Microsoft’s Windows and Office software.

After several years of publicly attacking the XO, Intel reversed itself over the summer and joined the organization’s board, agreeing to make an $18 million contribution and begin developing an Intel-based version of the computer.

Although Intel made an initial $6 million payment to One Laptop, the partnership was troubled from the outset as Intel sales representatives in the field competed actively against the $200 One Laptop machine by trying to sell a rival computer, a more costly Classmate PC.

The Classmate sells for about $350 with an installed version of Microsoft Office, and Intel is selling the machine through an array of sales organizations outside the United States.

Even after Intel joined the One Laptop board, in country after country, the two organizations competed to make government sales, Mr. Negroponte said yesterday in a telephone interview. The relationship first frayed seriously in October, he said, when an Intel salesman gave a Mongolian government official a side-by-side comparison of the Classmate PC and the XO.

Mr. Negroponte said he was infuriated and threatened to throw Intel off the One Laptop board. In response, Intel’s chief executive, Paul S. Otellini, agreed to change Intel practices and he accelerated the development of the Intel prototype.

Sean Maloney, the company’s top sales and marketing executive, sent e-mail instructions to the sales team that were intended to end the practice of product comparisons.

Mr. Negroponte said eliminating the comparisons was required as part of a nondisparagement clause in the partnership agreement the two companies had signed.

In the field, according to Mr. Negroponte, nothing changed.

He complained, in particular, that Intel sales representatives were claiming that as a result of the company’s board position at One Laptop, Intel had information suggesting that the organization was in trouble.

Intel refused to respond to Mr. Negroponte’s specific account of the events that led to the end of the partnership.

Instead, Chuck Mulloy, an Intel spokesman, reiterated the company’s statement that Intel had decided to leave the organization after it reached a stalemate over whether the chip maker could continue to promote the Classmate.

“Our position continues to be that at the core of this is a philosophical impasse about how the market gets served,” he said.

Mr. Negroponte said that an Intel representative did not attend a board meeting of the group in Miami last month, citing a potential conflict of interest.

At the meeting, the board agreed that Mr. Negroponte should make a final effort to end Intel’s efforts to disrupt One Laptop’s sales.

“They played another dirty trick in Peru,” he said. “It’s a little bit like McDonald’s competing with the World Food Program.”

In Peru, where One Laptop has begun shipping the first 40,000 PCs of a 270,000 system order, Isabelle Lama, an Intel saleswoman, tried to persuade Peru’s vice minister of education, Oscar Becerra Tresierra, that the Intel Classmate PC was a better choice for his primary school students.

Unfortunately for Intel, the vice minister is a longtime acquaintance of Mr. Negroponte and Seymour Papert, a member of the One Laptop team and an M.I.T. professor who developed the Logo computer programming language. The education minister took notes on his contacts with the Intel saleswoman and sent them to One Laptop officials.

In a telephone interview Friday, Mr. Tresierra said that his government had asked Intel for a proposal for secondary-school machines, and it had responded with a proposal offering the Classmate PC for primary grades.

“We told them this is a final decision, we are running the primary-grade project with the XO,” he said. “She wasn’t very happy.”

He said the decision to purchase the XO had come after the government had run a pilot project with the computers. “We were very happy with the results,” he said.

Until Intel surprised him by quitting on Thursday, Mr. Negroponte said he had still held out some hope that the relationship could be saved. The Intel XO was supposed to be introduced next week at the Consumer Electronics Show in keynote speeches to be made by Mr. Negroponte and Mr. Otellini, but the prototype will now be set aside.

Intel’s decision to leave was announced first in a series of phone calls made by a company spokesman to a small group of reporters. Some time later, D. Bruce Sewell, Intel’s senior vice president and general counsel, sent an e-mail message to Mr. Negroponte.

The note said that the statement, which had already been reported by wire services, was an inadvertent leak. He apologized for the way the announcement was handled.

For his part, Mr. Negroponte said he still hoped to sell two million to three million computers this year. He said that on Monday, if all goes well, he will announce a major order. Mr. Negroponte had originally hoped to sell up to five million computers.

The group did not get major orders; instead One Laptop has continued with a variety of smaller deals in countries including Uruguay, Peru and Mexico.

The group, based in Cambridge, Mass., announced Friday that its two-month “Give One, Get One” charitable promotion had generated $35 million and sold a total of 167,000 computers, half of them to be distributed in the developing world.

He said he still believed that the XO could have a big impact.

“If I can sell 1.5 million computers in Iraq, Afghanistan and Ethiopia, I will feel a lot better than other sales we might make.”
123 2008-01-05 “He’s a once-in-a-lifetime player,” Tom Lemming, a CSTV recruiting analyst, said in a telephone interview. “He’ll be a Heisman candidate within three years.”

Until Pryor announces his decision, the drama surrounding his recruitment will only build. The number of teams eager to sign him is not surprising considering that he can throw a football 65 yards, run a 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds — a time typically run by a wide receiver — and has the agility of a defensive back. He is the only player in Pennsylvania to pass for more than 4,000 yards and rush for more than 4,000 yards in a high school career.

The recruitment battle has been so fierce that he has received more than 50 text messages in an hour from recruiters, and one coach asked if he could land a helicopter on the lawn of his high school in western Pennsylvania. Pryor said his focus was on his comfort level at a university and whether he would play in an offense that let him use his abilities.

Last month, Pryor’s recruitment intensified when Coach Rich Rodriguez left West Virginia for Michigan. Before Rodriguez announced that he was changing jobs, he called and informed Pryor of his decision. Pryor immediately dropped West Virginia, which he said had been among his top two or three choices, and added Michigan.

Pryor has visited Ohio State and plans to visit Florida and Michigan.

Although Pryor did not list Duke as one of his final four choices, he said he might make an official visit there on Jan. 18.

Pryor said Ohio State would be a good destination for him because he liked Daniels, the quarterbacks coach, and Tressel. He said he got along well with Ohio State’s recruits here this week, but he worried whether the Buckeyes would implement a spread offense, as Tressel had promised.

“I believe him because he said he would, but I really don’t know,” said Pryor, who committed as a sophomore to play basketball at Pittsburgh but withdrew the commitment because of the interest from other universities in him as a football player.

Michigan figures to switch to the spread offense because Rodriguez is one of the originators of the scheme. Pryor said another advantage for the Wolverines was that the freshman wide receiver Toney Clemons was his cousin by marriage.

“The only thing that would hurt them is I don’t know if it’ll come ready and packaged real quick,” Pryor said of Michigan’s running a spread offense.

Asked if he was concerned about the Michigan quarterback Ryan Mallett, a freshman who started three games this season, Pryor said, “I’m not worried about no backups anywhere.”

Pryor said he liked Florida’s spread offense and Coach Urban Meyer. He said he was impressed with the Heisman Trophy winner Tim Tebow and the “great athletes” that play for the Gators, but he said the college’s distance from home was a negative.

Although Pryor had not eliminated Penn State from consideration, he made it sound as if the Nittany Lions faced long odds. “I don’t like their area,” he said. “I don’t like their offense either. They said they’ll bring the spread with me, but I don’t know.”

Pryor, who plans to major in criminal justice in college, said he has struggled to discern who would follow through on the promises made to him. He said it was difficult “seeing who’s lying and who’s not.”

But two months ago, the Titans’ Young called Pryor with words of encouragement.

“Don’t worry about all the hoopla of people saying that you’re No. 1,” Young told Pryor. “I understand that. That’s how I was. Just go about your business. Handle it like a man and just be you every game.”

Robert Prunty, Pryor’s coach at the Army All-American game, has coached more than 200 N.C.A.A. Football Bowl Subdivision players as coach of Hargrave Military Academy in Virginia. He said he had never seen a player like Pryor in his 15 years as a head coach.

“Terrelle Pryor is something you can’t coach,” Prunty said. “He has a gift from God on athletic ability. It’s phenomenal.”

Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Charlie Batch has known Pryor for three years and is his mentor. He said he expected Pryor to be playing in the N.F.L. in less than four years. Batch said he and Pryor rarely discussed recruiting during their weekly talks.

“Running-wise, he has more visible running gifts than probably half the quarterbacks in the league,” Batch said in a telephone interview, comparing Pryor to N.F.L. quarterbacks. “If he becomes a more gifted passer than what he is now, the sky’s the limit for him.”

Yet for now, Pryor remains a high school senior who plays PlayStation 3, listens only to the rapper Lil Wayne and attends parties with friends. It also turns out that every call Pryor receives on his cellphone is not from an assistant coach. As Pryor sat at a table Wednesday afternoon in the Alamodome, he said received a call on his cellphone from a female fan requesting a picture.

“Send me a really good one and I’ll send you a really good one,” he said.

The flirtation, it seems, never ends.
124 2008-01-05 Radiohead has signed with iTunes to allow its latest album to be downloaded from the online music store, Agence France-Presse reported. The band was one of the few major acts not to have its songs on the service. In October Radiohead left the EMI record company after its contract expired. The band made its new album, “In Rainbows,” above, available on its Web site, radiohead.com, asking fans to pay whatever they thought it was worth. Radiohead has not said how many times the album was downloaded or the average price paid. ... The concert producer Live Nation said it had reached a two-year deal with the Jonas Brothers band, under which that New Jersey group would play more than 140 concerts around the world, starting in Tucson on Jan. 31, Reuters reported. In October Live Nation lured Madonna from Warner Brothers with a multi-album touring and merchandising partnership.
125 2008-01-05 CUTS IN STUDENT LOANSSallie Mae said Friday that it planned to cut back on its core business of making student loans, setting off a 13 percent decline in its share price. Sallie Mae, the nation's largest student lender, has suffered in recent mont...
126 2008-01-06 Aired Friday night on NBC: Well, congratulations to Barack Obama, the big winner of the Democratic caucus in Iowa. It's pretty amazing. Stunning victory. He got 57 percent of the youth vote, 35 percent of the female vote, and 100 percent of Iowa's...
127 2008-01-06 The Republican candidate takes direct aim on Sunday over immigration, taxes and abortion....
128 2008-01-06 The Nets took the lead with a 15-0 run to start the fourth quarter, but still had to hold off a late charge by the Hawks (15-16).

CELTICS 92, PISTONS 85 Glen Davis scored a career-high 20 points, giving visiting Boston’s Big Three a huge lift in a victory against Detroit in a marquee game that lived up to its billing.

For the first time since 1981, two N.B.A. teams entered a game on Jan. 5 with a combined 54 victories. For the first time since 2000, two teams played with each riding at least an eight-game winning streak.

The Celtics extended their winning streak, which started after losing to Detroit at home, to nine games and snapped Detroit’s streak at 11 games.

Boston (29-3) topped the Pistons (26-8) after overcoming a 12-point deficit and foul trouble.

Kevin Garnett was called for his third foul at the 7:34 mark of the first quarter, which helped Detroit go on a 17-0 run and take a 20-10 lead.

When Garnett was in the game, Boston outscored Detroit by 23. When he was on the bench, the Pistons outscored the Celtics by 16.

HORNETS 118, SUNS 113 Chris Paul scored 28 points, including 14 in the fourth quarter, and had 10 assists as New Orleans ended the Suns’ four-game winning streak, in Phoenix.

New Orleans took the lead for good, 110-107, on a 3-pointer by Paul with 3:03 remaining. After Barbosa drove the lane for a basket, Paul followed with another drive, and the Hornets led by at least 3 points the rest of the way.

BULLS 94, KINGS 93 Ben Wallace made the go-ahead free throw and blocked Brad Miller’s jumper with a second left for host Chicago. The block came after Wallace hit the first of two free throws with 3.2 seconds left.

Sacramento’s Justin Williams grabbed the rebound after the second foul shot, and the Kings called a timeout. Miller caught the inbound pass, and Wallace blocked the shot to preserve the victory.

AROUND THE LEAGUE The Washington Wizards’ Gilbert Arenas said on the team’s Web site Saturday that he hoped to return from a second knee operation and be back in the lineup within two months. Arenas had surgery last April, and again in November. At the time, his recovery was expected to take three months. ...Dallas Mavericks center Erick Dampier will miss Sunday’s game at Minnesota because of swelling in his left knee.
129 2008-01-06 KABUL, Afghanistan (Reuters) — Afghanistan’s Islamic council has told President Hamid Karzai to stop foreign aid groups from converting local people to Christianity and has demanded the reintroduction of public executions.

The council, an influential group that lacks binding authority, is made up of the Islamic clergy and ulema, or religious scholars, from various parts of Afghanistan. It made the warning in a statement Friday during a meeting with Mr. Karzai.

The ulema have always played a crucial role in Afghanistan and have been behind several revolts against past governments.

The council said it was concerned about the activities of some “missionary and atheistic” groups, saying that the actions were “against Islamic Shariah, the Constitution, and political stability,” according to a copy of the statement. “If not prevented, God forbid, catastrophe will emerge, which will not only destabilize the country, but the region and the world.”

Quoting what he said were reliable sources, Ahmad Ali Jebrayeli, a member of the council and a member of Parliament, said unnamed Christian missionaries had offices in Kabul, the capital, and in the provinces to convert Afghans.
130 2008-01-06 “I don’t think I hit a single shot all day long that was, except for maybe with a driver, that was a normal up-in-the-air shot,” Chopra said Thursday. “Every iron shot I hit I knocked down, took loft off of it, cut or drew it in there. I manufactured pretty much every single shot I had to hit today, other than my normal, standard stock which you just hit on the driving range.”

That comes as sweet music in an era of bomb and gouge, where many golfers simply blast the ball with their driver as far as possible without regard to rough or bunkers, then gouge it from the rough on to the green with square-grooved wedges. Young Daniel Chopra, who is working with the old-school instructor Butch Harmon, is attuned to the importance of creating shots.

The roots of his creativity can be traced to his upbringing. He spent his first six years in Sweden, moved to England for a time, then to India, where he was reared by his grandparents. Depending on the situation, he thinks in Swedish, English or Indian. He explained the difference.

“Swedes are very intense, very methodical, very theoretical and analytical,” he said. “The Indians are a lot more laid-back, more touchy-feely, I guess louder, like to have fun.”

Chopra said he had a combination of these traits, now tempered by an Americanization of his golf game courtesy of a veteran caddie, Mitch Knox, a product of the Deep South who worked for David Duval when he won the Mercedes event and who keeps the linguist Chopra sharp.

“He’s great, I mean, he’s fantastic,” Chopra said. “He has lots of experience. He knows what wind does. It’s a comfortable feeling to know the fact that I know the numbers he’s going to give me are going to be accurate, and he’s never going to really make a mental mistake. If he tells me to hit a 7-iron, I know I can trust that.”

His trained ear has helped him understand Knox’s Southernisms, but Chopra said he had to acquire some additional tuning to fully grasp the patois.

“Yeah, I watched ‘Larry the Cable Guy’ for about a month before trying to figure it out,” he said, laughing.

In his first trip to Maui, Chopra is well on his way to figuring things out. He’s a quick study — he figured out some of the rolls of the golf course by playing it on a video game and watching the tournament on TV for a number of years. And he is not easily rattled. When he went to China for a publicity photo shoot after finishing second on the Asian Tour money list, part of it was to be photographed on the Great Wall. He went that one better.

“I teed up a ball in between the cracks, hit a 5-iron from the top and it sailed back over to the other side,” he said. “Yeah, it was a fun thing.”

The guy knows how to make an entrance. And he gives the distinct impression that he will be around the upper echelon of golf for some time to come.
131 2008-01-06 Downs had not stepped inside a boxing ring until 2003, when one of his commanders volunteered him for an Army event. Downs took to the sport. And he kept winning.

But his time fighting was cut short when he was called to serve in Iraq in January 2004. Boxing took a back seat.

But with support from his fellow soldiers and commanders, Downs left Iraq two months early. A spot on the United States boxing team followed.

His military experience contributes to an air of responsibility and authority around Downs. His younger teammates elected him co-captain and as part of the job he rhythmically chants the counts in cadence as he leads the team through stretches.

Downs is humble about it, but he has earned the role of an older brother, if not father figure, for some of his teammates. Other boxers go to him, asking him advice about their professional futures. He preaches good behavior. Stay off the streets.

“From the boxing point of view, I probably couldn’t teach them anything,” Downs said. “I try to lead by example. Something that we say in the military, that’s be on time, do your curfew. Make sure you do your homework because all those little things in the end build up to greater things in the long run. And that’s what I try to show those guys.”

And like the father he is to his 9- and 7-year-olds, Downs brags about his boxers, too.

“I’m predicting — I’m not guaranteeing anything — but to watch these guys work and the work ethic, to see these guys match up, I’m not going to bet against them,” he said.

Just as he has knowledge to share, Downs said he was observing and learning from his teammates.

“I find myself punching the bag, and I’m looking around and thinking, what can I steal from this guy and try to work on?” Downs said.

Dan Campbell, coach of the United States team, said he saw what Army training and experience had brought to Downs’s boxing.

“As a former Vietnam veteran, I know what going to war can do to a person — either make you very, very mature or make you very, very scared,” Campbell said. “He surprises us every day in his maturity and the way he can push these guys to greater heights all the time.”

Downs’s limited years in the ring do affect his performance, Campbell said.

“There is occasion when he gets nervous and it takes him a little while to overcome that, and that’s inexperience,” Campbell said. “The more experienced guys know not only how to hide, but how to overcome it very quickly. It takes him a little time sometimes, and so we now know to start working on that before we get in the ring.”

Downs recognizes the weakness as well.

“I know I train hard enough to know that I can win,” Downs said. “What makes me the most nervous is boxing up to my ability on that night.”

Whatever challenges Downs faces in the ring, they do not match what he and his fellow soldiers faced in Iraq. And when he is fighting, Downs said, he does not solely represent his own hopes for Olympic glory.

“I’m representing all the guys in the military that want to be out there playing basketball or soccer or softball — whatever their sport may be,” Downs said. “I hope that they can live some of that through me, know that it can be done if they want to work hard enough to do it.”
132 2008-01-06 Marc Berthod led a 1-2 sweep for Switzerland in the World Cup giant slalom Saturday, while the American Ted Ligety fell near the start and Bode Miller missed a gate during a treacherous first leg in Adelboden, Switzerland, that 23 skiers did not complete.

Berthod finished in 2 minutes 27.56 seconds, more than half a second ahead of his teammate Daniel Albrecht. Hannes Reichelt of Austria took third, 0.58 behind Berthod, on the technically demanding Kuonisbaergli course.

Difficult conditions during the first run caused dozens of racers to lose their footing. Ligety walked off nearly unscathed despite falling early in the first leg and sliding into a restraining fence.

Miller tried to continue after missing a gate in the first run but gave up when he went out a second time.

KARBON WINS AGAIN Denise Karbon of Italy won her fourth consecutive World Cup giant slalom race, capturing the first leg and finishing fourth in the second for a combined time of 2:16.98. Tanja Poutiainen of Finland finished second, 0.39 back, and Elisabeth Görgl of Austria took third in 2:17.57 on the Cerna course.
133 2008-01-06 NAPLES, Italy (Reuters) — Angry Neapolitans blocked railway tracks, hurled stones at the police and overturned vehicles on Saturday to protest plans to reopen an old landfill to deal with the city’s long-running refuse crisis.

Because of mismanagement and corruption, Naples has struggled for years with its dumps filling up and mounds of garbage piling up on its streets.

Officials are trying to reopen a landfill on the outskirts of the southern city that was shut in 1996. But residents fear it will be a health hazard.

On Saturday, about 150 people blocked the entrance to the dump to keep out trucks carrying building materials. The trucks were allowed through after the police intervened.

Demonstrators, who began protests earlier in the week, also overturned small three-wheeled vehicles and threw stones at the police. Two people were slightly injured, the police said.
134 2008-01-06 For Ms. An and a whole generation consigned to the countryside, it was the first chance to escape what seemed like a life sentence of tedium and hardship. A pent-up reservoir of talent and ambition was released as 5.7 million people took the two-day exam in November and December 1977, in what may have been the most competitive scholastic test in modern Chinese history.

The 4.7 percent of test-takers who won admission to universities — 273,000 people — became known as the class of ’77, widely regarded in China as the best and brightest of their time. By comparison, 58 percent of the nine million exam-takers in 2007 won admission to universities, as educational opportunities have greatly expanded.

Now, three decades later, the powerful combination of intellect and determination has taken many in this elite group to the top in politics, education, art and business. Last October, one successful applicant who had gone on to study law and economics at Peking University, Li Keqiang, was brought into the Chinese Communist Party’s decision-making Politburo Standing Committee, where he is being watched as a possible successor to President Hu Jintao or Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.

“They were a very bright bunch, and they knew it,” said Robin Munro, research director for the Hong Kong-based China Labor Bulletin, who was a British exchange student at Peking University in 1978, when those freshmen arrived.

“They were the first students in 10 years let into university on merit, and they were going places.”

But back in 1977, most had only a few desperate weeks to prepare for the examination that would change their lives. The timing was especially daunting for those who had been cut off from schooling for years. All over China, students found themselves scrambling to find textbooks, seeking out former tutors and straining to recall half-forgotten formulas.

Ms. An, who now works in New York as the director of public relations for Committee of 100, a Chinese-American advocacy group, exaggerated the seriousness of a back injury and took a month’s medical leave, which she devoted to studying.

“I had to succeed,” she said.

The examination tested not only academic subjects, but also political correctness.

Han Ximing, now 50 and a Chinese literature professor at Nanjing Audit University, said she felt she was already well prepared to handle political questions from careful study of the party line in official newspapers in rural Jiangsu Province.

For years, the papers had been filled with criticism of Deng Xiaoping. “That was a big topic,” she said. “Actually, I had no idea why Deng was supposed to be so bad.”

In reality, it was the return of Deng, the veteran Communist leader, to a position of power in Beijing after the fall of the Gang of Four that led to the reinstatement of the annual exam, and a return to the pragmatism that would soon ignite decades of explosive economic growth.

Among those who have assumed positions of power, aside from Mr. Li of the Politburo, are Zhou Qiang, the governor of Hunan Province; Wang Yi, party secretary of the Foreign Affairs Ministry and a former ambassador to Japan; and Jin Liqun, vice president of the Asian Development Bank.

Artistic talent to emerge from the class of ’77 includes the filmmakers Zhang Yimou (“Raise the Red Lantern”) and Chen Kaige (“Farewell My Concubine”), and the writer Chen Cun.

“To be immodest, it was a phenomenal generation,” said Fan Haoyi, now 50, who earned a chance to study French at the Beijing Institute of Foreign Languages (now the Beijing Foreign Studies University), a stepping stone to a business career in Africa and Europe. “We had a rage to learn.”

Many successful candidates said they felt they had been given a priceless opportunity, and they were determined to make the most of it. “We were not just gifted, we also worked really hard,” said Ms. Han, the literature professor.

Still, not everyone jumped at the chance to take the exam.

After years when privilege and opportunity were reserved for the offspring of senior officials or people with approved class backgrounds, many prospective candidates doubted that the test would be fair. Others were reluctant to give up the security of even menial jobs.

For Ms. An, the desire to escape her rural life was tempered by the conviction that taking the exam was risky. Relations between the farmers and students were complex; if she failed and was forced to return to the village, she worried that she would be given all the dirty jobs.

“They didn’t like us being there because they had to share their land,” she said. “But if we tried to leave, they would think we looked down on them.”

Li Xiyue was also part of a rural production team. The work was hard but he found it difficult to imagine any other future for himself. “By the time I was sent to the rural areas, this policy had been in place for 10 years,” said Mr. Li, 50, who won a seat at Guangxi University and went on to become a writer and university lecturer. Hard farm labor “was normal,” he said. “Going to college was not normal.”

Still, he found time to study in his spare time. “The problem was, it was difficult to find interesting material,” he said. “I would even read the literature that came with farming equipment.”

When the time came to take the university entrance exam, some found it difficult to break with the commune.

Ms. Han was allowed to return home to study for the exam, but she became alarmed when she heard that she had been criticized at a commune meeting for pursuing personal ambition at the expense of the revolution.

“I ran back to the team, but my father was very angry and brought me home,” she said. “He banned all further contact with them.”

Ms. An said she had taken some French in middle school, but classes were overlaid with politics and broken up by military training and factory work. Less than confident, she went to see a former teacher who assured her that the examiners would not ask overly complicated questions.

But the teacher predicted that she would be asked why she wanted to study French, advising her to say she was doing it to serve the revolution.

“They did ask me that,” said Ms. An, who qualified to study French at the Beijing Language Institute (now the Beijing Language and Culture University) and later at the Sorbonne in Paris.

When the academic year began in 1978, after the lost decade of the Cultural Revolution, it was an unusually mature freshman class that entered universities across the country. Ms. Han said that some of her fellow students at Nanjing Normal University were twice her age. “I had a classmate who was the father of four kids,” she said.

As they began their studies, many were fired by idealism and eagerness to achieve a fresh start for themselves and their country.

“It was a time full of dreams and hopes for the future,” Ms. Han said.

Thirty years later, many express mixed feelings about the direction events took. While acknowledging the benefits of China’s economic development, some voiced disappointment with the pace of political change. Others complained that rapid material progress had fostered greed and cynicism.

“A lot of things we could not even imagine have become reality,” Mr. Li, the writer and lecturer, said. “But it’s painful to see so much corruption, especially among high-ranking officials.”
135 2008-01-06 On Saturday in Peterborough, it was standing room only at his 100th town-hall meeting in New Hampshire, as hundreds of people packed into a building to hear him speak. The police had to seal the doors, keeping many supporters outside chanting Mr. McCain’s name.

The McCain events follow a pattern. There are the corny opening jokes and the recitation of the reasons he thinks he should be president, items he rushes through so rapidly that they are sometimes a bit garbled. But those are the mere preludes to the main event, his spirited exchanges with voters.

Mr. McCain is so eager to mix it up that even when a supporter challenges him, he seems to look for ways to tell them things they do not want to hear.

If someone is critical of President Bush, he tells them where the president deserves credit: for his work on AIDS in Africa or for the fact that the United States has not been attacked since Sept. 11, 2001. But when another voter blames the news media or Democrats for the perception that the war in Iraq was mismanaged over its first four years, he will point to Donald H. Rumsfeld, the former secretary of defense, and Mr. Bush himself.

On climate change, an issue that he has fought long to address, he will tell an admirer that he will push for the expanded use of nuclear power, something many environmentalists oppose.

After an event on Friday at a company that makes equipment for the military, Mr. McCain chose to rail against the “military-industrial complex.” Later, he said, “Sometimes I go too far.”

He said an angel on one shoulder begged him to pipe down while a devil on the other goaded him on. His best events are when the devil gets the better of him.

He frequently tells voters that it was the town-hall format — inspired by one event in the 2000 campaign — that led him to grasp the threat of global warming.

There is chance involved in these exchanges: when the questions are dull, it can sap the energy in the room. But on Thursday night, at the opera house in Derry, all the elements came together, including his confrontation with an opponent of the war and an emotional exchange with Allie Nault, 10. Allie, articulate for her age and adorable in her Red Star Twirler outfit, said pupils in her class had been asked to select a favorite presidential candidate.

She said she had chosen Mr. McCain. Allie made her way to the front and hugged the 71-year-old senator, tears in her eyes.

With the audience in his hands at that point, Mr. McCain moved on to the man with the white beard in the corner of the room, calling on him by joking that he had not realized Ernest Hemingway was in the crowd.

When the two were done sparring over Iraq, the man was won over enough to urge Mr. McCain to trounce Mitt Romney, his chief Republican rival.
136 2008-01-06 Gary Younge writing in The Guardian of London about Senator Barack Obama’s victory in Iowa.

The days when black politicians stood for office in order to force the issues affecting black communities from the margins to the mainstream are over. Now they can stand to win. ...

But that requires new strategies. Obama has played down his race and white voters have so far mostly played along, pretending either not to notice or suggesting that America has overcome such obstacles.

Obama does however use the rhetoric of the civil rights era in a manner that no other candidate would. With Oprah Winfrey by his side he quoted Martin Luther King about the “fierce urgency of now.”

Some are skeptical however that his victory may represent a racial advance that is far more symbolic than substantial.

Ronald Brownstein writing at NationalJournal.com about Iowa’s influence in the selection of a president:

The most common complaint against Iowa is that a virtually all-white farm state doesn’t represent the ethnically diverse, Information Age United States. That’s true, but it wouldn’t matter as much if Iowa shared its influence more equitably with other, contrasting, states. The issue isn’t whether Iowa voters are the right group to exercise this much influence. The real question is whether any single group of voters should exercise this much influence...
137 2008-01-06 It is fairly common for apparel makers to “borrow” ideas from one another, but when it comes to those checkerboard slip-ons, Vans Inc. feels very protective. Vans, a longtime purveyor to surfers and skateboarders, contends that a new offering by Skechers U.S.A. bears far too close a resemblance to its own checked pattern.

The shoe has been tightly identified with Vans ever since Sean Penn wore the company’s classic black-and-white slip-ons in the 1982 movie “Fast Times at Ridgemont High.”

Anticipating a fight, Skechers beat Vans into court. The company filed suit last March in Federal District Court in Los Angeles, seeking a ruling that its shoe does not infringe the Vans trademark on the pattern. Skechers submitted evidence that a dozen other manufacturers had used the checkerboard pattern. Then, when Vans filed a claim to block Skechers from selling its version, the judge denied its request. Vans is now appealing.

“The checkerboard is central to our design ethic, and it’s been one of our best-selling shoes for 25 years,” said Chris Overholser, spokesman for Vans. The company is part of the VF Corporation, which also owns the North Face and Nautica brands.

Mr. Overholser noted that the Vans offices in Cypress, Calif., have a checkerboard entryway, and that company executives use a checkerboard-patterned recreational vehicle for promotional appearances. The signature pattern also appears on other apparel made by Vans.

THE SEVERANCE THAT COULD HAVE BEEN

Shareholders of E*Trade Financial may get a burning sensation when they hear that the company is paying almost $11 million to its ousted chief executive, Mitchell H. Caplan. But a year ago, Mr. Caplan could have walked off with much more.
138 2008-01-06 Emily Clare Ryan, the daughter of Carol L. Ryan and E. Peter Ryan of West New York, N.J., was married on Saturday to Michael James Escott, a son of the late Mimi Escott and the late Michael Escott, who lived in New York. The Rev. Stephen Katsouros performed the ceremony at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in New York.

Mrs. Escott, 27, is the events coordinator for the Security Traders Association of New York. She graduated from Fordham.

Her father, a retired international stock trader at Crédit Lyonnais, is an arbitrator in New York and New Jersey on the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration panel. Her mother is a member and a former president of St. Vincent’s Hospital Auxiliary, and until 1990 was on the board of the National Arts Club, both in Manhattan.

Mr. Escott, 30, is a third-year law student at Hofstra and a graduate of Fordham.

His mother taught kindergarten at the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Manhattan. His father was a New York-based sales executive with TrenchDex Corporation of British Columbia, which supplied heavy construction materials.
139 2008-01-06 The Roslyn Road work is the only major construction project on Long Island scheduled to be completed in 2008. But work is expected to begin on narrowing by three inches the gap between railroad cars and station platforms. All platforms will be widened by one inch, and a two-inch wider metal threshold plate will be added at the doors of each M-7 car. A one-inch wider plate will be added to the M-3 cars.

Mrs. Williams said commuters who use the Deer Park station would be able to use 600 additional parking spots to be opened adjacent to the railroad’s 1,400-space lot by the new Tanger Mall.

The railroad also plans to begin changing the armrests on its 836 M-7 cars during the second quarter of 2008. The armrests — 34,694 in all — will be replaced by ones that are about four inches shorter and have a smooth surface so that clothes will not catch on them as easily.

Since the M-7 went into service in 2002, the railroad has paid $86,021 to settle 972 claims to riders who said they ripped clothing on the armrests.

In 2008 the railroad plans to begin promoting commuting within the Island, Mrs. Williams said. She said the campaign was designed to “offer an incentive for people to get out of their cars and take short trips on the train because local roads are very congested — and not just during peak hours.”

“We’re going to try to do a demonstration project to identify zones and offer discount tickets to them,” she said. “We’re now looking at ridership data to see what makes sense. There are some stations in our system that are walkable to downtown areas.”

Another 2008 goal is to reduce standees by adding at least two cars to seven trains in the morning rush and one train during the evening peak, Mrs. Williams said. She said there would also be one new morning train from Farmingdale to New York and three new evening-rush trains from New York to Farmingdale, Hicksville and Far Rockaway.

Mrs. Williams also said that the East End shuttle between Speonk and Montauk, introduced Oct. 23 to help with traffic congestion during the construction on Route 39, might be continued on a pilot basis beyond its scheduled termination on May 22. There has been an 833 percent increase in ridership since it began, Mrs. Williams said, and customers have told her that they would continue using the train.

“I rode the train, and customers said it was great during road construction,” she said.
140 2008-01-06 As I walked down the hall to the operating room, following the gurney that held my sedated brother, a nurse complimented me on my leopard-print espadrilles. Does fashionable footwear translate into better medical care? There is no way to test this theory, but I considered the nurse’s remark a victory for my brother.

When visiting hours are over, I leave. I go to the motel where relatives of patients get a reduced rate, and I have a glass of wine and a cheeseburger at the little restaurant, where the waiters actually know me. Then I spend two hours lying on the bed in my room, watching TV shows I would never allow myself to indulge in if I were at home.

That’s another thing you learn when you live a great distance from your family: being with the sick one is the easy part.

When my mother was sick, and I was not with her, I wished I had a cellphone surgically implanted on my person. Some days there were 10 calls. I had to deal with them while living my regular life, which contained two children, a husband, a dog, a job and a house. It was too much.

But when I was with my mother, all the rest receded into the background. A vacation from your regular life, it turns out, is a vacation, even if you’re taking it in a nursing home.

Nobody else knows this. When you’re there, you’re on a mission of mercy, even if you’re looking for Pooh gift wrap in a shopping mall. When you’re not there, you’re selfishly living your own life, even if you’re working like a dog.

Naturally, this is all about guilt. If you asked me to describe what guilt feels like, I couldn’t tell you. I suspect that is because guilt is the air I breathe. When I’m with my family of origin, I feel guilty about my husband and kids, who never complain or second-guess me about leaving, and who always pick up the slack when I am gone. When I’m with my husband and kids, I feel guilty about my family of origin, which is equally valiant. My mother, even at the end, never asked me to stay. “Get on the plane,” she would say from her bed. “Go home.” Wherever that is, I would think, walking quickly out of her room so she wouldn’t see me weeping.

People with families close by can cry in front of them, knowing they won’t be leaving them with an image of misery. They can act on their impulses.

Once, when I described my mother’s medical condition to a woman who has three sisters within 30 miles, she said: “Why are you standing here talking to me? I’d already be in the car.”

A few weeks ago, when I explained to a nurse at the I.C.U. that I had a job I needed to get back to, she said, “You can always get a job.”

Just writing those statements makes me so angry I want to spit. Here is how I look at it: Two people in a surgical waiting room is one more than necessary; three is an indulgence.

That’s the word: indulgence. When you live far away, and you have responsibilities in two places, you don’t get to indulge in your own hysterical impulses. Of course you want to jump in the car when you hear your mother is sick. Of course you want to sit by your brother’s bed. But what about the job that is helping to put your own children through college? What about their dinners? What about the senior pages in their yearbooks?

There ought to be some sort of ethical equation here: child’s senior page versus brother’s oxygen saturation level. Parents’ weekend at college versus lonely mother in assisted-living apartment. But I was never good at math. I just do whatever seems more important, from one day to the next.

And I feel incredibly grateful that I have two daughters. I talk about how one day they’ll argue over who has to deal with me.

“I had her at Thanksgiving,” I imagine them hissing to each other. “You have to take her at Christmas.”

The thing is, I’m not really joking.
141 2008-01-06 The Trenton project is one of several New Jersey Transit initiatives that should be completed or make a significant impact on riders in 2008, Mr. Sarles said.

Douglas John Bowen, a transit advocate who is president of the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers, said he was generally pleased with New Jersey Transit’s overall service and planned changes but feared that too many improvements were tied to commuters headed into Manhattan.

“What they need to do is look more into intrastate possibilities,” Mr. Bowen said.

Penny Bassett Hackett, a New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, said the agency was doing that, noting, for example, that there are plans to study ridership in and out of Newark for the first time in about 30 years.

Another change riders will see in 2008 will be more multilevel cars, which can carry about 30 more seated passengers than traditional cars. Fifty-five are in service now, and this year 130 will be added, mostly to the Northeast Corridor Line.

In addition the agency will install 90 of its new ticket vending machines, Mr. Sarles said. About 57 of these more advanced machines are already in place. One improvement: If a rider routinely uses the same credit card, the new machines remember the last purchase and offer it as an option, speeding up the process, Mr. Sarles said.

In January, two new park-and-ride stations are scheduled to open — in Wayne and in Mount Arlington, Mr. Sarles said. The Wayne station, on Route 23 near its intersection with Routes 80 and 46, will offer rail service on the Montclair-Boonton Line and also will have bus service into Manhattan and locally. There will be 1,000 parking spaces.

The Mount Arlington station, off Route 80, currently offers park-and-ride bus service to Manhattan, but rail service, also on the Montclair-Boonton Line, will be added in January, Mr. Sarles said. There are currently about 250 parking spots; 60 will be added, he said.

David Peter Alan, chairman of a transit group, the Lackawanna Coalition, said that bus/train park-and-rides were good in theory but could be problematic because bus and train schedules are rarely synchronized. (Ms. Bassett Hackett said New Jersey Transit tries to coordinate schedules.)

But more important, Mr. Alan said, he had a fundamental problem with a park-and-ride station.

“You can’t decongest the roads if people have to drive a car to get to public transit,” he said.

Major improvements are scheduled for several other stations, including Newark Broad Street and Metropark.

The Broad Street waiting area will be renovated and high-level platforms will be installed, allowing passengers to get on and off trains without using stairs, Mr. Sarles said. That project is expected to be completed by the spring.

At the Metropark station, Mr. Sarles said, longer and wider platforms that will allow longer trains to stop are being constructed, and shelters with climate control will be built on the platform level.
142 2008-01-06 For a quarter of his presidency, Abraham Lincoln did not live in the White House, but rather in a hilltop cottage three miles north in Washington. It was there that he worked on key war and emancipation strategies, and mourned the death of his son Willie. He last visited the cottage — if you can call a 34-room Gothic Revival, above, a cottage — the day before his assassination.

In 2000, President Clinton designated it a National Monument, and the property underwent a seven-year, $15 million renovation led by the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Opening ceremonies will take place on President’s Day, with public tours starting the next day, Feb. 19. Letters, photographs and audio and visual elements will round out the cottage tour, which costs $12. For more information, visit www.lincolncottage.org.
143 2008-01-06 ONLINE: CRITICAL KUDOS Manohla Dargis, A. O. Scott and Stephen Holden discuss their choices for Oscar nominations in selected categories: nytimes.com/movies....
144 2008-01-06 HARDCOVER     1  -- JIM CRAMER'S STAY MAD FOR LIFE by James J. Cramer (Simon & Schuster, $26). The host of ''Mad Money'' on CNBC explains how to get rich and stay rich.()...
145 2008-01-07 Also in the Morning Buzz: elusive benefits from the Yankee Stadium construction project, Mayor Bloomberg’s arrival in Oklahoma and a preview of Governor Spitzer’s State of the State address....
146 2008-01-07 Blogtalk: Missing Lhasa Apso, missed connections, a property tax cap, and walking in Manhattan....
147 2008-01-07 Clinton campaign hits a bump over a recollection of the civil rights era....
148 2008-01-07 On the Road With John McCain
149 2008-01-07 Jeff Scher's latest animation is a ballet in black and white. Part of Sightlines, an Op-Ed visual series.
150 2008-01-07 The cable industry revived its OpenCable initiative under the name Tru2Way. It may help cable fight competition from phone company television systems and Internet-delivered television. What remains to be seen is how open a platform it is....
151 2008-01-07 Jerry Yang gives a glimpse of Yahoo's future that depends more on third-party developers....
152 2008-01-07 If the world were divided into neat groups -- say, between users of Tasers and MP3 players....
153 2008-01-07 Paul Otellini, Intel CEO, discusses the challenges his company will face in 2008, with CNBC's Jim Goldman.
154 2008-01-07 This year, sales will be greater for speaker systems and clock radios designed to hook up to Apple iPods than standalone desktop stereos and home theater-in-a-box systems....
155 2008-01-07 Just another day on the trail....
156 2008-01-07 An image from the demonstration of Showtime's interactive TV application. (Showtime) Microsoft is demonstrating its vision of interactive television at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week, displaying next-generation scenarios that...
157 2008-01-07 At his last C.E.S. keynote, Bill Gates offers some content partnerships, a few cool demos and a handful of modest product tweaks. In other words, Microsoft has little new to offer in the exploding world of consumer electronics....
158 2008-01-07 A look at Microsoft's presence at the Consumer Electronics Show, with Robbie Bach, president of Microsoft's entertainment devices division, and CNBC's Jim Goldman.
159 2008-01-07 Did a weekend of subpar debating stall John McCain's momentum?...
160 2008-01-07 Our Open Caucus respondents weigh in on the weekend's debates in New Hampshire....
161 2008-01-07 No doubt about it: The number and size of special-purpose acquisition companies, or SPACs, is surging. But SPAC stocks? That's a different story. SPACs are publicly traded vehicles whose sole purpose is to make an acquisition. In the last year or ...
162 2008-01-07 C.E.S. doesn't want to be overshadowed by Apple. So executives here point out that Apple is part of the club....
163 2008-01-07 For years, three big agencies assigned risk ratings to thousands of securities, helping investors figure out which were likely to be safe investments and which were more speculative. But one of those agencies, Moody's Investors Service, said on Mo...
164 2008-01-07 Shares in Credit Suisse fell by around 3 percent on Monday after a Swiss newspaper reported the bank faced writedowns in its commercial mortgage and leveraged-finance business, Reuters said. Credit Suisse has until now emerged relatively unscathed...
165 2008-01-07 Peter Hopkins, a civic-minded and idealistic 2004 Harvard graduate, is hoping that his new Web site, Big Think, will do for intellectuals what YouTube, the popular video-sharing site, did for bulldogs on skateboards. And his enthusiasm has persuad...
166 2008-01-07 FairPoint Communications's amended $2.7 billion merger with Verizon Communications's local phone operations in the New England states won general approval from Maine regulators, the company said Friday. The parties still must obtain final clearanc...
167 2008-01-07 Last week's guest bloggers were Loden Dager, a men's wear collective based in New York City that launched in the Fall of 2006 and recently won the Ecco Domani Fashion Foundation award for new talent. Its members, pictured, are: Melissa Vail, Matth...
168 2008-01-07 Hedge funds SRM Global and RAB Capital on Monday detailed their case for blocking takeover offers for Northern Rock, the troubled British bank that precipitated Britain's worst banking crisis in more than a century. SRM and RAB Capital, the two la...
169 2008-01-07 President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan has bowed, somewhat, to domestic pressure and called in Scotland Yard to help figure out who killed Benazir Bhutto. A credible investigation is urgently needed and Mr. Musharraf — who has no credibility of his own — needs all the help he can get.

Unfortunately, the ex-general immediately raised doubts about how much freedom British police will have to do their job. Even as he insisted that he wants to know how his political rival really died, he insisted that no government officials were involved and warned against investigators going on a “wild goose chase.” That doesn’t sound as if he’s ready to encourage full cooperation.

The government says the assassin was a Qaeda operative, while Ms. Bhutto’s followers charge that it was the work of people with either past or present ties to Mr. Musharraf. Until there is a credible explanation, there is no hope of calming the country’s turmoil. And more turmoil is the last thing that Pakistan, with its nuclear weapons and its cozy ties to Al Qaeda and the Taliban, needs.

Investigators are already facing serious technical obstacles. The crime scene was hosed down by government workers, washing away potential evidence. And there was no autopsy done on Ms. Bhutto’s body — both because her husband didn’t want it and because Pakistani officials failed to order it. An autopsy may be the only way to determine if she was shot, as her supporters believe but the government initially denied, and who aimed the weapon.

Even if he permits a serious investigation, Mr. Musharraf will need to do a lot more to calm furies in Pakistan. He delayed this week’s planned parliamentary elections until Feb. 18. For the vote to have any hope of legitimacy, Mr. Musharraf must now release jailed democratic activists and lawyers, lift press restrictions, allow international monitors to observe the polling, and permit Nawaz Sharif, now the country’s most prominent opposition leader, to stand for election. The United States must insist that Mr. Musharraf do all of this and make clear that ballot-rigging will be exposed and condemned.

The weaknesses of Pakistan’s democracy go beyond Mr. Musharraf. The fact that Ms. Bhutto’s political party quickly chose her husband — long tainted by charges of corruption — and her college-student son as its leaders underscores the system’s feudal nature. Real democracy will take a long time to build in Pakistan, but it’s the only path to stability. And it needs to start now.
170 2008-01-07 Black leaders, like black voters, have been split in their support for the candidates. The Congressional Black Caucus is divided roughly evenly between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton. A few members are backing Mr. Edwards and a few remain uncommitted, including the chairwoman, Representative Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, as well as Representatives Maxine Waters of California and James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the third-ranking Democrat in the House leadership.

Families, too, are split: the Rev. Jesse Jackson has endorsed Mr. Obama (though he has not been uncritical), and his son, Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., is a national co-chairman for the Obama campaign. But the wife of the elder Mr. Jackson is backing Mrs. Clinton. Many younger black leaders like Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts and Mayor Cory Booker of Newark are active in Mr. Obama’s campaign. But other black officials have endorsed Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Edwards for reasons that have included Mr. Obama’s inexperience, doubts about his electability and, for some, longtime ties to Mrs. Clinton and former President Bill Clinton.

“Hillary has great affection among African-Americans,” the elder Mr. Jackson said. “My wife has known Hillary more than 20 years. Her work with the Children’s Defense Fund, Marian Wright Edelman, legal assistance for the poor — these are fairly strong ties. Most people I know are in this kind of one-two posture: Barack one, Hillary two. Hillary one, Barack two. It’s not a hostile decision that many people have made.”

But Mr. Jackson’s son said the historic nature of Mr. Obama’s candidacy meant that black leaders would have to ask themselves, "Where were we? And what do we tell our children?" Then he added, “What’s the answer? That ‘I had a longstanding political commitment and a deal that dates back to when a road was built for me down the street and I got some sidewalks?’"In South Carolina, which will hold its primary on Jan. 26, Leon Howard, chairman of the South Carolina black legislative caucus and an Edwards adviser, said he got on the phone around 11 p.m. Thursday and began calling colleagues who had backed Mr. Biden and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who also dropped out of the race after Iowa. Mr. Howard focused on legislators from rural areas where he said there was a need for infrastructure, like trauma hospitals, that a candidate might promise to address and where Mr. Edwards had campaigned heavily.

Mr. Smith, the Biden supporter, was watching the election returns in his living room with his wife and son, who are Obama supporters. (His other son, a student at Yale Law School, is supporting Mrs. Clinton.) He got his first call of the evening from an upstate South Carolina coordinator for the Obama campaign. Then came one from a fellow state representative from Spartanburg who is working for Mrs. Clinton.

“I told him, ‘Your candidate will have to call me first before I make any kind of commitment to support her,’” Mr. Smith recalled. The Obama emissary got the same response. The following day brought two more calls from two other Clinton campaign members who, Mr. Smith said, said they would arrange for Mrs. Clinton to call him after the New Hampshire primary and meet with him in South Carolina.

Mr. Smith, whose legislative district is 52 percent black and 48 percent white, describes himself as a believer in “strong national defense” and progressive social policy at home. A former political coordinator for the campaign of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut in the 2004 South Carolina Democratic primary, he said the potentially historic nature of Mr. Obama’s campaign swayed him no more than that of Mrs. Clinton’s.

“We’re going to make history as Democrats one way or another,” he said, adding: “To me, it’s not a question of race. It’s a question of who’s going to be the one to unify the country. I think that both of those candidates have the potential of doing it in a very dignified, professional way. I’m not going to vote for Senator Obama simply because he is a black candidate who happens to be the front runner.”

Mr. Sharpton said he was holding out for “specific commitments” on things like reform of the criminal justice system and what kind of attorney general would be appointed.

He added, “The head tells us, ‘Look, we’ve got serious problems: Health care disparities, the economy, the criminal justice system.’ That’s your head. Your heart is saying, ‘We can make history, we can have the first black nominee, let’s go for it.’ At the end of the day, if you just go with making a statement of history, and not deal with the problems, what happens the next time you ask the troops to rally?”

Several black elected officials backing Mrs. Clinton, and some backing Mr. Obama, said they did not expect to see leaders who had endorsed Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Edwards abandoning those campaigns. Ms. Tubbs Jones, who represents suburbs and areas of Cleveland in Congress, first endorsed Bill Clinton in 1992, has worked with Mrs. Clinton, and decided to back her more than a year before Mrs. Clinton announced her candidacy.

“In politics, we all understand that the only thing you have is your word,” Ms. Tubbs Jones said in an interview. “You make a commitment to a person and you stick with them through thick and thin. My commitment is thick and I’m in there for the long run.”
171 2008-01-07 Ellis Burks, who was often injured throughout his career as a major league outfielder from 1987 through 2004, said he took several times the recommended dose of Advil to play through persistent pain in his knees.

“I had a regimen where I’d take four Advil a half-hour before the game, and then I’d take another three in the sixth or seventh inning, just to get by,” said Burks, now a special assistant to Cleveland Indians General Manager Mark Shapiro. “It tore my stomach up. I had ulcers because of that — the lining in my stomach was bleeding, saying, Hey, cut this out. But you take different things to get you by.”

As with most professional sports, keeping up now involves far more than Popeye’s spinach and Jack LaLanne’s situps. Every major league clubhouse has tubs of creatine supplements — creatine is manufactured naturally in the body and enables muscle growth — along with various vitamin supplements. Foamy elixirs are openly quaffed before and after workouts. Players often have individual jars of products in their lockers, although this has become less common since the 1998 controversy over McGwire’s use of androstenedione (now illegal but then available over the counter), which began when a reporter saw a bottle of it in McGwire’s locker.

Doug Glanville, a major league outfielder from 1996 through 2004, said that probably the strongest substance he ever chose to take was Tylenol, but that many of his teammates sought medicinal relief for three principal reasons: pain relief, energy or strength.

“You’re in a physical environment where your body is the tool of your trade, and you want to keep it as strong and resilient as possible,” Glanville said. “You do what you can to keep this object of your livelihood in one piece.”

Clemens said in 2005 that he had relied on Vioxx, a prescription pain reliever, for an unspecified period before it was removed from the market in 2004 for increasing the risk of heart attack and stroke. Clemens told “60 Minutes” that the substances McNamee claimed to have injected into him 16 to 21 times in previous years were not steroids or human growth hormone, but merely lidocaine and B12.

Lidocaine is a common local anesthetic whose injectable form requires a prescription. Injected directly into the painful area, rather than the buttocks, it is often used to allow players with injuries like a hip pointer to play or practice, said Dennis Miller, the director of sports medicine at Purdue University.

Miller and several other sports medicine experts said that although McNamee’s specific credentials were unclear, few if any personal trainers were licensed to inject lidocaine; as a prescription injectable, it must be administered by or under the direction of a physician or a nurse. It is not clear why Clemens chose to be injected by McNamee rather than by a licensed member of his team’s medical staff.

Several sports medicine professionals said that vitamin B12 was a common over-the-counter supplement in pill or lozenge form. But in most states, if not all of them, it requires a prescription to be injected. It is marketed as a means to increase energy — something professional athletes crave with their exhausting travel schedules — but some doctors say it has only a psychological effect.

Particularly in baseball, where mind-set and self-confidence are paramount, a psychological effect is often enough to spur players to experiment. Jim Bouton, the major league pitcher whose 1970 book “Ball Four” pulled back the curtain on players’ reliance on amphetamines and other substances, said in a telephone interview last week that players’ grasping for an edge appeared to be “as haphazard and bizarre and uncontrollable as it was back then.”

Bouton laughed as he recalled the day in 1964 when he gladly accepted a muscle balm from his teammate Whitey Ford, solely because Ford said: “A horse trainer I know gave it to me. It reduces inflammation in horses.” Almost immediately after it touched his skin, Bouton said, “I could taste it in my mouth,” but he kept applying it anyway.

Chuck Kimmel, a longtime athletic trainer for Austin Peay State University who now works in student health services at Appalachian State, said athletes’ search for substances began “with the first Olympics” and has occasionally veered into the downright weird.

“In the early 1980s, every athlete was doing bee pollen because there was an infomercial or something,” Kimmel said. “That lasted about a year, and I haven’t heard anything about bee pollen since.”

When the Seattle Mariners rampaged through the 2001 season on their way to an American League-record 116 victories, an inside joke among players was that their secret edge was not a medicine cabinet, but a refrigerator. The home clubhouse at Safeco Field had one full of Red Bull energy drink. Players laughed that the visitors’ clubhouse merely had a vending machine for latte.

Asked if this was fair, Eric Milton, then a pitcher for the Minnesota Twins, said he secured his Red Bull on the outside — and chugged two before every start.

“And usually another one between innings,” Milton said. “It keeps you alert and aware of your surroundings. It helps your mind and body. That’s what it says on the can, right?”
172 2008-01-07 He added: “It is not only the benefits but the risks of the system that have to be discussed fully. It cannot be that we alone carry the costs.”

There was no official response from the United States. Bogdan Klich, Poland’s new defense minister, is expected to make his first official visit to Washington this month to explain his government’s position.

NATO said Sunday that the missile defense issue was essentially a discussion for Poland, the United States and Russia. “NATO is happy to be a forum for discussion, and it is a useful one,” said James Appathurai, a spokesman for the alliance. “But it does not substitute for the bilateral track.”

Mr. Sikorski also said he was worried that the United States might abandon the project after the American presidential election in November. In that case, Poland would nevertheless have to bear political costs, like the deterioration of relations with Russia, if it signed on to the shield prematurely.

The deployment of the missile defense system has become such a contentious issue between the United States and Russia — and also between Poland and Russia — that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has warned of a new arms race if Washington proceeds with the plan in Poland and the Czech Republic.

Having accused Washington of threatening Russia’s national security interests, Mr. Putin last month suspended his nation’s participation in the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty.

Under that treaty, one of the last major arms pacts between the former cold war foes, countries stretching from Canada across Europe to the eastern parts of the former Soviet Union cut their conventional forces and agreed to on-site inspections and an elaborate system of verification and notifications. It took effect in 1992.

The Kremlin did not say how long it would suspend its participation. But Russian diplomats said it depended on not only what kind of concessions the United States was prepared to make concerning changes to the treaty, but also on whether Poland and the Czech Republic would deploy components of the American antimissile system.

The approach on missile defense taken by Poland’s new center-right coalition government, under Prime Minister Donald Tusk, reflects a different negotiating strategy from that of the previous nationalist-conservative government led by Jaroslaw Kaczynski.

Mr. Kaczynski, who was much more pro-American, agreed in principle to deploy several interceptors on Polish territory without going into detail over the costs, the maintenance and the risks to Poland’s security, according to Polish officials.

The former prime minister did little to allay Russia’s fears about deploying the missile shield in Poland, or to drum up support in other European Union member states. He left it up to the United States to explain the issue to the Kremlin and to European governments.

In contrast, Mr. Tusk and Mr. Sikorski, while certainly aware of Mr. Putin’s growing assertiveness in international affairs, have repeatedly said they want to improve relations with Russia.
173 2008-01-07 GOMA, Congo (Agence France-Presse) — Talks to secure peace in conflict-torn eastern Congo opened Sunday amid warnings by the Roman Catholic Church against a “Balkanization” of the vast African country.

Participants in the nine days of talks, called by President Joseph Kabila, include government ministers, lawmakers, international officials, religious leaders and representatives of armed groups in the eastern provinces of North Kivu and South Kivu, on the border with Burundi and Rwanda.

The discussions, at a regional university in Goma, the capital of North Kivu, will address the presence of local and foreign militias in the region, border controls, illegal trafficking in minerals and weapons proliferation.

Several important players, including Catholic bishops and Mr. Kabila, warned that the meeting should not be used to change the country’s political and geographical status quo.

“Territorial integrity, the inviolability of borders and national unity of the Democratic Republic of Congo are not negotiable,” the Roman Catholic Conference of Bishops wrote in a statement. Congo has remained politically fragile since the end of its 1998-2003 civil war.
174 2008-01-07 France is proceeding with an experiment in free admission at 18 national museums in an effort to entice more French to visit them, Reuters reported. Until June 30, some of the museums, including the Louvre in Paris, will offer free admission to their permanent collections while others will offer it to visitors under 26 one night a week. Normally the entrance fees range from $9 to $12. “French museums are ready for more visitors, and we hope to draw in a new public, especially young people, said Christine André, a spokeswoman for the Culture Ministry’s museum arm. “It’s a question of money for some people.” Foreign tourists, who make up three-quarters of the visitors between the ages of 18 and 25, will also benefit from the experiment. Ms. André said, “If the French start seeing long lines in front of the museums, they’ll start to tell themselves: ‘Hey, foreigners are taking advantage of this. We’d be morons not to.’ ” Museum attendance in Britain has risen 50 percent since free admission was introduced there in 2001.
175 2008-01-07 An extensive collection of vinyl records and discs of 1970s music, including original recordings by the reggae greats Bob Marley and Peter Tosh, has vanished from the archive of the former Jamaica Broadcasting Corporation, The Associated Press reported. Olivia Grange, Jamaica’s information minister, said the possible theft of the music was a blow to the history of the island.
176 2008-01-07 A handful of other deep-pocketed investors also decided to chip in, including Peter Thiel, the Silicon Valley venture capitalist and co-founder of PayPal, the online payments site; Tom Scott, who struck it rich by founding, and selling, the juice company Nantucket Nectars and now owns Plum TV, a collection of local television stations in wealthy playgrounds like Aspen, Martha’s Vineyard and the Hamptons; the television producer Gary David Goldberg, who was behind the hit shows “Spin City” and “Family Ties”; and David Frankel, a venture capitalist who was the lead investor in Big Think.

“I tend to follow my own curiosities, and I know millions of people are like me,” said Mr. Scott. “I’m into this kind of thing. I do think there is a market for this.”

Mr. Frankel, the lead investor, said, “The initial investors may put in more. I imagine we will go out and raise more money in the future.”

Mr. Hopkins and his partner, Victoria Brown, germinated the idea for Big Think while working together at PBS on the “Charlie Rose” show in 2006.

When they surveyed the landscape, Mr. Hopkins, 24, and Ms. Brown, 33, saw a vast array of celebrity and sophomoric video content (remember the clips of cats urinating in toilets that caused a sensation on YouTube?).

“Everyone says Americans are stupid — that’s what we generally heard from venture capitalists” when trying to raise money, Mr. Hopkins said. Obviously, Mr. Hopkins and Ms. Brown felt differently, and the success of the business basically hinges on proving that Americans have an appetite for other kinds of content.

Of course, Mr. Hopkins and Ms. Brown are not the first to see the Internet as an opportunity to further public discourse. It was invented largely by academics; numerous sites, like Arts & Letters Daily, an offshoot of the Chronicle of Higher Education, seek to serve intellectuals.

Big Think’s business model right now is rudimentary: attract enough viewers, then sell advertising. “We’re going to wait until it gets attention before going after advertisers,” Mr. Hopkins said.

So for the time being, money will be flowing one way at Big Think, out the door. Over the last several months, Big Think’s handful of producers, working from a pod of desks in a Manhattan office space, have amassed a library of about 180 interviews with leading thinkers, politicians and business leaders, like Mitt Romney, Supreme Court Justice Stephen G. Breyer, Richard Branson and the co-founder of Blackstone, Pete Peterson. Many of the interviews were conducted in a closet-turned-studio in a back room off the office kitchen.

The interview style, which Big Think’s founders said was derived from a technique used by the filmmaker Errol Morris, places the interviewer in an even smaller closet, behind a shower curtain, hidden from the subject and making the person asking the questions almost an afterthought. The subject hears the questions from a closed-circuit monitor.

The finished product even eliminates the interviewer’s voice, and the questions appear as text on the screen. The goal is to not create a confrontation between interviewer and interviewee, or goad the subject into saying something provocative (but if it happens, that is a bonus.)

“The whole idea is really to take the interviewer out of the equation,” said Mr. Hopkins. “It allows people to be very candid. Pete Peterson went on about how his mother never loved him. It was like he was coming in for his last testament.”

When Mr. Peterson left his interview, he surveyed the makeshift studio and said, “You kids are really making lemonade out of lemons.”

Tom Freston, the former chief executive of Viacom, has shown little interest in publicly reflecting on his 2005 firing by Viacom Chairman Sumner M. Redstone. But he agreed to discuss it with Big Think, saying in an interview, “Say if you’re a C.E.O. of a public company, a lot of it you’re playing defense. You’re dealing with problems or crises. At the moment in the smaller life I have for myself, I’ve got a lot less of that, which is a good thing.”

Those videos stockpiled over the last months will be introduced piecemeal and used in a variety of ways. For example, the site may pose the question “are two parties enough?” and assemble clips from people like John McCain and Arlen Specter and Dennis Kucinich. Readers would then have an opportunity to submit their own views.

“The idea behind Big Think is that you do have to sit down for a few minutes and listen to people who know more than you do,” Mr. Hopkins said.

Mr. Hopkins knows his site will naturally appeal to secular East Coast intellectuals, but he wants to challenge their secularism with sections on faith and love and happiness. “There’s a ton of evangelicals,” said Mr. Hopkins, including an interview with Rick Warren, the pastor and best-selling author of “The Purpose Driven Life.”

“People, whether or not they believe in God, these issues really resonate,” said Mr. Hopkins. “Look at the success of ‘The Secret’ and ‘The Purpose Driven Life.’”

He also hopes the site can transcend partisanship and become a destination for thinkers open to hearing opposing views.

“We live in this hyperpartisan world with really smart people on each side,” Mr. Hopkins said, invoking John Locke and John Stuart Mill, two enlightenment thinkers who believed in being open to hearing out the other side. “But there’s a lot of information not being exchanged because of these false barriers. People should expose themselves to the counterpoints.”
177 2008-01-07 For more than 30 years the New York Gilbert & Sullivan Players have won loyal audiences by providing musically ingratiating, broadly comic and very tame productions of this timeless repertory. You will not see high-concept stagings here — no “Pirates of Penzance” set in Guantánamo Bay. And that’s the way patrons of this tradition-bound company like things.

The audience certainly enjoyed the Players production of “Princess Ida” on Friday night, which opened its 2008 season, the “G&S FEST 2008,” at City Center. Those who, like me, found the musical performance stylish, for the most part, but the staging amateurish — full of histrionic acting and inane sight gags — seemed to be in the minority. Albert Bergeret, who founded the company, conducts and directs most of its productions, including this one. His musical gifts far outweigh his directorial skills.

“Princess Ida” satirizes Victorian society’s preoccupation with women’s education. Set in vaguely medieval times, the daffy operetta tells of Princess Ida, daughter of King Gama, who has been betrothed since infancy to Prince Hilarion, son of King Hildebrand. Alas, the prince and princess, in their early 20s when we meet them, are strangers to each other. Ida has renounced men and founded a university for women at the isolated Castle Adamant. Aided by two adventure-loving friends, Hilarion sneaks into the castle to claim his intended.

Gilbert, who adapted this three-act text from one of his existing plays, is not at his best here. The blank-verse dialogue is a little stiff and wordy. Still, the material clearly inspired Sullivan. The score deftly shifts from bubbly vitality to wistful elegance. There are elaborate ensembles, including an extended Act II finale for soloists and chorus, rousing music of almost Verdian grandeur.

Sullivan again proves himself a master at evoking diverse musical styles, as in “This Helmet, I Suppose,” a song for Arac, one of King Gama’s blockheaded warrior sons. This humorously ominous music, with its contrapuntal orchestral writing and walking bass line, is a riff on sturdy solo arias from Handel oratorios. It was solidly sung here by the bass-baritone David Wannen.

But the mock-stentorian delivery of lines and exaggerated comic gestures were like what you would encounter from Gilbert and Sullivan societies at countless colleges. Mr. Bergeret believes in having his cast illustrate almost every word with broad hand and arm movement. Fingers stroke chins at the mention of “face,” and arms sweep the sky when the chorus sings of “empyrean heights.” Remembering all these gestures must be as hard for the cast as memorizing Gilbert’s lines.
178 2008-01-07 “It’s mostly the same old team on board, but it’s a different set of circumstances,” he said. “We’re in two wars. And we face the threat of radical Islamic extremism. We are in a little bit of a different environment.”

Mr. McCain has nowhere near the resources he did in 2000. His once gold-plated campaign organization collapsed last summer, unable to raise the money needed to sustain it. Mark McKinnon, his media adviser, is putting together advertisements for Mr. McCain at cost — allowing him to at least hold his own with his main opponent, Mitt Romney, on the air in the final hours of the campaign here.

Eight years ago, Mr. McCain would send invitations to 20,000 voters to try to ensure a good turnout for an event; this time, his aides said, they could typically afford just 5,000 mailers. Some of his closest aides — Mark Salter and Charles Black — say they are forgoing paychecks for now.

And the tone of Mr. McCain’s advertisements — and his attacks on opponents, arrows sheathed in jokes — have grown more acerbic. That, his aides said, reflected the lessons he learned in 2000 after an embittering defeat by Mr. Bush in South Carolina; in that showdown, which pretty much ended his presidential hopes for that campaign, Mr. McCain refused to run attack ads responding to Mr. Bush.

In New Hampshire in 2000, Mr. Bush took issue when Mr. McCain ran an ad saying, “only one man running for president who knows the military and understands the world.”

This time, to make the same point about Mr. Romney, also a governor with no foreign experience, Mr. McCain has run advertisements on the Internet that show jarring images of terrorists in masks holding guns. One of his main television ads spotlights Mr. Romney’s changing positions on some issues, and highlights an editorial in The Concord Monitor calling him “a phony.”

And Mr. McCain’s post-New Hampshire prospects, should he win on Tuesday, are if anything less certain than they were 2000, when he left this state confident that he would beat Mr. Bush. He has barely any organization in Michigan, the next state to vote, said Saul Anuzis, the state Republican chairman there. Mr. McCain was forced to lay off all but one of his staff members because of his financial difficulties.

He has more of a presence in South Carolina, but there he would face a tough challenge from Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, said Katon Dawson, the party chairman there. “He has a pretty strong team here,” Mr. Dawson said. “I wouldn’t write the senator off.”

Mr. McCain appears at times more coiled than in 2000, reluctant to say anything that might jinx the way things are going. At the same time, he seems to be enjoying this campaign just as much as the last one: the nonstop attention from voters and journalists, the continued conversations and probing and traveling.

Mike Murphy, a friend and close adviser to his last campaign, showed up this weekend and the two men were before long loudly exchanging stories — “tell about the time” Mr. McCain would start — in the back of the bus.

Out of money after the near meltdown of his campaign last summer, collapsing in the polls and forced to lay off most of his staff, Mr. McCain went back to New Hampshire, to do what worked for him last time in a state that has already viewed him with affection: a poll by CNN and WMUR released Sunday found that 80 percent of Republicans and 62 percent of Democrats said they had a favorable view of him.

Like last time, he is riding the Straight Talk Express, his traveling press conference of a bus, beginning his sentences with “I’m going to give you a little straight talk” and entertaining his audiences with self-deprecatory asides, delivered with a double-arch of the eyebrows.

As of Sunday, he had held 102 town-hall-style meetings, compared with 114 in 2000. He was going back to the same places, telling the same jokes — “We have so little water in Arizona that the trees chase the dogs,” he says — and using the same props to work the crowd, like the confetti gun.

There was never any question that reporters would be given free access to him on his bus. And there was never any question that he would pay visits to the same newspaper editorial boards that endorsed him last time. It is also why he is planning to end his campaign on Monday night with a rally in Portsmouth, the same place he ended his 2000 campaign.

“I found a nickel on the ground here with its head up, and I kept it,” he said. “With the head up, not the tail up.”

There is one other difference between last time and 2008. When Mr. McCain rolled into Peterborough on Saturday night in his two-bus motorcade, 2,000 people were waiting to hear him. It was a far cry from the barren hall that confronted him back in late 1999 on his first trip to Peterborough as a candidate for president, where even the promise of free ice cream failed to bring a crowd.
179 2008-01-07 Through Dec. 23, the latest date for which data are available, Mitt Romney dominated advertising in all but two of the television markets in states with early primaries or caucuses. Barack Obama ran more spots in Iowa, and both Mr. Obama and Hilla...
180 2008-01-07 A MOVE ON CNET A consortium of prominent investment funds has amassed a 21 percent stake in CNet Networks and is said to be seeking to oust the company's directors and take over a majority of its board.      A YOUNGER HUNTER At the age of 9, Bindi...
181 2008-01-08 The Republican candidate has attracted fiercely loyal volunteers here in New Hampshire....
182 2008-01-08 Countrywide, the country's largest mortgage lender, denied today that it is planning a bankruptcy filing. Financial stocks crumbled and took the rest of the market with them. When a company has to say it isn't broke, it is not a good sign. When it...
183 2008-01-08 Democratic candidates love nothing more than to advertise their close alliances with John McCain....
184 2008-01-08 From Eric Dash, a DealBook colleague: Citigroup, badly bruised by the sharp downturn in the housing market, is bringing together all of its mortgage-related activities under one roof. In an internal memorandum released Tuesday afternoon, Citi appo...
185 2008-01-08 A new book looks at the health effects of man’s best friend....
186 2008-01-08 Just when Rangers fans thought it was safe, with the miserable Tampa Bay Lightning hitting town, the Blueshirts' news gets worse....
187 2008-01-08 We came back here to this wonderful state we've come to trust and love. And we had just one strategy: to tell you what I believe.

I didn't just tell you what the polls said you wanted to hear. I didn't tell you what I knew to be false. I didn't try to spin you.

I just talked to the people of New Hampshire. I talked about the country we love, the many challenges we face together, and the great promise that is ours to achieve.

The work that awaits us in this hour on our watch, to defend our country from its enemies, to advance the ideals that are our greatest strengths, to increase the prosperity and opportunities of all Americans, and to make in our time, as each preceding American generation has, another better world than the one we inherited.

I talked to the people of New Hampshire. I reasoned with you. I listened to you. I answered you. Sometimes, I argued with you.

But I always told you the truth as best I can see the truth. And you did me the great honor of listening. Thank you, New Hampshire from the...

Thank you, New Hampshire, from the bottom of my heart. I'm grateful and humbled and more certain than ever before that, before I can win your vote, I must win your respect. And I must do that by being honest with you and then put my trust in your fairness and good judgment.

Tonight, we have taken a step, but only the first step toward repairing the broken politics of the past and restoring the trust of the American people in their government.

The people of New Hampshire have told us again that they do not send us to Washington to serve our self-interest, but to serve theirs.

(APPLAUSE) They don't send us to fight each other for our own political ambitions, but to fight together our real enemies. They don't send us to Washington to stroke our egos, to keep this beautiful, bountiful, blessed country safe, prosperous and proud.

They don't send us to Washington to take more of their money and waste it on things that add not an ounce to America's strength and prosperity. They don't help a single family realize the dreams we all dream for our children, that don't help a single displaced worker find a new job, and the security and dignity it assures them, that won't keep the promise we make to young workers that the retirement they have begun to invest in will be there for them when they need it.

They don't send us to Washington to do their job, but to do ours.

My friends, I didn't go to Washington to go along to get along or to play it safe to serve my own interests. I went there to serve my country.

And that, my friends, is just what I intend to do if I am so privileged to be elected your president.

Thank you. I seek the nomination of a party that believes in the strength, industry, and goodness of the American people.

We don't believe that government has all the answers, but that it should respect the rights, property, and opportunities of the people to whom we are accountable.

We don't believe in growing the size of government to make it easier to serve our own ambitions. But what government is expected to do it must do with competence, resolve and wisdom.

In recent years, we have lost the trust of the people who share our principles but doubt our own allegiance to them.

I seek the nomination of our party to restore that trust, to return our party to the principles that have never felt Americans, the party of fiscal discipline, low taxes, enduring values, a strong and capable defense that encourages the enterprise and ingenuity of individuals, businesses and families who know best how to advance America's economy and secure the dreams that have made us the greatest nation in history.

The work that we face in our time is great, but our opportunities greater still. In a time of war and the terrible sacrifices it entails, the promise of a better future is not always clear.

But I promise you, my friends, we face no enemy, no matter no cruel, and no challenge, no matter how daunting, greater than the courage, patriotism, and determination of Americans.

We are the makers of history, not its victims.

And as we confront this enemy, the people privileged to serve in public office should not evade our mutual responsibility to defeat them because we are more concerned with personal or partisan ambition. Whatever the differences between us, so much more should unite us, and nothing, and nothing should unite us more closely than the imperative of defeating an enemy who despises us, our values, and modernity itself.

We must all pull together, all pull together in this critical hour and proclaim that the history of the world will not be determined by this unpardonable foe, but by the aspirations, ideals, faith, and the courage of free people in this great, historic...

... in this great historic task, we will never surrender. They will.

The results of the other party's primary is uncertain at this time tonight, but I want to congratulate all the campaigns in both parties. I salute the supports of all the candidates who worked so hard to achieve a success tonight and who believe so passionately in the promise of their candidate.

And I want to assure them that though I did not have their support, and though we may disagree from time to time on how to best advance America's interests and ideals, they have my genuine respect, for they have worked for a cause they believe, is good for the country we all love, a cause greater than their self-interest.

My friends, I learned long ago that serving only one's self is a petty and unsatisfying ambition. But serve a cause greater than self- interest and you will know a happiness far more sublime than the fleeting pleasure of fame and fortune.

For me, that greater cause has always been my country, which I have served imperfectly for many years, but have loved without any reservation every day of my life.

And however this campaign turns out -- and I am more confident tonight that it will turn out much better than once expected...

... I am grateful beyond expression for the prospect that I might serve her a little while longer.

That gratitude imposes on me the responsibility to do nothing in this campaign that would make our country's problems harder to solve or that would cause Americans to despair that a candidate for the highest office in the land would think so little of the honor that he would put his own interests before theirs. I take that responsibility as my most solemn trust.

So, my friends -- so, my friends, we celebrate one victory tonight and leave for Michigan tomorrow to win another.

But let us remember -- let us remember that our purpose is not ours alone. Our success is not an end in itself.

America is our cause, yesterday, today, and tomorrow. Her greatness is our hope; her strength is our protection; her ideals our greatest treasure; her prosperity, the promise we keep to our children, her goodness, the hope of mankind.

That is the cause of our campaign and the platform of my party. And I will stay true to it, so help me God.

Thank you, New Hampshire. Thank you, my friends. And God bless you as you have -- God bless you as you have blessed me. God bless you as you have blessed me. Enjoy this. You have earned it more than me. Tomorrow, we begin again.
188 2008-01-08 Microsoft's $1.2 billion acquisition of Fast Search and Transfer, the Norwegian enterprise search vendor, may bolster its technology and its relationships with big companies and Web publishers....
189 2008-01-08 This week's guest blogger is the New York-based men's wear designer Adam Kimmel. Known for his heady brand of cerebral machismo - Willem de Kooning and Jackson Pollock are recurring inspirations - Kimmel, 28, will be filing from Florence, Italy, w...
190 2008-01-08 Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson appears on CNBC to discuss U.S. housing woes and recession worries.
191 2008-01-08 The announcement that Krispy Kreme Doughnuts' chief executive, Daryl G. Brewster, has resigned amid a sputtering turnaround had at least one market pundit betting that a sale of the chain may ultimately be in the offing. The company said on Monday...
192 2008-01-08 Did Henry Blodget open the bidding for CNet Networks? Breakingviews says that the former Merill Lynch tech analyst who was barred from the securities industry amid the tainted research brouhaha last month made an unusual "bid" through his Silicon ...
193 2008-01-08 Microsoft agreed to buy Norwegian online-search software maker Fast Search & Transfer for 6.6 billion kroner ($1.23 billion) as it adds products that help companies mine information on the Internet. Microsoft, the world's biggest software maker, w...
194 2008-01-08 Rupert Murdoch has returned to the German TV market by buying a near 15 percent stake Monday in the country's largest pay-TV broadcaster, Premiere. News Corporation, which is controlled by Murdoch, bought the stake for 287 million from euros the G...
195 2008-01-08 The larvae of the Alcon blue butterfly, Maculinea alcon, are sly little parasites, tricking ants into raising them. They smell just like the ants’ own brood — their surface chemicals are very similar. So the ants take the butterfly larvae to their nest, where they feed them, neglecting their own.

Unlike other examples of parasitism where just one host species is involved, however, the butterfly larvae mimic the chemical signature of two ant species. What’s more, David R. Nash of the University of Copenhagen and colleagues report in the journal Science, one of the host species may be a refuge for the butterfly when the other host fights back.

Dr. Nash, who has worked with this butterfly family for years, said one question had always been why they parasitize more than one species of hosts. So he and his colleagues studied parasitized ant colonies across western Denmark.

They found that ants of one species, Myrmica rubra, developed resistance to the butterfly larval infection, through alterations in the chemical signature of their own larvae, so that they no longer recognized butterfly larvae as their own. “They’re changing their surface chemistry as a response to the butterflies,” Dr. Nash said. The other species, Myrmica ruginodis, “doesn’t seem to be able to do this,” he added.

So when M. rubra adapts and becomes less likely to be parasitized, the butterfly still has M. ruginodis as a kind of escape valve. “What’s important for the butterfly is having a host available that it can exploit,” Dr. Nash said.

Why one species can develop resistance and the other cannot has to do with their social structure — how the ants are organized and reproduce. M. rubra forms new colonies by budding, essentially splitting in two. So local colonies are closely related, and genetic changes that help it resist the parasite are passed along.
196 2008-01-08 A. Because diverse groups of people bring to organizations more and different ways of seeing a problem and, thus, faster/better ways of solving it.

People from different backgrounds have varying ways of looking at problems, what I call “tools.” The sum of these tools is far more powerful in organizations with diversity than in ones where everyone has gone to the same schools, been trained in the same mold and thinks in almost identical ways.

The problems we face in the world are very complicated. Any one of us can get stuck. If we’re in an organization where everyone thinks in the same way, everyone will get stuck in the same place.

But if we have people with diverse tools, they’ll get stuck in different places. One person can do their best, and then someone else can come in and improve on it. There’s a lot of empirical data to show that diverse cities are more productive, diverse boards of directors make better decisions, the most innovative companies are diverse.

Breakthroughs in science increasingly come from teams of bright, diverse people. That’s why interdisciplinary work is the biggest trend in scientific research.

Q. The term “diversity” has become a code word for inclusion of racial, ethnic and sexual minorities. Is that what you’re talking about?

A. I mean differences in how people think. Two people can look quite different and think similarly. Having said that, there’s certainly a lot of evidence that people’s identity groups — ethnic, racial, sexual, age — matter when it comes to diversity in thinking.

Here’s the bottom line: I myself am an affirmative action child. I got into the University of Michigan in the 1980s on a program. I’m from a rural part of Michigan. No calculus in high school. So I was given bonus points toward undergraduate admissions.

If the policy had been to consider mainly grades and SATs and not to make room for some geographic diversity, maybe I wouldn’t have gotten in.

Q. Give us an example of where diversity has improved an organization or profession?

A. I’ve seen it in my own field, economics. Before women got really involved in the 1970s, a lot of the actual labor of women wasn’t included in calculations of the gross domestic product. It was as if you had Ma Ingalls sitting around the Little House on the Prairie, eating bonbons, and only Pa Ingalls’s labor was counted in.

After you got women into the profession, they started saying: “What if Ma Ingalls opened up a business and charged for the cleaning, pie making, tending of the animals. Wouldn’t there be a lot of G.D.P. in there?”

When you only had men thinking about the economy, they were ignoring the productivity of half the population. By including the perspectives of females, the estimates got more accurate. This was important for looking at the American past and for understanding contemporary societies like those in Africa, where women are usually the farmers.

Q. In your book, you advocate affirmative action, an unpopular social policy these days. What’s your argument?

A. That it’s a flat-out good because, as I said earlier, it makes everything we do more powerful.

For a while, I chaired admissions in the graduate political science department at the University of Michigan. We didn’t just look at high test scores. We looked at things like whether an applicant had worked with Teach for America. We wanted to bring in people who had experiences and modes of thinking that would improve everyone else.

At a university, people learn from each other as well as their professors. Another suburban kid who was raised to score high on tests doesn’t add all that much to the mix.

A. After a certain threshold, it doesn’t give you enough information. Anyone who scores above 600 on a Graduate Record Exam will probably do well in graduate school. But we were looking for future social science researchers. The ability to do innovative research requires creativity and originality, something the G.R.E. won’t predict.

Q. How do you know you’re right about diversity?

A. One of the things social scientists do is create math models to prove our theories. With Lu Hong — she’s an economist at Chicago’s Loyola University — I constructed a formal model that showed mathematically that diversity can trump ability, and also when it does.

Our models were similar to what people are doing to predict the financial markets and voting patterns, and our paper was published in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

What the model showed was that diverse groups of problem solvers outperformed the groups of the best individuals at solving problems. The reason: the diverse groups got stuck less often than the smart individuals, who tended to think similarly.

The other thing we did was to show in mathematical terms how when making predictions, a group’s errors depend in equal parts on the ability of its members to predict and their diversity. This second theorem can be expressed as an equation: collective accuracy = average accuracy + diversity.
197 2008-01-08 Stocks tumbled Tuesday afternoon after the chief executive of the nation’s largest phone company, AT&T, suggested a weaker economy was forcing consumers to scale back spending.

The market was up modestly earlier in the day, but was rattled by the warning from AT&T and rumors that Countrywide Financial, the nation’s largest mortgage company, might seek bankruptcy protection. Countrywide issued a statement denying the reports.

The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index fell 1.8 percent, or 25.99 points, to 1,390.18, its lowest close since last March. The Dow Jones industrial average shed 238.42 points, or 1.9 percent, to 12,589.07. The Nasdaq composite closed down 58.95 points, or 2.4 percent, to 2,440.51.

The S.& P. is down 5.3 percent in the five sessions so far this year and 11.2 percent since hitting a new high on Oct. 9, meeting the technical definition of a correction.

Since the year began, investors have grown increasingly fearful that the economy is headed toward a recession and that efforts to revive it through interest rate cuts or federal government policy will not be sufficient.

Investors appeared to react strongly to the statements by AT&T’s chief executive, Randall L. Stephenson, because it suggested the weakness in the economy may start hurting profits of a broader range of companies aside from financial firms, retailers and home builders.
198 2008-01-08 While many states are struggling to find ways to fix their roads and bridges, Mr. Corzine’s plan is the most unusual and complicated among the growing number of state or local governments that have eyed toll roads as leverage to generate more money, fiscal experts say.

“My recommendation doesn’t come lightly,” Mr. Corzine said. “It’s just the best available option.”

New Jersey would still own its toll roads, unlike Indiana or Chicago, which leased their roads to private companies. But New Jersey would also establish two new agencies, one to operate and maintain the roads, and the other to provide some oversight.

“The plan is unique,” the governor said. “We went to school on the experiences of other states and improved what we saw as wrong with their proposals.”

Anticipation over the plan has been building for a year now, ever since Mr. Corzine, a Democrat who took office in 2006, first suggested the idea. But Mr. Corzine has been delayed in rolling out his plan, first by a serious car accident in April, then by his own propensity to agonize over details.

But with the state facing a crippling array of financial problems, including debt that has climbed from $13 billion to $32 billion in less than a decade, and the highest property taxes in the country, Mr. Corzine argued that the state had few affordable alternatives.

"Pigs will fly over the Statehouse before there is a realistic level of new taxes or spending cuts that can fix this mess," Mr. Corzine said.

If any conventional politician were proposing the notion of creating a new agency to issue some $30 billion worth of bonds, backed by higher tolls, most New Jerseyans would likely scoff, given the state’s abysmal fiscal track record. But Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, was elected in 2005 because of his financial acumen, and has tried to portray himself as an outsider who is not beholden to the usual political forces in New Jersey.

He has vowed to stake his political future and his legacy on his plan. And to sell it, he is literally hitting the road. He has promised to hold town hall meeting in all 21 counties, and the first one will take place on Saturday in Livingston, an affluent and educated suburb that Democrats say privately might be more receptive to Mr. Corzine’s ideas than other places. He is also planning to spend part of his vast wealth making public service announcements promoting his plan.

And he wants to see state legislators— a third of whom are newly elected — adopt his proposal well before next year’s budget deadline of July 1.
199 2008-01-08 She added, “Together, let’s give America the kind of comeback New Hampshire has just given me.’

Mr. Obama conceded the race to Mrs. Clinton, congratulating her on a “hard-fought victory.”

He told cheering supporters in Manchester: “You made it clear in this moment and this election there is something happening in America. We are ready to take this country in a fundamentally new direction.”

Mr. McCain said, “I’m past the age when I can claim the noun ‘kid’ no matter what adjective precedes it. Tonight we sure showed them what a comeback looks like.”

His chief rival in New Hampshire, the former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney congratulated him on “running a first-class campaign.”

Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor who came in third in the primary and was looking forward taking his campaign to other states, told supporters, “If there’s any sadness, it’s not where we finished, because frankly, we’re pretty happy about that.”

In the Democratic contest, John Edwards, the Democrats’ 2004 vice presidential nominee, was a distant third.

Several New Hampshire women, some of them undecided until Tuesday, said in interviews that a galvanizing moment in the race had been Mrs. Clinton’s unusual display of emotion on Monday when her eyes filled with tears and her voice cracked as she described the pressures of the race and her goals for the nation.

“As voters began to see the choice they have and heard Hillary speak from her heart, they came back to her,” said Mark Penn, Mrs. Clinton’s chief strategist.

Mr. Obama leaves New Hampshire with political support that is still considerable, after his victory in Iowa and his growing support in the nominating contests ahead. Mrs. Clinton had been struggling to stop Mr. Obama, turning on Tuesday to new advisers to shore up her campaign team, and both of them are strongly positioned heading into the Nevada caucuses on Jan. 19 and the South Carolina primary days afterward.

Mr. McCain’s victory dealt another serious blow to Mr. Romney, the former governor of neighboring Massachusetts. Mr. Romney campaigned hard and spent heavily as he sought wins in Iowa and New Hampshire, only to come up short in both states. Mr. McCain, after watching television reports of his victory in his Nashua hotel room, took congratulatory calls from Mr. Romney and Mr. Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor. He then went downstairs to declare victory.

To cheers of “Mac is back,” Mr. McCain told supporters Tuesday night, “My friends, you know I’m past the age when I can claim the noun ‘kid,’ no matter what adjective precedes it. But tonight, we’ve sure showed them what a comeback looks like.”

Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed Mr. Obama particularly strong among male voters, young people and independents. Obama advisers said he was poised to leave New Hampshire with a competitive edge in South Carolina, where they expect the heavily black electorate to rally around his bid to become the nation’s first African-American president.

Yet Mr. Obama, like Mrs. Clinton, has devoted considerable financial resources to Iowa and New Hampshire, and his advisers said they plan to spend carefully in the coming contests. He is scheduled to hold a major fundraiser on Wednesday night in Manhattan — Mrs. Clinton’s home turf — and intend to make new requests for donations from online donors and major party figures.

The voting did little to clarify the muddied Republican field. Messrs. McCain, Romney, and Huckabee are all girding for battle, and some political analysts still see Mr. Thompson as a wild card in southern primaries. And Mr. Giuliani, whose strategy calls for winning big in later states such as Florida and the Feb. 5 primaries in New York, New Jersey, and California, finished near the back of the pack here.

“By the time it’s over with, by Feb. 5, it’s clear that we’re going to be the nominee of the Republican Party,” Mr. Giuliani told supporters in Manchester, before flying to Florida. He added that, perhaps, “we’ve lulled our opponents into a false sense of confidence.”

Mrs. Clinton plans to stay off the campaign trail on Wednesday and huddle with her husband and advisers about the way forward. She is already planning to add new strategists and advertising advisers to her team, including long-tie aide Maggie Williams and ad man Roy Spence, as she seeks to build on a strategy memo written by another ally, James Carville, to show more fight and grit against Mr. Obama in Nevada.

Even before polls had closed last night, advisers to Mrs. Clinton were portraying her performance in New Hampshire as a gratifying revival and surprise, given her loss in Iowa and Mr. Obama’s double-digit lead in some public polls going into today’s vote.

But Clinton advisers acknowledge that she had spent heavily in the first two states and had only about $20 million on hand, so they were planning a massive fund-raising drive, an onslaught of sharper contrasts with Mr. Obama, and an increasingly personal style of campaigning from Mrs. Clinton.

It was an especially remarkable night for Mr. McCain, who had to lay off much of his staff after he nearly ran out of money because of his attempt to run a national campaign last spring along the lines of President Bush’s 2004 re-election campaign. All but counted out, Mr. McCain retrenched, and focused his limited resources largely on advertising and campaigning in New Hampshire, where he enjoyed a reservoir of support among Republicans and independents from his 2000 run here.

He got back on his emblematic bus, the Straight Talk Express, chatting with the few reporters who continued to cover him and working to persuade the state’s voters one by one in a seemingly incessant stream of town-hall-style meetings.

And while Mr. Romney outspent him on television commercials by two to one — spending $8.7 million to Mr. McCain’s $4.3 million, according to the of Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising — Mr. McCain closed the gap in the last days of the campaign here, in part because of his tireless campaigning.

Mike Dennehy, who directed the McCain efforts in the state, estimates that Mr. McCain spoke to some 25,000 people directly.

In the Republican primary, Mr. McCain got 38 percent of voters unaffiliated with either party, and the same proportion of registered Republicans, according to a surveys of voters leaving the polls conducted by Edison/Mitofsky for the television networks and The Associated Press. Such undeclared made up about a third of voters in the Republican primary.

It was different for the Democrats. Undeclared voters make up a larger portion of the voters in the Democratic primary -- more than 40 percent. Mr. Obama got about 4 in 10 undeclared voters and Mrs. Clinton got about a third of their support. Mrs. Clinton got 45 percent of the registered Democrats, and Mr. Obama got a third of undeclared voters.

Mr. McCain did better with young voters, but older voters were equally divided between Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney, the surveys of voters showed.

Most Republican voters said they had a favorable opinion of Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani, according to the exit poll, while about 80 percent of Democratic voters looked favorably on Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards, and 73 percent viewed Mrs. Clinton favorably.
200 2008-01-08 A federal judge Monday dismissed an antitrust lawsuit filed against Nascar by a Kentucky track that was left off its premier racing circuit. Kentucky Speedway said that Nascar had conspired to leave it and other tracks out of the Sprint Cup series — formerly known as the Nextel Cup series — despite their superior amenities.
201 2008-01-08 Although the hospital is unique in many ways, the code red at Grady is emblematic of the crippling effect America’s health care crisis has had on public hospitals around the nation. Though Grady is among the most distressed of the country’s 1,300 public hospitals, others have faced similar challenges in recent years, including those in Miami, Memphis and Chicago, said Larry S. Gage, president of the National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems. There are 300 fewer public hospitals today than 15 years ago, with hospitals having closed in Los Angeles, Washington, St. Louis and Milwaukee, Mr. Gage said.

Dr. Carlos Del Rio, Grady’s chief of medicine, calls the hospital “the canary in the coal mine.”

Like other public hospitals, Grady is operating on a business model that is no longer sustainable. A third of the hospital’s patients, including those treated as outpatients, are uninsured, among them a rapidly growing group of immigrants. Another third are covered by Medicaid, which reimburses at rates well below Grady’s actual costs. Many hospitals use their privately insured patients to subsidize indigent care, but at Grady, only 8 percent of inpatients fit the privately insured category.

In large part, that is because in Atlanta, as in most other cities, better-financed private and nonprofit hospitals are able to market their services and high-tech equipment to patients with good insurance coverage, including those on Medicare, leaving Grady with little but those it was intended to help: the under-insured and those without insurance at all. The National Association of Public Hospitals says its members account for 2 percent of all hospitals, but provide 25 percent of the nation’s uncompensated care.

Over the years, the cost of caring for the uninsured and underinsured has grown while taxpayer support has stagnated. Suburban counties have declined to pay a share of those costs, though their residents regularly wind up in Grady’s emergency room and its highly regarded centers for burn and poison treatment. Management problems within the hospital have played a role, and community pressure has kept Grady’s politically appointed board from making deep cuts. As a result, the hospital has faced deficits for 10 of the last 11 years.

It can no longer do so. This fiscal year’s budget gap is projected to hit $53 million. Emory University and Morehouse School of Medicine, whose medical schools supply the hospital’s doctors and are its biggest creditors, are owed an accumulated $71 million and have threatened to bolt.

Grady officials estimate it would take $366 million to meet long-ignored capital needs, like replacing quarter-century-old beds, antiquated computers, and the trauma ward X-ray machine, which conked out two years ago. Department chiefs predict a growing difficulty in recruiting physicians and residents.

And despite the efforts of the hospital’s passionately committed staff, patient care is clearly suffering. There are interminable waits for appointments, some services have been discontinued and the hospital ranks below average on safety measures like preventing bed sores, infections, and even death in low-risk procedures. One study, for example, ranks Grady nearly dead last in the nation in following standards for treating pneumonia.

The hospital, sandwiched between downtown and the neighborhood where Martin Luther King Jr. was born, was the place where victims of the 1996 Olympics bombings and countless other disasters have been treated. It is so intrinsic to the city’s identity that Maynard H. Jackson Jr., the first black mayor, liked to say that Grady babies should be allowed to vote twice.

But Grady’s value is more than sentimental — it is essential to the region’s health. With 675 beds and 16 operating rooms, the hospital handles more than 850,000 outpatient visits a year and admits more than 30,000 inpatients. It is home to the only Level 1 trauma center in north Georgia and the city’s only emergency ambulance fleet. It has one of the country’s largest AIDS clinics, a dialysis unit and a 24-hour emergency center for sickle cell anemia.

All are now at risk.

The prospects that Grady could close, and that Atlanta’s health infrastructure could crumble, have forced a civic re-examination of the region’s commitment to its least fortunate, a reckoning that has revived old antagonisms over race, power and class.

Virtually every aspect of Grady’s operations has come under scrutiny: its nine neighborhood clinics, its subsidized pharmacy, its care for Atlanta’s growing population of illegal immigrants, even its 60-year-old governance structure. Some have suggested that Grady must compete for paying customers in Atlanta’s fierce medical marketplace, while others say that taxpayers should contribute more to continue its mission. Will Grady outsource, or simply downsize? And if it must downsize, which patients should be turned away?

“Grady is that last resort,” said Sandra Crayton, managing director of Alvarez & Marsal Health Care Industry Group, one in a long line of consulting firms hired to help the hospital bail itself out. “The board has a very difficult, and in some cases nearly impossible, balancing act. It’s sort of like Solomon and the baby. What are you going to do?”

The patient in Trauma 3 was a Grady baby, though no one could have guessed it when the ambulance pulled in at 1 a.m. that Saturday.

He beat considerable odds by being white, and from suburban Cobb County, where most folks give Grady little thought until they need a surgeon in the middle of the night.

The bearded, middle-aged man was bleeding from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the left side of his chest. “Don’t let me go out in pain,” he moaned in a drawl to the doctors and nurses treating his injury. “I was born at this hospital.”

Grady’s chief of emergency medicine, Dr. Leon L. Haley Jr., smiled slightly: “Well, tonight, he’s not going to die at this hospital.” And so the creaky but miraculously effective patchwork of an emergency room jolted into action.

The ER did not have a working X-ray machine that night, so doctors had to roll in a portable one to locate the bullet. The X-rays were produced on film rather than digitally, causing a 10-minute delay in diagnosis. There were gurneys without wheels, and a computer system so outdated that doctors had to call up four separate programs to compile records on a single patient.

But six days later, the patient was discharged in good condition.

“We’ve gotten really good at MacGyvering,” said Dr. Philip H. Shayne, an emergency room physician. “We use paper clips for a lot of stuff.”

That may no longer be good enough. On any given day, a patient taken to Grady’s storied emergency room, or to any other unit in the hospital, may still receive care as good as any in the city. But the signs of stress are everywhere, in overworked staff, in broken equipment, in outmoded systems.

Last month, the Joint Commission, the country’s leading health care accrediting agency, raised serious concerns about Grady’s status after observing numerous significant shortcomings during a five-day inspection. Although the commission has not yet released a public report, hospital officials, speaking anonymously, said the commission’s concerns included broken equipment, sanitation and the adequacy of staff supervision.

Those foreboding findings came only two years after the federal government threatened to deny Grady Medicaid payments because the hospital sometimes waited nearly two years to conduct reviews of patient deaths. That problem has been resolved, hospital officials say.

But an analysis of hospital standards by Ashish Jha, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health, ranked Grady in the lowest fifth of all hospitals in the treatment of heart attacks in 2006, the lowest tenth for heart failure and in the lowest 1 percent for pneumonia. The hospital also lagged when compared with its inner-city peers.

Other quality indexes, including one compiled by the Georgia Hospital Association, rank Grady well below the state averages for all hospitals and for those of similar size.

The hospital’s burden is most visible in the emergency room, where the hallways that recent night, as most nights, were chockablock with stretchers — one man, shackled to his gurney, writhing through an acid trip; a woman fighting seizures; asthma patients sucking down oxygen. Their comings and goings — more than 300 a day — are tracked in doctors’ script on a greaseboard, a relic rarely seen in an age of big electronic screens. Because of crowding, it can take 24 hours to move a patient to intensive care, Dr. Haley said.

Elsewhere in the hospital, there are long waits in the pharmacy. The equipment for cardiac catheterization and magnetic resonance imaging breaks with regularity. Because Grady often cannot pay suppliers on time, there have been temporary shortages of essentials like neck braces, electrodes and even saline.

A third of the ambulances need to be put out of their misery, said Astria L. Benton, a paramedic supervisor. Every week or so, a vehicle simply gives out while in transit, and Ms. Benton prays that the patient will not die before she can orchestrate a rescue.

“No one wants to talk about it,” she said, “but it could happen.”

The orthopedic department has a waiting list for elective procedures that one doctor quantified as “infinity.” Its doctors intermittently instruct other departments to not send them patients. That has been a particular problem for certain AIDS patients, who find themselves in wheelchairs because they cannot get needed hip replacements.

Ophthalmology was among the hardest hit departments in a recent employee buyout, losing 60 percent of its staff, including several experienced nurses, said Dr. Geoffrey Broocker, the department chief.

Dr. Curtis Lewis, the hospital’s chief medical officer, said in an interview that the quality of care at Grady has “not declined to the point of danger.” But, Dr. Lewis added: “It would be naïve to believe that hospitals that have more resources can’t do more than those that don’t.”

Dr. Lewis and the hospital’s general counsel, Timothy Jefferson, said the hospital had not been sued for malpractice in a case that related directly to inadequate resources. But a review of recent filings found several cases in which staffing appears to have been an issue.

A lawsuit filed by the family of a 23-year-old man who died after suffering a brain injury in a 2004 skateboarding accident claims that for more than 12 hours he was seen only by medical residents — doctors being trained in a specialty — even as his condition worsened. The hospital is close to settling the case.

In 2006, a 27-year-old teacher who survived a fiery car crash nearly died in intensive care after nurses failed to detect and clear a blockage in his breathing tube, another lawsuit alleges. In a deposition provided by the patient’s lawyer, a nurse testified that the intensive care unit for burn victims was short-staffed that day, and that the patient’s nurse, who did not normally work in the unit, was caring for three patients instead of the customary two.

The son and successor of Herman J. Russell, the city’s most prominent black general contractor, he was born in 1965 at the Hughes Spalding Pavilion, which Grady opened across the street in 1952 to serve a growing black middle-class too affluent to qualify for charity care. When integration eroded the demand for such a place, Hughes Spalding evolved, becoming a children’s hospital.

In April, Mr. Russell was called upon to aid his birthplace. He and A. D. Correll, the chairman emeritus of Georgia-Pacific and an éminence grise of the Atlanta business world, were drafted to lead a task force on Grady formed by the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce at the hospital authority’s request.

That one co-chairman was white and one black was a not-so-subtle attempt to bridge the racial divide that has undermined Grady for decades. Grady’s specialties, especially trauma care, are vital to the entire region and draw patients of all races from around the area. But it has long been viewed as a hospital that primarily serves blacks, who comprise 48 percent of the population of Fulton and DeKalb counties.

Only those two central Atlanta counties — and none of their suburban neighbors — make annual appropriations to the hospital’s budget for the care of indigent residents, even though two in 10 Grady inpatients and one in 10 outpatients arrive from other counties, often by ambulance.

Contributions from the two counties, themselves politically and racially divided, have stayed essentially flat for a decade, even as the population and its percentage of uninsured grew. The county commissions in Fulton and DeKalb have been reluctant to increase their contributions when the state has refused to do so, and when suburban counties will not contribute at all.

Only the state can force other counties to pony up money for Grady. And the state legislature and the governor’s office are controlled by white Republicans, whose core constituents have historically not viewed themselves has having a direct stake in the hospital’s future.

In the coming session, however, the legislature, which has long viewed Grady as someone else’s problem, seems moved by the magnitude of the current crisis to consider providing aid, perhaps by financing a statewide trauma network. Grady lost $42 million on charity care for trauma patients alone in 2005, according to the Georgia Hospital Association.

Grady’s ability to plead for public resources has been compromised over the years by its own actions.

There have been charges of corruption and cronyism, most notably in 2005, when a powerful state senator was convicted of using his influence to secure overpriced Grady contracts for his temporary services business.

Handicapped by staff shortages and anachronistic technology, the hospital’s administrative inefficiency is legendary. Over the last three years, one of every five Medicaid reimbursement billings has been kicked back by the state because of filing mistakes, according to the Georgia Department of Human Resources.

When the outpatient oncology clinic studied its 2006 billings, it discovered that the paperwork on one in four patients had vanished before Grady could even file for reimbursement, said Dr. Otis W. Brawley, who left as chief of oncology last summer. Grady’s system for tracking aging equipment is so outdated it is difficult to anticipate needed replacements.

The hospital board has long been reluctant to make money-saving changes that might reduce its traditional mission. Late last year, it rejected the advice of financial consultants and its newly hired chief executive to close an expensive outpatient dialysis clinic for the poor, fearing that many of the clinic’s uninsured patients, including many illegal immigrants, would have nowhere else to go.

But the board has also been politically clumsy, and prone to micromanagement. In May the board’s own consultants concluded that “Grady does not currently have the depth of leadership” necessary to transform the hospital.

The Chamber’s task force trod more gingerly. “Grady’s problems are nobody’s fault,” said its report, released in June. Yet, it insisted, the board must create a new nonprofit corporation to run the hospital, instead of the public authority that has run it up to now. The change would allow Grady to attract philanthropic dollars, expand into money-making services and remove politics from its day-to-day operations, the task force predicted. Mr. Correll promised at least $200 million in private donations if the nonprofit was formed.

The task force’s involvement was in keeping with “the Atlanta way,” the long-standing tradition of bringing together black political power and white business power to address civic problems like segregation and sewer construction. But there was no way to muffle accusations that white business leaders, who see the hospital as vital to the region’s growth, were trying to take over one of the city’s most prominent black-run institutions.

Even after the reorganization was endorsed by Shirley Franklin, Atlanta’s influential black Democratic mayor, black board members who supported it were accused by Grady patients and other local black politicians of being “sell-out Uncle Toms” and worse. They asserted that the move amounted to privatization and would jeopardize Grady’s mission.

When the board hesitated to turn over control to the nonprofit corporation without guarantees of increased financing, Republican state lawmakers threatened to change the hospital’s governance by legislative fiat.

The task force stuck to its guns, insisting the issue was not race but economics. “We stirred the pot, no question about it,” Mr. Russell said. “I hope the old Atlanta way will lead to some degree of progress and we can get Grady on the right footing.”

Finally, in November, the Grady board essentially voted itself out of business, hoping the new nonprofit corporation will begin to overcome the hospital’s political troubles. It agreed to do so, however, only with strings attached, demanding that the state and counties pledge hundreds of millions of dollars to Grady. The conditions surprised and angered many of those who had been most supportive of the deal. Dozens of details have yet to be settled, and it is not yet clear how things will be resolved.

The financial pressure is not likely to subside soon. Grady’s share of federal assistance to charity hospitals has shrunk sharply as the state, which distributes the money, has extended it to more hospitals that serve far fewer indigent patients. At the same time, the Bush administration has enacted a new rule that, unless stopped by Congress, will reduce payments to public hospitals by billions of dollars.

“While so many people are helping,” said Otis L. Story, who was hired in April to be the hospital’s fourth chief executive officer in seven years, “there appear to be opposite pressures pulling us into further financial distress.”

Hillary Estrella Reyes is one of the newest Grady babies.

Just three days after she was born in late October, she slept in the lee of her mother’s hospital bed. Tucked into a bassinet with a knit cap and blanket, she was an oblivious example of the explosion in Hispanic growth in Georgia and at Grady. A third of the hospital’s newborns are now children of Hispanic parents.

Grady’s crisis has not touched Hillary’s parents, Patricia and Daniel Reyes, who seemed calm as the nurses wheeled the baby away for a checkup. They paid for prenatal care in $100 installments, and Medicaid will cover the cost of the delivery, because the baby is a citizen.

But her parents are in the country illegally. Without Grady, families like theirs would face an uncertain future in their new city. Where would they go in case of a serious ailment? And what of Hillary, who was born with an unusually rapid heartbeat? If Grady were to close, her options for care might be severely limited.

Grady’s disappearance is a prospect Mr. Reyes, a janitor, and his wife — like many of the hundreds of thousands Grady serves — are unable to visualize. Asked about it, Mr. Reyes could do nothing but shrug.

“I haven’t got sick yet,” he said. “Thank God.”
202 2008-01-08 In recent weeks the executives have rejected speculation that the corporation might consider an initial public offering. Firefox, Ms. Baker said, is a public asset, and it could not succeed without the efforts of its corps of volunteers that dwarf the 150 full time employees.

“We’ve shown that open source software can create great wealth,” she said. “But the options for private personal wealth are smaller.”

The power of the hybrid model can best be seen, the executives said, in the more than 1,000 people who contribute actively to the programming of the software and thousands who actively test new versions that are released each night.

Of particular importance is the role of volunteers who localize the program for different countries. While Microsoft’s Internet Explorer was shipped recently in only a single language with the later addition of seven more languages, the last release of Firefox was available in 37 languages when introduced. That has given the program a significant advantage in other countries, where it has a much larger market share than in the United States.

XiTiMonitor, a Web survey organization, reported that in September Firefox had a 27.7 percent share of the European market and a 34.5 percent share of the German market.

As chief executive, Mr. Lilly will focus on marketing and developing Firefox, while Ms. Baker will increase the time she spends on developing the “Mozilla Manifesto.”

What she refers to as the mission of the Mozilla Foundation is a document of 10 principles involving issues ranging from openness to the importance of the Internet to enrich the lives of individuals.

“We could not operate without our community,” she said. “More money doesn’t give you more opportunity.”

It has, however, given the Mozilla Corporation the ability to expand the influence of Firefox. Its latest, Firefox 3, is now being tested and is scheduled to be released in the first half of this year. The company has a team of about a half dozen developers working on a mobile version of the program for cell phones and mobile devices.

Mozilla also has a series of projects under way focused on what is generally referred to as “cloud computing,” which centralizes most computing and storage functions at large data centers. Such a shift would require a new browser.

Mr. Lilly said a Mozilla project called Prism would make it possible to pull out applications that have in the past run inside the browser and permit them to run directly from PC desktops.

Mozilla is also determined to spread the idea of hybrid profit and non-profit business models. To date, there are just a handful of efforts under way to build organizations on that model. Ms. Baker cited Kiva.org, a micro-finance organization, and the Participatory Culture Foundation, which develops and distributes the Miro video browser, as two early examples of enterprises that blended the intent to make profit with nonprofit activities.
203 2008-01-08 Western regulators increasingly provide complex environmental incentives and impose penalties on power companies. But regulators in mainland China and Hong Kong have tended to rely mainly on fines if companies fail to meet basic requirements.

Particularly on the mainland, though, fines are seldom assessed, and violations are rampant, according to environmental critics.

Mainland power companies also have limited incentives and flexibility to choose fuels that are more environmentally friendly than coal. For instance, only a few provinces allow wind-turbine operators to charge significantly more than coal-fired plant operators for the electricity they sell to the grid. And the rate subsidy for burning agricultural waste to generate electricity is not high enough to make it economical in many areas.

Instead, the regulatory system on the mainland has focused on keeping electricity rates as low as possible, with little regard for the pressure this puts on power companies to choose cheap but highly polluting coal-fired power plants.

Melissa Brown, a specialist in Hong Kong power regulation, who is executive director of the Association for Sustainable and Responsible Investment in Asia, a research group, said the new system in Hong Kong set a useful precedent for the mainland.

“Anything that is a bonus-and-penalty scheme is a positive,” she said.

But Ms. Brown cautioned that regulators there were unlikely to follow the example soon.

She also noted that the government released too few details on Monday on future allowable levels of specific pollutants to make it possible to calculate the actual effect of the new agreement on air pollution here.

Smog has become a chronic problem in the city. CLP and Hong Kong Electric have denied that they are the main sources of pollutants, hinting that nearby factories and power plants on the mainland are to blame.

Exxon Mobil owns 60 percent of a power-generating joint venture with CLP, and CLP owns the rest and all of the distribution grid, which serves three-quarters of Hong Kong’s nearly seven million people.

Two officials at the State Electricity Regulatory Commission in Beijing said Tuesday that while the mainland and Hong Kong maintain separate regulatory regimens, mainland officials are looking at ways to make power companies more responsive to environmental concerns by encouraging the use of alternatives to coal, notably by allowing generating companies to charge distribution companies extra for electricity from renewable sources.

Edward Yau, Hong Kong’s secretary for the environment, said that the government had set the new regulated rate of return at 9.99 percent after deciding that public opinion strongly favored a rate below 10 percent.

The previous rate, under a 15-year agreement expiring at the end of 2008, was 13.5 percent to 15 percent, and was widely criticized as excessively generous to the politically influential power companies. The new rate of return is still well above the prime rate of 6.75 percent that the dominant local bank, HSBC, charges for loans to companies with strong credit ratings.
204 2008-01-08 A Canadian government panel recommended Monday that prices be set for greenhouse gas emissions and that taxes, caps and emissions trading plans be quickly established.

“If something’s free, then lots of people will do it,” Glenn Murray, the former mayor of Winnipeg, Manitoba, and head of the group, told a news conference.

The report, which did not suggest any specific prices for emissions, was welcomed by some environmental and business groups. However, it was not clear if the recommendations of the panel, which included business leaders, environmentalists and labor leaders, would be adopted by the Conservative government that appointed it.

Canada’s energy industry, which is based in Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s home province, Alberta, has been leery about rigorous carbon tax plans popular with environmental groups.
205 2008-01-08 As envisioned, that plan would not fully privatize the lottery system, and the state would retain control. The governor is hoping to raise $4 billion for the endowment, which would provide annual operating aid for the State University of New York and the City University of New York. The governor has made shoring up the state’s higher education system a top priority. The administration seems likely to try to hire an investment bank to plan how to raise the money.

In a year when money is tight, other steps being considered are more cosmetic. For example, the governor plans to propose renaming the Triborough Bridge after Robert F. Kennedy.

Most of the proposals in the speech would require the approval of the Legislature, which has had a contentious relationship with the governor.

Mr. Spitzer’s speech will be the first major address of his second year in office and will give him a chance to turn around his embattled governorship. He faces three continuing investigations into efforts by his administration to discredit his main political rival, the Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno.

After unsuccessfully tacking left on a number of issues — most notably his abandoned plan to allow illegal immigrants to apply for driver’s licenses — a ceiling on property tax increases would be something of a move in the other direction. The proposal is likely to be opposed by teachers’ unions, but such caps have been embraced in states including Massachusetts and just last year in New Jersey.

“It is practical, because it has no direct, immediate budget impact,” said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative group, and a longtime advocate of a cap. “It’s proven because it’s worked in Massachusetts, and it’s simple,” he added.

But Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers, said, “It puts an artificial cap on the ability of local communities to provide the public services that they believe they should provide.”

“You’re putting a ceiling on poor districts that they will almost never get the support to overcome,” he added. “It creates a greater divide between rich and poor.”

There are a number of ways to structure caps on the property tax, although often they restrict tax increases to around 4 percent, with some exceptions and with the provision that voters can override them.

New York’s property tax burden is among the highest in the nation, but is felt most acutely outside New York City, where the city income tax helps finance schools. Over the years, a system of rebate checks and other state aid aimed at homeowners, known as the School Tax Relief program, has only appeared to give localities the license to spend more, critics have said, because it is not accompanied by a cap.

Scott Reif, a spokesman for Senate Republicans, said that he had not seen a property tax proposal and that the Republicans had no such proposal on the table themselves, but “we have supported legislation in the past that would give voters the authority to enact a property tax cap at the local level.”

Dan Weiller, a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, said, “We haven’t seen the proposal, so we can’t comment.”
206 2008-01-08 Microsoft announced partnerships on Monday with Walt Disney, NBC Universal and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer to bolster online video sales and step up competition with the iTunes operation of Apple Inc.

Microsoft said that owners of its Xbox 360 games console would be able to buy shows like “Desperate Housewives” from the ABC network of Disney, and they could watch movies including “Rocky” from MGM.

The company will also develop the NBC Web site for the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, Microsoft’s chairman, Bill Gates, said.

Mr. Gates was making his 11th keynote address at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.

In July, he will stop his day-to-day work at Microsoft, the company that he helped found in 1975. He will remain as chairman.
207 2008-01-08 LOS ANGELES (AP) — Autism cases in California continued to climb even after a mercury-based vaccine preservative that some people blame for the neurological disorder was removed from routine childhood shots, a study has found.

Researchers from the State Public Health Department found that the autism rate in children rose continuously in the study period from 1995 to 2007. The preservative, thimerosal, has not been used in childhood vaccines since 2001, except for some flu shots.

Doctors said that the latest study added to the evidence against a link between thimerosal exposure and the risk of autism and that it should reassure parents that vaccinations do not cause autism. If there was a risk, the doctors said, autism rates should have dropped from 2004 to 2007.

Dr. Daniel Geschwind, a neurologist at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the focus should be on exploring possible causes of autism, including genetic links.

“Something else must be at play,” said Dr. Geschwind, who had no connection with the study. “And we need to know what that is if we’re really serious about preventing autism.”

The results of the study are in the January issue of The Archives of General Psychiatry. The study did not explore why autism cases increased.
208 2008-01-08 Nineteen months after a Mastic Beach man was reported missing by his relatives, Suffolk County police detectives have found a body in a cesspool behind his house, the police said on Monday. The man, Nicolo Caietta, 59, was reported missing on May 30, 2006, and several months later, the investigation of his disappearance was transferred to the homicide squad, the police said, without elaborating why. On Saturday, the police excavated the cesspool behind Mr. Caietta’s home at 275 Forest Road West, and found the body. The body had not been identified Monday evening, and an autopsy has been scheduled, the police said.

Correction: January 11, 2008 

 A report in the Metro Briefing column in some copies on Tuesday about the discovery of a body in a cesspool behind the home of a Long Island man missing for 19 months misspelled the given name of the man. He was Nicolo Caietta, not Nicholas.
209 2008-01-08 BUSINESS TRAVEL DEMAND UP IN 2008 Any weakening in the economy apparently has not yet affected most business travelers’ plans this year. According to Access America, an insurance and travelers’ assistance company, 26 percent of business travelers surveyed said they expected to be on the road more this year than last, and 61 percent said they expected to travel about the same amount. Among other findings in the survey of 1,000 travelers: Nearly 78 percent cited high gasoline prices as one frustration of travel, 55 percent named poor airline service, and 41 percent cited airport security and passport and border procedures. By far the least frustrating part of travel was booking the trip. Only 16 percent said they found making travel arrangements frustrating.

INTERNATIONAL PASSENGER DEMAND The number of airline passengers worldwide rose 9.3 percent in November, compared with November 2006, says the International Air Transport Association. It was the sharpest month-on-month growth rate in 18 months, the group said. Average international load factors — the number of available seats occupied by paying passengers — were 75.4 percent in November, 1.1 percentage points above the previous November. Demand was strong across all regions, with carriers operating in the Middle East reporting an 18.3 percent increase. The rate is expected to slow this year, however.

FEWER MISHANDLED BAGS Domestic airlines continued to improve their handling of checked bags in November, when 4.89 of every 1,000 passengers reported a delayed, lost or damaged bag, against a 6.32 rate in November 2006, the Transportation Department said. JetBlue Airways had the best record, at 2.95 for every 1,000 passengers; American Eagle, a unit of the AMR Corporation, had the worst, with 9.24 per 1,000.

YEAR’S FIRST FARE INCREASES Airlines spent last weekend busily matching an incremental fare increase that United Airlines put into effect on Friday, said Rick Seaney, chief of FareCompare.com. Depending on the route, the fare increases were $10 and $20 round trip on most major airlines. But this is a slow travel season and many airlines are also having fare sales during off-peak hours on slower business travel days, usually Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays.

BRITAIN EASES CARRY-ON RESTRICTIONS The one-bag carry-on restriction in place since a foiled terrorist plot in 2006 has been lifted at most major airports in Britain, including Heathrow, Stansted and Manchester. The Department of Transport said “work is ongoing to ensure that the necessary screening capacity is in place to be able to handle the additional cabin bags.” JOE SHARKEY
210 2008-01-08 A musical based on “The Diary of a Young Girl” by Anne Frank is to open next month at the Calderon Theater in Madrid. Its star will be Isabella Castillo, 13, whose mother fled with her from Cuba to Belize, where they lived in hiding before immigrating to Miami, The Guardian of London reported. The newspaper said the production, developed by Rafael Alvero, has been given the support of the Anne Frank Foundation, which holds the rights to the diary. It is adapted from the account written while Anne and her family hid from the Nazis in Amsterdam during World War II. Jan Erik Dubbelman, who heads the international department of the foundation, said: “This production respects the message of tolerance, within the tragedy, that we want to keep alive. Being in Spanish, it can also help to take the message of Anne Frank to Latin America.”

Correction: January 9, 2008 

 A report in the “Arts, Briefly” column on Tuesday about a musical based on Anne Frank’s diary, scheduled to open in Madrid next month, misstated the history of such musicals. There is at least one other, “Yours, Anne,” which was produced Off Broadway in 1985. The one in Madrid will not be the first.
211 2008-01-08 A triptych by Francis Bacon, appearing at auction for the first time, is expected to set a record for a British or Irish work when it leads Christie’s Post War & Contemporary Art Evening Sale in London on Feb. 6. Held by a private collection, “Triptych 1974-77,” above, is the last in a series painted by Bacon (1909-1992) in response to the suicide of his lover, George Dyer, in their room in Paris. Bacon’s “Study From Innocent X” (1962) sold in May for a record $52.6 million.
212 2008-01-08 One of the best ways to get an infection in the hospital is to have a urinary catheter installed (don’t everyone rush out at once). Almost half of all infections acquired at hospitals are in the urinary tract, and most are linked to catheters.

Yet despite the well-established danger — and even though hospitals across the country are being increasingly pressed to bring down their overall infection rates — a new study finds that they are doing very little to reduce the risks from catheters.

The report, which is to appear in the Jan. 15 issue of Clinical Infectious Diseases, says that even the most basic steps to make catheters safer — like keeping track of which patients have them — are often not taken. The study was led by Dr. Sanjay Saint of the Veterans Affairs Ann Arbor Healthcare System and the University of Michigan.

The researchers surveyed hundreds of hospitals across the country about their catheter policies and found that more than half did not have a system for monitoring which patients had catheters, and even more did not keep track of how long they were in for.

There was also insufficient use of catheters that are less likely to cause infection and of portable bladder-scanning devices that let doctors know if a patient really needs a catheter.

Most hospitals did not even have a system to remind their staff that a patient has a catheter in, the study found.
213 2008-01-08 As he watched Roger Clemens’s interview on “60 Minutes” on Sunday with a reporter from SI.com, Brian McNamee guessed that Clemens could beat a lie-detector test.

“He might actually believe that he’s telling the truth,” McNamee said.

McNamee is the personal trainer who told George J. Mitchell that he injected Clemens with performance-enhancing drugs. His interview with SI.com was released an hour or so after Clemens played a tape of a phone conversation with McNamee at a news conference in Houston on Monday.

On the tape, an emotional McNamee never admits to lying to Mitchell but praises Clemens for treating him like family. On SI.com, he said Clemens was simply part of a widespread steroid culture within baseball.

“Roger was in no way an abuser of steroids,” McNamee said. “He never took them through our tough winter workouts. And he never took them in spring training, when the days are longest. He took them in late July, August, and never for more than four to six weeks, max ... it wasn’t that frequent.

“Within the culture of what was going on, he was just a small part of it. A lot of guys did it. You can’t take away the work Roger did. You can’t take away the fact that he worked out as hard as anybody.”
214 2008-01-08 Microsoft bid $1.2 billion on Tuesday for a Norwegian search software company in an effort to add more tools to its lucrative Office products. But it is also making the move with an eye toward Google, according to industry analysts.

The Norwegian company, Fast Search and Transfer, based in Oslo, is a specialist in search technology used inside companies and government agencies to cull for information in documents, databases and software applications. Its software helps teams of workers quickly search the corporate storehouse of information for answers about procurement, marketing, manufacturing and product design.

A news release said Fast’s board unanimously recommended that shareholders accept the Microsoft offer.

Fast is not a competitor in consumer Web search and advertising, a market dominated by Google, where Microsoft is investing heavily and struggling to make progress.

Yet the Microsoft move comes at a time when Google has begun to go after the corporate market with a package of online alternatives to Microsoft’s Office products. The search giant’s offerings, called Google Apps, include Web-based e-mail, word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software available free or, with technical support, for $50 a user per year — a small fraction of the cost of Microsoft’s desktop products.
215 2008-01-08 The key word in any Obama speech is “you.” Other politicians talk about what they will do if elected. Obama talks about what you can do if you join together. Like a community organizer on a national scale, he is trying to move people beyond their cynicism, make them believe in themselves, mobilize their common energies.

His weakness is that he never breaks from his own group. In policy terms, he is an orthodox liberal. He never tells audiences anything that might make them uncomfortable. In the Senate, he didn’t join the Gang of 14, which created a bipartisan consensus on judges, because it would have meant deviating from liberal orthodoxy and coming to the center.

How do you build a trans-partisan coalition when every single policy you propose is reliably on the left?

John McCain has cordial relations with Obama, but he is very different. He is most moved by examples of heroism and individual excellence. His books are about individual character and patriotism, not networks or community-building.

He is not a loner (in fact, he dislikes being alone), but whether he is a prisoner of war or a senator, he is acutely aware of how corrupt social pressures encroach on individual integrity. While Obama seeks solidarity with groups, McCain resists conformity. He fights fiercely, though not always successfully, against political pressures in order to remain honest, brave and forthright.

In the Senate, he sits in the back of the Republican policy lunches cracking jokes at the hired spin-meisters. He is allergic to blind party discipline and builds radically different coalitions depending on his views on each issue — global warming, campaign finance, spending, the war. He is most offended by dishonor. He’ll be sitting in his Senate office and he’ll read about some act of selfishness — a corrupt Pentagon contract, Jack Abramoff’s scandals — and he’ll spend the next several months punishing wrongdoing.

McCain’s campaign events are unpredictable. At Obama events, the candidate gives a moving speech while the crowd rises deliriously as one. McCain holds town meetings. People challenge him, sometimes angrily. And if they oppose him, McCain will come back to them two or three times so that there can be an honest exchange of views. Some politicians try to persuade their audience that they agree with them. McCain welcomes disagreement and talks about it.

McCain’s weakness is that he flies by the seat of his pants. If elected, he will have to live in the cocoon of the White House and build an organized and predictable administration. As a pilot, he got used to taking off from aircraft carriers. But as president, he’ll be the guy steering the aircraft carrier.

The central issue in this election is the crisis of leadership. Voters are reacting against partisan gridlock. Obama and McCain both offer ways to end this gridlock. Obama wants us to rise above it by rediscovering our commonalities. McCain hopes smash it with fierce honesty and independent action.

Today in New Hampshire, independent voters get to pick the model they prefer.
216 2008-01-08 A federal judge Monday dismissed an antitrust lawsuit filed against Nascar by a Kentucky track that was left off its premier racing circuit. Kentucky Speedway said that Nascar had conspired to leave it and other tracks out of the Sprint Cup series...
217 2008-01-08 BUSH SEES ECONOMIC TEST President Bush, in a shift from his usual economic assessments, told a group of business leaders in Chicago that the nation faced economic challenges because of rising oil prices, the home mortgage crisis and a weakening jo...
218 2008-01-09 John McCain speaks to NBC's Brian Williams after his victory in the New Hampshire Republican primary.
219 2008-01-09 What are the best and weirdest products at C.E.S? Our reporters lust after the 150-inch TV from Panasonic, they admire wireless video networking and are amazed by motorized roller skates....
220 2008-01-09 This video provided by AFS Trinity Power illustrates the operation of its ultracapacitors in a hybrid vehicle.
221 2008-01-09 Months after closing two hedge funds that helped precipitate the credit crunch, Bear Stearns is closing a third fund, Bloomberg News reported Wednesday. The investment bank is closing a third fund specializing in asset-backed securities after it f...
222 2008-01-09 Coors Light sponsors an amateur ad contest, with the victors snagging a trip to the Super Bowl.
223 2008-01-09 Unite Here is the first national union to back Barack Obama. Its leaders hope to help put him over the top in the Nevada caucuses on Jan. 19....
224 2008-01-09 Terrelle Pryor, the top recruit in the country, says he is still interested in Ohio State despite the Buckeyes' loss in the B.C.S. title game....
225 2008-01-09 If Mac is truly back - as many supporters of John McCain were chanting Tuesday night - will more of Wall Street open its wallet to this Republican presidential contender? A few big names in high finance have supported his campaign, including John ...
226 2008-01-09 Behind the scenes at the McCain victory party in New Hampshire....
227 2008-01-09 MBIA, the world's largest bond insurer, slashed its common stock dividend 62 percent on Wednesday as part of a plan to strengthen capital and preserve the "triple-A" credit ratings it depends on to operate normally. The company reduced its quarter...
228 2008-01-09 The surprise win of Hillary Rodham Clinton in New Hampshire shifts the nature of the Democratic race, while John McCain's victory on the Republican side came as predicted....
229 2008-01-09 Win Zoltan Almasi Loss Mihail Marin Replay the game with analysis » Win Vugar Gashimov Loss Sergei Tiviakov Replay the game with analysis » Win Ni Hua Loss Mihail Marin Replay the game with analysis » Win Pentala Harikrisha Loss Konstantin Land...
230 2008-01-09 Thanks mainly to a rise in the number of hedge funds players in the field, activist investors in the United States increasingly bared their teeth last year. The number of activist campaigns rose 17 percent this year, to 501 rumbles between activis...
231 2008-01-09 Liz Claiborne said Tuesday it had decided to sell two of its brands to Perry Ellis International and close another as part of a strategic review. The company said it would incur "significant" one-time charges as a result of its decisions. It will ...
232 2008-01-09 You win some and you lose some. That's the case with a series of lawsuits filed by an activist hedge fund manager, Costa Brava Partnerships, against a defense networking and information technology contractor, Telos, and Goodman & Company, the comp...
233 2008-01-09 DLJ Merchant Banking Partners, the private equity arm of the Credit Suisse Group, said Tuesday that it has purchased a majority stake in Den-Mat Holdings, a maker of cosmetic dental products such as Lumineers, from Den-Mat's founder. Terms of the ...
234 2008-01-09 The networking giant Cisco Systems led a $9.5 funding round of a two-year-old application hosting firm, SoonR. The move, announced on Tuesday, is the latest in a series of investments Cisco has been making in small Web 2.0 software firms. Facing a...
235 2008-01-09 Microsoft's $1.2 billion bid on Tuesday for a Norwegian search software company, was seen mainly as an effort to add more tools to its lucrative Office products, but was also being done, analysts said, with an eye toward fending off Google. Fast S...
236 2008-01-09 Shares of Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest mortgage lender, plunged 28.4 percent Tuesday after it denied rumors that it was planning to file for bankruptcy protection. In a statement Tuesday, Countrywide said there was "no substance to ...
237 2008-01-09 FairPoint Communications reached an agreement on Tuesday with the Vermont Public Service Department that would allow it to buy Verizon Communications' phone lines in the state. The deal for Verizon's New England operations, which Maine regulators ...
238 2008-01-09 Gene mutations linked to breast cancer may pose less danger than previously believed, a new study shows....
239 2008-01-09 John McCain comments on the results from the New Hampshire primary. (NBC Video)
240 2008-01-09 LONDON — Apple said Wednesday that it had agreed to cut the prices on its iTunes digital music store in Britain to align them with those in Continental Europe, settling an antitrust case brought by European regulators.

The European Commission accused Apple last spring of unfairly charging British consumers more than their counterparts in the euro zone for tracks from iTunes, the dominant online music vendor. British consumers typically pay 79 pence, or $1.55, a song while iTunes stores in the euro zone charge 99 euro cents, or $1.46.

“In the U.K., we were being discriminated against, and now that is going to stop,” said Chris Warner, a lawyer at Which?, a London-based consumer group that brought the complaint against Apple nearly three years ago.

Apple said that within six months it would lower prices for British consumers to bring them into line with those elsewhere in Europe. But neither the company nor the commission provided details of the settlement.

One complication in setting prices for British iTunes customers is exchange rate fluctuations, as Britain has not adopted the euro. The commission’s statement that iTunes prices are 10 percent more expensive in Britain, for example, did not appear to take account of a recent slide in the value of the pound against the euro. At current exchange rates, the 79 pence price of a song in Britain is equal to about 1.06 euros.
241 2008-01-09 Ben Simpfendorfer, an economist with the Royal Bank of Scotland in Hong Kong, said the announcement underscored how seriously the State Council regards public attitudes toward inflation.

“The State Council is worried about public sentiment,” he said. “They are worried that rising prices will have a negative impact on sentiment.”

Last November, China raised gasoline and diesel prices by almost 10 percent, partly to appease officials at state-owned refineries. Refiners had complained that price controls were forcing them to swallow the difference between higher prices for crude oil on the world market and regulated consumer prices at home for refined products. So refineries cut back production of gasoline and particularly diesel, causing long lines at fuel stations around the country.

But the November price increase fueled inflation. Consumer prices were 6.9 percent higher in November than a year earlier — a figure that represented an 11-year high.

“It was a shock,” said Mr. Simpfendorfer, noting that the price increases surpassed the market’s expectations.

Now, oil futures have continued to rise on world markets, briefly surpassing $100, and Chinese refiners are raising the same concerns. Again, lines are forming at service stations, particularly for truckers in southern China. Even Wednesday’s announcement hinted that domestic price increases might be inevitable later this year in response to world markets — an acknowledgment that might prompt further fuel hoarding in China.

“Prices of crude oil, grains and other primary products are still rising on the international market, and China faces relatively large pressures of further price increases,” the announcement on the government Web site said.

For ordinary Chinese citizens, inflation has emerged as a major concern. Last year, food prices rose roughly 12 percent, eliciting an often angry public response. More recently, prices for eggs and pork have fallen, though flooding in farming regions of central China damaged vegetable production and kept those prices high, Mr. Simpfendorfer said.

Last week, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences released a national survey that found 30.5 percent of respondents considered inflation the country’s top problem. Stories about the urban poor struggling with rising prices have become common in the Chinese media.

China’s rapid economic growth has been fueled by rising demand for oil, coal and other energy sources. This week, China also announced new national regulations to help clean up the environment and slow the country’s growing addiction to imported oil by focusing on a ubiquitous but unexpected target: the lowly plastic bag.

On Tuesday, the State Council banned production of ultra-thin plastic bags and required store owners to charge customers for thicker plastic bags. The new initiative is intended to not only fight littering but also reduce oil usage. Chinese media has reported that China uses roughly three billion plastic bags every day. To create this many bags, China must refine 37 million barrels of crude oil every year, according to the Web site of China Trade News.

“Our country consumes a large amount of plastic bags,” stated a circular posted Tuesday on the central government’s main Web site. “While convenient for consumers, the bags also lead to a severe waste of resources and environmental pollution.”
242 2008-01-09 “I felt like we all spoke from our hearts, and I am so gratified you responded,” Mrs. Clinton said. Then, echoing her husband’s “Comeback Kid” speech after his surprise second-place finish in the primary here in 1992, she added, “Now together, let’s give America the kind of comeback that New Hampshire has just given me.”

The scene was noticeably different from the one in Iowa when Mrs. Clinton spoke after her loss in the caucuses. Instead of being surrounded by longtime Clinton supporters like former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, she went on stage with teenagers and young adults behind her.

Mr. Obama leaves here with political popularity that is still considerable, after his victory in Iowa and his growing support in the nominating contests ahead. Mrs. Clinton had been struggling to stop Mr. Obama, turning on Tuesday to new advisers to shore up her campaign team, and both of them are strongly positioned heading into the Nevada caucuses on Jan. 19 and the South Carolina primary a week later.

“We know the battle ahead will be long,” Mr. Obama told supporters in Nashua Tuesday night. “But always remember that no matter what obstacles stand in our way, nothing can stand in the way of the power of millions of voices calling for change.”

With 91 percent of the electoral precincts reporting, Mrs. Clinton had 39 percent of the vote, Mr. Obama 36 percent, and John Edwards 17 percent. On the Republican side, Mr. McCain had 37 percent, Mr. Romney 32 percent and Mike Huckabee 11 percent.

The New Hampshire results foreshadow a historic free-for-all for both the Democratic and Republican presidential nominations in the weeks to come. Mr. McCain’s victory dealt another serious blow to Mitt Romney, the former governor of neighboring Massachusetts. Mr. Romney campaigned hard and spent heavily as he sought wins in Iowa and New Hampshire, only to come up short in both states.

Mr. McCain, after watching television reports of his victory in his Nashua hotel room, took congratulatory calls from Mr. Romney and Mr. Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor who won the Republican caucus in Iowa. He then went downstairs to declare victory.

To cheers of “Mac is back,” Mr. McCain told supporters last night: “My friends, you know I’m past the age when I can claim the noun ‘kid,’ no matter what adjective precedes it. But tonight, we sure showed them what a comeback looks like.”

Mr. Obama, like Mrs. Clinton, devoted considerable financial resources to Iowa and New Hampshire, and his advisers said they planned to spend carefully in the coming contests. He has a major fund-raiser scheduled for Wednesday night in Manhattan — Mrs. Clinton’s home turf — and intends to seek donations from online donors and major party figures. He is also seeking endorsements from members of the Senate and labor groups that have thus far been torn between him and Mrs. Clinton.

The voting in New Hampshire did little to clarify the muddied Republican field. The McCain, Romney and Huckabee campaigns are all girding for battle, and some political analysts still see Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee as a wild card in Southern primaries. Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose strategy calls for winning big in later states like Florida and the Feb. 5 primaries in New York, New Jersey and California, finished near the back of the pack here.

Mr. Romney, stoically smiling in remarks to supporters Tuesday night, is now looking ahead to Michigan primary on Jan. 15; he grew up in the state, where his father was a popular governor, and has been advertising on television there since mid-December.

“Another silver,” Mr. Romney, who ran the 2002 Olympic Games in Salt Lake City, said in his concession speech. He went on to call for sending someone to Washington “who can actually get the job done,” and added, “I don’t think it’s going to get done by Washington insiders.” He vowed to fight on.

Mr. Huckabee and Mr. Thompson are hoping for a huge lift from fellow Southerners in the South Carolina primary on Jan. 19. And Mr. Giuliani, speaking to supporters before flying to Florida, said the toughest fights were still to come. “By the time it’s over with, by Feb. 5, it’s clear that we’re going to be the nominee of the Republican Party,” Mr. Giuliani said. He added that, perhaps, “we’ve lulled our opponents into a false sense of confidence.”

Mrs. Clinton plans to stay off the campaign trail on Wednesday and huddle with her husband and advisers about the way forward. She is planning to add new strategists and advertising advisers to her team, including a longtime aide, Maggie Williams, and advertising adviser, Roy Spence, as she seeks to build on a strategy memorandum written by another ally, James Carville, to show more fight and grit against Mr. Obama in Nevada.

Even before polls had closed Tuesday, advisers to Mrs. Clinton were portraying her performance here as a gratifying revival and surprise, given her loss in Iowa and Mr. Obama’s double-digit lead in some public opinion polls going into Tuesday’s vote. Advisers and female voters pointed to Mrs. Clinton’s emotional moment on Monday as decisive, with advisers promising that voters would see more personal touches in the days to come.

“Women finally saw a woman — perhaps a tough woman, but a woman with a gentle heart,” said Elaine Marquis, a receptionist from Manchester, who had been torn between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton but was leaning her way when she bared her feelings.

Exit polls of voters on Tuesday showed that women, registered Democrats, and older people — especially older women — came out solidly for Mrs. Clinton, while independents, men and younger voters went for Mr. Obama.

It was an especially remarkable night for Mr. McCain, who had to lay off much of his staff after he nearly ran out of money because of his effort to run a national campaign last spring along the lines of President Bush’s 2004 re-election campaign. All but counted out, Mr. McCain retrenched and focused his limited resources largely on advertising and campaigning in New Hampshire, where he enjoyed a reservoir of support among Republicans and independents from his 2000 run here.

He got back on his emblematic bus, the Straight Talk Express, chatting with the few reporters who continued to cover him and working to persuade the state’s voters one by one in a seemingly incessant stream of town-hall-style meetings.

And while Mr. Romney outspent him on television commercials by two to one — spending $8.7 million to Mr. McCain’s $4.3 million, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising — Mr. McCain closed the gap in the last days of the campaign here, in part because of his tireless campaigning.

Mike Dennehy, who directed the McCain efforts in the state, estimates that Mr. McCain spoke to some 25,000 people directly.

Exit polls suggested that there was a record turnout, with half a million voters — 280,000 Democrats and 230,000 Republicans.

In the Republican primary, Mr. McCain got 38 percent of voters unaffiliated with either party, and the same proportion of registered Republicans, according to exit polls conducted by Edison/Mitofsky for the television networks and The Associated Press. Such undeclared voters made up about a third of voters in the Republican primary.

It was different for the Democrats. Undeclared voters make up a larger share of the voters in the Democratic primary — about 40 percent. Mr. Obama got about 4 in 10 undeclared voters and Mrs. Clinton got about a third of their support. Mrs. Clinton got 45 percent of registered Democrats, and Mr. Obama got a third.
243 2008-01-09 A wild card is Mike Huckabee, who has surged to the lead in some national polls. He hopes to be competitive in Michigan but is looking more toward the Jan. 19 primary in South Carolina, a state with many evangelical Christians who are drawn to this former Baptist pastor.

Waiting in the wings is a weakened Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is now focused almost exclusively on a victory in Florida’s primary on Jan. 29 to slingshot him to the nationwide contests on Feb. 5.

“It’s a war of attrition,” said Dan Bartlett, a former top adviser to President Bush.

Former Senator Rick Santorum said the results were the latest indication that Republicans were in for an epic battle among a field of imperfect candidates for the party’s conservative base.

“It comes back to, O.K., Romney can’t win, Huckabee can’t win, McCain can’t win, Giuliani can’t win — the dynamic is you have a bunch of candidates who can’t win,” Mr. Santorum said. “I don’t see how we don’t come down to a convention that is going to decide this thing.”

Mr. Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas, will be going to South Carolina overnight. Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain planned to fly there on Wednesday, after their stops in Michigan.

All the Republican candidates will gather on Thursday in South Carolina on for a debate in Myrtle Beach.

Mr. McCain, of Arizona, held the advantage early on in South Carolina, building a strong ground organization, only to have to lay off many staff members in the summer. But many stayed on as volunteers.

Mr. Romney has been broadcasting television advertisements in the state consistently in the last few months and has the most impressive field operation there, but many evangelicals continue to regard his Mormon faith with suspicion.

Mr. Huckabee has a clear lead in recent polls of South Carolina Republicans.

Former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee and Mr. Giuliani, a former mayor of New York, made pushes in the state, only to falter in recent months.

In Michigan, polls show the battle will be among Mr. Huckabee, Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney and, to a lesser extent, Mr. Giuliani. “They all have followings through the state,” said Steve Mitchell, a Republican pollster.

Nevertheless, the conventional wisdom is that the state is Mr. Romney’s to lose. Mr. Romney has the biggest paid organization there with 11 people and began broadcasting television commercials in the state in mid-December. He started a direct-mail program about six weeks ago.

Because of its size, Michigan is not a state conducive to retail politics, and campaigns are largely waged over the airwaves.

Mr. Romney’s advisers see that as a potential advantage. “It is the first real test of who can run a full-spectrum campaign,” said Katie Packer, a consultant in Michigan for Mr. Romney.

But Mr. McCain’s advisers believe independents who helped him in 2000 could help push him over the top again, especially because the Democratic primary is essentially uncontested.

“I think you will see that drive even more independents our way,” said Rick Davis, Mr. McCain’s campaign manager.

As for Mr. Huckabee, his advisers say he has not written off Michigan and believe that his evangelical credentials will appeal to the large swath of Dutch Reformed evangelical churchgoers in western Michigan, while his populist rhetoric about his empathy with working people will strike a chord with the state’s blue-collar voters.

Ed Rollins, the national chairman of Mr. Huckabee’s campaign, said it planned to begin running television commercials in Michigan on Wednesday. Mr. Huckabee will arrive in South Carolina on Wednesday but campaign in Michigan on Friday, Mr. Rollins said.

Mr. Romney’s tattered road map to the nomination is dependent on winning Michigan and performing above expectations in South Carolina, setting up the real battle among the major Republican contenders in Florida.

Mr. Romney’s campaign members, along with others, believe there is an opening now in Florida, because of Mr. Giuliani’s disappointing performances in Iowa and New Hampshire.

While his rivals clash elsewhere, however, Mr. Giuliani is pouring resources and time into Florida.

Mr. Giuliani planned to go there on Wednesday afternoon. Although he will appear for the debate in South Carolina on Thursday, the campaign was planning to return to Florida over the weekend for a bus tour.
244 2008-01-09 “It is going to be a brawl,” said Katon Dawson, chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party.

Mr. Huckabee will be going to South Carolina overnight, while Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain were planning to fly there on Wednesday after their stops in Michigan.

All of the Republican candidates will be gathering in South Carolina on Thursday, for a debate in Myrtle Beach.

Mr. McCain held the advantage early on in South Carolina, collecting a long list of endorsements from Republican leaders and building a strong ground organization, only to have to lay off many on his staff members over the summer when his campaign stalled. But many of them stayed on as volunteers and the campaign says it has been able to retool.

Mr. Romney has been broadcasting commercials in the state consistently over the last few months and has the most impressive field operation there, but many evangelicals there continue to regard his Mormon faith with profound suspicion.

Mr. Huckabee has a commanding lead in polls of South Carolina Republicans, although Mr. McCain’s advisers point to the compressed calendar and the prospect of a boost from their New Hampshire victory.

Former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee and Mr. Giuliani, a former mayor of New York, made pushes in the state, only to falter in recent months.

Many members of the Huckabee staff have already left New Hampshire for South Carolina, where his campaign is scrambling to build up an organization. In Michigan, polls show a three- or even four-person race, with Mr. Huckabee, Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney, and to a lesser extent, Mr. Giuliani.

“They all have followings through the state,” said Steve Mitchell, a Republican pollster.

Nevertheless, the conventional wisdom is that the state is Mr. Romney’s to lose.

Even before it was clear that Michigan was going to be one of the early voting states, Mr. Romney’s advisers picked the state to be one of five where they would focus on building ground organizations.

Mr. Romney has the biggest paid organization there with 11 people and went up on the air with television commercials in the state in mid-December, two weeks earlier than his advisers had originally planned because of his increasingly tenuous prospects in Iowa and New Hampshire.

Mr. Romney started a full-fledged direct mail program about six weeks ago, when absentee voters could begin casting their ballots, including some mailings that attacked his opponents’ positions on fiscal issues and immigration.

Because of its size, Michigan is not a state conducive to retail politics. Campaigns are largely waged over the air waves, which is quite expensive because the state has so many media markets. Mr. Romney’s advisers see that as a potential advantage for them.

“You have to have resources,” said Katie Packer, a consultant in Michigan for Mr. Romney. “Michigan is a very very expensive state to compete in, far more expensive than New Hampshire and Iowa. It is the first real test of who can run a full-spectrum campaign.”

But Mr. McCain’s advisers believe independents who helped him in 2000 could help push him over the top again, especially because the Democratic primary is essentially uncontested. Senator Barack Obama and John Edwards pulled their names from the ballot under pressure from the Democratic National Committee after Michigan moved up its primary.

“I think you will see that drive even more independents our way,” said Rick Davis, Mr. McCain’s campaign manager.

As for Mr. Huckabee, his advisers say he has not written off Michigan.

“We are seeing poll numbers in Michigan that defy reason,” Mr. Huckabee said. “And it is not because we have spent money or have a big organization there. It is because people are doing the same thing in Michigan that they are doing in the rest of the country.”

Mr. Huckabee’s advisers believe his evangelical credentials will appeal to the large swath of Dutch Reformed evangelical churchgoers in western Michigan, while his populist rhetoric about his empathy with working people will strike a chord with the state’s blue-collar voters.

Ed Rollins, national chairman of Mr. Huckabee’s campaign, said it planned to begin running television commercials in Michigan on Wednesday, capitalizing on a few million in contributions that have come in since Mr. Huckabee’s Iowa caucus victory. Mr. Huckabee himself will arrive in South Carolina Wednesday but campaign in Michigan on Friday, Mr. Rollins said.

Mr. Romney’s tattered road map to the nomination at this point is dependent upon winning Michigan and performing above expectations in South Carolina, setting up the real battle among all the major Republican contenders in Florida.

Mr. Romney’s campaign, along with others, believe there is an opening now in Florida, which votes on Jan. 29, because of Mr. Giuliani’s disappointing performances in Iowa and New Hampshire.

While his rivals clash elsewhere, however, Mr. Giuliani is pouring resources and time into Florida, where his long-held lead in polls had already been slipping before Iowa and New Hampshire voted.

Mr. Giuliani plans to go there on Wednesday afternoon, where he is to release a tax proposal. While he will campaign a little on Thursday in South Carolina, where he has to appear for a debate, the campaign was planning to return to Florida over the weekend for a bus tour.
245 2008-01-09 Pojaman Shinawatra, the wife of the ousted prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, returned to Thailand to fight corruption charges. She was met by the police after her flight arrived from Hong Kong, arrested, quickly released on bail, and ordered not to leave the country. Analysts said her return — the couple have been living mostly in London and Hong Kong since a military coup in 2006 — signaled confidence that the political situation, still unsettled after a victory by Mr. Thaksin’s allies in elections last month, would turn in their favor once a new government has been formed. Noppadol Pattama, a lawyer for the family, said Monday that Mr. Thaksin planned to return by mid-April. He is charged in the same cases as his wife, charges brought by the generals who carried out the coup.
246 2008-01-09 New Jersey’s former boxing commissioner is suing the state’s attorney general, Anne Milgram, claiming that she ousted him for exposing errors by a subordinate. The former commissioner, Larry Hazzard Sr., filed a whistle-blower protection lawsuit against Ms. Milgram and others in Federal District Court on Friday. Mr. Hazzard, a former boxer and referee, was commissioner of the State Athletic Control Board from 1986 until he was fired in November. The board oversees boxing in Atlantic City, one of a handful of cities where big prizefights are often fought. A spokesman for the attorney general declined to comment on Tuesday.
247 2008-01-09 In recent days, many investors have grown increasingly convinced that the problems in the housing market will drive the economy into a recession and that efforts to revive it through interest rate cuts or federal government policy may not be sufficient. (Investors in the futures markets are betting that the Federal Reserve will cut its overnight interbank lending rate by half a point, to 3.75 percent, when it meets at the end of the month.)

A statement by AT&T’s chief executive, Randall L. Stephenson, drew a strong response from the market because it suggested the weakness in the economy might start hurting profits of a broader range of companies than just financial firms, retailers and home builders.

Technology shares in the S.& P., for instance, are down nearly 10 percent so far this year; telecommunications stocks are down 5.8 percent.

“The market is certainly going to struggle in the first quarter and a half to two quarters as the subprime thing continues to weigh on the economy,” said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Robert W. Baird & Company. “And housing will likely not stabilize until the second half of the year.”

Underscoring the uncertainty, President Bush, who had been more optimistic than many investors, told reporters at the White House that the problems in the housing market would “take a while to work through.”

“I like the fundamentals, they look strong,” Mr. Bush said, “but there are new signals that should cause concern.”

On Friday, the Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate jumped to 5 percent in December, from 4.7 percent. On Tuesday, the National Association of Realtors said its index of pending home sales, which tracks signings of sales contracts, fell 2.6 percent in November after increasing for much of the fall. Recent data on manufacturing has also indicated slowing growth.

Shares of Countrywide fell $2.17, or 28.4 percent, to $5.47, after the company issued a statement that said there was “no substance to the rumor that Countrywide is planning to file for bankruptcy.” The company has been dogged by rising defaults and foreclosures; its stock fell nearly 79 percent last year.

Shares of AT&T fell 4.6 percent, or $1.87, to $39.16, their biggest decline in nearly five years. Speaking at an investment conference, Mr. Stephenson said AT&T was seeing “softness” in its broadband and traditional home phone businesses. The cellphone and corporate units, however, were continuing to grow, he said, according to Bloomberg News.

It is unclear how much of the problems in the company’s consumer business stem from the economy. Consumers have been ditching home phone lines for several years in favor of cellphones and competing services provided by cable and Internet-based companies.

Some market specialists say investors appear to be overreacting to recent economic reports. Aside from financial companies, corporate profits, these specialists say, are still strong and stocks are cheap relative to their earnings.

“The fears are real, and we can’t just ignore them,” said Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust. “But we would argue that investors are missing the bigger picture right now.”

One indication of fear is the price of gold, long considered a safe haven. On Tuesday, gold futures increased 2 percent, to $880.30 a troy ounce. Gold is up 5.1 percent for the year and 38 percent since the end of 2006. Crude oil prices closed up $1.24, or 1.2 percent, to $96.33 a barrel.

Bond prices rose again on Tuesday. The price of the 10-year note was up 14/32, to 103 26/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 3.78 percent, from 3.83 percent Monday.

Following are the results of the auction of four-week bills:
248 2008-01-09 Shares of the Countrywide Financial Corporation, the nation’s largest mortgage lender, plunged 28.4 percent Tuesday after it denied rumors that it was planning to file for bankruptcy protection.

In a statement Tuesday, Countrywide said there was “no substance to the rumor that Countrywide is planning to file for bankruptcy, and we are not aware of any basis for the rumor that any of the major rating agencies are contemplating negative action relative to the company.”

In morning trading, Countrywide shares fell as low as $5.76 before trading was temporarily halted in advance of the company’s statement. The shares ended regular trading down $2.17, to $5.47, after sinking to a 52-week low of $5.05.

The stock was shaken by a report that said court records show the lender fabricated documents related to a bankruptcy case of a borrower in Pennsylvania.

Other Countrywide actions in borrowers’ bankruptcy cases have come under scrutiny in the past.

In addition, a United States trustee in Florida started an inquiry last fall to investigate whether the lender’s claims against two borrowers seeking bankruptcy protection had violated bankruptcy laws.

Investors have been particularly anxious about Countrywide in recent days. Countrywide, like many in the mortgage industry, has suffered as more customers have defaulted on home loans, particularly on those made to borrowers with uncertain repayment histories.
249 2008-01-09 The San Francisco 49ers hired Mike Martz as their offensive coordinator Tuesday, landing one of the N.F.L.’s top offensive minds to fix a unit that floundered last season.

Martz tormented the 49ers for six years during his greatest success with their National Football Conference West rival Rams, but he was fired by the Lions last week after two seasons as offensive coordinator.

He replaces Jim Hostler, who was also fired last week after the 49ers matched a franchise low and finished last in the N.F.L. with 219 points. San Francisco’s offense was derided as bland and conservative — something that should not be a problem with Martz on board.

Niners Coach Mike Nolan and Martz were together on the Redskins’ coaching staff from 1997-98.

BRADY EARNS ANOTHER HONOR Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, the league’s most valuable player, added The Associated Press’s Offensive Player of the Year honors to his collection, easily outdistancing his main weapon on the unbeaten New England Patriots, Randy Moss.

Of the four players who received votes from a nationwide panel of 50 news-media members, three were Patriots. Brady collected 35 ½ votes to 12 ½ for Moss. Wes Welker, the Patriots’ other starting receiver, got 1, as did Packers quarterback Brett Favre.
250 2008-01-09 Individuals and companies have increasingly expressed interest in buying detectors to warn them of a biological, chemical or radioactive attack. But at a public hearing on Tuesday, a City Council committee considered a proposal that would require New Yorkers to get a permit from the Police Department to buy or use such detectors.

The legislation — which was proposed by the Bloomberg administration and would be the first of its kind in the nation — would empower the police commissioner to decide whether to grant a free five-year permit to individuals and companies seeking to “possess or deploy such detectors.”

Common smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors would not be regulated by the law, the Police Department said, and violations would be considered misdemeanors.

At the hearing by the Council’s Public Safety Committee, Richard A. Falkenrath, the Police Department’s deputy commissioner for counterterrorism, said, “Our mutual goal is to prevent false alarms and unnecessary public concern by making sure that we know where these detectors are located and that they conform to standards of quality and reliability.”

The law would require people using such a detector — regardless of whether they have a permit — to notify the police if the detector signaled an alarm.

The Police Department would work with fire, health and environmental protection officials, Mr. Falkenrath said, to “develop the appropriate standards for evaluating the applications.”

Some find the legislation worrisome. The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, said in a statement that the bill was too broad. He said that he could not “think of any evidence or events from our recent past involving false alarms that would create any urgency for this sweeping legislation.”
251 2008-01-09 FairPoint Communications reached an agreement on Tuesday with the Vermont Public Service Department that would allow it to buy Verizon Communications’ phone lines in the state.

The accord still needs approval of the Vermont Public Service Board.

The board rejected a similar request last month, saying the $2.7 billion transaction would leave FairPoint with too much debt and force it to slow investment in high-speed Web service.

FairPoint agreed to spend $40 million a year in Vermont for the first three years after the sale was closed.

It also pledged to make broadband Internet available to all customers in more than half of its markets, the company said Tuesday.

Verizon is getting rid of the lines to focus on faster-growing businesses such as television and high-speed Internet service.

The deal also needs clearance from New Hampshire regulators.
252 2008-01-09 Habitat International’s general counsel and a member of its executive committee are scheduled to meet with the San Antonio board on Jan. 22.

San Antonio is one of an unknown number of Habitat affiliates that refused to sign the agreement by Dec. 31, the deadline set by Habitat International, as the national organization is known. Habitat affiliates in New Orleans, Birmingham and Tulsa, as well as dozens of other smaller affiliates, have expressed concern about the agreement for months.

Mr. Clarke said “a majority” of the affiliates had signed the agreement and many others had asked for extensions of the deadline. He said he could not provide a precise tally because the organization is still opening mail that arrived over the holiday.

Since the new year, Habitat International has been contacting those affiliates who have not signed the agreement or filed for extension, making it clear they are no longer regarded as in “good standing.” That means they are no longer eligible for programs Habitat International has centralized, such as corporate giving programs from companies like Whirlpool and Dow Chemical, which supply appliances and construction materials for houses the affiliates build.

The San Antonio affiliate and Habitat International had been wrangling over the agreement for more than a year, and last spring, Larry Gluth, Habitat International’s vice president for United States affiliate field operations, flew to San Antonio and met with the entire board.

“After that, we prepared a very extensive response at great cost with an attorney’s help,” Mr. Diaz said. “Unfortunately, none of our changes were addressed in a final draft that came to us sometime in late November.”

Habitat has been rocked by internal dissent ever since the board dismissed Millard Fuller, the founder, of the organization in 2005 over allegations that he had improperly touched a female subordinate, allegations the board itself said it could not substantiate.

Mr. Fuller and his wife, Linda, started the Fuller Center for Housing, and at least two small Habitat affiliates have become Fuller Centers. Several former employees of Habitat affiliates have left to start Fuller Centers in their communities.

Karen Robison, who recently resigned as the executive director of the Habitat affiliate in Denton, Tex., and has started a Fuller Center there, said she thought some affiliates might follow San Antonio’s example.

“I think it’s come to a time in the organization’s evolution,” Ms. Robison said, “when people who have made a commitment to the original values and mission have to decide whether this is still the ministry it started out as or whether it is just another low-income housing program.”
253 2008-01-09 There are some significant differences between Web search and so-called enterprise search technology. In consumer searches, the popularity of a Web page, for example, is an important factor in determining its relevance, while popularity tends to be less important in ranking corporate information sources.

In a conference call, Jeff Raikes, president of Microsoft’s business division, which includes Office, declined to discuss any specific plans for Fast before its shareholders vote on the friendly offer. But he said the two companies have talked about how elements of Fast’s technology might be used in Microsoft’s Web search.

“Absolutely, we were excited by the great team and the great work done at Fast,” Mr. Raikes said.

Google does compete in the enterprise search market with specialized software packaged in a slender server computer, called the Google Search Appliance. And Microsoft sees enterprise search as a promising new market where it wants to get a leg up on Google and other rivals.

“With this acquisition, we are the clear leader in enterprise search,” Mr. Raikes said.

The Microsoft move also comes at a time when Google has begun to go after the corporate market with a package of online alternatives to Microsoft’s Office products.

The search giant’s offerings, called Google Apps, include Web-based e-mail, word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software at no charge or, with technical support, for $50 a user each year — a fraction of the cost of Microsoft’s desktop products.

The Microsoft strategy, analysts say, is to add new technology and features to Office, which dominates the market for productivity programs. The company is increasingly moving to make the popular Office products a familiar dashboard used by corporate workers to do all kinds of tasks.

Microsoft has already offered enterprise search with SharePoint, a product in the Office family that lets groups of workers collaborate. And Microsoft has had a partnership with Fast for providing enterprise search.

But by purchasing Fast, Microsoft can more fully integrate the Norwegian company’s technology into its Office technology. Mr. Raikes pointed to the advantage of having “a single vendor with solutions that span the full range of customer needs.”

In a statement, John Lervik, the chief executive of Fast, welcomed the Microsoft bid, which represents a 40 percent premium over the closing price of Fast’s shares on Monday. Fast’s clients include Reuters, the United States Army, Fidelity Investments and America Online.

Mr. Lervik said the Microsoft purchase “validates Fast’s momentum and leadership in enterprise search.”

Industry analysts viewed the planned Fast purchase as a logical step for Microsoft’s big Office business, but one with an uncertain impact on its wider rivalry with Google.

“This is mainly about enterprise search and Microsoft’s strategy for expanding and defending its Office business,” said David M. Smith, an analyst at Gartner. “How the acquisition fits into Microsoft’s larger search strategy is a bigger question.”

The bid sent shares of Fast’s publicly traded competitors soaring. Mike Davis, an analyst at the research firm Ovum in London, said it could herald a wave of takeovers of similar companies like Endeca of Cambridge, Mass., which is privately owned, and Autonomy of Britain.
254 2008-01-09 The program aims to help and encourage new lawyers to go into private practice on their own in communities where there are few lawyers, and where people cannot afford to pay hundreds of dollars per hour for legal service. For 18 months, it offers training by experienced practitioners in all matters of building a law practice: drumming up business, keeping accurate books, and hiring and firing.

“We’re helping lawyers, and we’re providing them with support and professional development skills, but it’s all done with the goal of having them set up practices where access to justice is extremely limited,” said Fred Rooney, director of external relations at CUNY School of Law and one of the creators of the incubator. “That’s most of the city.”

The effort is financed by CUNY and with money from the state. Participants pay a low monthly rent for office space and supplies on Fifth Avenue, at 27th Street, in the office of Laura Gentile, a CUNY law graduate who has a small firm. She is also one of the teachers in the program.

“I will teach them everything from how to analyze and select a malpractice policy, to how to manage their money so they never fall off the edge of doom,” Ms. Gentile said. She also tries to teach about coping with uncertainty, which she said was a critical real-world skill.

“Sometimes you realize that in two months you’re not going to have the rent,” Ms. Gentile said. “It can be really scary, but the solution does come.”

Six lawyers are in the program now, with space for two more. Mr. Rooney said he plans to expand the initiative to 12 lawyers next year.

Fatai O. Lawal, a Nigerian lawyer who has passed the New York bar and who worked at CUNY’s law school as a security guard after coming to the United States, is one of this year’s participants. Mr. Lawal said he already had several clients with immigration matters, so far mostly citizenship applications.

“Before I heard about this incubator program, I was working from home,” said Mr. Lawal, who is building his practice while also working for the city’s Correction Department as a legal coordinator with inmates at Rikers Island. “This is a great opportunity to get an office in Manhattan, for a cheaper price.”

Mr. Lawal said he tried to keep his fees low, adding that he charged one financially strapped family $250 for helping with an application to move additional family members to the United States. Another lawyer had wanted $1,000, he said.

The CUNY program raises a question that law schools are increasingly grappling with: Why are their students, after three years of intellectually demanding training, not ready to practice as soon as they pass a bar exam?

“Law schools have an aspiration to be a part of an academic research community,” not trade schools focused on teaching practical skills, said Deborah L. Rhode, a law professor and the director of the Center on Ethics at Stanford, who has written about access to legal representation in the United States.

Even though students may participate in clinical programs in which they represent real clients, Professor Rhode said, “We don’t teach practice management skills, we don’t teach human resources, we don’t teach lots of what students need to run an effective practice.”

Mr. Rooney said he wanted to start the program in part because of his own painful learning experience in 1987, when he first hung out his shingle because the pay in his public-sector job was too low to support his young family.

Without mentors or teachers, Mr. Rooney recalled that he had to learn how to find clients and how to make and handle money. “With a lot of hard work and sacrifice and sweat equity and you name it, we created an economically viable practice,” he said, “but I wouldn’t wish that on my worst enemy.”
255 2008-01-09 BANGKOK — The wife of the ousted Thai prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, returned from exile Tuesday to face charges of corruption and an uncertain future for her family and its political allies.

The wife, Pojaman Shinawatra, was met by the police soon after her flight arrived from Hong Kong and was arrested and charged with conflict of interest in a property deal and false disclosure in a company listed on the stock market. She was released on bail totaling six million baht, or $182,000, a small amount for the wife of a billionaire. She is also barred from leaving the country without court permission.

The Shinawatra family lawyer, Noppadol Pattama, told reporters that Mrs. Pojaman made the decision to return from abroad, where the couple had been living in exile, mostly in London and Hong Kong, “a couple of days ago” and that she was now ready to fight the charges against her.

“This is the proper time,” Mr. Noppadol said. “The country is back to democracy.”

Political analysts said the return of Mrs. Pojaman signaled her family’s confidence that the Thai political situation, still unsettled after a victory by Mr. Thaksin’s allies in elections last month, would turn in their favor once a new government was formed.

The political party that represents Mr. Thaksin’s interests in the country, the People Power Party, or P.P.P., won the most votes in the Dec. 23 election and claims to have reached agreements with enough coalition partners to be able to form a government. But it also faces a growing number of obstacles.
256 2008-01-09 1. Quickly pass nori sheets over open flame, one by one, to dry and toast them. Using a spice grinder or small food processor, and working in batches, grind to a fine powder. Peel, core and cut apples into small pieces. Place in a medium saucepan with apple cider. Simmer over medium-low heat until little liquid is left, 20 to 30 minutes. Transfer to blender and add melted butter and 2 tablespoons nori powder. Blend until smooth and, if desired, season to taste with salt and sugar. Keep warm.

2. Place large, heavy skillet over medium-high heat. When pan is hot, add 3 tablespoons olive oil. When oil is shimmering, add yams and sauté, stirring almost constantly, until tender and golden brown, 4 to 5 minutes. Add edamame and sauté until thoroughly heated, about 1 minute. Drain off excess oil, and add scallions and chives. Season to taste with salt and a squeeze of yuzu or lemon juice. Set aside and keep warm.

3. Preheat a broiler. In a small saucepan or microwave, bring chicken stock to a simmer, set aside and keep warm. Rub pork chops with remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil and remaining nori powder. Season with togarashi and salt to taste. Broil to 145 to 150 degrees for medium doneness.

4. To serve, place a few tablespoons apple nori purée in center of each of four plates. Top with broiled chop and drizzle with 1 tablespoon stock. Top with yams and edamame, and serve.
257 2008-01-09 Whatever its other pluses and minuses, his national sales tax, known as the Fair Tax, would undeniably increase the share of taxes paid by the middle class while cutting the share paid by the wealthy. If voters can just forget what he is saying, Mr. Huckabee is the candidate for those who think the country needs to stop soaking the rich.

Mr. McCain is neither a Fair Tax Republican nor a Bush Republican. He is more of an Alan Greenspan Republican. And despite the somewhat tortured history of Mr. McCain’s views, he has managed to sketch out an economic platform for 2008 that represents the very beginnings of a Republican response to middle-class anxiety. Together, he and his rivals present Republican primary voters with a real choice.

The first big contrast between the Greenspan and Bush outlooks has to do with how the government should use financial incentives. The idea that people respond to incentives is a tenet of Republican economics: tax rates should stay low to encourage people to work and businesses to expand.

Mr. McCain and his rivals agree on this point. But he, like Mr. Greenspan, thinks that the government sometimes has to alter the incentives that a free market creates, to avoid a bad outcome like global warming. When forced to choose between the power of incentives and the magic of the market, Mr. McCain is willing to go with incentives.

On energy policy, this means that he favors a cap-and-trade program that would set a national ceiling on how much carbon could be emitted, and effectively raise the cost of energy use. (Mr. Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, who has never had to run for office, prefers the more direct solution of a carbon tax.) Once oil, coal and electricity became even more expensive, businesses and consumers would have a big incentive to use less of them. The United States then wouldn’t have to rely on so much foreign oil, and global warming might stop accelerating.

History, Mr. McCain has said, “will not treat this administration kindly on climate change.”

Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney, like all politicians, call for more investment in alternative energy. Yet that’s about as far as they go. They talk in vague terms about using the market to solve the country’s energy problem, but they don’t want to make energy use more expensive — and thus let the market solve the problem. So it’s hard not to conclude that climate-change skeptics should vote for them while climate-change believers should vote for Mr. McCain.

There is a similar pattern with health care. All the candidates talk about opening up the market for health insurance to make it function more like the market for new cars or televisions. But Mr. McCain goes further.

He also suggests changing the incentives around medical care. He wants Medicare to pay doctors and hospitals less for procedures that don’t improve health — like unnecessary surgery — and more for effective low-technology care.

“We have to have outcome-based results for health care,” he said during a debate on Sunday night. “And that way, we’ll have a healthier nation, and we will have less health care costs.”

Beyond incentives, the second big difference between the Greenspan and Bush philosophies has to do with taxes. Mr. Bush and his 2008 heirs know what they like: lower and lower taxes. Mr. Greenspan and Mr. McCain are a bit less clear on this point.

Mr. Greenspan provided crucial political cover to the 2003 tax cut, only to turn around and criticize it in his recent memoir. Mr. McCain went the other way, first criticizing that tax cut as fiscally irresponsible and later claiming on several occasions that tax cuts reduced deficits. “Tax cuts increase revenues,” he told Charlie Rose in November.

I asked Doug Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who is Mr. McCain’s top economic adviser, about these comments, and he said that Mr. McCain had misspoken. Mr. Holtz-Eakin then called Mr. McCain on the campaign trail and later gave me this statement from him: “Tax cuts don’t pay for themselves, but pro-growth tax cuts — especially along with spending restraint — spur the economy, which raises incomes, and offsets the revenue loss.”

So Mr. McCain is much closer to his 1980s self on taxes than his 1990s self. But he still isn’t where Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney are. They would both eliminate the estate tax. Mr. McCain would reduce the tax rate and also exempt all estates worth less than $10 million, up from the currently legislated ceiling of $1 million.

When you put it all together, you’re left with a picture of Mr. McCain as someone who cares somewhat more about the deficit than his rivals and is more willing to intervene in the economy. He has called, for example, for subsidizing the incomes of laid-off older workers, to encourage them to accept a lower-paying job instead of remaining unemployed. Expect to hear him talk more about bread-and-butter issues as the campaign moves to Michigan this morning.

That said, the differences among the Republicans are still minor compared with differences between the two parties. And both sides can make a case that their approach will turn out to be the more effective one. As recent polls have shown, Americans are quite anxious about the future and pessimistic about the economy’s direction, but still fairly satisfied with their own financial situation.

The anxiety suggests people may be ready for a sharp break from Mr. Bush’s economic policies. The satisfaction suggests they may want more modest changes.
258 2008-01-09 MOORHEAD--Clare Fahnestock, 80 years old, died of heart failure on January 7, 2008. Architect, Conservationist, tireless supporter of small museums worldwide. She is survived by son Jay Moorhead, daughter Peggy Williams, sister Lee Leggett, and gr...
259 2008-01-09 MARKETS GET RATTLED  Shares tumbled after the head of AT&T suggested that consumers may be cutting back and Countrywide Financial denied that it was tumbling into bankruptcy. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.84 percent, its lowest clos...
260 2008-01-10 The first of 20 pay toilets opened today in Manhattan’s Madison Square Park. Costing only 25 cents, it will give a user 15 minutes of private time and automatically clean itself between uses....
261 2008-01-10 John McCain answers a question from an anti-war voter at the Opera House in Derry, N.H.
262 2008-01-10 A report that NYSE Euronext, the operator of the mighty New York Stock Exchange, might want to buy the much smaller American Stock Exchange is prompting many to ask a basic question: Why? In recent years, Amex has not had an easy time latching ont...
263 2008-01-10 Samsung's new HDTV was inspired by the fashion industry. Considering this is the era of Apple design and a market filled increasingly with style-conscious consumers, C.E.S. 2008 has been surprisingly devoid of good, clean design. (Apple doesn't sh...
264 2008-01-10 Shares in the Swiss-based computer peripherals maker Logitech International rose more than 12 percent on Thursday amid speculation Microsoft would make a takeover bid, traders told Reuters. Spokesmen for Logitech, the world's largest maker of comp...
265 2008-01-10 RiskMetrics Group, the parent of the proxy advisory service Institutional Shareholder Services, has set a price range for its initial public offering, which could raise up to $306 million. The offering will produce a big gain, mostly on paper, for...
266 2008-01-10 Two separate analysts reports released Wednesday suggesting that a merger is in the cards for Delta Air Lines may have convinced at least one Delta employee. Lee Moak, chairman of the pilot union's executive committee, said in a letter to rank-and...
267 2008-01-10 Reddy Ice Holdings, a producer of packaged ice, said Wednesday that it was in talks to revise a $1.1 billion deal to be bought by a hedge fund, GSO Capital Partners. The deal was called into question in September when Morgan Stanley, which had agr...
268 2008-01-10 A day after signing a $1.2 billion deal to buy a Norwegian search company, Fast Search and Transfer, Microsoft confirmed that Bruce Jaffe, the firm's mergers and acquisitions architect, will be leaving the company at the end of February. Mr. Jaffe...
269 2008-01-10 The parent of the New York Stock Exchange is reportedly in talks to acquire a longtime rival, the smaller American Stock Exchange, in a deal that may fetch as much as $350 million. The Wall Street Journal reported that NYSE Euronext, the largest s...
270 2008-01-10 Federal communications regulators on Wednesday cleared the way for Verizon Communications to sell its phone lines in three New England states for $2.7 billion to FairPoint Communications. The Federal Communications Commission – in a 3-to-2 vote ...
271 2008-01-10 Will the horrors of the slumping U.S. market never end? The latest tale of suffering: actor Burt Reynolds, best known for the epic "Smokey and the Bandit" movies, is having trouble selling his Florida home. The Wall Street Journal reports that the...
272 2008-01-10 The subpoenas from Mr. Cuomo’s office will seek internal memos, billing documents, and correspondence between Intel and its customers to determine whether the company engaged in a variety of anticompetitive practices, like penalized customers, primarily computer manufacturers, for purchasing processors from competitors or improperly paying customers to use Intel chips exclusively.

“Protecting fair and open competition in the microprocessor market is critical to New York, the United States, and the world,” Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. “Monopolistic practices are a serious concern particularly for New Yorkers who are navigating an information-intensive economy.”

Advanced Micro Devices has waged what is in essence a global antitrust campaign against Intel. A.M.D. has already filed civil lawsuits or complaints against Intel in Europe, Japan and South Korea; in 2005, it filed a civil suit against Intel in federal district court in Delaware, a case that is still going on and has already produced hundreds of millions of pages of documents.

All told, the legal battle between A.M.D. and Intel is one of the largest antitrust matters pending before American and foreign regulators.

Chuck Mulloy, a spokesman for Intel, said the company would comply with Mr. Cuomo’s subpoena but denied any illegality.

“We believe our business practices are lawful,” he said. “We also believe that the microprocessor market is a competitive market, and is behaving just as one would expect a competitive market to behave.”

Mr. Mulloy said that chip prices continued to decline across the industry and that new companies were entering the market. He acknowledged that the company used discount sales, but described the practice as legal and “a regular part of the business.”

Among the officials who have pushed for a federal investigation into Intel are Senator Charles E. Schumer and Representative Kirsten Gillibrand, both New York Democrats. A.M.D. has pledged to open a $3 billion factory in upstate New York that will employ 1,200 people.

In a statement, Albert Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, praised Mr. Cuomo’s announcement.

“We think it awkward, with so much at stake and the two companies involved being American, that the U.S. government has not taken a more active role,” Mr. Foer said, noting that the institute had been among those urging an F.T.C. investigation. “But we applaud New York and any states that might join with Attorney General Cuomo for stepping up to the plate for American consumers.”
273 2008-01-10 A few years ago, Todd Palmer, an ecologist at the University of Florida, was walking past a fenced-off research site in Kenya when he noticed something curious: instead of thriving, acacia trees protected from leaf-eating elephants and giraffes were withering and dying.

“That struck me as paradoxical,” he said in a telephone interview from the site. “If you remove large herbivores, you should see more vigorous trees.”

Dr. Palmer and his colleagues decided to investigate, and their findings, which are being reported in Friday’s issue of the journal Science, add to the mounting evidence that relationships between plant and animal species can be far more complex than had been thought and that even seemingly benign interference can have devastating effects.

The acacias and a species of ant that colonize them live together in an arrangement ecologists call mutualism. The ants nest in the trees’ bulbous thorns and sip on their nectar; in return, they swarm out ferociously, ready to bite, when a tree is disturbed by an elephant, a giraffe or other grazing animal.

But somehow, Dr. Palmer said, the trees seem to sense when no one is munching on their leaves and, after a year or so, seemingly decide “we are going to reduce our investment in ants” by not producing so many roomy thorns or so much tasty nectar. The ants’ responses to depleted nectar and nesting sites — lassitude is one — eventually encourage wood-boring beetles to invade the trees. Pretty soon their tunnels leave the trees spindly, sickly, dying or dead.

The finding shows that what look like two-species mutualisms may involve other species. And they offer new proof of the fragility of the web of life, a phenomenon observed for example when wolves vanish from mountain landscapes or sharks and other top marine predators are fished out of the marine food chain.

Without wolf predation, elk are freer to roam and eat more plants. The result: aspen begin to vanish. Similarly, the overfishing of sharks and similar large fish leave smaller, algae-eating fish free to graze unhindered on algae growing on (and feeding) coral. Result: dead coral.
274 2008-01-10 A rural school district’s longstanding practice of allowing the distribution of Bibles to grade school students is unconstitutional, a federal judge ruled Tuesday. For more than three decades, the South Iron School District in Annapolis, 120 miles southwest of St. Louis, allowed representatives of Gideons International to give away Bibles in fifth-grade classrooms. The American Civil Liberties Union filed suit two years ago on behalf of four sets of parents. The district then altered its policy to allow distribution before or after school or during lunch break, but not in classrooms. Judge Catherine D. Perry of Federal District Court in St. Louis ruled that both practices were illegal and granted a permanent injunction.
275 2008-01-10 Mexico’s top retailer, Wal-Mart de Mexico, plans to cut prices as part of a government plan to help low-income earners struggling with inflation. A spokesman for the company said the announcement would be made Thursday afternoon. Mexico’s leading retailers have agreed to temporary discounts on some staple goods beginning this month. The government is expected to provide details on the deal on Thursday during a news conference with the retail association. Wal-Mart also said December sales rose 0.5 percent, which was above analysts’ expectations
276 2008-01-10 This was the sixth appeal in the case, one of the victims’ lawyers, Victor A. Kovner, told the judges’ panel, and “the fourth time I personally am before the court.” In nearly 15 years, he said, “there hasn’t been a single damages trial” to determine how much the victims should receive for the pain and suffering they endured and for their financial losses.

The appellate judges seemed to share Mr. Kovner’s sense of urgency, as they peppered lawyers on both sides of the dispute with questions.

One of them asked the authority’s lawyer, John J. Gibbons: If the authority was not 68 percent to blame for the bombing, then “what percentage would you think would be supported by the evidence?”

Mr. Gibbons declined to be specific, saying only that he considered the Port Authority a victim too and that the percentage should be 50 percent or less.

The 50 percent figure is important because if the authority is more than 50 percent liable for the attack, then it must pay 100 percent of any damages for pain and suffering, the victims’ lawyers said later. The authority is responsible for financial damages regardless of how the blame is apportioned, the lawyers said.

In the 1993 attack, Islamic terrorists drove a rented Ryder van packed with explosives into the trade center’s underground garage, set a 10-minute fuse and left. The blast killed six people and injured 1,000.

Originally, hundreds of people and companies sued. By early 2005, many still had lawsuits, while others had dropped out or settled. Victims’ lawyers said yesterday that there were 47 cases remaining, including 43 personal injury cases.

Among the victims still fighting is Linda P. Nash. Ms. Nash, a former management consultant now in her 60s, was in the garage when the bomb went off and has not been able to work since because of short-term memory disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder prompted by the attack, her lawyer, Louis A. Mangone, said.

At the trial, the plaintiffs focused on a 1985 report commissioned by the Port Authority, warning that the underground garage was vulnerable to a car bombing and recommending that it be closed to public parking.

“Wasn’t there evidence that the Port Authority had been warned by its own experts?” one of the appellate judges asked on Wednesday.

“No,” Mr. Gibbons said, adding that none of the reports “suggested that a terrorist attack on the World Trade Center was likely.”

One judge asked if it was true that there was only one police officer patrolling the garage. “At times,” Mr. Gibbons conceded.

In its court papers, the authority compared its position to that of a subway token booth clerk who falls asleep while a passenger is attacked, but who is not as much to blame as the attacker himself.

But Brian Shoot, another of the victims’ lawyers present in court, told the judges that the token clerk analogy was flawed. The decision to leave the garage open to the public, despite recommendations to the contrary, was made by “the highest ranking members of the Port Authority,” he said, and not by a clerk.
277 2008-01-10 President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela said Colombian guerrillas had provided him with the location of two captives, Clara Rojas, a former aspirant to Colombia’s vice presidency, and Consuelo González, a former Colombian lawmaker. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, had agreed last month to release the hostages, but an operation led by Mr. Chávez fell apart after the rebels were found not to have the 3-year-old son of Ms. Rojas, who was instead living in foster care in Bogotá. Colombia’s government gave its approval to the new operation. Mr. Chávez said rescue helicopters could depart as soon as early Thursday.
278 2008-01-10 LONDON — Apple said on Wednesday that it had agreed to cut the prices on its iTunes digital music store in Britain to align them with those on the Continent, settling an antitrust case brought by European regulators.

The European Commission accused Apple last spring of unfairly charging British consumers more than their counterparts in the euro zone for tracks from iTunes, the dominant online music vendor. British consumers typically pay 79 pence, or $1.55, a song while iTunes stores in the euro zone charge 99 euro cents, or $1.46.

“In the U.K., we were being discriminated against, and now that is going to stop,” said Chris Warner, a lawyer at Which?, a London-based consumer group that brought the complaint against Apple nearly three years ago.

Apple said that within six months it would lower prices for British consumers to bring them into line with those elsewhere in Europe. But neither the company nor the commission provided details of the settlement.

One complication in setting prices for British iTunes customers is exchange rate fluctuations because Britain has not adopted the euro. The commission’s statement that iTunes prices were 10 percent more expensive in Britain, for example, did not appear to take account of a recent slide in the value of the pound against the euro. At current exchange rates, the 79 pence price of a song in Britain is equal to about 1.06 euros.
279 2008-01-10 PHILADELPHIA (Reuters) — Reddy Ice Holdings, a producer of packaged ice, said Wednesday that it was in talks to revise a $1.1 billion deal to be bought by a hedge fund, GSO Capital Partners.

The deal was called into question in September when Morgan Stanley, which had agreed to provide about $700 million of debt financing, said it might withdraw. In October, Reddy Ice posted lower-than-expected third-quarter results.

Reddy Ice said it held talks with GSO Capital on Friday regarding the deal and ”conceptual discussions regarding a modified transaction.” No decisions have been reached and talks continue, Reddy Ice said.

The deal, agreed to in July, values Reddy Ice’s shares at $31.25 each. The shares closed down 57 cents in the regular session Wednesday, at $21.24. In trading after hours, they rose $1.01, to $22.25.

The arbitrage spread on Reddy Ice — a measure of the difference between the current share price and the price being offered — was 47 percent at 4 p.m., indicating high concern in the market about a closing of the deal. A high spread denotes increased skepticism by traders. A typical spread is about 5 percent.

Turmoil in the credit markets has made financing of leveraged buyouts more difficult. With the cost of financing going up, several recent buyouts have been canceled, including those of the equipment renter United Rentals and the audio equipment maker Harman International Industries.
280 2008-01-10 Also with three players on the team were Dallas and Seattle. The Cowboys had linebacker DeMarcus Ware, tight end Jason Witten and wide receiver Terrell Owens; Ware and Witten were first-timers, Owens was also selected from 2000 to 2002 with San Francisco, and in 2004 with Philadelphia.

The Seahawks had tackle Walter Jones, defensive end Patrick Kerney and linebacker Lofa Tatupu. Jones was previously an All-Pro in 2001, ’04 and ’05; the others Seahawks were first-timers.

REWARDS FOR TOP BROWNS Coach Romeo Crennel and quarterback Derek Anderson are about to cash in on Cleveland’s comeback season.

For his efforts in helping drag the Browns out of the N.F.L.’s basement, Crennel is on the verge of being rewarded with a contract extension by the club. Cleveland went 10-6 and barely missed making the playoffs in his third season as the coach.

“We have every intention of doing something for Romeo,” Browns General Manager Phil Savage said.

Savage also said he was hoping to re-sign Anderson, who went from an inexperienced backup to a Pro Bowl alternate in only months. Savage said he felt that Anderson, a 24-year-old restricted free agent, did enough in his first season as a starter to deserve a long-term contract.

“I think the deserving thing is to say he’s the starter going into next year,” Savage said. “He’s done nothing to lose the job.”

Savage’s other priority is to re-sign running back Jamal Lewis, who rushed for 1,304 yards in his first season with Cleveland.

HELPING RETIRED PLAYERS The days leading up to the Super Bowl offer the Gridiron Greats Assistance Fund many chances to raise money for needy retired N.F.L. players. The nonprofit fund, started by the former Packers star Jerry Kramer, hopes to raise $500,000 through its efforts, said Jennifer Smith, the executive director of the group.

More than 70 former N.F.L. players and coaches are expected to participate in at least one of the events to be held during Super Bowl week in Arizona. Among the people scheduled to attend are Mike Ditka, Don Shula, Dick Butkus, Paul Hornung, Barry Sanders and Jim Kelly.

Events include a dinner, a party, and golf and poker tournaments. For a minimum $6,000 donation, four people can play golf with an N.F.L. great. A Texas Hold’em poker tournament has a $1,000 buy-in, which includes being seated with a football star.

JUDGE AGREES WITH TITANS A Nevada judge dropped the Tennessee Titans as a defendant in a lawsuit brought by a strip club employee paralyzed in a triple shooting after a melee involving Pacman Jones.

Clark County District Court Judge Jessie Walsh agreed with team lawyers, who contended the Titans should not be held responsible for Jones’s behavior at the Minxx Gentleman’s Club on Feb. 19, during the N.B.A. All-Star weekend.

That was the night the employee, Tommy Urbanski, and two other people were wounded.

Lawyers for the N.F.L. say they intend to file a similar request next week for the judge to drop the league from the case.
281 2008-01-10 WASHINGTON (AP) — Federal communications regulators on Wednesday cleared the way for Verizon Communications to sell its phone lines in three New England states for $2.7 billion to FairPoint Communications Inc.

The Federal Communications Commission — in a 3-to-2 vote — said the proposed sale of Verizon’s phone lines in Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine was “unlikely” to result in any anticompetitive behavior or hurt the public interest.

The deal still needs formal approval from all three states.

Under the deal, announced in January 2007, FairPoint would get Verizon’s telephone operations, which serve about 1.6 million homes, along with Internet service. Verizon will retain its wireless phone operations in the region.

The F.C.C. said the deal would enhance service in the region through investment; speed deployment of high-speed Internet, or broadband, service; and create 700 jobs.

The commission’s two Democrats, Michael J. Copps and Jonathan S. Adelstein, voted against it.

FairPoint said this week that it had reached an agreement with the Public Service Department of Vermont to buy Verizon’s operations in that state. Vermont regulators previously rejected the sale, saying that the deal would leave FairPoint saddled with too much debt and unable to invest in high-speed Web service.

The deal now goes to the Vermont Public Service Board.

FairPoint said the Public Service Department would urge those regulators to approve the sale subject to certain conditions, including its commitment to invest about $120 million over three years after the sale closes.
282 2008-01-10 Ben Simpfendorfer, an economist with the Royal Bank of Scotland in Hong Kong, said the announcement underscored how seriously the State Council regards public attitudes toward inflation.

“The State Council is worried about public sentiment,” he said. “They are worried that rising prices will have a negative impact on sentiment.”

Last November, China raised gasoline and diesel prices by almost 10 percent, partly to appease officials at state-owned refineries. Refiners had complained that price controls were forcing them to swallow the difference between higher prices for crude oil on the world market and regulated consumer prices at home for refined products. So refineries cut back production of gasoline and particularly diesel, causing long lines at fuel stations around the country.

But the November price increase fueled inflation. Consumer prices were 6.9 percent higher in November than a year earlier — a figure that represented an 11-year high.

“It was a shock,” said Mr. Simpfendorfer, noting that the price increases surpassed the market’s expectations.

Oil futures have continued to rise on world markets, briefly surpassing $100, and Chinese refiners are raising the same concerns. With the government unable to suppress market pressures, lines are again forming at service stations, particularly for truckers in southern China.

Even Wednesday’s announcement hinted that domestic price increases might be inevitable later this year in response to world markets — an acknowledgment that might prompt further fuel hoarding in China.

“Prices of crude oil, grains and other primary products are still rising on the international market, and China faces relatively large pressures of further price increases,” the announcement on the government Web site said.

For ordinary Chinese citizens, inflation has emerged as a major concern. Last year, food prices rose about 12 percent, causing an often angry public response. More recently, prices for eggs and pork have fallen, though flooding in farming regions of central China damaged vegetable production and kept those prices high, Mr. Simpfendorfer said.

Last week, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences released a national survey that found 30.5 percent of respondents considered inflation the country’s top problem. Stories about the urban poor struggling with rising prices have become common in the Chinese media.

China’s rapid economic growth has been fueled by rising demand for oil, coal and other energy sources. This week, China also announced national regulations to help clean up the environment and slow the country’s growing addiction to imported oil by focusing on a ubiquitous but unexpected target: the plastic bag.

On Tuesday, the State Council banned production of ultrathin plastic bags and required store owners to charge customers for thicker plastic bags. The move, which takes effect June 1, is intended not only to fight littering, but also to reduce oil use. Chinese media have reported that China uses about three billion plastic bags every day. Creating this many bags requires 37 million barrels of crude oil every year, according to the Web site of China Trade News.

“Our country consumes a large amount of plastic bags,” stated a circular posted Tuesday on the central government’s main Web site. “While convenient for consumers, the bags also lead to a severe waste of resources and environmental pollution.”

But for all the attention the government has drawn to the bags, their production represents less than a week’s worth of Chinese oil consumption.
283 2008-01-10 PRISTINA, Serbia (AP) — A former rebel leader was elected Kosovo’s prime minister on Wednesday, vowing that the province was only weeks away from independence and calling on Serbia to drop its claim to the territory.

Kosovo’s Parliament voted 85 to 22 to approve a coalition government with Hashim Thaci as prime minister. His government will try to steer the province through a declaration of independence, a course supported by the United States and some European governments but fiercely opposed by Serbia and Russia.

“It’s an issue of weeks, and Kosovo will be an independent, sovereign and democratic country,” Mr. Thaci said in an interview at his residence here in the provincial capital. “Independence is everything for us. We have sacrificed. We deserve it.”

Still, he cautioned that no move would be made without the approval of the United States and the major European nations. “Kosovo will do nothing without Washington and Brussels — no unilateral actions,” Mr. Thaci said, referring to the seat of the European Union in Belgium.

Kosovo, though legally part of Serbia, has been under United Nations and NATO control since NATO’s 78-day bombing campaign in 1999 ended a Serbian crackdown on separatist ethnic Albanians in the province.
284 2008-01-10 A presidential advisory board released a report Wednesday with recommendations to reform the way the government declassifies documents.

The Public Interest Declassification Board, created in 2000 by Congress to ensure public access to records pertaining to national security, offered dozens of ideas, including establishment of a National Declassification Center.

It singled out the President’s Daily Brief, a summary by the intelligence community. The report recommended that each day’s brief should be designated a presidential record and eventually examined for declassification.

Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for the director of national intelligence, said the office would study the report before commenting.
285 2008-01-10 A rare genetic flaw that occurs spontaneously near or during conception may sharply increase the risk that a child will develop autism, researchers reported Wednesday.

The new study, released online by the New England Journal of Medicine, is based on the most comprehensive DNA scan ever performed of families with autistic children. Experts said it illustrated both the promise and the challenges inherent in the search for genetic explanations of the disorder.

Although the researchers found strong evidence that the genetic alteration could cause autism, they said it turned up in less than 1 percent of about 1,500 children with the disorder.

The finding is not likely to improve diagnosis or treatment for most children struggling with autism or related problems anytime soon, experts said, but it points to a specific chunk of DNA where some developmental problems could originate. Up to one in 150 children born in the United States show some evidence of the social and learning difficulties that characterize autism, and scientists understand very little about how or why those problems develop.

“This is a fantastic study, in that it points us toward a path, gives us an idea of where to look,” said Thomas Lehner, chief of the genomics research branch at the National Institute of Mental Health, who was not involved in the research. “However, it also shows we have a long way to go to understand what is a very complex disorder.”
286 2008-01-10 Q. I use Gmail and have turned on the POP3 function to download messages to my computer. I sometimes check mail on the Web version of Gmail, but I notice that messages I download don’t show up in my online in-box. Is there a way to keep all the mail on the Web, too?

A. You can configure Gmail to keep copies of your messages on the Web, even if you download them first with your regular mail program. To change the way Gmail handles your messages, log into your account at www.gmail.com and click the link for Settings in the top right corner of the screen.

Click on the tab for “Forwarding and POP/IMAP.” In the drop-down menu next to “When messages are accessed with POP,” choose the option to keep Gmail’s copy of the message in your in-box.

If you had the option set to archive Gmail’s copy of the message instead of deleting it, the missing messages are still on the Web. Click the All Mail link to see them. Another way to do this is switch your Gmail account settings from POP to IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) — if your desktop e-mail program supports IMAP. Because IMAP keeps your messages on the server, your mailboxes stay consistent no matter where or when you check your mail.

You can find more information about using Gmail with IMAP at http://snipurl.com/1wgyx. Many mail programs support the IMAP system, including Outlook, Outlook Express, Windows Mail, Apple Mail and Thunderbird. Mobile devices like the iPhone, the BlackBerry and phones using the Symbian S60 operating system can also use Gmail with IMAP.
287 2008-01-10 The Metropolitan Museum of Art is the new (if temporary) home of “Artemis and the Stag,” below, the 2,000-year-old classical bronze sculpture that sold last year for a record $28.6 million at a Sotheby’s auction in New York. The sculpture, sold by the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo to an unidentified private collector for the highest price ever paid for a sculpture or antiquity at auction, will be on view for six months in the Leon Levy and Shelby White Court (the central atrium in the new Greek and Roman Galleries).
288 2008-01-10 Mr. Levin said that at his store vinyl copies of “In Rainbows” outsold the CD by a wide margin. Demand for the album was such that some record shops put it on sale before the label’s planned “street date,” resulting in sales of about 9,000 copies the previous week.

But sales of the plastic and vinyl versions of the album also received a boost from digital services like iTunes, where the album sold about 28,000 copies. The iTunes service, which sells individual songs for 99 cents and albums typically for $9.99, had not carried any of the band’s previous albums, owing in part to Radiohead’s demand that its recordings be sold only as complete works.

But Bryce Edge, one of Radiohead’s managers, said the band decided to sell “In Rainbows” on iTunes because it expects that EMI, the British music giant that released the band’s first six albums, will soon post them for sale on the service, and it would be strange for the new album to be excluded. An EMI representative declined to comment.

The decision to release the music as a digital file so far in advance of the CD also allowed time for the music to circulate on free, unlicensed file-swapping networks. Big Champagne, a tracking service that studies file-sharing, estimates that the album was downloaded more than 100,000 times on free networks in the first 24 hours after Radiohead delivered it to fans who had preordered it from its Web site. But Eric Garland, chief executive of Big Champagne, said that by offering the music for as little as zero from their own site, Radiohead “stole market share” from pirate networks.

Mr. Edge said that sales of 100,000 copies of the album this week would be “almost certainly less than the number we would have achieved if we hadn’t” offered it as a digital download. But the band still came out ahead, he said, in part because it attracted so many fans to Radiohead’s Web site, where it collected e-mail addresses from fans looking to acquire the album.

The band has not said how many copies it distributed. Now that the CD is in shops, some fans who paid for the initial downloads may have been tempted to buy the album, in effect, for a second time. But Steve Gottlieb, chief of the independent label TVT Records, said he believed the sales mainly reflected fans who were acquiring the music for the first time.

“Radiohead is one of those really big groups that appeals to people outside the intensely pirating demographic of 16 to 29,” he said. “To the extent Radiohead still has a significant audience in its 30s and 40s, there’s a bigger audience of those people who will still pick up something at Best Buy or don’t want to bother with figuring out how to go to a Radiohead Web site and track it down.”

Still, Mr. Gottlieb said, the sales suggested that the band’s name-your-price offering, and fans’ subsequent free sharing of files, had taken a toll. “Clearly we can’t give it all away and expect to sell CDs,” he said.

But Radiohead will have yet more opportunities to gain fans. The band said yesterday that it planned to perform in more than 20 North American cities this year.
289 2008-01-10 “This is not an exercise in nostalgia, or giggling at the ’50s,” the poet Robert Pinsky said on taking the stage at the Jazz Standard on Tuesday night. Along with his colleague Charles Simic, the current poet laureate of the United States, Mr. Pinsky was taking part in a program billed as “Words and Music.” And his disclaimer doubled as a pledge. “We hope the evening will not be about goatees and berets,” Mr. Pinsky said, “but about art.”

On that count the experiment in booking was a great success. Both distinguished writers came to the club not only with an aura of literary celebrity — Mr. Pinsky is a former United States poet laureate and no stranger to the spotlight — but also a healthy regard for jazz.

Mr. Simic, who was born in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, recalled hearing Coleman Hawkins with Red Allen at the Metropole Cafe on his first night in the United States, in August 1954. (“So my American experience started out on a high note,” he said.) For his part Mr. Pinsky described himself as a frustrated saxophonist before reading his “Ginza Samba,” which breathlessly invokes both the inventor of the instrument and the ancestral legacy of the Atlantic slave trade.

For that poem there was appropriate accompaniment: a samba, played by the evening’s resident trio of Mike Mainieri on vibraphone, Lonnie Plaxico on bass and Andrew Cyrille on drums. Later Mr. Pinsky and Mr. Cyrille engaged in a back-and-forth exchange of pithy couplets and improvised percussive fills, and the premise, meant to suggest jazz’s tradition of trading fours, worked with breezy charm.

But these were the only instances of poetry coming into direct contact with music, which meant there were some missed opportunities in the set. None was more obvious than “Crepuscule With Nellie,” Mr. Simic’s moody reverie on the subject of Thelonious Monk at the Five Spot. It could have easily been read in concert with the Monk ballad that shares its name; instead Mr. Simic went first, and the musicians followed (with “‘Round Midnight,” a different Monk tune). It seemed at times as if the poets were so wary of Beat Generation trappings that they closed off any chance of alchemy with the music.

Then again the title of the engagement promised a meeting, not a melding, of practices. And in context, the format committed both poets to a sort of cutting session. Mr. Simic used much of his stage time to hint at a bygone New York bohemia, where jazz provided the soundtrack. He struck a sly and sensuous note with three short pieces in a row, beginning with “Unmade Beds.” In another poem, “Shelley,” he conjured an image of shadowy solitude along rainy city streets. (Mr. Mainieri could have amplified this feeling.)
290 2008-01-10 The expected shrinking of domestic capacity this year comes after two years of industry profits. That is far different from the abrupt shrinkage after Sept. 11, 2001, when demand for air travel declined sharply and airlines had no choice but to reduce fleets.

The current trend of reducing capacity is aimed at pushing fares up. Among the top seven carriers, all but Southwest Airlines and Continental Airlines reduced domestic capacity during 2007. Some carriers expanded aggressively in international markets where there is less low-fare competition.

Now, United Airlines expects to reduce its domestic flights this year by 3 percent to 4 percent, while Delta Air Lines plans to cut domestic flights 4 percent to 5 percent.

Northwest Airlines and American Airlines are planning 2008 flights roughly equal to those of last year.

But Jamie Baker, an analyst at JPMorgan, said in a recent report that those two carriers were well positioned to idle planes if high fuel prices made some flights unprofitable. That is because they both have a lot of planes that are paid for, meaning the aircraft do not need to be flying to retire debt.

Mr. Baker expects the hub-and-spoke airlines to shrink collectively by 2.5 percent this year. Even with growth at Southwest, Continental, JetBlue Airways and AirTran Airways, the industry would grow over all by less than 1 percent under Mr. Baker’s outlook, and it would shrink domestically.

Airlines are eager to raise fares because of higher fuel costs. Each $10 increase in a barrel of oil requires the airlines to raise round-trip fares an average of $18, Mr. Baker estimated. About a year ago, oil was as low as $52 a barrel; on Wednesday, it traded at almost $96.

Airlines have been busy raising fares since Jan. 1 and are expected to continue doing so. But it will not be clear until the first quarter is over how successful that effort has been, since the mix of seats sold — how many for $100, how many for $400 — is more important than the price of any one fare.

Last year, airlines raised fares repeatedly, but got little for the effort as smart-shopping leisure travelers and large businesses that negotiate fare discounts kept average fares paid to airlines from rising much. Southwest’s average one-way fare through the first nine months of 2007 rose just 1 percent, to $105.57. Delta’s yield — a measure of fares — rose just 3.7 percent during that same period.

“I think they’re going to just keep raising prices,” said Roger E. King, an analyst at CreditSights. “They’re going to have to keep at it.”

Mr. King doubted that flights could get much fuller. At roughly 80 percent full for 2007, that means that on most flights on popular routes at convenient times every seat was sold.

Shrinkage among traditional hub-and-spoke carriers could be good for consumers over the longer term as discount airlines and others offering new service rush in to fill the void. For example, Virgin America started flying last year from San Francisco and Skybus Airlines, operating from Columbus, Ohio, brought ultracheap fares to the United States by offering at least 10 seats on each flight for $10 one way.

But in markets dominated by traditional airlines, fewer flights will just mean higher prices and more crowding and all the other service problems that go with packed planes.
291 2008-01-10 McCORMICK--John ''Hap'' 72, husband of Karin Rosen McCormick, of Watch Hill, RI died Monday. Survived by his daughter Lisa and husband J. Matthew Mannix, son Brian and wife Kathryn, sister Anne Davis, brother James M. McCormick and granddaughter A...
292 2008-01-10 TOO NICE A GUY? Many economists on Wall Street are beginning to grumble that the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is so intent on building consensus among the Fed's policy makers that he appears reluctant to strong-arm his colleagues at the Federal ...
293 2008-01-10 Switzerland's dressage team will not take part in the Beijing Olympics. The move followed the withdrawal of the team's top rider, Silvia Ikle, who did not want to expose her horse, Salieri, to travel-related stress and the humid conditions in Hong...
294 2008-01-11 Deficit projections have fueled speculation that the mayor will not call to renew a 7 percent property tax cut enacted by the City Council last year, but the mayor insisted that he did not think higher property taxes were in sight....
295 2008-01-11 Are you in good enough shape to flee a burning building?...
296 2008-01-11 The Golden Globes press conference will not be a NBC News exclusive, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association announced Friday. The announcement capped a hectic week of haggling between the press association, NBC, the Writers Guild of America, and ...
297 2008-01-11 Yes, Sir Edmund Hillary is dead. But before you start muttering into your Darjeeling about how they don't make chaps like him anymore, men with pluck and courage and the daft compulsion to test the limits of human achievement at the extreme edges ...
298 2008-01-11 Merrill Lynch's move to accelerate vesting on previously awarded stock-based pay to employees could add to the huge fourth-quarter loss already expected by analysts, Reuters reported Friday. Merrill's financial statements show the company entered ...
299 2008-01-11 Circulating video clips of a recent town hall meeting in New Hampshire don't tell the whole story....
300 2008-01-11 The film editors announce their award nominees....
301 2008-01-11 Buzz Bissinger (buzzbissinger.com) Buzz Bissinger's books include "Friday Night Lights" and "A Prayer for the City." 1) What are you working on? I am currently working on a book for Penguin Press with the tentative title of "Father's Day." It is a...
302 2008-01-11 According to a very good source, the Williams team last night sold one third interest of the team to the Baugur Group, an Icelandic investment company that specializes in retail, media and finances. Among other properties, Baugur owns a supermarke...
303 2008-01-11 Hedge fund managers are stepping up their campaign to break up or sell the Canadian energy giant Nexen, whose stock has gone sideways over the past year, The Globe and Mail reported. Nexen is being pressed to sell or spin off parts of its diverse ...
304 2008-01-11 NYSE Euronext, the merged trans-Atlantic stock exchange, is lobbying the Chinese government to raise standards of corporate governance and loosen rules on where companies can raise capital as part of an effort to win business from rival markets in...
305 2008-01-11 Amid signs that China may be opening its securities market to more foreign investment banks, Credit Suisse announced Thursday that it was seeking to form a joint venture with a Chinese brokerage firm, Founder Securities. Teaming up with Founder Se...
306 2008-01-11 Merck & Company said on Friday it had signed a deal for an authorized generic form of its blockbuster osteoporosis drug Fosamax, to become available after the United States patent on the drug lapses on Feb. 6.

“We can confirm an authorized generic deal for Fosamax has been signed, although specific details of the deal are proprietary,” said a Merck spokesman, Ron Rogers.

Fosamax, whose chemical name is alendronate, has annual sales of about $3 billion, making it the world’s top-selling osteoporosis drug. Now available in a once-weekly formulation, it was the first member of the widely used family of treatments known as bisphosphonates that inhibit cells called osteoclasts that break down bone tissue.

An authorized generic is a copycat form of a company’s branded medicine that is sold through a licensing agreement, usually with a generic-drug manufacturer. Such deals allow the original seller of a branded drug to hold on to a greater revenue stream from the medicine once it loses patent protection and becomes prey to competition from generics.

An authorized generic can significantly hurt sales of rival generics waiting to be launched once a branded drug’s patent lapses.
307 2008-01-11 Now investors are bracing for next week’s round of earnings reports, which many analysts expect to show a drop-off in corporate profits. In addition, worries about coming events may have fueled some of Friday’s sell-off: the next three weeks will bring a Fed policy meeting, a large number of presidential primaries, and a closely watched report on national employment.

“The best investment may be in aspirins and a neck brace,” Howard Silverblatt, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s, wrote in a research note.

Plenty of investors may already be reaching for a nightcap. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, a broad measure of major businesses, has fallen 4.6 percent in January, its fourth worst start to a year since the index began. The S.& P. lost 1.3 percent, or 19.31 points, on Friday to finish at 1,401.02.

Shares of technology companies, whose sales depend heavily on an unhindered consumer, also suffered on Friday. The Nasdaq composite index lost 1.95 percent, or 48.58 points, to close at 2,439.94. It has been a difficult year so far for the technology sector, with the Nasdaq shedding 8 percent of its value in less than two weeks.

Crude oil slipped $1.02 to $92.69 a barrel, and gold futures climbed to an all-time high of $900 per troy ounce before dropping back slightly. Yields on Treasury notes fell to 3.78 percent from 3.89 percent, a sign that investors were moving into safe bets on government bonds. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 26/32, to 103 25/32.

Friday’s decline began at the opening bell after a report that Merrill Lynch, the brokerage firm, will write down an additional $15 billion in assets backed by home loans, a bigger loss than analysts expected.

Meanwhile, American Express, the credit card company, said it would take a $275 million after-tax charge as it sets aside more money to cover bad loans.

Investors took the setbacks as a sign that the financial sector was still reeling from last year’s collapse in the subprime mortgage market. Investors have feared for months that ailing banks will pull back on issuing loans to businesses and consumers, slowing the gears of the nation’s economic engine. Shares of American Express, a Dow component, plummeted 10 percent to $44 a share.

Merrill’s shares rose more than 5 percent, as some investors concluded that the firm may finally have a handle on its exposure. But most analysts were at a loss to explain why financial shares performed relatively well on a day of triple-digit losses in the Dow.

Shares of Tiffany, the luxury retailer, fell 11 percent after the company reduced its profit outlook. Target, the discount retail chain, lost more than 3 percent after disappointing sales in December.

The gloomy news overshadowed Bank of America’s announcement that it will acquire Countrywide Financial for $4 billion, a surprising show of confidence in the troubled lending market. News of the deal lifted stocks on Thursday afternoon, but the Dow gave up all of those gains on Friday.

Economic data released on Friday added to the grim mood, as record oil prices widened the United States trade deficit in November. The gap between what Americans import and export grew 9.3 percent to $63.1 billion, the biggest deficit in 14 months, the Commerce Department said.
308 2008-01-11 Joint supply and production deals are common across the automobile industry, and both automakers have taken part.

Nissan and Ford Motor once built minivans together at a plant in Avon Lake, Ohio, while Chrysler has had a long relationship with Mitsubishi, with the two building vehicles together in Normal, Ill., at a plant now owned by Mitsubishi.

Beyond that, Chrysler and Volkswagen have developed a minivan for VW to sell in the United States, beginning later this year.

Chrysler also signed an agreement last year with China’s Chery Automobile Company to make cars for Chrysler to sell starting in 2009. On Friday, Chrysler’s co-president, Thomas W. LaSorda, said Chrysler could sell both Chery-produced cars and Nissan models in South America. The Nissan models will be built at a plant in Mexico that Mr. LaSorda said had extra production capacity. The deal saves Chrysler the expense of developing the vehicles on its own.

“We didn’t have to put new plants up, they had available capacity, and it just worked out well for both parties,” Mr. LaSorda said in a conference call.

He said Chrysler had not decided on a brand name for the Nissan model, nor would he say how many Chrysler planned to sell. He also would not specify the countries where it would be sold.

Nissan and Chrysler already have another joint relationship. In 2004, the two companies agreed that a Nissan subsidiary would provide transmissions for Chrysler vehicles.

“Nissan has a successful track-record of win-win product exchanges, and we are pleased to be entering into this second agreement with Chrysler,” said Carlos Tavares, an executive vice president at Nissan.

Industry analysts say the Nissan-Chrysler arrangement could become much bigger, eventually including cars that Nissan could provide Chrysler to sell in the United States, while Chrysler could provide Nissan with pickup trucks.

Nissan already sells the Titan pickup, built outside Jackson, Miss., but its sales pale next to those of the Dodge Ram, the country’s third best-selling truck behind the Ford F-series and Chevrolet Silverado, and one of the best-selling vehicles in the American market.

Meanwhile, Chrysler, whose lineup is dominated by sport utilities, pickups and minivans, could use more fuel-efficient small cars, analysts said.

“We’re maintaining an open dialogue for further opportunities.” Dominique Thormann, a senior vice president at Nissan North America, said in an interview Friday.
309 2008-01-11 Countrywide shares soared 51 percent, to $7.75 Thursday on news of a possible sale. The shares are down 83 percent from $45.26 last January.

Both Bank of America, led by Kenneth D. Lewis, and Countrywide, overseen by Angelo R. Mozilo, declined to comment. But the people briefed on the deal said that negotiations had been going on for about a month.

While a sale of Countrywide, based in Calabasas, Calif., is not expected to affect borrowers, it would underscore the complexities and financial challenges that have engulfed the mortgage industry — from lax lending standards to loose regulatory oversight and the intersection of Main Street homeownership with Wall Street financial engineering.

“Bank of America has always wanted a larger presence in mortgage banking and Ken Lewis has also said that they would wait to buy until blood is running in the streets,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners in New York. “Mozilo must have thought there was a chance Countrywide wouldn’t survive.”

Almost 150 mortgage lenders failed last year and 43 were acquired by healthier institutions, according to Mortgagedaily.com. Banks and brokerage firms have also suffered steep losses, and several chief executives have been forced out.

As defaults have surged, investors who once flocked to risky mortgage loans for their higher yields have shunned them. Troubles in the housing market have also generated larger concerns about the economy as a whole and the possibility that the country may enter a recession.

News of the possible sale came a day after Countrywide disclosed that 7.2 percent of the loans in its servicing portfolio were delinquent last month, up from 4.6 percent in December 2006. Foreclosures also more than doubled last month, to 1.44 percent of unpaid principal balances versus 0.70 percent in December 2006.

For Bank of America buying Countrywide is a bet that it can salvage its $2 billion investment in a preferred stock issued by the company in August; Bank of America paid $18 a share for a 16 percent stake.

But Countrywide’s problems have only worsened, leaving Bank of America with big losses. On Thursday, shares of Bank of America rose 56 cents, to $39.30.

Although the terms of the deal are unclear, if the sale goes through Bank of America would be taking on significant legal liabilities stemming from Countrywide’s lending practices.

Countrywide Credit Industries opened for business in New York City in 1969, the creation of Mr. Mozilo, a butcher’s son from the Bronx, and David Loeb, a founder of a mortgage banking firm. The company became the nation’s largest lender in the early 1990s. By last year, it had become a $500 billion home loan lender with 900 offices and $200 billion in assets. Mr. Loeb died in 2003.

In addition to originating mortgages, Countrywide is the largest servicer of them, overseeing the administration of $1.4 trillion worth of loans. The company also has a bank overseen by the Office of Thrift Supervision; an insurance unit; a subsidiary that provides borrowers with loan closing services like appraisals and flood certifications; and a broker-dealer that trades securities. It employs 51,000 people.

Countrywide showed spectacular growth in both earnings and share price over the years. But in recent months it became clear that its growth was fueled by increasingly loose lending practices. Last year, even as defaults rose, the company was slow to recognize that it needed to change its business practices and lend more conservatively.

In August, as financial markets froze on fears that the subprime mortgage woes were spreading into other parts of the economy, Countrywide was forced to draw down all of its $11.5 billion credit line.

“Countrywide has been a rogue lender with a rogue leader,” said Martin Eakes, chief executive of the Center for Responsible Lending, a consumer advocacy group. “Bank of America would be a responsible home for fixing the problems that Countrywide has created.”

Through acquisitions, Bank of America has transformed itself from a small regional bank into a national powerhouse. In 2003, for example, it paid $48 billion for FleetBoston Financial, which gave it the most branches, customers and checking accounts of any United States bank. In 2005, Bank of America became the biggest credit card issuer when it bought MBNA for $35 billion.

By purchasing Countrywide, Bank of America would combine its 5,800 branches with the mortgage lender’s coast-to-coast network, helping Mr. Lewis achieve his goal of becoming the biggest player in every major consumer finance category.

If the deal goes through, Bank of America would brush up against a federal cap that prevents a bank holding company from controlling more than 10 percent of the nation’s deposits. Because Countrywide Bank is a federally insured savings and loan, the rule does not apply.

Seeking to ease any regulatory concerns, representatives for the companies were in Washington on Thursday to brief regulators.

Mr. Mozilo is expected to remain as chief executive of Countrywide until the deal closes, probably in the third quarter, people briefed on the transaction said. After that, he would serve on a transition team and would remain with the combined company on an interim basis.

He could be entitled to an exit package of roughly $72 million. That would be on top of the $410 million in pay, including $285 million in option gains, that Mr. Mozilo has taken home since he became Countrywide’s chief executive in 1999.

Selling Countrywide gets Mr. Mozilo out of a tightening financial vise. But doing so at a stock price below $10 is certainly not what he probably envisioned. Indeed, just last March, as the subprime crisis was starting to unfold, Mr. Mozilo crowed that Countrywide would benefit from the spreading mess. “This will be great for Countrywide,” he told an interviewer, “because at the end of the day, all of the irrational competitors will be gone.”
310 2008-01-11 Quickly realizing that her comments could draw criticism, Mrs. Clinton returned to the subject at a later stop, recalling how Dr. King was beaten and jailed and how he worked with Johnson to pass the landmark law. Clinton advisers said her first remark had not captured what she meant to convey. And they said she would never detract from a movement that has driven her own public service.

“She has spent the majority of her life working for poor families, poor children, fighting for the principles that Martin Luther King stood for,” said Minyon Moore, a senior adviser. “The Clintons have a track record.”

Mr. Clyburn, reached for a telephone interview Wednesday during an overseas inspection of port facilities, also voiced frustration with former President Clinton, who described Mr. Obama’s campaign narrative as a fairy tale. While Mr. Clinton was not discussing civil rights at the time and seemed to be referring mainly to Mr. Obama’s stance at the Iraq war, Mr. Clyburn saw the remark as a slap at the image of a black candidate running on a theme of unity and optimism.

“To call that dream a fairy tale, which Bill Clinton seemed to be doing, could very well be insulting to some of us,” said Mr. Clyburn, who said he and others took significant risks more than 40 years ago to produce such opportunities for future black Americans.

The fight for the black vote in the state primary has been under way for months. One legacy Mrs. Clinton had hoped to inherit from Mr. Clinton was his strong support among black voters. Even after Mr. Obama’s entry into the race, Mrs. Clinton did not give up hope of winning a substantial share of the African-American vote. She worked hard to win endorsements from prominent black leaders like Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a highly respected civil rights activist, even as her opponent won celebrity backing from Oprah Winfrey.

After Mrs. Clinton lost to Mr. Obama in Iowa, even her top supporters judged the South Carolina Democratic primary, set for Jan. 26, to be out of reach. Representatives of both campaigns were virtually ceding much of an African-American voting bloc that could represent half of the primary electorate to Mr. Obama by virtue of his strong victory in Iowa.

But Mrs. Clinton’s triumph in New Hampshire on Tuesday restored some sense of competitiveness in the Democratic race in a state that also has a serious Republican rivalry under way.

As a result, Mr. Clyburn’s stamp of approval could carry significant last-minute weight given his standing among African-Americans and his deep political connections throughout the state, as well as the role he played in winning the right for South Carolina to have the showdown.

“His influence would be extraordinary if he should endorse somebody,” said Don Fowler, a longtime South Carolina Democratic activist and former national party chairman who is backing Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Clyburn, who plays down the importance of personal endorsements, did not convince national party leaders to give South Carolina a coveted early primary slot in order to play kingmaker. He said he saw it as a way to bring millions of dollars to the state, showcase the tourism industry and rebuild a Democratic Party that has struggled in a state dominated by conservative Republicans.

“This is a real shot in the arm for us,” said Mr. Clyburn, who is known for eager pursuit of economic benefits for the state and its minority population.

He also helped promote three Democratic presidential debates in South Carolina, one at his alma mater, South Carolina State University, one at the Citadel and one still to come, in Myrtle Beach on Jan. 21. That event is sponsored by the Congressional Black Caucus, and Mrs. Clinton could face questions there about her statement.

Last week, Mr. Clyburn spent a day in Charleston touring the Air Force base, a local charter school and a family support program to mark the first anniversary of his party’s taking the majority in Congress and his own rise to the No. 3 party post in the House. He reveled in his accomplishments, those of a boy who was 13 when the public schools were ordered desegregated and who was discouraged by a customer at his mother’s beauty shop from pursuing an interest in politics — an interest she saw as out of reach for a black youth.

Mr. Obama’s allies in South Carolina said he surged there after his triumph in Iowa, which was seen as providing reassurance to black voters still skeptical of his ability to win over white voters. Mrs. Clinton’s backers regained their hope after Tuesday’s victory, but state analysts say they believe Mr. Obama has a significant advantage among blacks.

“I don’t think Obama will be disappointed in South Carolina,” said Cleveland Sellers, director of the African-American studies program at the University of South Carolina.

Last week, Mr. Clyburn said his extended family was divided over the presidential choices, with a daughter in the Obama camp and a cousin aligned with John Edwards. He said he had found it difficult to stay out of the thick of things.

“It is very, very hard, no doubt about it,” he said.
311 2008-01-11 A survey by the City Health Department has found that 18 percent of the city’s adults are at increased risk for H.I.V. infection because of multiple sex partners or drug injection, but that 92 percent of that group believe they are safe. The survey also found that among the group with multiple sex partners, 60 percent do not use condoms all the time.
312 2008-01-11 The federal government will not override New Jersey’s chemical security laws, which are tougher than the national standard, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg announced Thursday. A measure, promoted by Senator Lautenberg and recently signed by President Bush, insulates all states from federal pre-emption, and allows them to pass laws protecting their residents from an attack on chemical facilities within their borders. The co-chairmen of the Sept. 11 Commission, former Gov. Thomas H. Kean and former Representative Lee H. Hamilton, joined the National Governors’ Association and the National Conference of State Legislatures in supporting the measure.
313 2008-01-11 Many mainland companies — including PetroChina, the largest by market capitalization — have already made initial public offerings in Hong Kong.

One difficulty for foreign exchanges is that the Chinese policy has been in flux, sometimes allowing overseas listings and then restricting them, said Christine Loh, chief executive of a public policy research group, Civic Exchange, and a director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing.

“Everyone is looking at China and saying, ‘Hey, there are all these huge listings we want,’ ” Ms. Loh said. “But unlike in other countries, the Chinese government makes a blanket decision about whether you can even list outside of China or not, and they make that decision based on their domestic situation.”

Ms. Loh said that lobbying by foreign stock exchanges was unlikely to have a direct effect in persuading the Chinese to loosen restrictions in the short term.

Another difficulty for foreign exchanges seeking to break into the Chinese market for listings is that Chinese companies have been able to raise large amounts of capital on their home exchanges, like Shanghai, without the risk of falling afoul of foreign securities regulations and the publicity that could negatively affect China’s image.

Even so, Ms. Loh said the situation was bound to change, particularly as Chinese companies with global ambitions want to list in regions like Europe and the United States where they aim to expand their businesses.

Mr. Niederauer was unable to say how long it might take to persuade the Beijing government to change its policy on dual listings.

Even so, executives from NYSE Euronext are working to show Chinese companies the advantages of listing in New York, saying that such a listing would help improve their valuations — helpful when they want to merge or make acquisitions — or increase their stature by giving them an edge over similar companies from developing economies.

NYSE Euronext opened an office in Beijing last month as part of a campaign to introduce better standards of corporate governance so that Chinese companies are better prepared to list in the United States.

In comments about the tight credit market, Mr. Niederauer, a former Goldman Sachs banker, said he expected that there would be more bad news.

In the short term, volatility on stock markets as a result of the credit troubles has benefited exchanges like NYSE Euronext, which earn more fees on large trading volume. But Mr. Niederauer said that prolonged turbulence could hurt his business.

“I don’t think it’s all positive,” he said. A deeper market downturn in the United States and a reluctance by companies to make initial stock offerings “obviously has some cyclical implications for the business,” he said. “So we’re not immune to those events.”
314 2008-01-11 The Blackstone Group said Thursday that it had agreed to buy GSO Capital Partners, a $10 billion hedge fund, for as much as $930 million in cash and stock as it seeks to build its credit operations amid tough market conditions.

Blackstone also said that it would buy back up to $500 million of its stock — enough to at least offset the stock component of the GSO deal, which the firm estimated at about $300 million.

“Combining GSO’s operations with our strong fixed-income team gives us critical mass,” Stephen A. Schwarzman, the firm’s chief executive, said in a conference call Thursday. “I think now is a fantastic time to be growing this business globally.”

Shares in Blackstone, which had fallen nearly 44 percent since the firm went public at $31 a share last June, jumped more than 9 percent on Thursday, closing at $19.84.

The firm, known primarily for its private equity operations, has been rocked by turmoil in the credit markets virtually since it went public. Its chief source of financing — cheap debt — has dried up, leaving it unable to pursue the big buyouts that it is known for.
315 2008-01-11 Jeffrey S. Raikes, a 26-year veteran of Microsoft and leader of the company’s lucrative Office business, plans to retire later this year. The company announced on Thursday that it was reaching outside its ranks for his successor, Stephen Elop, 44, the former chief operating officer of Juniper Networks.

Mr. Raikes, 49, is the third-longest-tenured executive at Microsoft, after the chairman, Bill Gates, and chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer.

Mr. Raikes joined Microsoft in 1981 as employee No. 105. His future wife, Tricia, was employee No. 75. “We were the first Microsoft couple,” he recalled in an interview on Thursday evening.

He moved to Microsoft from Apple, where he worked for less than two years, though he did his first computing on an Apple II machine, tracking expenses and yields on his family’s farm in Nebraska. Explaining the move, Mr. Raikes said that Microsoft understood that software would be a large business in a way that Apple did not.

Most of his career, Mr. Raikes said, was spent building Microsoft’s Office business, including its popular word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and e-mail programs. “I marvel at the fact that more than 500 million people now use the Office tools every day,” he said.

Mr. Raikes said he had made no decision about what he would do after he retired from Microsoft in September, but he doubted he would work in software.
316 2008-01-11 To infiltrate the cocaine ring, the man had to make his way into the bowels of a cargo ship docked off Staten Island and retrieve a newspaper and a hat that had been hidden there at a stopover in Panama.

Having thus proved his ability to get on and off a freighter at a heavily secured port without drawing scrutiny, prosecutors said, the man was then trusted by drug lords in Panama to pick up a more substantial prize: several dozen one-kilogram packages of Colombian cocaine.

The packages were stashed, prosecutors said, in the nooks and crannies of gigantic container ships bound for the New York Container Terminal on the west shore of Staten Island, to be delivered to drug wholesalers up and down the East Coast.

Of course, prosecutors said, the man was not really the corrupt longshoreman he appeared to be. He was an undercover investigator, and he promptly turned the drugs, and their importers, over to the authorities.

The result, the Brooklyn district attorney’s office announced Thursday, was the seizure of 75 pounds of nearly pure cocaine, worth $10 million on the street, and the indictment of seven Panamanians on drug conspiracy charges.
317 2008-01-11 American Express forecast first-quarter earnings below analysts’ estimates on Thursday and adopted a “cautious view” for 2008 because of a slowing economy.

The company will take a $275 million fourth-quarter charge as more cardholders fail to repay their debts, the company, based in New York, said in a statement. Its stock fell 7 percent in extended trading.

Credit card companies have been increasing their estimates of bad loans as a weakening economy makes it harder for consumers to pay their debts.

American Express said its first-quarter 2008 earnings from continuing operations would be less than the 90 cents a share in the period in 2007, missing the 93-cent average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.

Another credit card company, The Capital One Financial Corporation, said that its 2007 earnings would fall short of its previous expectations because of increased loan delinquencies and additional legal reserves.

The company said in a statement that it expected a t fourth-quarter profit of 60 cents a share and full-year earnings of about $3.97 a share, below its forecast of “about $5 per share.”
318 2008-01-11 SHANGHAI — Amid signs that China may be opening its securities market to more foreign investment banks, Credit Suisse announced Thursday that it was seeking to form a joint venture with a Chinese brokerage firm, Founder Securities.

Teaming up with Founder Securities in China would give Credit Suisse a platform for engaging in securities underwriting and other financial services, including wealth management, in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.

The deal requires regulatory approval, and China has approved only a few joint ventures involving foreign banks operating in its domestic banking and financial services market. But in recent months, there have been indications that Beijing may be opening its financial services sector to more foreign banks, something both Wall Street and American officials have aggressively pushed.

Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley already have joint ventures here, and UBS recently formed a joint venture in Beijing called UBS Securities, after taking a 20 percent stake in Beijing Securities and then reorganizing the firm.

In 2004, Goldman Sachs formed a joint venture with the Chinese investment banker and deal maker Fang Fenglei, called Goldman Sachs Gaohua Securities. Goldman is now helping Mr. Fang form a $2 billion private equity fund, according to people close to the bank. Goldman is expected to invest about $300 million in the fund.
319 2008-01-11 AS I write this, the crackle of gunfire is audible from the veranda of our farmhouse. Warriors of the Pokot and Samburu tribes are fighting a mile away. A bush fire engulfs the horizon. I hear the tally in blood so far is three Samburu warriors killed, while the Pokot have rustled 750 of their cattle.

Today I hope our farm and its workers will be spared the violence. But this was not the case two weeks ago on Boxing Day, the eve of Kenya’s elections, when Samburu rustlers armed with AK-47’s made off with 22 steers. The police were unable to respond, as they had to guard ballot boxes. So our neighbor Charles saved our cattle by charging his car at the raiders in a hail of bullets, which forced them to cut and run.

The world knows of Kenya’s vote-rigging scandal — of the rioting in ; the police assaults on the supporters of the opposition leader, ; the pogroms against traders and farmers of President ’s Kikuyu tribe. But we’ve watched it unfold in real time in our corner of central Kenya.

When the Kikuyus fled the village up the road from us, local food supplies quickly dried up, hunger set in among the mob and rioting flared again. Then a Samburu witch doctor announced that it was time for his warriors, supporters of Mr. Odinga, to advance on the Pokot tribesmen, who had backed Mr. Kibaki. He said he had found a way to turn Pokot bullets into rain — a promise that evidently precipitated the clashes erupting around me.

Over the last two weeks, we’ve stuck to our daily routines, as if it somehow might make the nightmare of what was unfolding over the horizon recede. Still, I devised an evacuation plan for our workers who were from the “wrong” tribes. We dug up the lawn to plant extra vegetables, not knowing how much livestock we’ll have down the road.

Still, and despite all the talk of another , I think Kenya will pull back from the brink. This is mainly thanks to the basic decency of ordinary Kenyans — whose priorities are to work hard, educate their children, fear God and enjoy a few Tusker beers.
320 2008-01-11 “The new Polish government is prepared to drive a hard bargain because much is at stake if this system goes ahead,” said Tomas Valasek, director of defense at the Center for European Reform, an independent research agency in London. “Poland wants security guarantees from the U.S. since it is not convinced NATO would provide that guarantee. This means the U.S. putting boots on the ground in Poland but also helping Poland to upgrade its air defenses.”

Radek Sikorski, Mr. Tusk’s foreign minister, said last week that Poland did not expect to conclude negotiations until after the presidential elections in the United States. Even at that, it is not certain that deploying the shield in Central Europe is a foregone conclusion. Congress, which is controlled by the Democrats, has questioned the need for the shield in the first place.

Poland is determined to link the negotiations to modernizing its air defense systems, whether it be with Patriot missiles or another battery system. Polish officials and security experts dismissed suggestions that a new air defense system was designed to protect Poland against potential attack from Russia. Russia has already threatened to move its missiles closer to its western borders if Poland and the Czech Republic accept the American missile defense system.

Poland’s tougher negotiating stance stems from the fact that the Tusk government believes that the United States has failed to acknowledge sufficiently or appreciate Poland’s loyalty during the United States’ dispute with NATO over Iraq as the United States prepared to invade in 2003. Several countries, led by Germany and France, managed to prevent NATO from providing military assistance or logistical support for the invasion.

But Poland sent thousands of soldiers to Iraq and hundreds more to Afghanistan, expecting in return some reward in the form of contracts for the reconstruction of Iraq, or funds to upgrade its armed forces. But the United States provided little in the way of financial assistance and expected Poland to foot the heavy bill for sending its troops to Iraq, Polish Defense Ministry officials in previous administrations have complained.

When talks over deploying parts of the missile shield began in earnest last year, Mr. Sikorski, who was defense minister at the time, tried to adopt a strong negotiating position, only to be dismissed by Mr. Kaczynski. Another new approach being taken by Mr. Tusk is to reach out to Russia. President Vladimir V. Putin has repeatedly opposed the deployment of any parts of the missile defense system in Central Europe, contending that because the system is so close to Russia, it would pose a threat to Moscow’s security.
321 2008-01-11 Until Senator Clinton played the gender card at several opportunities after Iowa, this race had been so beautifully run above-board, with two viable candidates duking it out on their merits, with little or no subtext of “my class is more oppressed than your class.” I’d like to see the voters demand that we get back to this fight. Stephanie J. James

I find it ironic that so many female voters in New Hampshire apparently supported Hillary Rodham Clinton mainly because she’s a woman. Feminism has long held that it’s not right for a man to be hired, admitted to college or elected just because he’s a man. So why should feminists vote for Mrs. Clinton just because she’s a woman?

If we want people to be judged on their own merits, we have to start with our own choices. Caroline Abels

Misogyny is not simply a cultural phenomenon; it’s also a political tool. The cult of hatred the right wing has created with regard to Hillary Rodham Clinton is in direct proportion to the substantial threat she poses at the ballot box. Case in point: calling her proposal for universal health care coverage “Hillary care” shifts the focus from the policy’s merits to her character, which has been smeared relentlessly for so many years.

Surprisingly, Senator Clinton is quite popular here in conservative upstate New York, where talk radio, which dominates the AM dial, demonizes her incessantly. Apparently, this outpouring of Clinton hatred has offended many women and more than a few men in these rural parts, and that is a hopeful sign.

Thank you for publishing Andrew Kohut’s excellent commentary on why the polls predicted an Obama victory in New Hampshire (“Getting It Wrong,” Op-Ed, Jan. 10). If he is right that the biggest reason may have been that “less well-educated white people” who “do not respond to surveys tend to have more unfavorable views of blacks than respondents who do the interviews,” this has very serious implications for the future of telephone polling.

Refusal rates in phone surveys have been increasing remorselessly for 30 years. For a long time we have been worried that lower response rates would bias our telephone poll results, with the near certainty that they would eventually do so. New Hampshire may be a sign that tougher times lie ahead for pollsters. Humphrey Taylor

Andrew Kohut is correct that the failure of pollsters to predict Hillary Clinton’s win in New Hampshire lies not in a failure in methodology but in the fact that different kinds of people agree to answer pollsters’ questions. He is probably correct that these “missed” people are largely lower income, less educated whites. He then concludes that untapped white responders don’t favor blacks? Why assume anything? In this instance, perhaps working-class people don’t favor men! Perhaps they know the real deal when they see it. Perhaps they love Barack Obama and they think that Mrs. Clinton has “grit” like them.

This week we saw a woman pressed smack up against the glass ceiling with the prospect of drowning in a sea of bias. Mr. Kohut should go back to the drawing board. Nancy F. McKenzie
322 2008-01-11 In the main gallery there is a lively interchange among historic masks from different cultures, with intermittent input from contemporary works. First, a row of seven masks confounds expectations. An 18th- to 19th-century skull mask from the Tibetan Sherdukpen people of northern India seems made to order for a Mexican Day of the Dead festival, while what looks like an African monkey mask is actually from Nepal.

The show emphasizes these transcultural twists and turns. A 19th-century Italian carnival mask made of painted papier-mâché has much in common with a demonic mask of a Tibetan king used in ceremonial dances in 18th- or 19th-century Bhutan. (It’s made of the same material.) A pale, moonlike mask with a woebegone expression and a pale, angular, grinning visage next to it — both in carved, painted wood — might almost belong to the same comedic drama. Yet the moon mask is Korean, for satiric dances; the angular one is Swiss, a witch’s mask for winter festivals.

Many of the masks in this part of the exhibition are feats of construction and conjuring. Consider a spirit mask from Papua New Guinea used in male initiation rites; it is made mostly of tapa cloth, reeds, grasses and seed pods, with its conical hat, wide ears and long, wolflike snout toothed with sharp nails. Or an Eskimo shaman’s mask made of wood, wire and feathers. Its stern face, with the black goatee and curled mustache of a dime-novel villain, is encircled by two rings of twig from which tiny hands and feet sprout. It seems to orbit toward us, getting bigger every second.

A Yup’ik caribou-walrus transformation mask from the Yukon combines the features of both creatures and uses real walrus whiskers. In contrast is the stylized gentleness of a nearby mask of Tudigong, sometimes called the Chinese sun god, with its wise, wrinkled forehead in carved wood and its flowing horsehair beard.

When it comes to contemporary art, masks aren’t what they used to be as objects, but that doesn’t necessarily make them any less potent in effect. The exception on the physical front is a remarkable object by the artist-rapper Rammellzee that channels Japanese face armor and its more recent descendant Darth Vader while maintaining a streetwise, found-object funkiness all its own. (It is one of several that Rammellzee has made and wears while performing.)

A large photograph of a dark mask that turns out to be by Cindy Sherman fits in so well that, initially, it doesn’t even seem contemporary. Next to it a similar ambiguity radiates from a large color photograph of Nick Cave, the performance and costume artist extraordinaire, shown here with his face framed in a thick oval of tightly wound fibers that could be an ethnographic object or a process-oriented sculpture.

The impact of masks increases when contemporary art turns to themes like identity or gender, as well as to certain current events. Hans Haacke echoes the Abu Ghraib images with a photograph of a man wearing a hood made from the starred portion of the American flag. Closer to the art world, Miriam Berkley pays tribute to the subversive Guerrilla Girls collective with a portrait of one of its founding members, known as Frida Kahlo, wearing the group’s signature gorilla mask. And Jürgen Klauke makes a large mural of news photos dating from 1972 to 2000, showing images of hooded heads, a kind of rogues’ gallery that evokes a nightmarish history of hijackings, kidnappings, bank robberies and terrorism.

But masks can also be subtle things in the hands of contemporary artists, little more than a hint of something not quite natural. This is the case in a photograph that Gillian Wearing made of herself in a mask of her mother’s face taken from a youthful photograph. Ms. Wearing seems a bit stiff but otherwise normal — until you see the telltale holes for the eyes.

Outside, on the building’s facade, Reena Spaulings uses the show’s title as a verb, with an awning that masks the gallery’s name and address. This bit of irreverence does nothing to disturb the suspicion that masks are us, a fixed yet fluid cultural constant.
323 2008-01-11 I couldn’t agree more with Joe Nocera’s lauding of Amazon’s customer service. I have benefited from such service from Amazon a number of times. But I found his dig at Apple to be off-base and unnecessary. My experiences with Apple (there have been many) have been exemplary in every way.
324 2008-01-11 The New York subpoenas will seek internal memorandums, billing documents and correspondence between Intel and its customers to determine whether the company engaged in anticompetitive practices — like penalizing customers, primarily computer manufacturers — for buying processors from competitors or improperly paying customers to use Intel chips exclusively.

“Protecting fair and open competition in the microprocessor market is critical to New York, the United States and the world,” Mr. Cuomo said Thursday in a statement. “Monopolistic practices are a serious concern, particularly for New Yorkers who are navigating an information-intensive economy.”

Advanced Micro has filed civil lawsuits or complaints against Intel in Europe, Japan and South Korea. In 2005, it filed a civil suit against Intel in United States District Court in Delaware, a case that has already produced hundreds of millions of pages of documents, a spokesman for Intel, Chuck Mulloy, said. All told, the legal battle between A.M.D. and Intel is one of the largest antitrust matters pending before American and foreign regulators.

Mr. Mulloy said the company would comply with Mr. Cuomo’s subpoena but denied any wrongdoing.

“We believe our business practices are lawful,” he said. “We also believe that the microprocessor market is a competitive market, and is behaving just as one would expect a competitive market to behave.”

Mr. Mulloy said that chip prices were declining across the industry and that new companies were entering the market — evidence, he said, that the market was competitive. He acknowledged that Intel used discount sales, but described the practice as legal and “a regular part of the business.”

Among the officials who have pushed, so far unsuccessfully, for federal action are Senator Charles E. Schumer and Representative Kirsten Gillibrand, both New York Democrats. Advanced Micro has promised to open a $3 billion plant in upstate New York that will employ 1,200 people.

Mr. Schumer issued a statement Thursday that endorsed Mr. Cuomo’s investigation, adding that “antitrust investigations into Intel are springing up everywhere except Washington.”

In a statement, Thomas M. McCoy, executive vice president for legal affairs and chief administrative officer at Advanced Micro Devices, said that Mr. Cuomo’s announcement was “good news for computer buyers in New York and throughout the United States.”

In other cases, A.M.D. has accused Intel of discounting its chips so substantially that the selling price is in effect below the cost of production, a practice that in some cases involving other companies has been found to violate antitrust laws.

In 2005, Japanese regulators ruled that Intel had violated that country’s antitrust laws. Last summer, the European Commission charged Intel with engaging in anticompetitive conduct. Officials in South Korea issued similar charges this fall.

Federal officials in this country have been less aggressive. The F.T.C. has spent months in discussions with Intel officials, but the commission’s chairwoman, Deborah Platt Majoras, recently rejected a request from some other commissioners to start a formal investigation.

Albert A. Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, a Washington-based group that advocates more aggressive enforcement of antitrust laws, said the F.T.C.’s inaction made Mr. Cuomo’s investigation the more welcome.

“We think it awkward, with so much at stake and the two companies involved being American, that the U.S. government has not taken a more active role,” Mr. Foer said in a statement.

He added, “We applaud New York and any states that might join with Attorney General Cuomo for stepping up to the plate for American consumers.”
325 2008-01-11 “On the one hand,” he said, “you have the Reagan revolution, you have the Reagan coalition of limited government and strong national security. And the other hand, you have the direction that Governor Huckabee would take us in. He would be a Christian leader, but he would also bring about liberal economic policies, liberal foreign policies.”

Mr. Thompson then lit into Mr. Huckabee, the former Baptist preacher and Arkansas governor who won the Iowa caucus, for wanting to close the prison at Guantánamo Bay, for supporting what he called “taxpayer-funded programs for illegals” and for wanting to sign a law restricting smoking.

“That’s not the model of the Reagan coalition, that’s the model of the Democratic Party,” he said.

Mr. Huckabee, for his part, responded with trademark humor. “The Air Force has a saying that says if you’re not catching flak, you’re not over the target,” he said. “I’m catching the flak; I must be over the target.”

The debate, which was sponsored by the South Carolina Republican Party and Fox News Channel, was actually more of a series of separate minidebates that happened to be held simultaneously and in the same place, reflecting the strategies of each candidate. Mr. Huckabee and Mr. McCain were frequently the target of attacks.

Mr. Giuliani, coming off distant finishes in Iowa and New Hampshire, at one point noted that Mr. McCain was not the only candidate who supported the increased troop presence in Iraq.

“I’d also like to say something to my friend John,” Mr. Giuliani said. “John gets great credit for supporting the surge. But, John, there were other people on this stage that also supported the surge. The night of the president’s speech, I was on television. I supported the surge, I’ve supported it throughout.”

Mr. McCain responded that he had criticized the old strategy in Iraq before President Bush adopted the new strategy.

“My point was that I condemned the Rumsfeld strategy and called for the change in strategy,” he said, referring to former Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. “That’s the difference.”

Mr. Huckabee, who is looking for a strong showing in Michigan and a win in South Carolina to show that his victory in Iowa was more than a fluke, tried to appeal to voters in both states with a populist message.

“We need to make sure that we communicate that our party is just as interested in helping the people who are single moms, who are working two jobs and still just barely paying the rent as we are the people at the top of the economy,” he said.

Although the debate was held in South Carolina, Mr. Romney — who has pulled his advertising out of the state after a year-long effort to court Republicans there, concentrating instead on Michigan — turned the very first question, about the economy, into an appeal for Michigan votes.

“I know that there are some people who think, as Senator McCain did — he said, you know, some jobs have left Michigan that are never coming back,” he said. “I disagree. I’m going to fight for every single job. Michigan, South Carolina, every state in this country. We’re going to fight for jobs and make sure that our future is bright.”

Mr. McCain tried to give back as good as he got.

“One of the reasons why I won in New Hampshire is because I went there and told them the truth,” he said. “And sometimes you have to tell people things they don’t want to hear along with things that they do want to hear.”

That appeared to be a not-too-veiled swipe at Mr. Romney, who has been dogged during the campaign by accusations that he has changed his positions on issues like abortion rights, which he once supported but now opposes, for political gain.

“Let’s have a little straight talk,” Mr. McCain said. “There are some jobs that aren’t coming back to Michigan. There are some jobs that won’t come back here to South Carolina. But we’re going to take care of them. That’s our goal. That’s our obligation.

“We need to go to the community colleges and design education and training programs so that these workers get a second chance. That’s our obligation as a nation.”

Mr. Thompson leavened his responses with the kind of one-liners that many supporters had hoped he would use sooner.

Asked about the United States response in a confrontation with Iranian speedboats, Mr. Thompson said, “I think one more step and they would have been introduced to those virgins that they’re looking forward to seeing.” At another point, he offered that “you can tell that the news is good coming out of Iraq because you read so little about it in The New York Times.”

He also went after Mr. McCain on immigration.

“I disagree with my friend John McCain on the bill that they proposed last year,” Mr. Thompson said. “I disagree with my friend Governor Huckabee when he supported in-state tuition for illegal immigrants.”

Mr. McCain championed a controversial Senate bill that would have offered a pathway to citizenship to the 12 million illegal immigrants in the country, provided they cleared certain hurdles.

Asked what he would do as president about illegal immigrants in the country, Mr. McCain said he would make sure to secure the border but did not back away from his views. While those who committed crimes would be deported, he said, others would be addressed in “as humane and compassionate a way as possible.”

In response, Mr. Romney put forth a hard-line stance on the issue, arguing that the illegal immigrants in the country should be given some time to arrange their affairs but that all should be required to go home and “get in line with everybody else.”
326 2008-01-11 INTEREST RATE CUT SOON Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve,  strongly suggested that the Fed will cut interest rates soon, perhaps by a large amount, as he described a deteriorating economy. ''The outlook for real activity in 2008 has...
327 2008-01-11 Roger Federer, recovering from a stomach virus and out of competition since November, landed in the same half of the Australian Open draw as No. 3 Novak Djokovic and four former finalists Friday. The tournament will start Monday. Bidding for a thi...
328 2008-01-12 Sometimes, endorsements can be more trouble than they're worth....
329 2008-01-12 But in a detailed 71-page decision, Justice Madden disputed most of the groups’ arguments.

In rejecting a claim, for example, that the review failed to properly address the prospect that the project would provide a tempting target for terrorists, the judge said the project did not have as many inherent hazards as “facilities with some degree of dangerousness, such as an oil supertanker port, a gas storage facility or a hazardous waste facility.” She also noted that state law did not require the developer to consider in its environmental impact statement “the potential security issues and impacts of a terrorist attack.”

Justice Madden also rejected claims that a timetable for the project was inaccurate, and that the environmental impact statement did not consider the major effect the project would have on traffic in the neighborhood, on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and on the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges.

“Petitioners submit no competent proof from a traffic expert to support their objections,” the judge wrote in her decision.

The project’s developer, Forest City Ratner, a development partner in the new Midtown headquarters of The New York Times Company, has begun work on the property, and says that about half of the structures on the site either have been demolished or are being demolished. The plans for the site include a basketball arena for the New Jersey Nets, more than 6,000 apartments and considerable office space. Supporters of the project say it will generate thousands of jobs, hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenue and badly needed units of subsidized housing. The project is being overseen by the Empire State Development Corporation, which would exercise eminent domain.

In a statement, Bruce Ratner, the chief executive of Forest City, said the decision was “a significant step forward.”

“We are very pleased with Judge Madden’s decision, as it further clears the way for Atlantic Yards and the thousands of jobs, affordable housing units and world-class arena — the Barclays Center — that will accompany the project,” he said. “After an exhaustive three-year review process, we are continuing to move full speed ahead on the project.”

The plaintiffs said that the concerns raised by the lawsuit still remained.

“Our elected leaders, who understand those concerns, must gird themselves to bring more pressure to bear on Gov. Eliot Spitzer, now that we’ve had this legal decision,” said Candace Carponter, a lawyer and a member of Develop Don’t Destroy Brooklyn, a coalition of groups and individuals opposed to the project. “With the project in financial jeopardy and the real estate market treading in such troubled waters, and with a pending eminent domain lawsuit, it is time to rethink the Atlantic Yards project.”
330 2008-01-12 Rescue crews were searching for a woman reportedly swept away by an avalanche in southern Colorado, and searchers continued to hunt for two New Mexico snowboarders who have been missing in southwestern Colorado since last weekend. The authorities said a man reported his sister missing after they were hit by an avalanche Thursday near the 14,345-foot Blanca Peak. Ground crews were searching, but a helicopter was forced back because of high wind, said Carol Orton, a spokeswoman for the Alamosa County sheriff.
331 2008-01-12 “The greatest amount of weakness was in the mid-tier luxury consumer,” Michael J. Kowalski, the chief executive of Tiffany, said in an interview.

Over all, United States retail revenue at Tiffany rose 4 percent between Nov. 1 and Dec. 31, to $450 million, because the average amount spent by each shopper rose compared with last year, offsetting the drop in the number of purchases.

But nearly all of that 4 percent growth can be traced to foreign consumers, who capitalized on the weak dollar to buy jewelry. Tiffany said that without foreign buyers, its domestic sales would have been unchanged from last year. The company likewise credited a 10 percent increase in sales at its flagship Fifth Avenue store in Manhattan to foreign shoppers.

Sales at Tiffany’s American stores open at least a year — a carefully watched barometer in retailing, known as same-store sales — fell 2 percent, a bigger drop than the company had predicted.

Shares of Tiffany dropped $4.52, or 11 percent, on Friday to close at $35.80 a share.

Mark L. Aaron, vice president for investor relations, said total sales were below expectations.

“We entered the holiday season facing well-known challenging conditions,” he said. Even so, he added, “the magnitude of the softness was more than we expected.”

At the very high end, the number of consumers buying Tiffany jewelry priced over $50,000 rose, but the average amount they spent dropped slightly.

Tiffany is still on track to meet its fourth-quarter earnings forecast, and executives said they were pleased with results for 2007 to date. Indeed, Mr. Kowalski cautioned against reading too much into the slowing United States sales, which did not materialize until mid-December.

“To draw a conclusion that there is a chink in the luxury armor after five weeks would be extremely premature,” he said.

David Schick, a retail analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, is not so sure. “Tiffany is not making mistakes in merchandise and marketing,” he said. “So if Tiffany is doing the right thing and business is down in the U.S., it gives you a glimpse of how the high-end consumer is doing.”

Tiffany’s worldwide sales rose 8 percent in November and December, to $867 million, based on strong sales in China, Hong Kong and Australia.

In the United States, however, the picture was less rosy. At Tiffany’s suburban New York stores, which are patronized by a relatively affluent group of consumers, same-store sales fell 10 percent.

One of the company’s strongest product categories was also its least expensive: silver jewelry priced under $1,000.

The chief financial officer, James N. Fernandez, said Tiffany was struggling to forecast its performance over the next year, given the cloudy economic picture.

“There is uncertainty about the macro conditions and the state of consumer spending in the U.S.,” he said. “Providing guidance now would be a disservice to our investors.”
332 2008-01-12 The Washington Legislature is to begin a special session on Monday but it will be brief, said Senator Mary Margaret Haugen, the chairwoman.

“It’s very unrealistic of the federal government to think that states that are not in session or in a short session can resolve this in a short time frame,” she said. “Our state has said we will not spend money on the Real ID unless they fund it, and I don’t see any money coming from the federal government.”

In Washington and elsewhere, state lawmakers have complained that the requirements add up to a national identification card, that it is too costly, puts privacy at risk and poses severe technical challenges.

The Legislature in Maine overwhelmingly passed a resolution last January vowing not to comply. The Legislature there is in its “short session” and can take up only legislation that all the leadership decides is an emergency, said Peggy Schaffer, chief of staff to the Senate majority leader.

Ms. Schaffer predicted that pressure from the airlines might force the federal government to reverse itself.

The airlines, in fact, are worried, because travelers with driver’s licenses from states that do not have a waiver would have to use a passport or a military ID, or face additional screening, including a pat-down.

“This has the potential to be hugely problematic,” said David Castelveter, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, a trade association of the major carriers. “It appears as if the Department of Homeland Security is placing the burden on the traveling public for a state’s inability to comply.”

Exactly how many states will decide not to apply for waivers is unclear. Arkansas, Idaho, Montana and others have voted against the program, which was a central recommendation of the Sept. 11 Commission.

States would have to require applicants for new licenses or renewals to prove they are legally in the country, and then record and verify the documents.

Opponents have complained that passports and Social Security cards are easy to verify promptly, but birth certificates, issued by thousands of jurisdictions, are not.

While some states are in revolt, others were moving to tighten their licensing standards even before Sept. 11. And some advocates say that tighter controls would help prevent identity theft and drunken driving.

“We can kill three birds with one stone if we get ourselves on a path to a secure driver’s license,” Mr. Chertoff said.

Civil libertarians counter that the new licenses must have all the information encoded into a machine-readable bar code. These will be read by retail stores, hotels and other companies, the American Civil Liberties Union predicted, creating powerful intrusions of privacy.

Barry Steinhardt of the A.C.L.U. predicted that the program would never take effect. By setting deadlines so far in the future, he said, the administration had “kicked the can down the road” to the next one.

The schedule released Friday calls for compliant licenses for everyone under 50 by May 11, 2014, and for those 50 and over, by Dec. 1, 2017.

The Homeland Security Department decided this would lower costs, according to Mr. Chertoff. He called it “risk management,” saying older people were less likely to be terrorists.
333 2008-01-12 But putting aside our longstanding feud over materialism — shouldn’t every marriage have an unresolved money issue? — I keep looking for ways to bridge the common ground that we do have. We may define financial progress in different ways, but the dynamic does shift. My husband recently announced that we needed disability insurance. Was he kidnapped by Wall Street traders? No, this is a natural part of the financial maturation process, which happens sooner in some species than in others.

So with 2008 stretching out before us, I recently asked my dear nonplanner: If you could have the best possible financial year, what would it look like?

We were in the car, on a long drive, with my son asleep in the back. It was a good time to wax philosophical, and to my surprise my husband went with the playfulness of it. He announced that first we would take a long vacation, then we would lose that last five pounds of debt that seemed so hard to shed. I lobbied for a Honda Element and stuffing our retirement accounts to the brim.

It was fun, actually. A little fantasy makes the medicine go down. It did not even feel like a financial talk — even when I brought money into the picture. I was not planning to. But as we tossed these notions back and forth about what a better life might look like, I suggested that we try to figure out what the whole package might cost. If A represented our current standard of living and B represented the New Improved Version, what was the dollar difference between A and B? Was it $10,000 more a year, $20,000, $150,000?

I like geeky exercises like this, but I also was curious to see if the tab would be within the range of possibility or would one of us have to start a hedge fund? It is so easy to slip into the lottery mentality — that we would need a windfall of millions to afford a terrific quality of life or even a banner year. Or, to my husband’s fear, that soul-sucking greed would consume us.

So it was heartening to do a quick tally — to finance our retirement accounts would require an additional $9,000 a year, a trip would cost about $7,000, and so forth — and realize that the total bill for improvements amounted to about $35,000 a year more than we earn now.

Given that my husband has been the stay-at-home dad this last year and just started working part time, that number did not seem beyond the pale. Was it possible we had come up with an estimate for a life that, to each of us, would feel like enough?

I have a hankering for a pied-à-terre in a culture-rich city, but I did not mention it because I did not want to wreck our first successful financial planning talk. At least we discovered that we can agree upon, and maybe even afford, certain crucial upgrades. For now, that is enough.
334 2008-01-12 Merck & Company said on Friday that it had signed a deal for an authorized generic form of its blockbuster osteoporosis drug Fosamax to become available after the United States patent on the drug lapses on Feb. 6.

“We can confirm an authorized generic deal for Fosamax has been signed, although specific details of the deal are proprietary,” said a Merck spokesman, Ron Rogers.

Fosamax, with the chemical name alendronate, has annual sales of about $3 billion, making it the world’s top-selling osteoporosis drug. Now available in a once-weekly formulation, it was the first member of the widely used family of treatments known as bisphosphonates that inhibit cells called osteoclasts, which break down bone tissue.

An authorized generic is a copycat form of a company’s branded medicine that is sold through a licensing agreement, usually with a generic-drug manufacturer. Such deals allow the original seller of a branded drug to hold on to more revenue from the medicine once it loses patent protection and becomes prey to competition from generics.

An authorized generic can significantly hurt sales of rivals waiting to be introduced once a branded drug’s patent lapses.

Analysts have said cheaper generics will not only batter sales of Fosamax, but could also hurt another once-weekly bisphosphonate, Actonel, sold by Procter & Gamble and the French drug maker Sanofi-Aventis.

Boniva, a newer bisphosphonate sold by Roche Holding and GlaxoSmithKline, is taken only once a month.
335 2008-01-12 With that diary, and having spent many hours online recently tracking weather patterns moving over the Pacific Ocean, Washburn described the conditions he expected Saturday: the west-northwest groundswell would arrive with a basal height of 8 to 10 feet at 15- to 17-second intervals; the wind would blow from the north at only 10 knots or less; and midsize Mavericks wave faces would stand 20 to 30 feet tall.

“I’m confident there will be big waves without the long lulls that even bigger waves have,” Washburn said Thursday. “Later, it looks like the jet stream will bend back down, roughing things up.”

Mark Sponsler, 50, a regular here since 1995, helps decide the date of the competition each year. This year, the decision was made Thursday, giving surfers around the world less than two days to find their way to Mavericks.

Sponsler, a technology projects manager for a health-care organization, gathers data from an array of sophisticated government satellites and offshore buoys and feeds the information into programs he designed. These models of swell generation and propagation are instrumental in selecting the date of the contest.

“We search for a big storm way off in the North Pacific, out past the international date line,” Sponsler said. “That’s the best cradle for a Mavericks swell. Waves start their lives as wind. The longer and stronger gales blow in the same direction, the larger and more powerful the seas that result.”

Surfers want evidence that a wave-generating storm will play “crack-the-whip,” veering northward to bring wind and rain into Oregon and Washington while sending waves on to California — precisely what seems to have occurred this year.

Sponsler, self-taught in oceanography, said wave prediction was far less accurate 10 years ago. Using a dial-up connection, he had to try to glean cryptic data from Department of Defense weather Web sites. “We had no good way for us to peer down into open-ocean storms, get an idea what was going on inside,” he said.

Big-wave surfers rely on data from QuikScat and Jason-1, satellites with the Ocean Surface Topography Mission for NASA and its international partners. Jason-1 uses radar to scan undulations on the sea, providing average readings accurate within 3.3 centimeters from a vantage point 860 miles above.

Jason-1 also uses microwaves to measure water vapor, G.P.S. to pinpoint locations, and lasers to communicate with ground stations.

QuikScat measures direction and speed of ocean winds by analyzing microwaves scattered by the ocean surface. More information-collecting devices are plopped on the sea surface: the N.O.A.A. weather buoys, which measure swells as they tilt and ride over them and capture wind speed, gust strength and direction.

Because of such data streams, surf-prediction Web sites like WetSand.com, Surfline.com and StormSurf.com can thrive.

But once the surfers are out on the water, they are detached from all the sophisticated analysis. They have only their knowledge of how the ocean water moves.

“Wave physics are extremely complicated,” said Dr. William O’Reilly of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego. “Some parts are not well understood by anyone.”

At Mavericks, the wave’s angle of approach is key. If the swell arrives from the north-northwest, it will be broken up by the Cordell Bank, the Farallon Islands and the sprawling sandbars of Four Fathom Bank. But if the swell shoots in from a west-northwest angle, it hits a near-perfect launch ramp of steadily shallowing water.

About 900 yards from the ocean’s edge at Pillar Point, the swell hits the underwater rock formation and is forcefully driven forward and upward.

Jeff Clark, who pioneered the Mavericks break in 1975 and organizes the contest, and the local surfer Matt Ambrose have dived to this reef when the ocean was calm to examine and better understand its structure.

It is at this spot that the surfers line up, lying on their boards and waiting for the right wave. They will have followed the storm since its generation on the North Pacific five days earlier, studied the three-day predictions on various Web sites, observed the buoy reports with growing excitement Friday, and then hit the Pillar Point parking lot by dawn.

On Saturday, they will be joined by 30,000 spectators.

Depending on the size, shape and direction of the swell, a surfer will maneuver in a small zone with about a 50-foot radius. Once a swell passes, he has roughly seven seconds to assess whether the next one is the one he wants to ride, three to five seconds to shift his position in, out, left or right, and two seconds to make a go/no-go decision. Then he must start paddling — sometimes for his life.

“When the science is said and done, experience has a say,” Clark said. “What’s the feel? Is my spider sense tingling? You don’t want to let a solid swell go by. At the end of the season, I don’t want to look down and see some ‘should’ stuck on my boot.”

After committing to a wave, the surfer must confront the sheer tonnage of hurtling water and hit a 10-foot-wide slot of the best spot to launch a ride with pinpoint timing, a maneuver that Washburn has described as akin to “trying to place a Dixie cup on the horn of a charging rhino.”

If he makes it, he carves down a tall, glittering wave face at speeds in excess of 30 miles an hour while the lip crashes behind him with a rumble.

If the surfer is lucky and skilled, the ride can last for a half-mile — a thrilling 45-second payoff for all the hours of studying the competition.
336 2008-01-12 Joint supply and production deals are common across the automobile industry, and both automakers have taken part in others.

Nissan and Ford Motor once built minivans together at a plant in Avon Lake, Ohio, while Chrysler has had a long relationship with Mitsubishi, with the two building vehicles together in Normal, Ill., at a plant now owned by Mitsubishi. Beyond that, Chrysler and Volkswagen have developed a minivan for VW to sell in the United States, beginning this year.

Chrysler also signed an agreement last year with the Chery Automobile Company of China to make cars for Chrysler to sell starting in 2009. On Friday, Chrysler’s co-president, Thomas W. LaSorda, said Chrysler could sell both Chery-produced cars and Nissan models in South America. The Nissan models will be built at a plant in Mexico that Mr. LaSorda said had extra production capacity. The deal saves Chrysler the expense of developing the vehicles on its own.

“We didn’t have to put new plants up, they had available capacity, and it just worked out well for both parties,” Mr. LaSorda said in a conference call.

He said Chrysler had not decided on a brand name for the Nissan model, nor would he say how many Chrysler planned to sell. He also would not specify the countries where it would be sold.

Nissan and Chrysler already have another joint relationship. In 2004, the companies agreed that a Nissan subsidiary would provide transmissions for Chrysler vehicles.

“Nissan has a successful track record of win-win product exchanges, and we are pleased to be entering into this second agreement with Chrysler,” said Carlos Tavares, an executive vice president at Nissan.

Analysts say the Nissan-Chrysler arrangement could become much bigger, eventually including cars that Nissan could provide Chrysler to sell in the United States, while Chrysler could provide Nissan with pickup trucks.

Nissan already sells the Titan pickup, built outside Jackson, Miss., but its sales pale next to those of the Dodge Ram, the country’s third best-selling truck behind the Ford F-series and Chevrolet Silverado.

Chrysler, whose lineup is dominated by sport utilities, pickups and minivans, could use more fuel-efficient small cars, analysts said.

“We’re maintaining an open dialogue for further opportunities.” Dominique Thormann, a senior vice president at Nissan North America, said in an interview Friday.
337 2008-01-12 “The place reeks of fries and beef,” he went on. “McDonald’s has spent millions of dollars developing chemical aromas for its fries, burgers and chicken, and they are every bit as intoxicating as they were meant to be,” and will surely overwhelm the lure of high-end coffee.

Starbucks, on the other hand, he wrote, “smells of beans, frothing milk and pastries.”

“That visceral impression will stay with you the next time you want coffee.”

Further, people who want coffee are usually in more of a hurry than buyers of burgers. You do not want to stand in line behind a Happy Meal-happy family of four. Starbucks may be more expensive, Mr. Dannen wrote, but “actual price matters little when the customer perceives that they’ll get their desired product with less time spent and less stress suffered.”

MUSIC MISSIVE The author, entrepreneur and marketing maven Seth Godin has a message for the music industry. The “new thing is never as good as the old thing, at least right now,” he wrote in his blog this week, fleshing out his argument with about 1,700 more words (sethgodin.typepad.com).

“Every single industry changes and, eventually, fades,” he wrote. “Just because you made money doing something a certain way yesterday, there’s no reason to believe you’ll succeed at it tomorrow.”

Record companies must move from selling “plastic and vinyl” to selling “interactivity and souvenirs.” They have to learn, Mr. Godin says, to avoid “viewing the spread of digital artifacts as an inconvenient tactic,” and think of them rather as “the core of their new businesses.”

And it is not a good idea to sue customers for engaging in your core business.

“The best time to change your business model is while you still have momentum,” Mr. Godin writes. “So, the time to jump was yesterday. Too late. O.K., how about today?”

THOUSANDS OF SIMPLE RULES Rulesofthumb.org is a vast collection of simple, user-submitted rules to remember as you go about your business. Theoretically, the best rise to the top based on user votes.

“For marketing purposes, elderly consumers think they are 15 years younger than they actually are,” offered Tracy Lux Frances of Bradenton, Fla.

Think you have the next Pet Rock or mood ring? “You have 90 days to make and ship a novelty item and 90 days to sell it out,” according to one submission. “After that, inventory costs swallow up the profits.”
338 2008-01-12 The state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, is opening an audit of the City Education Department’s increasing practice of awarding contracts without competitive bidding. In the past five years such contracts have totaled $315 million.

To keep down costs, competitive bidding is normally required of city agencies. But although the Education Department is controlled by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, it is by law a state-authorized entity free from some of the more stringent city financial regulations.

School officials have said that awarding contracts without bidding gives them more flexibility and allows them to get better and faster results, but the city has been fiercely criticized for a rapid rise in no-bid contracts since Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein came into office.

In 2002, when the school system was still controlled by the Board of Education, 32 contracts totaling $11.9 million were awarded without bidding. In 2003, after Mr. Klein took over, the number nearly doubled and totaled more than $56 million. They reached a high of $121 million in 2006, then dropped again last year to $62 million, according to the city’s public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, who has been a critic of the practice. She pressed the state for the audit last fall.

“This is about transparency and accountability,” Ms. Gotbaum said. “Why are they awarding so many contracts without any other consideration? It may all be perfectly legitimate and fine, but we don’t know why.”

In a letter sent to Mr. Klein on Tuesday, the comptroller’s office said it would begin the audit on Jan. 21. Audits typically take between six months and a year. The audit was reported in The Daily News on Friday.
339 2008-01-12 TEHRAN — Mohamed ElBaradei, the chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency, on Friday urged Iran to move more quickly to clarify questions about its nuclear activities, the Iranian news agency ISNA reported.

“I discussed with Iran how we can work together to accelerate the pace of our cooperation to clarify all outstanding issues before my report in March,” ISNA quoted Dr. ElBaradei as saying.

Dr. ElBaradei, accompanied by the atomic agency’s deputy director general, Olli Heinonen, referred to his two-hour talks with Gholamreza Aghazadeh, the chief of the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization, as “frank and friendly.” But he said that Iran needed to make its nuclear activities more transparent.

“I asked Mr. Aghazadeh to give us maximum assurances about all present nuclear activities,” Dr. ElBaradei was quoted as saying.

This is Dr. ElBaradei’s first visit to Iran since 2006. He has played a crucial role in mediating between Iran and the West regarding Iran’s nuclear activities. His trip comes after a United States National Intelligence Estimate released in early December said that Iran had suspended its nuclear weapons program in 2003.
340 2008-01-12 Berlioz described his cantata “La Mort de Cléopâtre” as “somber, broad, sinister and lugubrious: a great voice breathing a menacing lament in the mysterious stillness of the night.” The Prix de Rome jury, however, to which he submitted it in 1829, thought the bold harmonies and adventurous orchestral sonorities weird.

When the superb mezzo- soprano Susan Graham performed it at Avery Fisher Hall on Thursday with the New York Philharmonic under Lorin Maazel, the cantata (redolent of Dido’s lament in Berlioz’s opera “Les Troyens”) was riveting. Ms. Graham, who swept regally onto the stage in a red gown and glittery black wrap, used her warm, lustrous mezzo to expressively convey the conflicting emotions of loneliness, pride, nostalgia and despair before the captured Cleopatra’s suicide.

The unconventional orchestration and original rhythms of the cantata, Berlioz’s fourth attempt while a student at the Paris Conservatory to win the prestigious composition prize, are a harbinger of his colorfully groundbreaking “Symphonie Fantastique,” written the next year. (The Prix was finally awarded him in 1830 for a more conventional cantata.) Mr. Maazel and the orchestra were able accomplices to the storytelling, providing a vivid accompaniment and emphasizing the dramatic string effects and quietly ominous repeated figures that accompany Cleopatra’s tumultuous monologue.

The cantata brought some much-needed excitement to an otherwise unmemorable night, which began with a muddy if sometimes appropriately exuberant performance of Berlioz’s Overture to “Benvenuto Cellini,” his first opera. Mr. Maazel then led a perfunctory amble through Prokofiev’s gentle, melodious, emotionally restrained Symphony No. 7. Prokofiev completed the work in 1952 (the year before he died), after a difficult period when his sixth symphony was denounced by the Soviet government for its “formalist perversions.” Mr. Maazel seemed to have little to say about it, although there was appealingly velvety playing from the strings.

The concert finished with a very different Prokofiev work: the rowdy “Scythian Suite,” composed a few years after the boisterous 1913 premiere of Stravinsky’s “Rite of Spring” in Paris. Prokofiev’s raucous suite, highly reminiscent of Stravinsky’s revolutionary work, was initially commissioned as a ballet by Diaghilev but turned into a suite after the project was canceled.

The orchestra offered a performance notable for its remarkable detail and often slow tempos. Mr. Maazel began the work at full throttle, whipping up a glorious, almost deafening cacophony. But instead of being allowed to revel in riotous abandon, these pagans seemed rather micromanaged.
341 2008-01-12 We need strong, alternative voices to marginalize special-interest media campaigns that mislead voters. If only voters would recognize the net gain of allocating a few billion for publicly financed election campaigns. That would likely save taxpayers tens of billions from the tax exemptions and public expenditures that elected officials now support to please the contributors they need.

Alternatively, schools (indirectly through students) and libraries, allied with journalists, should engage the public with entertaining games and contests that also teach voters what they need to know to compare candidates based on their relevant attributes.
342 2008-01-12 The basic suit-preference signal was invented by Hy Lavinthal in 1934. Suppose the contract is four spades. You lead a singleton club. Partner, bless his or her boots, wins with the club ace and gives you a club ruff. If only you could get partner back on lead, you could get a second ruff and defeat the contract. But do you shift to a spade, heart or diamond?

In these situations you usually ignore the trump suit. Partner’s club choice at Trick 2 tells you which side suit to return. If his entry is in hearts, he leads back his highest club, the high card signaling his preference for the higher-ranking of the other two side suits. If his entry is in diamonds, he leads his lowest club. (And if he has either no re-entry card or equal holdings in the red suits, he returns a middle club.)

But what if the dummy makes it obvious that shifting to one of the red suits cannot possibly get partner in?

The diagramed deal occurred during the Edgar Kaplan Winter Regional in New York City last month.

East’s opening bid would not have appealed to everyone because his heart suit was weak. But he did not have a rebid problem.

Against four spades, Ira Herman of New York guessed well to lead his club seven. East took the trick with his ace and cashed the club king, which showed that he started with ace-king doubleton. (With A-K-x or longer in clubs, East would have taken the first trick with the king.)

It was now Herman’s job to tell his partner how to get him on play so that East could receive a club ruff. Realizing that a diamond shift could not be right, Herman made a brilliant play, dropping his club queen under partner’s king to call for a spade shift.
343 2008-01-12 The European Food Safety Agency is a scientific body that advises the European Commission, which asked for its opinion on cloned animal products early in 2007. Its ruling is not binding and does not take into account the ethical aspects of cloning, which will be reviewed separately by the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies, an advisory panel.

The decision also does not take into account European public opinion, which strongly favors natural foods. “So now we feed our animals with genetically modified plants. And the animals will be clones,” Ms. Holder said. The European public “doesn’t want these things.”

Based on the expert panels’ opinions, the European Commission will decide whether to allow the sale of such products on the Continent. But under international trade law, it is difficult for the commission to exclude unpopular products that its scientific advisers say are safe.

Last year, the World Trade Organization concluded that European efforts to ban genetically modified crops constituted an unfair trade barrier. The commission is under threat of penalties if member states do not open their markets to such products. Many areas, including large parts of Greece, Italy and Austria, have refused.

Friday’s decision was particularly important because the United States Food and Drug Administration is also expected to rule this month on the safety of products from cloned animals. It, too, is expected to conclude that the products are safe. That could allow commercial production of such products to move forward. There is currently a moratorium, although a fledgling agricultural cloning industry in the United States is waiting for a green light.

The possibility that meat and dairy products from cloned animals could soon arrive on Europe’s doorstep prompted the European Commission to action.

“As the technology has developed, so does the possibility that such products will come on the market, which is why E.F.S.A.’s scientific advice on the matter is important,” said Karen Talbot, a spokeswoman for the agency, which is based in Parma, Italy.

While cloning animals is still a young and inefficient technology, scientists expect it will improve greatly in the coming years. Using the process, the genes from an animal with desirable characteristics are inserted into an unfertilized egg. The egg can then grow into an exact duplicate of the “parent” animal.

In theory, the procedure can produce meatier cows or pigs that are better able to resist diseases.

In practice, the process produces a relatively high proportion of deformed animals that cannot survive, although scientists with the European Food Safety Agency said such rates were likely to decline as the technology improved.
344 2008-01-12 LAYOFFS AT ENGINE MAKER  Rolls-Royce Group, a leading manufacturer of aircraft engines, said that it would trim nearly 6 percent of employees from its payroll. The company aims to cut up to 2,300 managerial, professional and clerical staff in Brit...
345 2008-01-12 The ice dancers Melissa Gregory and Denis Petukhov, husband and wife, withdrew Friday from the 2008 United States Figure Skating Championships, which begin Jan. 20. Gregory and Petukhov have been sidelined since a fall during a lift at Skate Canad...
346 2008-01-13 A list of things about climate and energy that are not in dispute....
347 2008-01-13 Campaigning in a state Mitt Romney called home, the Arizona senator does his best to ignore him....
348 2008-01-13 McCaskill, from a state with a Feb. 5 primary, chooses the Illinois senator....
349 2008-01-13 The not-so-golden Globes and the damage being done....
350 2008-01-13 “For me, Michigan is personal,” Mr. Romney said at a brief airport appearance in Traverse City, in the northwestern Lower Peninsula. “It’s personal because this is where I was born and raised. My mom and dad are buried here.”

Mr. McCain was loudly heckled at an appearance in Livonia when he said that the nation’s 10 million illegal immigrants had to be treated humanely and not deported en masse. The catcalls eventually died down.

But the contentious issue of the day between the two candidates was how to help those workers who have been laid off by the automotive giants in Detroit or who have seen their jobs go overseas.

Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts whose father was president of American Motors in the 1950s and ’60s, insisted that the auto industry can be revived and blamed Congress and Mr. McCain for ignoring Michigan’s problems.

“The question is, where is Washington?” Mr. Romney said, speaking to a gaggle of reporters across from a General Motors transmission plant near Ypsilanti, where 200 layoffs were announced this week. “Where does it stop? Is there a point at which someone says ‘enough’? Or are we going to allow the entire domestic automotive manufacturing industry to disappear?”

Mr. Romney criticized the energy bill signed into law last month by President Bush that requires cars and trucks sold in the United States to achieve a fleet average of 35 miles per gallon by 2020. Substantial majorities in both parties in both houses of Congress approved the measure. Mr. McCain voted for it.

Mr. Romney said he opposed the new mileage standard, describing it as an anvil tossed to Detroit by a government that did not understand the auto industry or care about its workers. “As president, I will not rest as Detroit gets to see layoff after layoff after layoff,” he said.

Mr. Romney proposed increased government spending for research on advanced fuels and vehicles, aid to automakers to deal with the costs of health care and pensions for retirees, and tax cuts for most taxpayers to help them buy new cars.

Valinda Turner, 52, said at Mr. Romney’s Traverse City appearance that she was still shopping around for a candidate.

“I was behind Huckabee, but I’m not sure,” said Ms. Turner, a real estate agent from Boyne Falls, Mich. She said she was glad that Mr. Romney was talking about solving the problems of the auto industry, but that even after he spoke she was not persuaded.

“I want to know how he’s going to get it done,” she said. “I didn’t hear it.”

In Warren, Mr. McCain said he would be “ashamed” to tell voters that the lost jobs would return to Michigan, but he vowed to take care of displaced workers through a promised job retraining program that would be offered through community colleges. “We are a Judeo-Christian values nation,” Mr. McCain told the group at the town hall in Warren. “We cannot leave people behind.”

Mr. McCain toured the state in his campaign bus, the “Straight Talk Express,” and at first appeared to be in a bad mood when he talked to reporters for nearly an hour from his seat in the back. But his spirits lifted visibly later in the day when he learned that he had received the endorsement of The State, South Carolina’s largest newspaper, for the primary there on Jan. 19.

The newspaper said that the two strongest candidates were Mr. Huckabee and Mr. McCain, but that Mr. Huckabee’s “utter lack of knowledge of foreign affairs is unsettling.” The newspaper praised Mr. McCain for experience, courage and independence, and said “he is a slave to no ideology or faction.”

One of Mr. McCain’s guests on the bus on Saturday was Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard who is supporting Mr. McCain. The senator turned to Ms. Fiorina at the town hall meeting in Warren to help him answer a question about why the sub-prime mortgage crisis seemed to catch the country by surprise.

Ms. Fiorina took the microphone and said that “many, many people” did not see the mortgage crisis coming “because we forgot about a fundamental principle of American capitalism,” transparency. She also said banks had taken many of the transactions off their balance sheets.
351 2008-01-13 “When shade would come across the court, the ball would react differently in the shaded area than in the part with sun,” Tiley said. “That’s because the court was retaining some heat, and it was a thicker rubber underneath.”

While Tiley said Rebound Ace had underlayers as thick as 0.59 of an inch, Plexicushion has a 0.15-of-an-inch underlayer, which is applied with a squeegee in liquid form and contains rubber and other proprietary particles.

The surface, introduced in 1968, has received mixed reviews at some of the lead-in events, particularly at the Hopman Cup team event in Perth, which was played indoors and where some players, including the American Mardy Fish, found it too slow. But the preliminary response has been positive in Melbourne, with Maria Sharapova and Serena Williams endorsing the change on Saturday. Both said they felt Plexicushion would be less punishing than Rebound Ace, which many players blamed for ankle injuries even though a study by the men’s and women’s Tours failed to find an incontrovertible link.

“I don’t think it’s as sticky as the Rebound Ace, definitely,” Sharapova said. “I think it’s great for the body. I think it’s good for anyone’s body. It’s a lot easier on the joints, which is always good, especially when you’re 6-2.”

The new surface is manufactured by California Products Corporation, based in Andover, Mass., which produces the DecoTurf surface at the United States Open. “To have two of the four Grand Slams and the only two with manufactured surfaces, we’re extremely pleased about that,” John Graham, DecoTurf’s managing director, said in a telephone interview.

But the American connection has not gone unnoticed in Australia. Rebound Ace was an Australian product, and though the Plexicushion courts were laid by an Australian contractor, there have been claims that the tournament has lost its identity.

“We’ve lost our Australian-ness, our uniqueness,” said Paul McNamee, the former Australian Open tournament director, in a recent interview with The Sydney Morning Herald. “The interesting thing is that it doesn’t play much different to Rebound.”

The American player Michael Russell found differently. “It plays more like a hardcourt; it definitely does not bounce as high as Rebound Ace,” Russell said. “The heat doesn’t have as big an effect on it.”

Though DecoTurf is also a cushioned acrylic surface, the United States Open surface is considered significantly quicker. Using the surface pace rating system employed by the International Tennis Federation, Tiley said that the new courts at Melbourne Park averaged about 34 points, which put them at the medium speed range, and that they would increase 2 to 3 points after heavy play. He said the United States Open was closer to 40 points with a lower bounce.

“The last time our courts were tested in this fashion was in March 2007; they came out in the mid-40s which would be considered fast,” the United States Tennis Association spokesman Chris Widmaier said. “However, each of the courts is resurfaced before the Open and that would bring the number down, but I do not have a measured number from right before the Open.”

The Australians decided to switch in April and originally planned to do redo the courts in 2009, but gambled and had the work finished in time for 2008, thanks in part to a run of good weather.

Tiley, an energetic former tennis coach at the University of Illinois, expects the new surface to be better suited to developing future Australian champions, a quest that has proved problematic for a country that once had an assembly line. Tiley considers Plexicushion, with its lower bounce, a better teaching environment and hopes that Australian clubs will embrace it. To encourage them, Tennis Australia has created a fund of about $5.34 million to help subsidize the cost of installing the new courts.

The surprise is that after approximately $4.45 million in installation costs at Melbourne Park, the new courts do not seem particularly well suited to Lleyton Hewitt, Australia’s last true tennis star. He had lobbied long and not always politely for the end of Rebound Ace because he found it too slow.

“It’s a fine court; I just don’t know what they were thinking; this is the worst hardcourt you could pick for Lleyton,” said Mats Wilander, the former Australian Open champion who played on the new courts on Friday. “On a cool day, there are 127 guys Lleyton can lose to on this stuff. The ball pops up and doesn’t penetrate.”

Hewitt, as his ranking of 21 can confirm, now loses more often on every surface than he did during his short run at No. 1. Despite a vigorous off-season training program with his longtime mentor Tony Roche, who recently coached Roger Federer, the feisty Hewitt has lost early in both his warm-up tournaments on the new would-be national surface in Adelaide and Sydney.

Hewitt has been upbeat in his public comments about Plexicushion. But Tiley made it clear that neither Hewitt nor any other individual player was the priority in the court change.

“We’re a Grand Slam championship, so we are a championship for the world,” Tiley said. “We are one of the four global pillars of the sport, so therefore we are going to tailor the courts and the environment for everyone and to be advantageous to everyone.”
352 2008-01-13 “You don’t get there until Monday night if you do any good in Hawaii, and the tournament starts Wednesday on four courses,” Verplank said. “And they’re adding another new one this year. When they keep changing courses, you have to get over there and learn them.”

For someone like Leonard, it is all about scheduling and conditions.

He prefers to start at the Hope when he is not eligible for the Mercedes, mainly because it allows him to start a new season in an ideal climate — usually. The wind howled at the Classic Club last year, and only three players broke 70 in the final round.

“I need a week to get out of the wind mode,” Leonard said. “And when I go back, I’m playing four in a row to see if I can play my way into the Match Play. I understand that if you’re already here, why not stay. But I like playing the Hope, and I feel like if I stay for the Sony, I’ll be at a disadvantage.”

HONORING SUGGS Louise Suggs, who won 11 majors and was among 13 founders of the L.P.G.A. Tour, has been honored by the Golf Writers Association of America with the William D. Richardson Award for outstanding contributions to golf.

The writers association also selected Gary Player to receive the ASAP Sports/Jim Murray Award for his relationship with the news media, and Denis Watson for the Ben Hogan Award for continuing to be active in golf despite a serious injury of handicap. Watson, who won the Senior PGA Championship last year, played in only 36 tournaments the previous 10 years because of operations on his wrist, elbow and neck.

They will be honored April 9 in Augusta, Ga., at the writers’ annual awards dinner.

Suggs, who turns 85 this year, has been a tireless promoter of the L.P.G.A. since its inception.

She won 58 times and often attended minor league baseball games and boxing matches to drum up support.

WOODS’S GRAND IDEA After winning the Masters in 1997 for his first major, Tiger Woods said winning the Grand Slam was a matter of winning the right four tournaments. He revised his thinking by the end of the year, when he failed to record a top 10 in the other majors.

He won four straight majors, but not in the same year. And he keeps getting closer. Woods won the first two majors in 2002 and finished third in the PGA Championship. He won two majors in 2005 and was runner-up and tied for fourth in the other two. Last year, he was tied for second in the Masters and the United States Open, tied for 12th in the British Open and won the PGA.

Maybe that is why he is optimistic about his bid for 2008.

“I think it’s easily within reason,” Woods said in a story on his Web site.

The United States Open will be played at Torrey Pines, where he has won the Buick Invitational five times. The British Open will be held at Royal Birkdale, where Woods finished third at the same event in 1999. The PGA will be held at Oakland Hills, where Woods made the cut in the 1996 Open as an amateur.

EQUALITY ON DRUG LIST Near the end of the PGA Tour’s antidoping manual distributed to players last month is a section that lists examples of medications that are permitted, like antibiotics, hemorrhoidals and muscle relaxants.

It was surprising to see vaginal preparations as the final entry.

Turns out it was a reminder that the PGA Tour is not exclusively a men’s tour. Annika Sorenstam played in the Colonial in 2003, Suzy Whaley played in Hartford late that year, and Michelle Wie has played every year since then.

“In the era of females wanting to perhaps play on the PGA Tour, our policy had to reflect that such products were permissible,” the Tour spokesman Ty Votaw said.
353 2008-01-13 Breakthrough politics can be a zero-sum game, with distinct groups striving for a finite piece of the change pie. It brings to mind that the civil rights movement and the women’s movement have a long, complicated history dating back to abolitionism and the origins of modern feminism. While they have been philosophical allies, sharing goals and ideals, there have also been periodic collisions that could bespeak an inevitable friction as Barack v. Hillary moves forward and — potentially — in directions far less seemly than they have to date.

“The movements have been so deeply linked, and usually in harmony,” said Sara Evans, author of “Personal Politics: The Roots of Women’s Liberation in the Civil Rights Movement and the New Left” and a historian at the University of Minnesota. “But there will always be points of tension, too,” Ms. Evans said, especially when the broad ideals that blacks and women have typically shared — in their fight for the vote, non-discrimination and economic equality — give way to the nitty-gritty of reaching consensus, setting policy, passing legislation and, in the case of elections, making choices.

One bitter case from the 19th century involved a split between the abolitionist Frederick Douglass and the women’s rights’ pioneer Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Stanton was herself a fervent abolitionist, and a close ally of Douglass, who later confined herself to the cause of women’s equality. These ideals would eventually clash, resulting in increasingly divisive rhetoric that reached a harsh climax after Stanton condemned the 15th amendment — which gave black men the right to vote but left out women of all races — as something that would establish “an aristocracy of sex on this continent.” She also alluded to the “lower orders” like Irish, blacks, Germans, Chinese.

During a heated meeting in New York City’s Steinway Hall in 1869, Stanton wondered, “Shall American statesmen ... so amend their constitutions as to make their wives and mothers the political inferiors of unlettered and unwashed ditch-diggers, bootblacks, butchers and barbers, fresh from the slave plantations of the South?” At which point, Douglass rose, paid tribute to Stanton’s years of work on civil rights for all, and replied, “When women, because they are women, are hunted down through the cities of New York and New Orleans; when they are dragged from their houses and hung from lampposts; when their children are torn from their arms and their brains dashed out upon the pavement; when they are objects of insult and rage at every turn; when they are in danger of having their homes burnt down... then they will have an urgency to obtain the ballot equal to our own.”

Blacks won the right to vote with the 15th Amendment in 1870; women won theirs with the 19th Amendment, in 1920, a half-century later. Each of their causes would stutter-step along at sometimes different paces, but usually in some loose if not formal concert.

Some of the women’s rights giants of the 20th century took public positions, or made public gestures, in the service of civil rights. Eleanor Roosevelt, while first lady, memorably resigned her membership in the Daughters of the American Revolution in 1939 after that organization refused to allow the black contralto Marian Anderson the right to perform at Constitution Hall. (Franklin Roosevelt got Secretary of Interior Harold L. Ickes to allow a concert on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, drawing a crowd estimated at over 75,000.) The civil rights movements of the 1950s and 1960s were “the starting point for what many people have called ‘the rights revolution,’ ” said James T. Patterson, professor emeritus of history at Brown University and author of “Brown v. Board of Education: A Civil Rights Milestone and Its Troubled Legacy,” among other books. Some activists would grumble that women were under-represented in the leadership rungs. “They complained that their role was to cook dinner and serve as sex partners,” Mr. Patterson said. (In one notably bad joke, the black activist Stokely Carmichael was asked what position women held in the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, to which he replied, “Prone.”)

Women seemed to hit their stride in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Were they benefitting disproportionately from affirmative action, black men wondered? Later in the 70s and early 80s, blue-collar white women blamed affirmative action for their own economic hardship and job insecurity. And, experts say, there has always been some measure of discord between economically disadvantaged black feminists, who often emphasize pocketbook issues, and more affluent white feminists, with a greater focus on charged political issues like abortion rights.

In recent decades, the more public instances of blacks and women at loggerheads have involved a striving for milestones and power at the top, as opposed to minimal enfranchisement at the bottom. The case of the Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas, accused of sexual harassment by a former employee, Anita Hill, offered a riveting public dispute that cut to the core of racial and gender identities in late 20th-century America. But the vast majority of blacks — men, and especially women — were aligned against the nomination of the conservative Mr. Thomas to begin with, and he eventually won confirmation by a narrow margin, largely along party lines.

Indeed, the causes of black progress and women’s progress, and any cross-tensions between them, have largely existed within the Democratic Party. Walter Mondale, the Democratic presidential nominee in 1984, faced pressure to consider blacks and women as his running mate. He made a drawn-out show of his deliberations, considering black candidates (like the mayors of Philadelphia and Los Angeles), before settling on Representative Geraldine Ferraro.

It’s not clear how seriously Mr. Mondale considered the mayors, or whether he would have picked Ms. Ferraro if he had had a better chance of defeating Ronald Reagan (who went on to bulldoze him in November, taking 49 states). But a notion had clearly taken hold that it would be only a matter of time before a woman or a minority candidate would seriously challenge for the presidency.

Who would figure that both would happen the same year?

“We’re on the verge of a stunning first,” Mr. Patterson said.

Yet the core challenge of both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton is the degree to which each can transcend the first-ness of their candidacies. “The question is, How do you become a universal figure when you represent movements that have claimed the right of equality for you in your difference?” said Joan Scott, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study.

In fundamental ways, both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are kindred products of campus and community politics in their respective eras. Until recently, the tone of the Clinton-Obama race has been relatively civil and respectful, and — with a few exceptions — largely free of racial or gender-based rhetoric or offense. Mrs. Clinton vied aggressively for support among blacks, following on the great good will engendered by Bill Clinton during his campaigns and presidency. And Mr. Obama enjoyed significant support among women, helped in part by the strong and visible role that Michelle Obama had played in his campaign.

“Many of us just hope to high heaven that this continues,” Ms. Scott said of the campaign’s civil tone and relative color- and gender-blindness.

Alas, the campaign has taken a nastier turn in recent days, and the development has coincided, not surprisingly, with the start of voting, the advent of winners and losers, the harsh divvying of the electoral pie.

Women rallied to Mrs. Clinton in New Hampshire — 57 percent — after what many perceived as an unfair piling on by Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards in a debate on Saturday. (Mr. Obama was tagged as being dismissive and patronizing after he told Mrs. Clinton she was “likable enough.”) In post-election surveys, many women said they were both heartened by Mrs. Clinton’s choked-up response to a voter’s question on Monday, and incensed by the ridicule she endured in its aftermath.

Likewise, many blacks took offense to a remark Mrs. Clinton made in an interview with Fox News that struck some as dismissive of the contributions of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (She had pointed out that it took the leadership of a president, Lyndon Johnson, to bring about “Dr. King’s dream.”)

To many, the comments echoed a building tone of disrespect that Mrs. Clinton had been expressing toward Mr. Obama — pooh-poohing his commitment to change as merely “hoping for it,” implying that her fellow United States senator was all talk. Bill Clinton took things even further, ranting against the media for not challenging the “fairy tale” that he said Mr. Obama’s rise was predicated on. (He was referring specifically to the perception that Mr. Obama was totally pure in his opposition to the Iraq war.)

This infuriated prominent blacks like the Democratic operative and commentator Donna Brazile and Representative James E Clyburn of the critical primary state South Carolina, both of whom have been close to the Clintons and have remained neutral in the race. For Mr. Clinton “to go after Obama, using ‘fairy tale,’ calling him a ‘kid,’ as he did last week, it’s an insult,” Ms. Brazile said on CNN. “And I tell you, as an African- American, I find his words and his tone to be very depressing.”

Even more striking were remarks from Mr. Clyburn, the House majority whip and veteran of the civil rights movement, who also happens to be the leading black official in Congress. In a sense, Mr. Clyburn’s neutrality to this point in the Democratic race has marked a kind of sensible center in a potentially divisive campaign.

But that center appeared in some jeopardy on Thursday after Mr. Clyburn said he was re-thinking his position after the remarks by the Clintons, which he said distorted the history of civil rights.

“We have to be very, very careful about how we speak about that era in American politics,” Mr. Clyburn told Carl Hulse, a reporter for The New York Times. “It is one thing to run a campaign and be respectful of everyone’s motives and actions, and it is something else to denigrate those. That bothered me a great deal.”

But so goes the bumpy road to history.
354 2008-01-13 The Stocks in the News on the DataBank page last Sunday contained incorrect labels for the stocks’ estimated price-to-earnings ratios. They were for 2008, not 2007.
355 2008-01-13 TO the casual collector, the giant car auctions around Phoenix in January have the confused and frenzied air of a commodities exchange as participants bid on Mustangs, Cobras and Ferraris, with the occasional bus and amphibious car thrown in.

A half-dozen major auctions occur in the next two weeks. The sheer number of sales and their January scheduling make the auctions by Barrett-Jackson, Gooding & Company, RM Auctions, Russo & Steele, Silver Auctions and Kruse International bellwethers for the year ahead.

In the past, cable television coverage and bidding wars have caused segments of the market to catch fire. Bidders fought and in some cases even taunted each other for the prize of purchasing a car during prime time when their friends could see them, leading to some inexplicable results.

For example, a streamlined bus from General Motors’ Parade of Progress tour of the 1940s and ’50s sold two years ago for more than $4 million, and an Amphicar (an amphibious German car) brought $124,200, nearly three times the previous high sale for its marque.

Those who follow the collector-car market are waiting to see what conclusions can be drawn from this year’s Arizona results, but one thing may already be apparent: fallout from the subprime mortgage market seems to have affected parts of the classic-car market. Muscle-car prices are down from the highs of two years ago; the 1950s concept-car craze seems to have cooled and the once-hot market in “restomods” — vintage-look hot rods with modern mechanicals — is moribund.
356 2008-01-13 Emily Whalen Haverstick, a daughter of Jessica W. Haverstick and Samuel A. Haverstick II of Short Hills, N.J., was married on Saturday to Tyler Johnson Umbdenstock, the son of Linda J. Umbdenstock and Robert P. Umbdenstock of Lebanon, N.J. The Rev. Ronald W. Johnson, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at Caneel Bay, a resort in St. John, V.I.

The bride, 28, will continue to use her name professionally. She is the owner of Emily’s Edibles Inc., a baked goods and catering company in Charlottesville, Va. She graduated magna cum laude from Georgetown and received a master’s degree in health and behavior studies from Columbia.

Her father is an investment adviser in New York. Her mother owns Whalen Interiors, an interior renovation firm in Short Hills and is a trustee of the Visual Arts Center of New Jersey in Summit.

The bridegroom, also 28, is in his final year of study for an M.B.A. at the University of Virginia. In August, he is to join Lehman Brothers in New York as an investment banking associate. He graduated from Rutgers.

His mother is a behavioral nutritionist with the Counseling Group and Family Institute in Bernardsville, N.J. His father is the owner of Extreme Marine Services in Oldwick, N.J., a marine salvage consultancy.
357 2008-01-13 Whether a few rooms or a full-scale reconstruction, each renovation takes only 48 hours from start to finish, with help from local volunteers and materials donated by local businesses.

“We chose this church because of its connection to the Underground Railroad, and a lot of people in Tarrytown might not be aware of that,” said Garfield Russell, one of the show’s associate producers. “We chose the church to remind folks of that history.”

The Rev. Paul Smith, the church’s pastor for five years and an elementary school principal in the Bronx, said that to be chosen was “amazing.”

In early November, the television crew members arrived, providing the services of Karen Nicols, a New Jersey designer and architect. The church decided to redo its entrance hall, Mr. Smith said. “It definitely needed something done, and we could not have afforded it. It wouldn’t have been one of our priorities, and it wouldn’t have been done on the scale it was done.”

The entrance carries historical significance because, hidden beneath the floorboards to the left of the front door, is a crawl space used to shelter fleeing slaves. “Some life members of the church have never opened that door,” said Mr. Russell, who was born in Jamaica and emigrated to Canada as a child. “Maybe they wanted to put that history behind them.”

Mr. Russell chose to enter the space. “As a black person, it was very emotional,” he said. “It’s no more than three feet high.”

The renovation, which took the walls down to 144-year-old brick, removed a bulky metal electrical box and an unused drinking fountain. The stairs are now freshly carpeted, the walls painted a warm beige, and historical documents related to the church’s history hang in handsome frames, lit by a large new chandelier. Producers estimated that the renovation was worth about $30,000.

Henry Rowlett, 68, of Ossining, a former director of security for the Westchester County Medical Center, has been a member of the church for 32 years. He worked with 50 fellow volunteers to smash the ancient plaster.

“It was hard work,” he said. “We worked all night long as we only had two days to get this done. It’s not the kind of work I’m used to.”

The results, which will be broadcast on TV One, available through Direct TV, this spring, have proven both physical and spiritual. (“Divine Restoration” is produced for TV One by VisionTV International, based in Toronto.)

“It’s been a rebirth for us,” Mr. Smith said. “It was quite a boost for the congregation. The hallway is the first place you see when you come in. Now it’s a welcoming space.”
358 2008-01-13 “Oh, if you could see what I see,” said Joan Mohr, vice president and dean of admissions at Quinnipiac University, where applications rose 20 percent over last year. “All this paper. It’s a tactical nightmare.”

Ms. Mohr’s staff is working to winnow an expected 15,000 applicants to fill 1,350 places. “It’s gotten nutty,” she said of the number of colleges many students now apply to. “The rise in applications only increases the competition. But I understand that they feel they need to increase their options.”

Just how jittery are students and parents? Karen Pellegrino, director of undergraduate admissions at Fairfield University, who has 22 years’ experience in the field, the last four at Fairfield, called the anxiety level this season “extraordinary.”

Case in point: One parent desperate for information called the university mail room and asked workers to locate the school’s reply to an early-action application. “They wanted to know whether the envelope was fat or thin,” Ms. Pellegrino said.

The mailroom politely declined the request. But compassionate admissions is a goal at Fairfield. Ms. Pellegrino says the school now posts admissions decisions online on weekends only.

“We heard from the high school guidance counselors that doing it during the week wreaks havoc in the classrooms,” she said. “And it is better that they get the news — good or not so good — at home, with the comfort of family.”

Despite his department’s struggle beneath a pile of an estimated 22,000 applications — more than double the amount of a decade ago — M. Dolan Evanovich, the University of Connecticut’s vice provost for enrollment management, declared cheerily: “It’s an exciting time to be a Huskie. We’re a hot school. We’ve moved up from a back-up safety to first choice for many top students, in-state and out.”

He credits the State Assembly’s approval of a $2 billion, 20-year commitment to improving the main Storrs campus and five regional ones. A decade into the campaign, entering students’ average SAT scores are up 70 points, to 1192, and their grade point averages up from 3.3 to 3.5. With tuition and fees holding steady at $16,000 for in-state students, a fleet of shuttle buses now accommodates bargain-hunting families on campus tours.

“We are adding seats in a lot of introductory classes to accommodate this year’s bulge,” Mr. Evanovich said. He has also hired more readers, mainly “professional admissions counselors,” to help decide who gets the 10,000 to 11,000 fat “welcome” envelopes, which are expected to yield a freshman class of 3,250 at Storrs and another 1,000 at all the regional campuses. Asked if a straight B student may no longer comfortably expect a place on the main campus of the state university, Mr. Evanovich said, “We have a wonderful state system of other schools that can accommodate those students.”

Though few average types assail the admissions office of Yale, “the application rate has skyrocketed” over the last decade, from 10,000 to 20,000, according to the dean of admissions, Jeffrey Brenzel. Last year, Yale accepted 1,911 freshman out of 19,323 applicants, of whom 1,320 matriculated.

To cope with the crunch, Mr. Brenzel’s department has resorted to electronic imaging to corral the average 20 to 25 pages — including transcripts and letters of recommendation — that accompany each application. “It’s speeded things up vastly,” he said.

Anxiety levels are not so manageable, and this year, Mr. Brenzel said, the pressures were palpable closer to home. “My own daughter is in this big pool — and no, she’s not applying to Yale,” he said. “I can certainly understand why students are applying to more places, because it’s much harder to predict who will get in anywhere these days.” What has he been hearing from high school counselors on the front lines? “My sense is that they tend to be a bit frustrated by publications that rank schools,” he said. “The same institutions appear on all the lists, and students overlook hundreds of excellent schools.”

Ms. Pellegrino of Fairfield has also noticed distressing signs at the secondary level: “I have heard from students, counselors and teachers that heightened levels of anxiety are at the point of being destructive in the high school environment. I think they feel less collegial and more competitive with fellow students. And as there’s more hype about this mysterious process, they feel they’re being evaluated based on who else is applying — rather than who they are. At this level of competition, their place, their sense of self-worth is being taken from them.”

Amen to that. We, too, have a senior fish in this thrashing pool. And while our son’s school does not make class rankings public, its college planning Web site provides “scattergrams” that graph a student’s position amid classmates applying to a given college. They see themselves arrayed, anonymously, between axes measuring SAT scores and grade point averages. It’s a stark depiction, no matter where one’s little red “x” lands. I wonder if it’s too much information, too graphically displayed.

None of the admissions officers interviewed expressed much hope that the situation would improve anytime soon, though birth statistics show that next year’s senior class will be smaller. Ms. Mohr of Quinnipiac said she dispensed a small bromide when addressing prospective applicants. “I ask them, ‘Who do you think goes through the most stress: You or your parents? Wrong,” she said. The answer is neither. “We go through this every year. And in the end, you’ll reject far more of us. ’ ”
359 2008-01-13 DON’T get her wrong: Rosanne De Luca Braun loves “The Godfather.” Ditto, “The Sopranos.” But she has devoted much of the last seven years to exploring why certain Italian-American stereotypes — especially the gun-toting, cannoli-loving mobster — loom so large on screen, and in the national psyche.

The result of her labors is the documentary “Beyond Wiseguys: Italian Americans and the Movies,” which will have its Long Island premiere on Jan. 20 at the Cinema Arts Center in Huntington. Dominic Chianese, who played Uncle Junior in “The Sopranos” television series, is scheduled to make a guest appearance at the theater.

Running 57 minutes, “Beyond Wiseguys” interweaves celebrated movie and TV scenes with interviews with scholars and members of the film and TV industries. Among those appearing are the directors Martin Scorsese, David Chase and Spike Lee, the actor-director John Turturro (who was co-executive producer of the documentary with Ms. Braun), and, from the acting ranks, Marisa Tomei, Paul Sorvino, Ben Gazzara, Isabella Rossellini, Susan Sarandon and Mr. Chianese.

Some tell of having endured typecasting or of fighting ethnic clichés. Yet Ms. Braun, 59, of Sicilian and Calabrian descent herself, says she is not merely beating a drum against intolerance. “I’m not anti mob movies,” she said recently over lunch in her condominium overlooking Long Island Sound in Northport. (She shares it with her husband, Edward Braun, the chairman of the technology-instrument company Veeco.)

“I don’t relate to the fact that these are ‘stereotypes,’ ” Ms. Braun said. “I relate to the characters. And in the case of a great work of art, I don’t view it as Italian-American — it’s American.”
360 2008-01-13 SELDOM, if ever, has a single comedic property gone through so many incarnations as “The Odd Couple.” It began life in 1965 as Neil Simon’s Broadway hit about the domestic discord between two divorced yet utterly dissimilar roommates, the finicky neat freak Felix Unger and the sloppy, beer-swilling Oscar Madison. It became a film (1968) and a television series (1970-75). It then morphed into a Saturday morning cartoon (1975-77), followed by a short-lived black television version (1982-83) and a more successful, virtually all-female Broadway rendering (1985-86) before reverting to basics with the 2005 revival on Broadway.

You wonder why they bothered. The first television show, starring Jack Klugman and Tony Randall, was the funniest of the bunch, Broadway original included.

In terms of comic potential, Mr. Simon’s premise was virtually foolproof. Put a hypochondriac cook in the same apartment as a sweat-stained sportswriter, and it’s nearly impossible not to get laughs. The 1970s small-screen “Odd Couple” milked this clash for all it was worth. Oscar lights his cigar over Felix’s flambéed dessert; Felix literally spoon-feeds Oscar creamed corn to soothe his ulcer. Oscar’s bedroom looks as if it were hit by a hurricane; Felix sleeps with a teddy bear wrapped in cellophane so that it doesn’t collect lint.

Absurd? Absolutely. But also a considerable improvement over Mr. Simon’s initial vision. His Oscar and Felix, played by Walter Matthau and Art Carney, were a grouch and a nebbish, neither of them terribly likable. For the limp movie, Matthau and Jack Lemmon did little to enliven their respective disagreeability.

By contrast Mr. Klugman and Mr. Randall over five seasons — Paramount releases the third season on DVD on Jan. 22 — infused their alter egos with plenty of endearing quirks. Mr. Klugman’s outgoing, happy-go-lucky persona made you forgive him his tendency to cover everything with ketchup and blow his alimony payments on the ponies. Similarly, Mr. Randall’s impeccable delivery and preposterously fey bearing more than compensated for his nasal honking and mania for opera.

While caricature is usually the death knell for a series, “The Odd Couple” by its very nature got better as its heroes grew more outlandish. By the time Oscar began knocking his cigar ash into Felix’s shirt pocket, it was only natural that Felix would extract it with a vacuum cleaner.
361 2008-01-13 Today, 25 percent of the T. Rowe Price fund is invested in local-currency debt. However, Mr. Conelius has hedged 60 percent of that position into dollars, reducing the fund’s currency exposure. The fund returned 5.8 percent in 2007, putting it in the top 24 percent of emerging-market bond funds.

In fact, investors in local-currency bond funds were rewarded handsomely last year. While emerging-market bond funds over all returned 6.6 percent in 2007, the Pimco Developing Local Markets and Pimco Emerging Local Bond funds, which invest solely in local-currency debt, were the top-performing emerging-market debt funds, with returns of 13.2 percent and 12.3 percent, respectively. The holdings of Developing Local Markets have an average maturity of less than one year, compared with seven years for the Emerging Local Bond fund. Developing Local Markets, with $4.4 billion in assets, is the largest emerging-market bond fund tracked by Morningstar.

Last year, the main driver of returns for these funds, and for local-currency emerging-market debt in general, was the strength of the local currencies in relation to the dollar. Local-currency emerging-market bonds returned, on average, 5.5 percent in 2007, when returns were not converted into dollars, according to data from JPMorgan.

Curtis Mewbourne, co-head of emerging-market investments at Pimco, predicted that emerging-market currencies would continue to appreciate against the dollar in 2008, but he said these bonds were more than a currency play. Over time, as these markets mature, he said, local interest rates are likely to decline, providing good potential for capital appreciation.

Investing in these bonds can also stabilize returns, he said. “With 40 to 50 investable countries, each with different economic conditions,” he said, “you really get good diversification benefits.”

But some fund managers caution that because of the risk of recession in the United States, this is the time to become more conservative.

Matthew W. Ryan, portfolio manager of the MFS Emerging Markets Debt fund, had 19 percent of the fund in local-currency bonds in November. But in December, he brought that exposure down to 10 percent, saying that it was time to reduce risk, although he is bullish over the long term. “Layering local debt into emerging market bond funds provides money managers with real opportunities to add value without subjecting investors to too much volatility,” he said. “It really is about expanding investment opportunities.”

His fund, which has $403 million in assets, returned 5.7 percent in 2007, better than 65 percent of its peers.

John Carlson, manager of the Fidelity New Markets Income fund, which has $2.1 billion in assets, is similarly cautious for now but optimistic over the long term. The fund has 2 percent of its assets allocated to local-currency bonds, down from 5 percent in October. In 2007, the fund returned 5.7 percent, better than 65 percent of its peers.

“We’ve had a tremendous run in the currencies,” Mr. Carlson said. “I’m taking some chips off the table.” Still, he said, “over the long term, local currency will become a larger and more stable part of the portfolio as the markets evolve.” Money managers generally caution individuals to keep emerging-market debt to no more than 10 percent of their fixed-income portfolios. “At that level, you get the diversification benefits of the asset class without subjecting your portfolio to getting swamped in a down swell,” said Lawrence Jones, a Morningstar mutual fund analyst. “It’s easy to look at recent returns and gain an unreasonable sense of stability.”
362 2008-01-13 “If the U.S. economy does slow dramatically, is the rest of the world going to continue to grow?” Mr. Avery asked. “My gut tells me the answer is yes, but I have no way to prove that.”

Whatever his gut says, another voice is telling him to be cautious over the next few months. He said he has hedged against declining share prices by selling short futures contracts pegged to indexes of foreign stocks, like the DAX in Germany and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong, as well as American indexes.

“I’m not sure about the investment horizon between now and the end of the first quarter,” Mr. Avery said.

WHETHER they prefer foreign stocks or not, investment advisers are following the value of the dollar closely. Its relentless descent against other currencies over the last two years has made French designer handbags and Japanese cameras more expensive, and it has had the more salutary effect of raising prices of foreign stocks for Americans.

The dollar’s decline is invoked to support the bullish case for investing abroad — and the bearish case.

David Antonelli, global chief investment officer at MFS Investment Management, pointed out in a recent conference call with journalists that currency movements accounted for much of the superior returns of foreign stock indexes in the last few years.

The more muted gains for overseas markets, when expressed in local currencies, persuade him that their strength is likely to persist. “We think there should be more outperformance coming from international markets from earnings and valuations,” Mr. Antonelli said.

Other investors view the dollar’s poor run differently. They cite the outsized impact on comparative returns as evidence that it is time to take the money — whether in euros, British pounds, Japanese yen or Swiss francs — and run.

So many people are convinced that the dollar can only continue to fall, they say, that it is prudent to consider the possibility that it will move the other way. If it does, it will depress prices of foreign stocks for dollar-based investors.

“If you wanted to be a real contrarian, you would sell exposure outside the U.S. and make a big bet on the dollar,” Mr. Avery said.

Fund managers who are disinclined to do that are convinced that growth — in broad economies, consumer spending and corporate profits — will remain stronger abroad. Their view is held widely among ordinary investors. A report by Citigroup notes that a net $20.9 billion was removed from domestic equity funds last year through October, the most recent month for which figures were available, while international stock funds experienced a net inflow of $123.7 billion.

William Fries, co-manager of the Thornburg International Value fund, thinks that investors are merely making up for lost time.

“One of the reasons that we have continued to see cash flow into international funds is that a majority of retail investors have not participated to a great extent” in the rally in overseas markets, he said. He pointed out that the foreign companies account for a far greater share of the global stock market than is reflected in the typical American portfolio.

“I would not characterize it as a trend that’s long in the tooth,” Mr. Fries said. “We’re still able to identify promising companies that are available at reasonable prices.”

His other selections in Asia include Shinhan Bank in South Korea, a leader in consumer lending, and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, which operates the stock market there and should benefit when Chinese citizens are allowed to trade stocks listed in Hong Kong, Mr. Fries said.

The hallmark of his choices in Europe is stable earnings growth. He mentioned Novo Nordisk, a Danish health care company; the German utility E.ON; and several telephone companies: France Télécom, Telefónica in Spain and the British mobile phone service provider Vodafone.

Mr. Riegel, at TIAA-CREF, is sticking with multinational blue chips and avoiding businesses that rely on exports to the United States, in line with his cautious outlook. “If we tip over into a gloom-and-doom scenario, you want big companies to help protect yourself,” he explained.

Two of his favorites are pharmaceutical companies, Bayer in Germany and Roche in Switzerland. He also likes the German conglomerate Siemens, which has a new, restructuring-minded chief executive. Siemens is also benefiting from “selling a tremendous number of goods and services into China,” he said.

Mr. Riegel finds the pickings slim among Asian stocks. Valuations are too high in mainland countries, he said. As for Japan, the market “is looking very cheap, but the government there has repeatedly shot itself in the foot” by not putting into effect measures that might stimulate economic growth.

Nintendo, the game console maker, is an exception to two of his rules: it is a Japanese company that exports to the United States. He likes it anyway because its “new Wii platform is something that just inspires total awe.”

The platform is even attracting older people — “a whole new group of users that were never imagined to be customers,” as he put it. He noted that the Wii has become a fixture in retirement homes, where residents play golf and tennis on it.

MR. AVERY at Waddell & Reed is also an admirer of Nintendo, and for the same reason.

“They have broadened the demographic of the video game user beyond the kid with a shaggy haircut and torn T-shirt,” he said. “That’s pretty clever.”

His other selections include Rio Tinto, the British-Australian mining concern; Veolia Environnement, a French producer of water treatment systems; and China Mobile. That phone company is adding more than six million subscribers a month, he noted, yet mobile phone use is still far less common in China than it is in the developed world when measured by percentage of the population.

Apart from considering holding stocks like these, Mr. Avery encouraged investors to be extremely circumspect about putting money into global markets today.

“We think the best strategy is to be as defensive as you can possibly be and take a wait-and-see approach,” he said. “You don’t need to be a hero here.”
363 2008-01-13 Drafting was another matter, however. Although Tayshaun Prince, a 2002 draft pick, has been an unqualified success, Dumars is best remembered for the 2003 draft, when he chose Darko Milicic, a teenage center from Serbia and Montenegro, ahead of the future All-Stars Carmelo Anthony, Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade. Milicic was used sparingly in his two and a half seasons with Detroit, averaging 1.6 points a game.

“It’s like what they say: the draft is an inexact science,” Hammond said.

Recent drafts have been more successful; forward Jason Maxiell and guards Rodney Stuckey and Arron Afflalo are in the Pistons’ rotation, often playing ahead of more veteran players.

Hammond said that the Pistons’ method of researching potential draft picks did not change after the Milicic failure. “We used the same evaluation techniques in choosing Maxiell, Stuckey and Afflalo,” he said. “With the same information available to us, we would probably take Darko again.”

The new emphasis on youth came from the top. “At the end of last season, Joe Dumars made our off-season mantra to instill youth and energy into this team,” Hammond said.

Wear and tear on the starters was one concern, but their age was another. Hamilton turns 30 next month, Billups is 31 and forward Rasheed Wallace is 33.

“We didn’t want to reach a point where we had to tear down the roster and completely rebuild,” Hammond said.

Despite an injury to Stuckey that has slowed his entry into the rotation, the gradual move toward youth seems to be a success. The Pistons have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference this season (28-9).

Perhaps the surest sign the Pistons’ youth movement is working comes from the reactions of their opponents, who seem to respect the newcomers as much as they do the established stars.

The most recent example came during the second quarter of Detroit’s 90-80 victory against the defending N.B.A. champion San Antonio Spurs on Thursday night. Maxiell received a pass on the perimeter on consecutive possessions. Before he could make a move, a San Antonio double team forced him to pass the ball. A few possessions later, he received the ball in the same spot. No double team was forthcoming, so he spun baseline and swished a 15-foot jumper. On the next possession, he received the ball in the same spot only to be met by the double team again. He passed off again.

Given their progress, Maxiell, Afflalo and Stuckey may soon learn how to punish opponents for double teams and continue to reward the Pistons for using younger players.
364 2008-01-13 In his 2005 film, “Grizzly Man,” Werner Herzog reconstructed the final years of Timothy Treadwell, an animal advocate who went into the Alaskan backcountry to live among the bears he loved, and — in an unanticipated form of bonding — was eventually devoured by one of his subjects. Herzog was fundamentally dismissive of Treadwell’s project, finding “no kinship, no understanding, no mercy ... only the overwhelming indifference of nature.” He believed Treadwell’s death was pointless. Those of us who have ever loved a pet may feel otherwise. Animals — wild or domestic — are sentient creatures and have much to teach us about our own emotional lives.

To the spiritually inclined, this is old news. In the classic training manual “How to Be Your Dog’s Best Friend,” by the monks of New Skete, in upstate New York, is this quote from the Book of Job: “Ask the beasts and let them teach you, and the birds of the air and let them tell you.” Buddhism in particular stresses a compassion for all living creatures, transcending the boundaries of species.

For anyone unfamiliar with these traditions, here is “Samsara Dog,” a lovely and surprising picture book by Helen Manos, an Australian writer. The book illustrates the twin Buddhist concepts of samsara (the cycle of rebirth) and nirvana (fulfillment, or more literally, the extinction of earthly desires) in the story of a dog: “Samsara Dog lived many lives. Some of his lives were very long, some lasted only a few days. ... Dog lived each life as it came until, finally, he learned the most important lesson of all.”

In matter-of-fact language, this is the story of a dog’s journey from violence and anger to companionship and love. Watercolors by Julie Vivas, an award-winning illustrator, complement the text with soft washes of color. Samsara Dog — who clearly has some dingo in his ancestry — sports a fox-colored pelt (recalling the saffron robes of Buddhist monks?), and the face of his final companion, a small boy, has the smooth androgynous geometry of an ancient statue. In the end, the dog devotes himself to the boy, saving the boy’s life and in the process attaining nirvana.

The dog’s death — his final departure from the cycle — may have some children in tears (not to mention some of the adults reading to them). But Manos, a practicing Buddhist whose previous books include “Lucky Baby Yak,” a story of ethnic displacement in Tibet, published in Australia, has an insight and sensitivity that make her an excellent guide to this difficult subject.

Of course, our kinship with dogs reflects a samsara of sorts, a shared evolutionary history, while our social evolution has pulled us along a path increasingly insulated from the wild. Werner Herzog may have dismissed the value of Timothy Treadwell’s quest, but he accurately assessed its hazards: some boundaries are crossed only at peril. In “The Snow Leopard,” Jackie Morris visits a land where respect for the wilderness is a fact of life. The book is set in the western Himalayas, where shamanistic traditions are preserved in the folklore of isolated mountain valleys. The craggy, ice-covered slopes are home to ibex, blue sheep, eagles and of course the fabled snow leopard. It is feared as a predator, revered in legends as a shape-shifter, and the upper zones of its domain are entered only with great caution.
365 2008-01-13 St. Charles, Mo., has come a long way since the Lewis and Clark expedition. For one thing, it’s no longer necessary to rough it along the banks of the Missouri River. Ameristar (www.ameristar.com), a Las Vegas-based gambling and entertainment company, is set to open the hotel at its complex in St. Charles soon. The 400-room luxury hotel, with a 7,000-square-foot spa, will be the first all-suite property for the company, whose casino, conference rooms, nightclub and restaurants have already opened in St. Charles. Highlights of the Ameristar Casino Resort Spa include an indoor/outdoor pool and sunken living rooms in each suite and floor-to-ceiling window views of the river or the city. Nightly rates start at $169.
366 2008-01-13 K. J. Choi got up and down from the bunker on the par-5 18th at the Sony Open in Honolulu to finish a 4-under-par 66 and take a four-shot lead into the final round. Choi is at 15 under for the tournament. Tim Wilkinson, playing in only his third P...
367 2008-01-13 McCUE--Ramon E., 86. Born in Windsor Locks, CT on December 31, 1921. Died January 9, 2008 after a year and a half long battle with cancer that he fought with grace and dignity. A model and actor known for many commercials in the 1950s and the 1960...
368 2008-01-13 GURGEL--Eva Rose, died on January 7, 2008 at age 101. Last holocaust survivor of the Gurgel, Knopf and Maltz families. Bubby's perceptive intelligence and keen sense of humor will live on in the hearts of her children, grandchildren, and great-gra...
369 2008-01-14 The 32-story tower at 375 Pearl Street, built as a telephone switching station, is to be converted into an office building with a new facade and windows that take advantage of panoramic views....
370 2008-01-14 A jumbo jet powered in part by a biofuel will make a test flight next month....
371 2008-01-14 Harry Lange, portfolio manager for Fidelity's Magellan Fund, discusses opening up the fund to new investors for the first time in a decade.
372 2008-01-14 The new Animal Planet logo. (Discovery) Last month the film "Grizzly Man" debuted on Animal Planet, the cable channel owned by Discovery Communications. The 2005 documentary explored the life of a man who spent years with bears in the Alaskan wild...
373 2008-01-14 After a rocky first year that saw his approval ratings nosedive, New York Governor Eliot Spitzer is beginning his second year with a campaign that can be expected to have broad appeal among voters: lowering property taxes. He's turned to an unlike...
374 2008-01-14 Leveraged buyout activity may be lean these days, but that isn't stopping Bain Capital from paying a fat premium for its chosen takeover target. Bright Horizons Family Solutions, a provider of employee-sponsored child care and other services, said...
375 2008-01-14 Is it real? The MKT is a visitor from the Outer Realm of Fantasy.

What they said: “We envisioned this concept as a modern grand tourer, really a Learjet of the road,” said Peter Horbury, Ford’s United States director of design. “With the Lincoln MKT concept, you find a premium utility that could as easily accommodate a businessperson slipping into the back seat on the way to his or her next meeting in the chaos of Manhattan as a family packed up for a weekend getaway to the coast.”

What they didn’t say: From a cost-optimization standpoint, Ford must use the platform under its upcoming Flex wagon across other model lines. Lincoln won an internal tug-of-war over Mercury to get the nod here. A production MKT is coming in a couple of years, but it won’t look, or be configured (for four), like this ground-bound space shuttle.

What makes it tick? Ford’s new EcoBoost, turbocharged V-6, due for its first application in the 2010 MKS (a sedan – note the “S”).

What’s the point? The temptation is to say it’s just for fun, but designers have mixed some seriously interesting new ideas in with the whimsy – such as exterior panels made from recycled soda bottles, 3-D projection of vehicle information (like the iPhone), and a full-length center console that houses HVAC vents, audio, various controls and storage.

How’s it look? Ready for takeoff.
376 2008-01-14 This week on bits a debate between Rick Cotton, the general counsel of NBC Universal, and Tim Wu, a professor at Columbia Law School. The subject is how technology should or shouldn't be used to restrict the use of copyrighted works in the digital...
377 2008-01-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
378 2008-01-14 Israel Chemicals said on Sunday that a subsidiary agreed to pay 60 million euros, about $89 million, for the industrial-water-treatment business of Henkel. The unit of Henkel, the Dusseldorf, Germany, producer of household products, cosmetics and ...
379 2008-01-14 Following rumors that British financier Guy Hands is looking to sell part of stake in the EMI Group to outside investors, reports surfaced over the weekend that the British music giant is preparing to cut up to 2,000 jobs, or about one-third of it...
380 2008-01-14 (Sandra Mu/Getty Images) Send your funny caption via the comment link below. Tell us what's going on in the photo above (use the comment link below). It's the latest of the uncaptioned photos we're posting each Monday. For your caption to be consi...
381 2008-01-14 Video With the release of the third season of "The Odd Couple" starring Tony Randall and Jack Klugman on DVD on Jan. 22, Thomas Vinciguerra writes that the TV show was the funniest of all the "Odd Couple" iterations, Broadway original included. Re...
382 2008-01-14 Mr. Romney further pledged to bring together in his first 100 days representatives from the automotive industry, unions, Congress and the state of Michigan to come up with a plan to “rebuild America’s automotive leadership” and to increase to $20 billion, from $4 billion, the federal support for research and development in energy, fuel technology, materials science and automotive technology.

“There are some people who don’t think there’s a future for the domestic automobile industry,” Mr. Romney said. “They think the industry and its jobs are gone forever. They are wrong.”

Mr. Romney has hit hard at Mr. McCain for saying that Michigan’s manufacturing jobs are gone and are not coming back. At an event with more than 1,000 people at Kalamazoo Christian High School on Monday morning, Mr. McCain attempted to counter the accusations that he is a pessimist by saying that he would focus on job retraining programs to help the thousands who have lost their jobs in the state.

“We’re not going to leave these people behind,” Mr. McCain said, according to the Associated Press.

Mr. Huckabee, meanwhile, had an early morning rally in Augusta, Mich., with about 100 people, where he touted his support for the so-called Fair Tax that would eliminate the federal income tax and replace it with a national sales tax.

Mr. Romney, who has invested most heavily in capturing the Republican delegates to be selected through Tuesday’s Michigan primary, spent the morning speaking to more than 2,000 students at Grand Blanc High School. Though the size of the crowd was impressive, few were old enough to vote and the assembly was mandatory for students.

In a somewhat disjointed speech at the school, Mr. Romney struggled at times with how to engage his teenage audience, starting off with an analogy from a decades-old game show, “Let’s Make a Deal,” about the choices the students faced. Then he trotted out some of his favorite anecdotes, including one about Mike Eruzione, a hero of the 1980 United States Olympic hockey team.

Dressed in a suit and tie, Mr. Romney talked variously about “inflection points” in American history, urged the students to get married before having kids, and warned teenagers about getting “hooked” on drugs, saying “your life’s income and your happiness quotient will actually go right down to the basement.”

He also touched upon some of the themes of his economic speech, criticizing the “anvils” that he said the government had tossed on the back of the auto industry.

“If you keep doing those to an industry, it’s going to have a hard time swimming,” he said.

Mr. Romney was born and reared in the state, and his late father, George, was a former auto industry executive and three-term governor. He has argued over and over that the state’s economic woes are personal to him.

Even though he left the state decades ago, he has pledged to make Michigan his special focus if elected president, and he has set himself up in contrast to Mr. McCain, who has said he is merely being candid in acknowledging the economic shift that has affected the state so harshly.

“I’m not willing to sit back and say, ‘Too bad for Michigan,’ ” d Mr. Romney said Monday. “ ‘Too bad for the car industry. Too bad for the people who’ve lost their jobs. They’re gone forever.’ “

Drawing a rare moment of enthusiastic applause from the students, Mr. Romney said, “I will not rest if I’m president of the United States until Michigan is brought back.”

Much attention has been focused on the potential role of Democrats and independents in Tuesday’s Republican primary. The Democratic race is essentially uncontested — Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina are not on the ballot, while Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York is — after a conflict between the Democratic National Committee and the state’s party over moving the primary up to such an early date.

Some Democrats are expected to switch over and vote in the Republican primary, which some political analysts believe would mean a boost for Mr. McCain. But the campaigns of Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards are encouraging their supporters to vote “uncommitted” in the primary.

Both Mr. McCain’s and Mr. Romney’s advisers say that the Republican race will likely hinge on how many Democrats and independents end up voting in the Republican race.

Buoyed by some surveys that have shown him in the lead in Michigan, Mr. Romney’s advisers are now cautiously thinking ahead to South Carolina, which votes four days after Michigan.

Mr. Romney had pulled his ads from South Carolina last week, raising questions about how seriously he would compete in the state, despite building a grass roots organization there and broadcasting television commercials there for months.

But Mr. Romney’s advisers now say they will follow the media attention to South Carolina in hopes of exceeding expectations in the state.

They concede that because of the influence of evangelicals, many of whom are suspicious of Mr. Romney’s Mormon faith, South Carolina could be as humbling for him as Iowa was.

Some of Mr. Romney’s advisers are pushing for him to spend time shoring up his support in Nevada, which holds caucuses on Saturday, and he is one of the only candidates who has spent time organizing there.
383 2008-01-14 Entering the final round of the Sony Open with a four-shot lead, K. J. Choi struggled in blustery conditions Sunday at Waialae Country Club in Honolulu and held off a late charge by Rory Sabbatini to close with a one-over-par 71, the first Sony Open champion in 41 years with a final round over par.Sabbatini managed six birdies in windy conditions, but he three-putted the final hole for par from 65 feet for a 68, leaving him three shots behind.
384 2008-01-14 Gov. Jon S. Corzine signed a law on Sunday that revamps the formula the state uses to subsidize public schools. Under the law, which changes the way the state allocates money to public schools, aid is partly tied to the number of low-income students in each district. Suburban districts with enrollment increases and a large number of low-income students could see annual aid increases as big as 20 percent, while most of the state’s 31 poor urban districts would receive a 2 percent increase this year and flat state support after that.
385 2008-01-14 MOBILE, Ala. (AP) — The body of a 3-year-old boy was recovered Sunday in the search for four young siblings who might have been thrown from a coastal bridge by their father, the authorities said.

The body was found by two men looking for oysters about five miles west of the Dauphin Island bridge, a three-mile structure over the Intracoastal Waterway that connects Mobile to Dauphin Island, said Sheriff Sam Cochran of Mobile County. The body of the 3-year-old’s infant brother was found Saturday by a duck hunter about two miles west of the bridge, the authorities said.

Sheriff Cochran said the remaining two bodies might be in the same area or might have been swept westward by the current. The search, which will resume Monday and is expected to be concentrated on the marshes along the shore, was being expanded toward Pascagoula, Miss., to the west.

As the search was conducted by helicopter and airplane, airboats also shuttled volunteers into the shallow, boggy shoreline. Some walked hand in hand, upending logs and probing debris left by the high tide.

Mr. Luong, a shrimp boat worker who lives in Irvington, Ala., was being held without bail on four counts of capital murder.

District Attorney John Tyson Jr. said Mr. Luong, 37, had confessed to throwing the children — Ryan Phan, 3; Hannah Luong, 2; Lindsey Luong, 1; and Danny Luong, 4 months — off the bridge after arguing with his wife.

Mr. Luong later recanted, saying two Asian women had taken the children and had not returned them. A witness saw him on the bridge with the children, and another saw him leave the area without them, the police said.
386 2008-01-14 Seattle’s 14-0 first-quarter lead, which evaporated among Ryan Grant’s runs, Brett Farve’s improvisation and the swirling snow, was forefront for the players as they packed up their lockers and had jerseys autographed by their teammates.

But four of Seattle’s five road losses during the regular season, all by 3 points, were not forgotten. Had Seattle won three of those four, Saturday’s game would have been at Qwest Field. It was a point Coach Mike Holmgren brought up during his final team meeting.

“I think he did a nice job today, and he just kind of set the tone for the off-season,” Hasselbeck said. “He talked about what our season could have been, what it was and what it can be next year.”

With talk of next year also comes the lingering question of whether Holmgren will be a part of it. He has one year remaining on his contract. As in previous years, Holmgren said after Saturday’s loss that he would take a vacation with his wife, Kathy, and then make a decision on whether to return.

Aside from Holmgren’s future, there are major personnel decisions that General Manager Tim Ruskell will need to make about key free agents. There is also concern over the left knee injury Deion Branch sustained early in Saturday’s loss. Branch was expected to have a magnetic resonance imaging test Sunday, and results should be known early in the week.

Leading Seattle’s list of potential free agents is the Pro Bowl cornerback Marcus Trufant, coming off the best season of his career. Trufant had seven interceptions in the regular season, one in the Seahawks’ wild-card victory against Washington, and earned his first Pro Bowl selection.

Even though he is a Seattle-area native and has played his entire career for the Seahawks, Trufant did not make it a sure bet on Sunday that he would return.

“I love the organization,” Trufant said. “I know the organization loves me. But that only goes so far. There is always a business side of it. We may want things to be done exactly how we want them to be done, but it can’t always be that way.”

Among Seattle’s other major unrestricted free agents are kicker Josh Brown, offensive tackle Sean Locklear and receiver D. J. Hackett. Fullback Leonard Weaver, who became the heir apparent to Mack Strong this season, is a restricted free agent.

Brown was in the same position a year ago, and when a long-term deal could not be reached, Seattle put its franchise tag on him. Brown, who made 32 of 40 field goals in the regular season and playoffs, would not mind getting the tag again, but he wants a lengthy contract.

“I learned that it’s frustrating, but it’s part of the business,” Brown said of last year’s negotiations. “I’m optimistic that we’re going to get something done. Ultimately, both parties have to agree.”

For Hackett, Locklear and Weaver, free agency will be a first-time experience.

“I’ve never been through this. I understand how it works, but as far as when it will get done ... it’s a waiting game, I guess,” Locklear said.

Along with its own free agents, Seattle will be looking to upgrade at tight end, a point made clear by Marcus Pollard’s struggles in Saturday’s loss. Pollard — who dropped a touchdown and fumbled his only reception — hinted after the loss that he may retire.

There are also concerns on the offensive line, which has been unable to produce a consistent running game since Steve Hutchinson left for Minnesota before the 2006 season. Sims never took command of his position and was in a rotation with Floyd Womack by the end of the season. The other guard, Chris Gray, is 37, and the All-Pro left tackle Walter Jones will turn 34 next Saturday.
387 2008-01-14 MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — The difference in 12 months was easy to see.

Serena Williams, wearing fuchsia bicycle shorts and a headband, a short white dress and dangling, chandelier-inspired earrings, found her form quickly Monday and beat Jarmila Gajdosova, 6-3, 6-3, in the first match in the Australian Open.

Last year, Williams was unseeded, ranked 81st and coming off one of her worst losses on tour — in a Tier 4 event at Hobart — yet she beat six seeded players en route to the title at Melbourne Park. It was her eighth, and least expected, Grand Slam win.

Expectations — hers and the pundits’ — are much higher this season.

“It’s obviously a lot different — I’m not No. 81 anymore. And the court’s different — it’s a different color,” Williams told the crowd after her 62-minute match at Rod Laver Arena against Gajdosova, a Slovak wild-card entry who is representing Australia.

“I thought about last year, you know, my last match on that court I was able to win it — and that’s all I thought about. I didn’t think about holding up the trophy. I just got right back into the swing of things and thought, I have to stay focused.”

Top-seeded Justine Henin, in her first match at Melbourne Park since retiring from the 2006 final, won the last six games to beat Aiko Nakamura, 6-2, 6-2, her 29th straight victory.

Third-seeded Jelena Jankovic saved three match points and needed 3 hours 9 minutes to edge Tamira Paszek of Austria, 2-6, 6-2, 12-10.

On the men’s side, sixth-seeded Andy Roddick coasted past the Czech qualifier Lukas Dlouhy, 6-3, 6-4, 7-5, in his opening match.
388 2008-01-14 Worries about the economy now dominate the voters’ agenda, even more so than the war in Iraq, which framed the early part of this campaign. While change has emerged as an abstract rallying cry in the campaign debate, what the voters mean when they talk about change is clear — new approaches to the economy and the war, according to the poll. Issues that have loomed large in the Republican debate — notably immigration, taxes and moral values — pale by comparison.

The poll’s findings are based on a national telephone survey conducted Jan. 9-12 with 1,061 registered voters; it has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

The survey was begun one day after the primaries in New Hampshire, where Mr. McCain won, and amounted to a snapshot of a Republican contest that remains remarkably fluid after almost a year of campaigning. While national polls are of limited value in predicting the outcome of primaries in particular states, they capture broad shifts in opinion, in this case a sharp movement for Mr. McCain after a big victory and a wave of media attention. Thirty-three percent of Republican primary voters in the poll named Mr. McCain, of Arizona, as their choice, up from 7 percent a month ago.

Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, whose favorability ratings jumped after he won in Iowa, was the choice of 18 percent of Republican primary voters. Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, who is focusing his campaign on later contests, had the most precipitous fall; he was the choice of 10 percent of Republican voters, down from 22 percent last month. Support for other candidates was in single digits.

The poll also had worrisome signs for Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who finished second in both Iowa and New Hampshire and is in a tough three-way battle in Michigan against Mr. McCain and Mr. Huckabee. Not only did support for him among Republican voters plummet over the past month, but he was also viewed much less favorably than a month ago.

Mr. McCain, a longtime maverick in his own party, was named by Republican primary voters in the survey as the candidate most likely to win his party’s nomination. Thirty-nine percent of these primary voters saw Mr. McCain as the likely nominee. Only 11 percent saw Mr. Giuliani prevailing.

Mr. McCain’s image ratings also have soared. More than half of the Republican primary voters (57 percent) — including more half of the conservatives — viewed him favorably in the new poll, compared with 37 percent in December.

“I don’t always agree with him on all the issues,” Jeff Little, a 34-year-old actuary and Republican from Apple Valley, Minn., said in an interview after he participated in the poll. “But I feel he, more than most politicians, tells you what he thinks.”

Patrick Herron, a 61-year-old retired social studies teacher from Syracuse, described Mr. McCain as “more of a moderate.”

“He’s willing to cross the aisles and work with the Democratic Party,” said Mr. Herron, another poll participant.

The poll showed a more stable Democratic race. Among Democratic primary voters nationally, Mrs. Clinton, of New York, remains the favorite of 42 percent, compared with 27 percent backing Mr. Obama, of Illinois — essentially unchanged since December. John Edwards of North Carolina remains in third place at 11 percent.

But there were auspicious signs for Mr. Obama as the contest moves to the South, where blacks account for a large share of the Democratic primary electorate.

About half of black Democratic primary voters — 49 percent — said they planned to vote for Mr. Obama, while 34 percent said they backed Mrs. Clinton. Among white Democratic primary voters, 42 percent said they were supporting Mrs. Clinton, while 24 percent said they backed Mr. Obama. On the question of whether the country was ready for a black president, black voters were more skeptical than whites; 47 percent of blacks said the country was prepared to send a black person to the White House, while 56 percent of whites said they felt that way. A majority of whites and blacks, and men and women, considered the country ready for a woman president.

The survey showed that Democratic voters see Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton as evenly matched on several leadership qualities, despite the efforts of both camps to draw distinctions. Virtually the same percentages of Democrats said Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama could unify the country and bring about “real change.” Both were given high marks as potential commanders in chief.

But Mrs. Clinton retains a strong edge on her readiness to be president. Nearly 8 in 10 Democratic primary voters said she had prepared herself well enough for the job and for all the issues that she might face. Only 40 percent said Mr. Obama had, and 53 percent said he needed a few more years to prepare.

Many Democrats said Mrs. Clinton was not getting equal treatment from the news media. Fifty-one percent of Democratic primary voters said the news media had been harder on Mrs. Clinton than on other candidates; 12 percent said the media had been harder on Mr. Obama. Women were particularly likely to feel that she had been unfairly treated, while men were evenly divided.

Still, there are signs of resistance to another Clinton administration. Thirty-eight percent said they thought it was bad for two families — the Bushes and the Clintons — to hold the presidency for so long.

Overall, Democrats appeared to be more intense than Republicans as the election year begins. Fifty-eight percent of the Democrats said they were more enthusiastic than usual about voting this year, compared with 32 percent of the Republicans.
389 2008-01-14 Behind this strategy is a growing desperation: sales of digital albums and songs are rising far too slowly to offset the rapid decline of the CD, the industry’s mainstay product. CD sales slid 19 percent last year; after adding in the 50 million digital albums sold last year and counting every 10 digital songs sold as an album, overall music sales were still down 9.5 percent, according to Nielsen SoundScan.

In trying to nurture Amazon’s service, the four major record companies have offered it one potential edge. One by one, they have agreed to offer their music catalogs for sale on the service in the MP3 format, without the digital locks that restrict users from making copies of the songs. (Sony BMG Music Entertainment, the second-biggest company and the last holdout, signed on last week. Sony BMG is a joint venture of Sony and Bertelsmann).

All of the companies except the EMI Group still require Apple to sell their music wrapped in digital rights management software, or D.R.M., which is intended to discourage rampant copying. Some consumers say D.R.M. creates confusing problems, like a lack of compatibility between most songs and the devices sold by Apple and Microsoft. In fact, it was Mr. Jobs who, in February, called on the industry to drop its longstanding insistence on the use of the software, saying it had failed to rein in piracy.

In any case, the industry is waiting to see whether — and how quickly — Amazon can grow into a credible alternative to iTunes, and whether Mr. Jobs will stand by as his service, which commands as much as 80 percent of digital download sales, is challenged.

“This is really a stare-down,” said one major label executive who was briefed on the new Pepsi promotion and who requested anonymity because he had not been authorized to speak about it.

Industry executives say the rivalry could intensify if the two services jockey over who will be given exclusive rights to some songs or special promotions. A senior executive at another record company, who requested anonymity out of concern about irritating Mr. Jobs, said he was prepared to keep copy restrictions on his label’s songs on iTunes for six months to a year while Amazon establishes itself. Apple insists on selling all single tracks for 99 cents, while Amazon sells them for 89 cents to over a dollar.

Danny Socolof, president of Mega, the Las Vegas marketing agency that developed the promotion, which is called “Pepsi Stuff,” said the industry’s collective shift away from D.R.M. would “unleash a new age in the music business, and it’s sorely needed.” He said Pepsi’s alliance with Amazon reflected in part the record companies’ “desire to increase the retail space” online “and help level the playing field.”

In the promotion, to be announced Monday, consumers who buy Pepsi drinks will receive points that can be redeemed for music downloads at a special section of the Amazon site. Amazon and Pepsi, a brand of PepsiCo, will give away up to a billion songs, along with prizes like DVDs and electronics, though only a fraction of the eligible Pepsi packages are expected to be redeemed.

The biggest of the four music companies, the Universal Music Group, has declined to join the offer, executives briefed on the situation said, over a pricing disagreement. (Universal, a part of Vivendi, will still sell music through the Amazon service.) The Warner Music Group is also expected to participate.

Amazon is expected to pay the record companies around 40 cents for each track that is given away in the Pepsi offer; Amazon’s usual payment ranges from 65 to 70 cents, executives briefed on the deal said.

Industry analysts said they expected Apple to treat the situation as a minor annoyance. And an expansion of the digital music market is likely to increase sales of iPods, which are more lucrative than the iTunes store and dominate the digital player market.

Forcing Apple to continue selling restricted music is “kind of like a couple of pebbles in the shoe,” said Michael McGuire, an analyst at Gartner. To Apple, he said, “maintaining parity is probably somewhat important, but in the end, they’re still selling iPods.” He noted that Amazon also sells many iPods.

An Apple spokesman declined to discuss the company’s competitors but pointed to Mr. Jobs’s letter of February, which said Apple would embrace a D.R.M.-free world.

It is far from clear that Amazon’s unrestricted music files will be an advantage. Russ Crupnick, an analyst at the NPD Group, joked that D.R.M. should stand for “doesn’t really matter.” Mr. Crupnick said he did not think many iTunes customers were bothered by copy restrictions or would defect to Amazon to buy unencumbered music.

But, he said, Amazon may find an opportunity to expand the overall market. “The much bigger target is all of the people who don’t do digital downloading yet. How do I convince them that digital music is a good thing to begin with? I think Amazon is in a good position to do that, but it’s a long struggle,” Mr. Crupnick said.

Others suggest that the struggle may be so long that the industry will decide to experiment with other ideas, like the offering of music free through ad-supported Web sites, or subscriptions attached to cellphones.

“I’ve never thought that the pay-per-song model was really a replacement” for the CD, said David Goldberg, a former general manager of Yahoo’s music service who works at the investment firm Benchmark Capital. But the industry may endure more suffering before an answer emerges, he said. “It’s going to be a very dramatic change in the business. It’s just a question of when, not if.”
390 2008-01-14 Gulf Air, Bahrain’s loss-making national carrier, signed a $6 billion agreement with Boeing for the delivery of 24 Dreamliner aircraft to begin in 2016, a spokesman for the airline, Adnan Malik, said on Sunday.

The deal includes a firm order for 16 of the 787-8 airliners worth $3.4 billion and options for an additional eight, Mr. Malik said by phone from Bahrain. The carrier is also considering alternatives from Boeing and its rival, Airbus, to fly short-haul routes and could order a total of 45 new planes including Sunday’s order, he said.

The Dreamliner is Boeing’s most successful new program in terms of sales, with more than 800 orders valued at more than $120 billion. It ranked second in commercial orders last year behind the 737 narrow-body model.

Middle Eastern carriers posted orders and options worth about $85 billion with Airbus and Boeing at the Dubai Air Show to meet surging travel demand.
391 2008-01-14 Animal Planet, long regarded as a gentle wildlife channel, is shedding its cute and cuddly image.

The 11-year-old channel, owned by Discovery Communications, is one of the best-known brands on cable, but its ratings have stagnated for several years. On Feb. 3 the channel will start programming specifically for adults, scrapping its previous “something for everyone” style.

“It made us unimportant to everyone,” said Marjorie Kaplan, who became general manager of Animal Planet last year.

If the old Animal Planet was defined by a voice of God narrator — Ms. Kaplan mimicked it in a recent interview, putting on a serious face and intoning “the lion is walking through the bush” — the new Animal Planet will emphasize predation programming (a friendlier term for animal death action), pet shows and immersive storytelling.

“Escape to Chimp Eden” will feature chimpanzee rescues in Africa; “Groomer Has It” will test amateur and professional animal groomers; and “Whale Wars” will cover the controversial practice of Antarctic whaling.

“We’re not looking to be a natural history channel. We’re looking to be an entertainment destination,” she said.

The network’s most popular shows — “Meerkat Manor” and “Orangutan Island” — already reflect the new strategy. Before “Meerkat Manor,” “there were these unspoken rules that you didn’t put names on animals and you didn’t give them human characteristics,” said Vicki Lowell, the channel’s senior vice president for marketing.
392 2008-01-14 Last year roughly 31,000 Africans tried to reach the Canary Islands, a prime transit point to Europe, in more than 900 boats. About 6,000 died or disappeared, according to one estimate cited by the United Nations.

The region’s governments bear much of the blame for their fisheries’ decline. Many have allowed a desire for money from foreign fleets to override concern about the long-term health of their fisheries. Illegal fishermen are notoriously common; efforts to control fishing, rare.

But in the view of West African fishermen, Europe is having its fish and eating them, too. Their own waters largely fished out, European nations have steered their heavily subsidized fleets to Africa.

“As Europe has sought to manage its fisheries and to limit its fishing, what we’ve done is to export the overfishing problem elsewhere, particularly to Africa,” said Steve Trent, executive director of the Environmental Justice Foundation, a London-based research group.

European Union officials insist that their bloc, which has negotiated fishing deals with Africa since 1979, is a scapegoat for Africa’s management failures and the misdeeds of other foreign fleets. They argue that African officials oversell fishing rights, inflate potential catches and allow pirate vessels and local boats free rein in breeding grounds.

Pierre Chavance, a scientist with the French Institute for Research and Development, said both foreign fleets and African governments allowed financial considerations to trump concerns for fish or local fishermen.

“One side has a big interest to sell, and the other side has a big interest to buy,” he said. “The negotiations are based upon what people want to hear, not the reality.”

Overfishing is hardly limited to African waters. Worldwide, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that 75 percent of fish stocks are overfished or fished to their maximum. But in a poor region like northwest Africa, the consequences are particularly stark.

Fish are the main source of protein for much of the region, but some species are now so scarce that the poor can no longer afford them, said Pierre Failler, senior research fellow for the British Center for Economics and Management of Aquatic Resources.

The coastal stock of bottom-dwelling fish is just a quarter of what it was 25 years ago, studies show. Already, scientists say, the sea’s ecological balance has shifted as species lower on the food chain replace some above them.

In Mauritania, lobsters vanished years ago. The catch of octopus — now the most valuable species — is four-fifths of what it should be if it were not overexploited. A 2002 report by the European Commission found that the most marketable fish species off the coast of Senegal were close to collapse — essentially sliding toward extinction.

“The sea is being emptied,” said Moctar Ba, a consultant who once led scientific research programs for Mauritania and West Africa.

In a region where at least 200,000 people depend on the sea for their livelihoods, local investments in fishing industries are drying up with the fish stocks. In Guinea-Bissau, fishermen who were buying more boats less than a decade ago now complain they are in debt and looking to get out of the business.

“Before, my whole family could live on what we caught in one pirogue,” said Niadye Diouf, 28, whose Senegalese family sold their pirogue for $500 to pay for an illegal — and ultimately unsuccessful — voyage to Spain. “Now even five pirogues would not be enough.”

Fishermen like Mr. Diouf argue that Africans should have first priority in their own waters — an idea enshrined in a 1994 United Nations treaty on the seas that acknowledges the right of local governments to sell foreigners fishing rights only to their surplus stocks.

But that rule has been repeatedly violated along northwest Africa’s nearly 2,000-mile coast.

Studies dating to 1991 indicated that Senegal’s fishery was in trouble. In 2002, a scientific report commissioned by the European Union stated that the biomass of important species had declined by three-fourths in 15 years — a finding the authors said should “cause significant alarm.”

But the week the report was issued, European Union officials signed a new four-year fishing deal with Senegal, agreeing to pay $16 million a year to fish for bottom-dwelling species and tuna.

Four years later, Mauritania followed suit. Despite reports that octopus were overfished by nearly a third, in 2006 Mauritania’s government sold six more years’ access to 43 European Union vessels for $146 million a year — the equivalent of nearly a fifth of Mauritania’s government budget.

“I don’t know a government in the region that can say no,” said Mr. Chavance, the French scientist. “This is good money, and they need it.”

Sid-Ahmed Ould-Abeid, who leads a Mauritanian association of small fishermen, said: “The E.U. has the money, so it has the power. It is easier to sacrifice the local fishermen.”

Those sacrifices are multiplying in Mauritania. One of the few countries with a private industrial fleet, most of it jointly owned with the Chinese, it has lost one-third of roughly 150 trawlers since 1996.

Ahmed and Mohamed Cherif, whose family owns P.C.A., a fish exporting firm in Nouadhibou, say they have lost money for two years running. Their two new orange trawlers spend weeks docked in Nouadhibou’s rough-hewn harbor.

“We can’t compete with the European Union,” Ahmed Cherif said as he strolled past row after row of idle pirogues. “The government should have kept this resource for Mauritanians. Let these people work.”

Europe is just one foreign contributor to fish declines. Countries from Asia and the former Soviet Union also dispatched ships to ply northwest Africa’s seas. But often those fleets stay for shorter durations and without the same promises of responsible fishing and local development.

In fact, little development has taken place since the European Union signed its first fish deal with a West African nation in 1979. The huge economic benefits that come from processing and exporting the catch remain firmly in European hands.

African governments either misspent or diverted the funds earmarked for development to more pressing needs, while the Europeans sometimes made only token efforts on promised projects. Nouadhibou harbor, for instance, remains littered with 107 wrecked fishing trawlers eight years after the European Union promised to clear them to help develop the port.

In their defense, European officials say they moved to reform their fishing agreements in 2003 to address criticism that ship operators were overfishing and were undercutting local fishermen. Fabrizio Donatella, who heads the European Union unit that negotiates fishing deals, says the new agreements are models of responsible fishing and transparency.

“One cannot say we are not fishing the surplus or that we have not respected scientific recommendations,” he said. Ultimately, African governments must protect and manage their own resources, he said.

Examples of mismanagement abound. The number of pirogues in six northwest African countries exploded from 3,000 to 19,000 in the last half-century, but Senegal and other nations have only recently begun to license them.

Guinea-Bissau, a nation of 1.4 million people, is a prime example of how not to run a fishery. According to Vladimir Kacyznski, a marine scientist with the University of Washington, no one has comprehensively studied the nation’s coastal waters for at least 20 years.

For two years, Sanji Fati was in charge of enforcing Guinea-Bissau’s fishing rules. When he took the job in 2005, he said, his agency did not have a single working patrol boat to monitor hundreds of pirogues and dozens of industrial trawlers, most of them foreign. An estimated 40 percent of fish were caught without licenses or in violation of regulations, and vessel operators routinely lied about their haul. Government observers were mostly illiterate, underpaid and easily bought off.

Mr. Fati tightened enforcement, but said he still felt as if he was waging a one-man war. A few months ago, he left in frustration.

That bleak picture did not stop Guinea-Bissau and the European Union from agreeing last May to allow European boats to fish its waters for shrimp, fish, octopus and tuna. Over the next four years, the agreement will pump $42 million into a government that is months behind in paying salaries and still emerging from civil war.

Daniel Gomes, Guinea-Bissau’s 12th fishing minister in eight years, said he had tried to be conservative in how much access to grant foreigners, despite paltry scientific data and severe economic pressures.

Still, asked whether his nation would end up with empty waters, he replied: “This prospect is not out of the question. This could happen.”
393 2008-01-14 Month by month, the Sanchezes spend their fixed income to the penny: first $450 for the rent, then utilities, then food.

In August, the family budget became more than a financial challenge, it was a crisis. Mrs. Sanchez tried to withdraw money from the bank to pay the rent and found that she could not. Her account had been mistakenly frozen over an old credit card debt that she did not know existed.

In the 13 years that the Sanchezes had lived in the apartment, they had never been late with the rent. Mrs. Sanchez called her sons, Hector, 33, in Chinatown, and Joel, 29, who lives in Florida, who sent money so she could pay the rent.

A friend at her church put Mrs. Sanchez in contact with Mercedes Eustache, a social worker at the Community Service Society, which is one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. She helped Mrs. Sanchez sort out what had happened.

“An old bill they didn’t know they had was sold to a third-party agency,” Ms. Eustache said. The bank put a freeze on the account so that the agency could collect, which it should not have done: The law prohibits such actions when the account holder’s income is derived from Social Security or S.S.I. Although the bank realized the error and did not allow the agency to take the money, a $125 processing fee was deducted from the Sanchezes’ account.

It can take a long time to get free legal counseling, but the Community Service Society has a financial clinic. Within two weeks, a letter from Mae Watson Grote, a partner at the clinic, was sufficient to lift the restrictions on the bank account and have the $125 returned to the Sanchezes.

Next, they met with Mr. Epeck, 76, an expert in food stamps, Social Security and other entitlements. Since 1995, he has been a member of the society’s Retired and Senior Volunteer Program and has received a small travel stipend and insurance provided by the Neediest Cases Fund.

“They didn’t know what was available to them, and so it was a pleasure to introduce them to the fact that there were some things that were available that will help,” Mr. Epeck said.

With his guidance, they recouped three years of federal income tax refunds, totaling $480, and applied for and received $384 a month in food stamps. The Sanchezes also have set up a savings plan.

“I’m very happy because now when I go to the supermarket I have money for more food,” Mrs. Sanchez said. “Thank God for Mercedes; thank God for Ed.”

To which Mr. Epeck replied, “Thirty-five years in banking, no one ever said that.”
394 2008-01-14 Two factors have helped create the atmosphere in which race and gender are coming to play a more prominent role. The first is that Democrats now increasingly view both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton as credible and electable candidates, given their victories.

In addition, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are now moving into a series of contests, particularly in South Carolina but also in California, where black voters could play a pivotal role.

Indeed, both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama spoke from the pulpits of black churches on Sunday, Mr. Obama in Las Vegas and Mrs. Clinton in South Carolina.

The candidates and their campaigns have not been innocent bystanders to all this. In fact, since her loss in Iowa, Mrs. Clinton has, subtly but unmistakably, pushed gender, engaging in a series of events intended to present her in softer ways. Many Democrats believe that Mrs. Clinton won New Hampshire after a decisive swing of women into her camp, particularly after a debate on the Saturday night before the primary in which John Edwards and Mr. Obama joined forces in criticizing her.

“I never thought we would see the day when an African-American and a woman were competing for the presidency of the United States,” she told black parishioners at a Presbyterian church in Columbia, S.C. “Many of you in this sanctuary were born before African-Americans could vote. So this is not a piece of history that is happening to someone else; this is happening to us.”

Mr. Obama, reflecting the different way he has talked about race during his own campaigns, took pains in speaking at a church service here on Sunday to avoid portraying his election as historic because of the possibility of putting an African-American in the White House.

“We’re on the brink or cusp of doing something important; we can make history,” Mr. Obama said, speaking to a few hundred worshipers at the Pentecostal Temple Church of God. “I know everybody is focused on racial history. That’s not what I’m talking about. We can make history by being, the first time in a very long time, a grass-roots movement of people of all colors.”

Mrs. Clinton said Sunday, in an interview on the NBC program “Meet the Press,” that she was hopeful race and gender would not be an issue in this contest.

Still, supporters of Mr. Obama said in interviews Sunday that they were concerned Mrs. Clinton and her allies might be deliberately raising the issue of race at the very time that Mr. Obama had shown signs of taking off.

“I don’t want to believe that, but I’ve got to tell you I’m wondering,” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat who is black and an Obama supporter. “I don’t want to believe it is true.”

Mrs. Clinton and her supporters denied that. Geraldine A. Ferraro, who was the Democratic candidate for vice president in 1984, said she thought Mr. Obama and his campaign were fanning the issue to draw black voters away from Mrs. Clinton before the primary in South Carolina, where about 50 percent of the electorate is expected to be black.

“As soon anybody from the Clinton campaign opens their mouth in a way that could make it seem as if they were talking about race, it will be distorted,” Mrs. Ferraro said. “The spin will be put on it that they are talking about race. The Obama campaign is appealing to their base and their base is the African-American community. What they are trying to do is move voters from Clinton by distorting things. What have they got to lose?”

In a sign of how the issue was churning the waters, Mr. Edwards, also speaking at a church in South Carolina, expressed pride in Mr. Obama while criticizing Mrs. Clinton for what some have seen as her suggesting that President Lyndon B. Johnson deserved more credit than Dr. King for the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

“As someone who grew up in the segregated South, I feel an enormous amount of pride when I see the success that Senator Barack Obama is having in this campaign,” said Mr. Edwards, who grew up in North Carolina. He added: “I was troubled recently to see a suggestion that real change came not through the Rev. Martin Luther King, but through a Washington politician. I fundamentally disagree with that.”

Mr. Obama spoke in general terms Sunday about the attacks on his candidacy on a day when Mrs. Clinton specifically challenged his record on opposing the Iraq war.

“I think they have decided to run a relentlessly negative campaign, and I don’t think anybody who’s watching would deny that,” he said. “I gather that she’s determined that instead of trying to sell herself on why she would be the best president, she’s trying to convince folks that I wouldn’t be a good one.”

Aides to both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama expressed squeamishness at the direction the conversation was heading. And publicly, the campaigns spent much of the day shadow-boxing on an issue that advisers to both of them described as volatile. The issue broke through when Robert L. Johnson, the founder of Black Entertainment Television, who appeared at a rally with Mrs. Clinton in Columbia, S.C., seemed to allude to Mr. Obama’s use of cocaine as a young man.

“To me, as an African-American, I am frankly insulted that the Obama campaign would imply that we are so stupid that we would think Hillary and Bill Clinton, who have been deeply and emotionally involved in black issues since Barack Obama was doing something in the neighborhood — and I won’t say what he was doing, but he said it in the book — when they have been involved,” Mr. Johnson said.

Mr. Johnson later issued a statement saying he was referring to Mr. Obama’s work as a labor organizer in Chicago, which he described in his book “Dreams From My Father.”

Asked about Mr. Johnson’s statement, Mr. Obama said, “What’s there to respond to?”

“I’m not going to spend all my time running down the other candidates, which seems to be what Senator Clinton has been obsessed with for the last month,” he said.
395 2008-01-14 Meanwhile, Rudy Giuliani wants us to go for broke, literally: his answer to the economy’s short-run problems is a huge permanent tax cut, which he claims would pay for itself. It wouldn’t.

About Mike Huckabee — well, what can you say about a candidate who talks populist while proposing to raise taxes on the middle class and cut them for the rich?

And then there’s the curious case of Mitt Romney. I’m told that he actually does know a fair bit about economics, and he has some big-name Republican economists supporting his campaign. Fears of recession might have offered him a chance to distinguish himself from the G.O.P. field, by offering an economic proposal that actually responded to the gathering economic storm.

I mean, even the Bush administration seems to be coming around to the view that lobbying for long-term tax cuts isn’t enough, that the economy needs some immediate help. “Time is of the essence,” declared Henry Paulson, the Treasury secretary, last week.

But Mr. Romney, who really needs to take chances at this point, apparently can’t break the habit of telling Republicans only what he thinks they want to hear. He’s still offering nothing but standard-issue G.O.P. pablum about low taxes and a pro-business environment.

On the Democratic side, John Edwards, although never the front-runner, has been driving his party’s policy agenda. He’s done it again on economic stimulus: last month, before the economic consensus turned as negative as it now has, he proposed a stimulus package including aid to unemployed workers, aid to cash-strapped state and local governments, public investment in alternative energy, and other measures.

Last week Hillary Clinton offered a broadly similar but somewhat larger proposal. (It also includes aid to families having trouble paying heating bills, which seems like a clever way to put cash in the hands of people likely to spend it.) The Edwards and Clinton proposals both contain provisions for bigger stimulus if the economy worsens.

And you have to say that Mrs. Clinton seems comfortable with and knowledgeable about economic policy. I’m sure the Hillary-haters will find some reason that’s a bad thing, but there’s something to be said for presidents who know what they’re talking about.

The Obama campaign’s initial response to the latest wave of bad economic news was, I’m sorry to say, disreputable: Mr. Obama’s top economic adviser claimed that the long-term tax-cut plan the candidate announced months ago is just what we need to keep the slump from “morphing into a drastic decline in consumer spending.” Hmm: claiming that the candidate is all-seeing, and that a tax cut originally proposed for other reasons is also a recession-fighting measure — doesn’t that sound familiar?

Anyway, on Sunday Mr. Obama came out with a real stimulus plan. As was the case with his health care plan, which fell short of universal coverage, his stimulus proposal is similar to those of the other Democratic candidates, but tilted to the right.

For example, the Obama plan appears to contain none of the alternative energy initiatives that are in both the Edwards and Clinton proposals, and emphasizes across-the-board tax cuts over both aid to the hardest-hit families and help for state and local governments. I know that Mr. Obama’s supporters hate to hear this, but he really is less progressive than his rivals on matters of domestic policy.

In short, the stimulus debate offers a pretty good portrait of the men and woman who would be president. And I haven’t said a word about their hairstyles.
396 2008-01-14 ZAGAT SURVEY FOR SALE Zagat Survey, the  guide empire that started as a hobby for Tim and Nina Zagat in 1979 as a two-page typed list of New York restaurants compiled from reviews from friends, has been put up for sale, according to people briefed...
397 2008-01-14 McCUE--Ramon E., 86. Born in Windsor Locks, CT on December 31, 1921. Died January 9, 2008 after a year and a half long battle with cancer that he fought with grace and dignity. A model and actor known for many commercials in the 1950s and the 1960...
398 2008-01-15 Credit: Fabrizio Costantini for the New York Times
399 2008-01-15 The Michigan primary would seem to test one of the principal ideas underlying John McCain's campaign-that Republicans will respond to difficult truths rather than the distant echoes of an old ideology....
400 2008-01-15 The McCain campaign worked Tuesday evening to repel an attack in South Carolina from a group calling itself, 'Vietnam Veterans Against McCain.'...
401 2008-01-15 A footnote to Apple's presentation--the ability of the AppleTV to play video podcasts--may be the most important announcement because it opens a path for free, ad-supported programs from many sources to get onto televisions....
402 2008-01-15 Citigroup's decision to cut its dividend by 41 percent didn't please everyone; ask common stockholders or Richard X. Bove of Punk Ziegel. But one man in particular found the choice hard to swallow: Sanford I. Weill, the architect of the financial ...
403 2008-01-15 From Detroit, one of the voters in our roundtable gives us her take on the 2008 primary race....
404 2008-01-15 Fred D. Thompson and John McCain appeal to different demographics in their latest ads, now showing in South Carolina....
405 2008-01-15 Und you vill like it! Somehow Congressional steroid investigators missed this one - an outsized Austrian apple named for native son Arnold Schwarzenegger and boasting "double the amount of vitamin C," according to Austria Today. The Web site inclu...
406 2008-01-15 This is the Set-Top Box Generation. Many companies have an entry and consumers, while they may ultimately benefit, are left to figure out what to choose -- how to hook up, whether and when to jump in....
407 2008-01-15 It looks like both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Internal Revenue Service should be looking at what might be called the fiction of equity swaps. My colleague Andrew Ross Sorkin reports in The Times today that hedge funds are using...
408 2008-01-15 It was last Halloween when Meredith Whitney, then a banking analyst at CIBC World Markets, warned that Citigroup might be forced to cut its dividend, depriving shareholders of a quarterly slug of cash that was one of the stock's main attractions. ...
409 2008-01-15 We fell a little short tonight. But we have no cause to be discouraged or to second guess what we might have done differently. We did what we always try to do: we went to Michigan and told people the truth. I am as committed now as I have ever been to making sure that no state, whether its Michigan or South Carolina or anywhere in this blessed country, is left behind in the global economy. But that global economy is here to stay and it is, by its nature, constantly changing. To compete more successfully in it we must better prepare American workers and students to seize its opportunities. That is how we will build a stronger and more prosperous America. That is what I told the people of Michigan. And I don't believe I could have honestly told them anything else.

Now, it is South Carolina's turn to decide. I have long admired the deep patriotism of the people of this state. So many of your sons and daughters risk their lives today to keep the rest of us safe, as so many South Carolinians have done in past wars. I am humbled by their example, but proud to claim, that their cause is my cause. I have no intention of giving one inch of ground; tiring of one moment of the fight; or letting the politics of the day stop me from doing what must be done to keep the country we love safe, prosperous and proud. In this great struggle against radical Islamic extremism, I promise you, we will never surrender. They will.

I'm running for President to defeat an enemy for whom no attack is too cruel, and who will not stop attacking us until they are defeated. The challenge will require experienced and proven leadership. And, my friends, I can honestly say, I have prepared my entire life for this moment. In uniform and in office, in war and peace, I have learned how to lead a nation at war. I know how to keep us safe. I have been involved in every major national security challenge of our time. I have met and taken the measure of the world's leaders; those who are our friends and those who are not. I understand the capabilities, the needs and the sacrifices of the men and women of the United States Armed Forces better than any other candidate in this race. And I intend to be a Commander-in-Chief who will provide them leadership that is as strong, principled and tireless as their service to our country. They have earned a thousand times over our gratitude, and, most importantly, our unwavering dedication to making certain that they do not sacrifice in vain. I will not let them down, so help me God.

I am so proud, my friends, to be an American, and never more so than when our country confronts a great challenge. For I have learned through long experience, that while we are stronger than our enemies in men and material, we are stronger still in ideals. I have pledged my life to those ideals, and I run for President to defend them still. Our cause is America. Her greatness is our hope; her strength our protection; her goodness the hope of mankind. It is the cause I have served my entire adult life, and with your help I will keep serving her a little while longer.

Tonight, we congratulate another candidate's campaign. But tomorrow we get up and fight. It is your turn South Carolina. We are going to fight for your votes and we're going to win this primary and the nomination of our party, and we're going to be proud of the way we do it. So stand up, my friends, stand up, stay strong, get busy, keep fighting and lets go win this thing. Thank you and good night.
410 2008-01-15 In an attempt to take on cable business news, CNN Money will start producing 30 video segments a day, with regular financial updates, interviews, and video blogs....
411 2008-01-15 "There is no financing condition to the obligations of Bain Capital to consummate the transaction." The above quote is from the news release issued Monday by Bright Horizons Family Solutions, a provider of employee-sponsored child care and other s...
412 2008-01-15 Fears that the troubled mortgage lender Countrywide Financial has been on the verge of bankruptcy were due to unfounded rumors, Bank of America's chief executive, Kenneth Lewis, said Monday. "I think the bankruptcy was a malicious rumor," said Mr....
413 2008-01-15 A former broker at UBS Financial Services has agreed to settle charges he participated in a multi-million dollar hedge fund fraud, the Securities and Exchange Commission said on Monday. The S.E.C. said Justin Paperny, 36, agreed to pay disgorgemen...
414 2008-01-15 The $2 trillion hedge fund industry's main lobbying group was talking with a United States Representative, Richard Baker, about possibly naming him as its president, a spokeswoman for the lawmaker told Reuters Monday. The Louisiana Republican, a k...
415 2008-01-15 The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said on Monday that it would issue 2.75 billion Canadian dollars ($2.71 billion) in stock at substantially discounted prices as part of an effort to ease investor anxiety about its subprime mortgage exposure....
416 2008-01-15 It was not that her husband no longer loved her, she said he told her; he just did not find the relationship exciting anymore.

“Maybe it’s a midlife crisis,” she said, then added derisively, “Whatever that is.”

Outraged and curious, she followed him one afternoon and was shocked to discover that her husband’s girlfriend was essentially a younger clone of herself, right down to her haircut and her taste in clothes.

It doesn’t take a psychoanalyst to see that her husband wanted to turn back the clock and start over. But this hardly deserves the dignity of a label like “midlife crisis.” It sounds more like a search for novelty and thrill than for self-knowledge.

In fact, the more I learned about her husband, it became clear that he had always been a self-centered guy who fretted about his lost vigor and was acutely sensitive to disappointment. This was a garden-variety case of a middle-aged narcissist grappling with the biggest insult he had ever faced: getting older.

But you have to admit that “I’m having a midlife crisis” sounds a lot better than “I’m a narcissistic jerk having a meltdown.”

Another patient, a 49-year-old man at the pinnacle of his legal career, started an affair with an office colleague. “I love my wife,” he said, “and I don’t know what possessed me.”

It didn’t take long to find out. The first five years of his marriage were exciting. “It was like we were dating all the time,” he recalled wistfully. But once they had a child, he felt an unwelcome sense of drudgery and responsibility creep into his life.

Being middle-aged had nothing to do with his predicament; it was just that it took him 49 years to reach a situation where he had to seriously take account of someone else’s needs, namely those of his baby son. In all likelihood, the same thing would have happened if he had become a father at 25.

Why do we have to label a common reaction of the male species to one of life’s challenges — the boredom of the routine — as a crisis? True, men are generally more novelty-seeking than women, but they certainly can decide what they do with their impulses.

But surely someone has had a genuine midlife crisis. After all, don’t people routinely struggle with questions like “What can I expect from the rest of my life?” or “Is this all there is?”

Of course. But it turns out that only a distinct minority think it constitutes a crisis. In 1999, the MacArthur Foundation study on midlife development surveyed 8,000 Americans ages 25 to 74. While everyone recognized the term “midlife crisis,” only 23 percent of subjects reported having one. And only 8 percent viewed their crisis as something tied to the realization that they were aging; the remaining 15 percent felt the crisis resulted from specific life events. Strikingly, most people also reported an increased sense of well-being and contentment in middle age.

So what keeps the myth of the midlife crisis alive?

The main culprit, I think, is our youth-obsessed culture, which makes a virtue of the relentless pursuit of self-renewal. The news media abound with stories of people who seek to recapture their youth simply by shedding their spouses, quitting their jobs or leaving their families. Who can resist?

Most middle-aged people, it turns out, if we are to believe the definitive survey.

Except, of course, for the few — mainly men, it seems — who find the midlife crisis a socially acceptable shorthand for what you do when you suddenly wake up and discover that you’re not 20 anymore.
417 2008-01-15 The Supreme Court heard arguments last week in a hugely important case about voter ID laws. Asking for identification at the polls may sound reasonable, but an Indiana law disenfranchises large numbers of people without driver’s licenses, especially poor and minority voters. If the court upholds the law, as appears likely, it will be a sad new chapter in its abandonment of voters, a group whose rights it once defended vigorously.

As long as there have been elections, there have been attempts to keep eligible people from voting. States and localities adopted poll taxes, literacy tests, “white primaries,” “malapportionment” — drawing district lines to give a small number of rural voters the same representation as a large number of urban voters — and restrictions on student voting. In recent decades, the Supreme Court has rejected all of them.

The court understood that the Constitution guaranteed a robust form of democracy and saw its clear value for the nation. During the tumultuous late-1960s, Chief Justice Earl Warren declared that most of the country’s problems could be solved through the political process if everyone “has the opportunity to participate on equal terms with everyone else and can share in electing representatives who will be representative of the entire community and not of some special interest.”

In recent years, however, with a conservative majority in place, the court has become increasingly hostile to voters. During the oral arguments in the Bush v. Gore case in 2000, Justice Sandra Day O’Connor showed disdain for voters who had trouble with Florida’s disastrous punch-card ballots. After insisting that the directions “couldn’t be clearer,” she suggested that the court ignore the ballots of voters who had failed to master the intricacies. That is precisely what it did, by a 5-4 vote.

Since Bush v. Gore, disdain for voters has become the norm. The court rejected two successive challenges to gerrymandered Congressional districts. One was Tom DeLay’s brazen redrawing of the lines in Texas, which all but guaranteed a Republican victory and made the voters seem irrelevant.
418 2008-01-15 Another of the authors, Roxane Cohen Silver, also at U.C. Irvine, is a psychologist who is on an advisory council to the Homeland Security Department.

“I’ve regularly pointed out to the department that there are psychological consequences to the raising of the alert,” Dr. Silver said. “Now we’re demonstrating that it may have physical consequences.”

The researchers caution that they’re not sure how serious the physical consequences are, because they’re relying on people reporting that their doctors have diagnosed new cardiovascular ailments. Also, studies like this show correlations, rather than an identifiable cause and effect. But since the researchers have taken into account reports of people’s health problems and anxiety that were collected before Sept. 11, and the levels of lifetime and continuing stress, they’re confident they’ve identified a worrisome increase in heart disease.

After controlling for various factors (age, obesity, smoking, other ailments and stressful life events), the researchers found that the people who were acutely stressed after the 9/11 attacks and continued to worry about terrorism — about 6 percent of the sample — were at least three times more likely than the others in the study to be given diagnoses of new heart problems.

If you extrapolate that percentage to the adult population of America, it works out to more than 10 million people. No one knows what fraction of them might consequently die of a stroke or heart attack — plenty of other factors affect heart disease — but if it were merely 0.0003 percent, that would be higher than the 9/11 death toll.

Of course, statistics of any sort, even when the numbers are rock solid, don’t mean much to people when they’re assessing threats. Risk researchers have found that even when people know the numbers, they’re less worried about death tolls than about how the deaths occur. They have good reasons — called “rival rationalities” — for fearing catastrophes that kill large numbers at once because these events affect the whole community and damage the social fabric.

But continual fear of terrorism is a strain on the social fabric, too. People become reluctant to even get together when public spaces are turned into fortified zones. Civil liberties erode and mistrust increases when the authorities keep warning of lurking terrorists and urging people to report “suspicious” activity, as in the ubiquitous advertisements in the New York subways exhorting people to call in tips to a counterterrorism hot line.

The sponsors of the New York campaign were so pleased with the results that they papered the subways with congratulations to the riders: “Last year, 1,944 New Yorkers saw something and said something.” But as William Neuman reported in The Times, the ads neglected to mention the number of terrorists arrested as a result of the tips: zero.

Meanwhile, how many subway riders were given diagnoses of new heart problems after riding to work every morning looking at ads reminding them that they might be blown to bits any second? Not zero, if you believe the new study.

Even before this study, some doctors were arguing that terrorism wasn’t nearly as dangerous as the related “epidemic of fear,” as Marc Siegel called it in a 2005 book, “False Alarm.” Dr. Siegel, of the New York University School of Medicine, pointed to studies linking fear of terrorism with increased risk of heart arrhythmias and elevated levels of an enzyme that correlates with heart disease.

“The fear response causes the heart to pump harder and faster, the nerves to fire more quickly,” Dr. Siegel said. “Excess triggering of this system of response causes the organs to wear down. For a person who is always on the alert, the result is a burned out body.”

It’s not fair to blame public officials alone for this fear epidemic. We in the news media have done our part to scare people. (More on how the “terrorism industry” distorts risks can be found at tierneylab.blogs.nytimes.com.) But since there hasn’t been an attack in America for six years, for domestic drama we’ve had to rely on dire predictions of politicians and security officials.

What if the alerts stopped? What if the security officials looked at this new medical evidence — or at their own perfect record of false alarms — and decided that the nation did not need to be in a perpetual state of yellow alert? What if they even decided that Americans could survive without any color at all?

I guess that’s a hopeless fantasy. No politician wants to be blamed for failing to anticipate a terrorist attack. No bureaucrats willingly abandon a system that keeps them employed.

But maybe these officials could be induced to take one more precaution. The next time they raise the threat level to orange or red, they could add, “Warning: Heeding this alert may be hazardous to your health.”
419 2008-01-15 SAN FRANCISCO — Intel reported record fourth-quarter revenue on Tuesday, but the chip maker’s shares dropped sharply after hours as its earnings and its first-quarter projections disappointed analysts.

The company reported revenue of $10.7 billion, up 10.5 percent from the previous year, on strong demand for computers and electronics during the holiday season. Its net income was $2.3 billion, a 51 percent rise. But earnings per share were 38 cents, 2 cents short of analysts’ forecasts, according to Thomson Financial.

The report comes amid rising investor concern about the impact of a possible slowdown in computer spending during the first half of the year. For the first quarter, Intel forecast revenue of $9.4 billion to $10 billion, on the low end of analysts’ forecast of $10 billion.

Intel, the world’s largest computer chip maker, is closely watched as an indicator of the overall strength of the technology industry, and its strong performance in the third quarter bolstered investor confidence in October. But the first quarter is often Intel’s weakest, and investors are increasingly concerned that tendency could be compounded by an overall slowdown.

Last week, Banc of America and JPMorgan downgraded Intel to a neutral rating on concerns of weakening demand.
420 2008-01-15 SAN FRANCISCO — Apple on Tuesday introduced a movie rental service and an ultralight Mac notebook that could set a new industry standard for thinness.

The new Apple notebook, the MacBook Air, is about three-quarters of an inch thick at its thickest point, small enough to fit in a manila envelope, which is how Steven P. Jobs, chief executive, demonstrated it to a crowd of Apple fans at the Macworld Expo. He said the price is $1,799.

“This is the world’s thinnest notebook,” said Mr. Jobs. The new notebook features a 13.3-inch screen and a five-hour battery.

Perhaps its most interesting feature, however, is the one that is missing. The new notebook does not come equipped with an optical drive for playing CDs and DVDs, though one is available as an option for $99. Instead, Apple has equipped it with remote software that lets users play DVDs and CDs on another computer as if they were on the notebook.

On the environmental front, where Apple has received criticism, the MacBook Air uses a mercury-free display. Its circuit boards are bromide-free and PVC-free, Mr. Jobs said, and the system uses less packaging than in the past.
421 2008-01-15 Only a few years ago, it embarked on plans to invest more than $625 million to bolster its Wall Street presence. Now it is taking several steps back.

“It’s your prerogative to use ‘retreat’ or ‘retrench,’ ” Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America’s chairman and chief executive, said at a new conference on Tuesday morning. “I see it as reacting to the realities of the market as you see them today.”

The changes at the investment bank will reduce its overall revenue, steering the bank to more predictable but lower-margin businesses. They also make Bank of America even more dependent on the consumer economy at a time when the housing market has sharply deteriorated, credit losses have surged and talk of a recession looms. Just a few days ago, however, Mr. Lewis doubled down his bet with the $4 billion acquisition of Countrywide Financial, the mortgage giant.

The moves also raise questions about Mr. Lewis’s patience for internal growth. Last year, he said he planned to chart a new course for the bank. Then he swooped in with bids for LaSalle Bank of Chicago and then Countrywide.

The investment banking retrenchment comes after a strategic assessment that began in October after Brian Moynihan, a longtime Bank of America executive, took over the business. Profit in the division had plummeted to $100 million from $1.43 billion a year earlier, leading to a 32 percent drop in earnings and serious questions about the bank’s ability to manage risk.

Mr. Lewis said the results were not acceptable and announced 3,000 layoffs across the company at the time. “I’ve had all the fun I can stand in investment banking,” he said in response to a question about acquisition plans at the time.

Mr. Lewis called his remarks unfortunate, saying they created a misperception about his commitment to the investment bank. Industry analysts say his remarks may have hastened the departure of some hedge fund clients and talented employees.

But he expressed full confidence in Mr. Moynihan, who had never managed a trading business before, to put the investment bank back on track.

“I trust him; I know he is bright and detail oriented,” Mr. Lewis said, noting Mr. Moynihan’s knowledge of markets and dedication to the bank. “And I know he knows I’ll kill him if he doesn’t,” he deadpanned.
422 2008-01-15 “The momentum is down,” said James O’Sullivan, an economist with UBS. “Based on the limited information we have, January looks even weaker.”

The drop in sales, coupled with a statement by the oil minister of Saudi Arabia that the kingdom would consider producing more oil, drove down energy prices. Crude oil prices fell 2.23 percent, or $2.10, to $92.10 a barrel. Natural gas, heating oil and gasoline prices also fell as investors considered the potential ramifications of slower consumer spending.

Another economic report showed that wholesale prices fell slightly in December, suggesting softer demand was helping to tamp down prices of some raw materials. The producer price index fell 0.1 percent, though it was up 0.2 percent excluding volatile food and energy prices, according to the Labor Department.

The sell off in the stock market was fairly broad based, with a majority of the nearly 2,000 stocks in the New York Stock Exchange Composite index down. The financial sector, however, suffered the biggest losses, down 3.7 percent, followed by energy companies, which were collectively down 3.5 percent.

Stocks also fell sharply in Europe and Latin America. Stocks in emerging markets, which had in recent weeks bucked the bearish sentiment in the American stock market, declined more than 4 percent, perhaps an indication that investors are starting to worry about what slackening retail sales in the United States might mean for markets that are heavily reliant on exports to the developed world.

Emerging markets “are playing a little bit of catch up because they have been insulated over the last week or two,” said Paul K. Lieberman, director of United States equities and derivatives strategy at BNP Paribas, the French banking group.

Economists caution that retail sales numbers are volatile from month to month, so investors should not read too much into the drop in December. Sales may have been softer last month in part because some consumers started and finished holiday shopping sooner because the Thanksgiving holiday fell earlier than usual. Retail sales were up 1 percent in November, said Mr. O’Sullivan.

Still, economists conclude that the broader trends do not look promising at least for the next few months. Mr. O’Sullivan noted that a Conference Board survey released Tuesday shows that chief executives were less confident at the end of last year than at any since 2000, when the economy was on the eve of a recession.

Policy makers have picked up on that theme as well, and last week the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, said central bankers “stand ready to take substantive additional actions as needed to support growth.”

Investors in the futures market are now betting that the Fed will almost certainly cut overnight bank lending rates by at least a half point, from 4.25 percent. Some are even expecting a cut of 0.75 percentage points.

Prices for Treasuries edged up Tuesday, and the yield on the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction as its price, fell to 3.69 percent, from 3.77 percent on Monday evening.
423 2008-01-15 Another top Republican, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, is putting most of his immediate efforts into Florida, which will hold its primary on Jan. 29.

Mr. Romney, who was born and raised in Michigan, used his final campaign appearances to remind voters of his personal ties to the state, where his father served three terms as governor. He promised, if elected president, to “not rest” until the state’s battered economic fortunes have been restored.

The message appeared to resonate with Republican voters, more than half of whom said in exit polls that their vote was driven by overwhelming economic concerns. A majority of those polled after they voted said a candidate’s position on the economy was more important than the war in Iraq, illegal immigration or terrorism. The exit poll was conducted by Edison/Mitofsky for the television networks and the Associated Press.

Hours before the polls closed in Michigan on Tuesday, Mr. McCain and Mr. Huckabee were already on the ground in South Carolina, the next major battleground state.

Mr. McCain, of Arizona, conceded the Michigan race but told supporters that he would not be deterred in his campaign.

“For a minute there in New Hampshire I thought this campaign might be getting easier,” Mr. McCain said. “But you know what? We’ve gotten pretty good at doing things the hard way too. And I think we’ve shown them we don’t mind a fight.”

Mr. Huckabee also addressed supporters in South Carolina, a state he is looking to win with support from his evangelical base. “We’re going to make it real clear,” he said, “that the first-in-the-South primary is going to give their support to the first-in-the-South candidate.”

Surveys of Michigan voters leaving the polls on Tuesday also showed that Mr. Romney did well among those who decided in the last day or two, validating his strategy of saturating the state with advertising and personal appearances over the last five days. Mr. Romney aired almost twice as many television ads as his two leading opponents combined.

Early reports of sluggish voter turnout may also have helped Mr. Romney’s cause. Freezing temperatures, an early morning snowfall, and a dearth of Democratic contenders on the ballot may have affected turnout, according to a state official.

In exit polls, more than half of Republican voters in Michigan said their vote was driven by overwhelming economic concerns. A majority of those polled after they voted said a candidate’s position on the economy was more important than the war in Iraq, illegal immigration or terrorism. The exit poll was conducted by Edison/Mitofsky for the television networks and the Associated Press.

While the voters said a candidate’s position on the issues was more important than a candidate’s personal qualities, more than 4 in 10 voters said it was more important to them that a candidate share their values than be able to win in November against a Democrat or have the right experience.

About a quarter of the voters said it mattered a great deal to them that a candidate shared their religious beliefs.

On the issues of abortion, about 10 percent of Republican voters said it should be legal in all cases, 25 percent said abortion should be legal in most cases, about 35 percent said it should be illegal in most cases and about 25 percent said abortion should be illegal in all cases.

A plurality of voters said immigrants should be deported to the country they came from rather than be allowed to stay as temporary workers or offered a chance to apply for citizenship.

A majority of voters approve of the war in Iraq. When asked to describe their feelings about the Bush administration, they were closely divided.

Michigan’s primary occurred much earlier than usual this year, and many residents interviewed over the past few days said they were not even aware there was an election on Tuesday. Mrs. Clinton was the only major candidate on the Democratic ballot after Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards withdrew their names at the request of the national Democratic Party, which stripped Michigan of its delegates because the early date of its primary violated party rules.

State party leaders said they believed the Michigan delegate slates would be seated.

The race here in Michigan forced the Republican candidates to focus chiefly on the dismal economy of the state, where thousands of manufacturing jobs have evaporated over the last several years and where the unemployment rate, 7.4 percent, is the highest in the nation.

Mr. McCain may have hurt himself here when he declared in a debate in South Carolina last week that because of the restructuring of the global automobile industry many of those jobs would never be restored in Michigan.

Mr. Romney, whose father was the chief executive of American Motors in the 1950’s and early 1960’s, pounced on Mr. McCain at stop after stop in Michigan since last Friday.

“There are some people in Washington who look at Michigan and say, ‘It’s really sad. I’m aware of what’s going on there but those jobs are lost forever,’ ” Mr. Romney said at a stop in Taylor, Mich., on Sunday evening. “That’s unacceptable to me. I am not going to rest until Michigan is back.”

Mr. Romney campaigned with his wife, Ann, and his eldest son, Tagg, and never failed to remind audiences of his Michigan roots. He was born here and attended high school here, his father served three terms as governor and his parents are buried here.

“This is personal for me,” he said.

Mr. McCain played up his maverick role and reminded audiences that he had won the 2000 Republican primary against the well-financed political machine of George W. Bush.

Mr. Huckabee, the former Republican governor of Arkansas who was a Baptist preacher, exerted modest efforts here, spending far less time than his competitors and appearing mostly in the western part of the state, home to a large number of evangelical Christians who have been a bulwark of his candidacy.

But he, too, expressed sympathy for the plight of autoworkers. In an appearance at a metals plant in Lansing on Monday, he said his plan to replace most federal taxes with a single national sales tax would ease their financial burdens and lead to a revitalization of industry.

The unusually early Michigan primary coincided this year with the North American International Auto Show and the candidates were competing for attention in this auto-centered state with the introductions of new cars and press briefings by top industry executives.

The day before the primary, the front page of the Detroit News featured a large picture of a cattle drive through the streets of downtown Detroit cooked up by Chrysler to introduce its new line of fuel-guzzling full-sized pickup trucks. The day’s political news was relegated to a skinny column on the left side of the age.

The three Republican candidates focused much of their attention on the auto industry’s plight. Mr. McCain said he would not sugarcoat the problem or make promises he said he could not redeem, but called for increased government support for research on advanced vehicles and fuels. He accused Mr. Romney of pandering to depressed autoworkers and homeowners.

Mr. Romney accused Mr. McCain of defeatism and noted that he supported the new mileage standard signed into law in December that will require all cars and trucks sold in the United States to improve fuel efficiency by 40 percent by 2020. Mr. Romney described that bill as an “anvil” around the neck of a drowning industry.

He also reminded audiences that Mr. McCain supported a mandatory cap and trade system for carbon dioxide emissions, which are believed to be responsible for global warming. Mr. Romney said the climate change legislation Mr. McCain supports would cost further jobs in the manufacturing sector.

While Republicans responded favorably to Mr. Romney’s attacks, those environmental measures are popular with Democrats and independents, who Mr. McCain hoped would put him over the top this year.

On Monday night, a stranger approached Mr. Romney at an event in West Bloomfield bearing a plastic bag full of 250 blue buttons from George Romney’s unsuccessful 1968 run for president.

Obviously moved, Mr. Romney took the stage later in front of the Oakland County Republican Party and told the several hundred people assembled about the gift, saying he and his sons had collected some of the buttons over the years but had never come upon such a trove.

The man also gave him a souvenir comb from his father’s campaign that read: “Set Our Country Straight, Romney in ’68.” Mr. Romney joked that it was proof that hair —he has drawn ribbing for his perfectly coiffed do — had always been a part of Romney campaigns.
424 2008-01-15 No law prohibits such sales, and the document the F.D.A. issued Tuesday is essentially an advisory opinion to industry saying the agency sees no ground to seek a permanent ban.

Consumer groups and some members of Congress have fought the decision, arguing that there was still not enough science. Some groups also object to the technology on animal-welfare grounds, noting that clones face an elevated risk of health problems early in life.

It remains to be seen how widely the technology will be adopted. Interest from the food industry has been tepid, with some companies declaring that they will not sell milk or meat from cloned animals or their offspring. Other types of reproductive technology, such as artificial insemination, faced resistance on farms when they were first developed, but eventually they became widespread.

Even if cloning spreads, it is unlikely that clones themselves will wind up on grocery shelves anytime soon, since they still cost thousands of dollars apiece to produce. A limited amount of milk from cloned cows might be sold, but mostly it would be the meat and milk of second- and third-generation clone offspring that would enter the food supply. The goal of the cloning companies and their clients is to use multiple copies of an animal to upgrade the genetics of entire herds.

Tuesday’s decision means cloning technology could move into commercial use a mere decade after the world learned of the existence of Dolly the sheep, the first mammal cloned from an adult cell, in Scotland. To create Dolly, scientists took an unfertilized sheep egg and removed the genetic material. They then inserted the genetic material from an adult cell. Machinery within the egg somehow reset the clock on the adult genes, and the new cell, after implantation into a surrogate mother sheep, developed into Dolly.

This technique has since become routine in laboratories, with clones produced in numerous species — not including humans, so far as is known. In public discussion, the technology is sometimes confused with other techniques that involve genetic manipulation, such as by transferring genes into animals from unrelated species. But cloning is simply the creation of an identical genetic copy, with no tweaking of individual genes.

While most Americans have never seen a cloned animal, farm families have been seeing them for years at agricultural shows, and many have gradually grown comfortable with the notion of cloning as the next big thing in animal husbandry.
425 2008-01-15 EMI, which Terra Firma acquired last year for £3.2 billion is perhaps the most troubled of the major record companies, which include Universal, Sony BMG, and Warner, all of which are suffering from a continuing, steep decline in sales of compact discs. EMI’s share of album sales in the United States fell to 9.4 percent last year from 10.2 percent a year earlier, according to Music & Copyright.

The job cuts represent a big chunk of employment at EMI Music, the recording division, which has about 4,500 employees and is expected to bear the brunt of the cuts. EMI’s music publishing business, which has performed well, is expected to be less affected.

The cuts would be the second major restructuring for EMI in the last year. In January 2007, the company merged its two main United States labels, Capitol and Virgin, which had operated semi-autonomously, into one unit.

Still, industry analysts say more wrenching changes might have been delayed at EMI as the company spent the last few years in dead-end discussions with another record industry “major,” Warner Music Group, over a possible merger.

Job cuts are a common consequence of private equity takeovers; what is unusual, analysts say, is that Terra Firma has taken several months to detail its plans. When private investors led by Edgar Bronfman Jr. acquired Warner Music Group in 2003, they announced a restructuring plan, including job cuts almost immediately.

Now Warner, with a slightly larger global market share of recorded music — 13.8 percent in 2006, to EMI’s 12.8 percent — has a smaller staff than EMI, having reduced employment to 4,000.

Hands sought to lay the groundwork for the changes announced Tuesday with a campaign of leaks to the British media about supposed excesses by the former EMI management team. These included a £5.6 million townhouse in the exclusive Mayfair area of London that was said to have been used only occasionally by Eric Nicoli, the former chief executive of EMI, along with an annual bill of £200,000 for fruit and flowers at the company’s London headquarters.

Artist managers, including a group referring to themselves as the Black Hand Gang, after the similarly named pre-World War I Serbian nationalists, are angry.

“He has been very vocal to the press about how terrible EMI is, how terrible the staff is,” said Jazz Summers, chief executive of Big Life Management, which works with The Verve and other artists signed to EMI. “When he says things like that it’s obvious he doesn’t have a clue, and that’s demoralizing.”

Amid the turmoil, one high-profile band, Radiohead, has defected from EMI, and others have threatened to follow. Tim Clark, who manages Robbie Williams, who is on a multirecord deal with EMI, has said in British news reports that his client planned to stop working until he got sufficient assurances.
426 2008-01-15 Phil Hughes has been working out at the Yankees’ complex in Tampa, Fla., lately, and Johan Santana has been doing the same at the Minnesota Twins’ facility in Fort Myers. They will most likely be in the same place when spring training starts in four weeks.

The Yankees have not had a formal trade offer for the Twins to accept since the winter meetings last month, and they expect to open camp with Hughes, and not Santana, in their rotation.

“It’s most likely that we’re going to stay with what we’ve got,” the senior vice president Hank Steinbrenner said on Monday. “That always can change — of course, that’s up to Minnesota — but there were no offers on the table. You don’t make an offer unless you 100 percent intend to do it, and the final decision hasn’t been made.”

Hal Steinbrenner, Hank’s brother and a Yankees general partner, has advised against trading for Santana, and General Manager Brian Cashman is also opposed to a deal. Now that the principal owner George Steinbrenner has put both of his sons in charge of the team, Hank and Hal must agree on major issues.

Hal Steinbrenner has shown no inclination to raise a payroll that is already about $200 million. And while Hank Steinbrenner has not ruled out a deal, he is unlikely to overrule Cashman’s recommendation on such an important decision.
427 2008-01-15 A judge has rejected the date of a special election set by the governor to replace former Senator Trent Lott. Judge Bobby DeLaughter of Hinds County Circuit Court ruled that Gov. Haley Barbour, a Republican, erred when he set the special election for Nov. 4. State law says that after receiving notice of a Senate vacancy, the governor must schedule an election within 90 days if the vacancy announcement does not fall in the same year as a state or Congressional general election. Mr. Lott retired Dec. 18, after November’s general election.
428 2008-01-15 A pastor who is the mayor of a small town was in jail on charges of soliciting sex over the Internet from a police detective posing as a 13-year-old girl. The mayor, Allen Kauffman of Collins, was arrested Friday on four counts of felony enticement of a child in the latest sting orchestrated by a police detective in Diamond, another southwest Missouri town. Prosecutors said in court filings that Mr. Kauffman, 63, believed he was communicating with a girl from the Joplin area in a Yahoo chat room last November and December. In online messages, Mr. Kauffman reportedly asked the girl for sex and nude pictures, and encouraged her to have sex with a female friend in front of a Webcam so he could watch, the authorities said. Collins, with a population of about 200, is in St. Clair County.
429 2008-01-15 Some players have suggested that the Italians have been used to make a point, but Vince Spadea, in his 16th year on tour, said that gambling on tennis by players was worth taking seriously.

“I guess that’s the cousin of match fixing,” he said. “There’s a lot of players struggling to make a living, so on paper it’s frightening, but at the same time I think we have a fair sport right now. To get to the level to even get into these situations where your matches would be placed online to gamble on, it takes a lot of hard work. We’re not going to throw it all away, 20 years of hitting tennis balls, unless we’re talking about something that is really an extreme, isolated case that they may or may not find.”

The sport as a whole is still researching its options and working out the details of the collective integrity unit being created by its multiple governing bodies. Jeffrey Rees and Ben Gunn, the former British police officers who have been hired to lead the sport’s internal investigation, will be in Melbourne until the end of the tournament to interview players, coaches and even some journalists. But Tennis Australia had to reach conclusions and move ahead quickly.

“We couldn’t wait, because we had the event,” said Craig Tiley, the Open’s tournament director. “So we went ahead and did our own environmental review three months ago.”

One conclusion was that the tournament needed to block access to gambling sites in player areas like the lounge, locker room and restaurant. “We’ve identified any possible real-time gambling site we can,” Tiley said. “But the thing with that is how the Internet works. The moment you block one, something else pops up.”

As at some tournaments last fall, laptop computers have been banned from the stands unless their owners secure formal permission from the organizers. The ban is, in part, to keep gamblers from taking advantage of the slight time gap between live tennis and televised tennis. A cellphone ban was considered and rejected. More detailed background checks have also been performed on those seeking credentials for the tournament, which is about to become commonplace on the tour, too.

“It’s something coaches and people around the game are not necessarily happy about,” said Larry Scott, the chief executive of the women’s tour. “Nobody likes to submit themselves to background checks, but protecting the security of our players is paramount.”

What remains unresolved is how to treat injury information, a valuable commodity in gambling circles. More transparency could remove gamblers’ ability to pressure players, but more transparency runs counter to the sport’s individualistic culture. Top players are often secretive about their injuries, eager to avoid giving a mental edge to the opposition. It is one of the reasons that stars like the Williams sisters often employ personal trainers, but keeping secrets in the tennis microcosm remains a challenge.

“The problem is our locker room is open; if I’m in there and something just happened to me in practice, there are 20 girls who are going to see it,” Davenport said. “I don’t think they’re going to be able to control the information; it still gets around like wildfire.”

Corruption was the first issue Scott addressed in his remarks at a general women’s player meeting on Saturday. “I was talking to them in a way I don’t usually,” he said. “I was essentially warning them. If you’re caught match fixing, it’s a career-ending situation.”

Scott confirmed that several women’s players had informed him that they had been approached to throw matches or provide insider information. Numerous men’s players, including Dmitry Tursunov, also came forward last year with similar accounts, and the men’s tour is continuing its investigation into the Davydenko-Vassallo Arguello match that generated suspect betting patterns.

“Players of all levels tell us that they have been approached, but that’s no proof of corruption,” Scott said. “We have no concern that players have broken a rule, but plenty of concern in general.”
430 2008-01-15 Even as they campaign in Michigan, where the automobile industry is depressed and unemployment is high, most Republican candidates are sticking to their existing proposals for lower taxes and less regulation.

The Republican presidential candidates have been more skeptical about short-term stimulus measures than President Bush has been. Mr. Bush signaled last week that he would propose a package of measures, probably dominated by tax cuts, in his State of the Union address on Jan. 28.

The debate among candidates about stimulus measures is largely academic, because economic conditions are almost sure to be entirely different by the time a new president takes office a little more than a year from now.

But the debate shows big differences, even between candidates in the same party, in how the rivals would approach economic problems.

Among the Republicans, Senator John McCain has a proposal to abolish the alternative minimum tax, a move that would save taxpayers $1 trillion over the next decade but would have little impact in the next year.

Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, campaigning in Michigan, promised on Monday to push for a fivefold increase in spending on energy and automotive technologies.

But Mr. Romney has said little about any emergency measures to fend off a broader recession this year. Instead, he promised long-term measures to overhaul the tax code and said he would fight new regulations, including tougher fuel-economy requirements for cars and trucks that Congress recently passed and Mr. Bush signed into law.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, has not released a plan to deal specifically with the current slowdown. But Mr. Giuliani pointedly ridiculed the more activist approaches of Mrs. Clinton and other Democratic contenders.

“It’s a typical central government approach, a nanny government approach,” Mr. Giuliani told supporters at a rally on Monday in Naples, Fla.

Mr. Giuliani, like most of his Republican rivals, would make all of Mr. Bush’s tax cuts permanent. He would also reduce the corporate tax rate, to 25 percent from 35 percent, and reduce the tax rate on capital gains.

Mr. Giuliani’s advisers acknowledged on Monday that those ideas were not tailored to the current evidence of a looming economic downturn. Making Mr. Bush’s tax cuts permanent would have no immediate effect on the economy, because the tax cuts are set to remain in force until the end of 2010.

Reducing corporate and capital gains taxes would do little immediately to benefit people who have lost their jobs, and many economists argue that tax cuts will have the most short-term stimulative impact if they are aimed at people most in need.

But David R. Malpass, an economic adviser to Mr. Giuliani, said the goal was to create the best conditions for investment.

“The mayor’s view is that the best economic recovery package is something that’s lasting,” Mr. Malpass said. “It’s not giving cash back to people, but creating a better environment for growth.”

Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain’s top economic adviser, expressed a similar skepticism about government efforts to fine tune the economy. “The track record of the government trying to time these things is not good,” Mr. Holtz-Eakin said.

The Democratic contenders are far more eager than Republicans to propose economic-rescue measures. Democrats are also willing to waive temporarily their insistence on fiscal discipline, a cornerstone of Mrs. Clinton’s long-term approach.

Appearing Sunday on “Meet the Press” on NBC, Mrs. Clinton bluntly declared that a stimulus package should be allowed to increase the federal deficit temporarily because it is intended to inject additional money into the economy.

There are differences between some of the Democratic plans. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have proposed plans that could ultimately cost $110 billion. The Clinton plan relies heavily on government spending, and the Obama plan would rely more heavily on temporary tax breaks.

Mr. Obama would provide an immediate tax rebate of $250 to workers and would pay an extra $250 to every person collecting Social Security benefits. If unemployment increases three months in a row, he would pay an extra $250 to workers and retirees.

Mr. Obama’s plan would also provide $10 billion to help homeowners avoid foreclosure, $10 billion to states that are hardest hit by the downturn and $10 billion to extend unemployment benefits to more people, including temporary workers and self-employed long-time unemployed workers.

Austin Goolsbee, Mr. Obama’s top economic adviser, said the payments represented the fastest way of getting money to people who are most likely to need it and to spend it quickly.

Mr. Edwards and Mrs. Clinton have proposed plans to channel more money to government programs. Mr. Edwards would put money into building “clean energy” public works. Mrs. Clinton would put $30 billion into an “emergency housing crisis fund” and $25 billion into helping low-income people pay heating bills.
431 2008-01-15 BOSTON (AP) — For the first time in a decade, new investors will be able to put money into a mutual fund that helped fuel Fidelity Investments’ rapid growth in the 1980s and 1990s, but has recently lost many retirement-age investors as they withdraw cash.

Fidelity said on Monday that it would reopen its $44.8 billion Magellan Fund to new investors effective Tuesday.

The company, which is based in Boston, closed Magellan to new accounts on Sept. 30, 1997, after a run of market-beating returns in the 1980s. While Magellan has enjoyed recent strong returns, its size has dwindled from its peak of $102 billion in 2000 because of the 1997 closure, intended to prevent the fund from becoming too big to manage.

In recent years, Magellan’s investors have crept closer to retirement, when many redeem investments to pay for needs after their working lives.

“In fact, 85 percent of the fund’s assets are earmarked for retirement, and the baby boomer generation has now begun to retire and tap those dollars,” Walter C. Donovan, president of Fidelity’s equity division, said.
432 2008-01-15 Airbus is scheduled to disclose its final orders tally for 2007 on Wednesday, a figure that company executives say will be close to the record 1,413 planes that Boeing announced earlier.

But with Boeing and Airbus already scrambling to produce about 900 planes a year between them, analysts said the waiting lists — the average lag is approaching five years — are likely to start putting a brake on sales.

On top of that, the risks of a slowing economy, rising oil prices and tightening credit could mean that the interest of airlines in — and their ability to pay for — new planes could drop off.

“In this kind of a market, it’s not just about booking orders any more,” Mr. Leahy said. “You also have to be able to manage your order book. There’s a good chance that some airlines won’t be able to take delivery of all these aircraft.”

An explosion in air travel in recent years, particularly in Asia and Europe, has helped drive the thirst for new airplanes. Single-aisle jets like the Airbus A320 and Boeing’s 737, which can seat 110 to 180 passengers and have an average range of about 3,000 nautical miles, are especially popular because of their versatility and fuel efficiency.

These smaller planes make up close to half of the order backlog in unit terms and around a third in terms of value.

“The ambient level of global air traffic growth is around 7 percent,” said Peter Morris, chief economist of Ascend, a London aviation consulting firm. “In markets like Europe and Asia, it’s largely been driven by the low-cost carriers and new entrants.”

In countries like China and India, he noted, air traffic is increasing at rates in the high double-digits each year — nearly double the pace of economic growth.

Older, established airlines have also stepped up their buying after a lull that followed the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

The industry returned to profit in 2007 for the first time in six years, with net earnings of about $5.6 billion, according to the International Air Transport Association. That freed up cash for several carriers, including US Airways and British Airways, to make substantial investments in more efficient wide-body aircraft like the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and the Airbus A350 XWB, as well as the 555-seat A380.

A depreciating dollar has also increased the purchasing power of many carriers because they have found jets, which are priced in dollars, to be a relative bargain.

“Airlines are like lemmings,” said Paul Nisbet, an analyst with JSA Research in Newport, R.I. “The more that one airline orders, the more pressure that puts on those who haven’t yet ordered because of the need to get in line for production slots.”

The length and strength of the orders boom has far surpassed the expectations of the jet makers, which had originally expected orders in 2007 to ease back to the longer-term average of about 1,000 a year. Now Boeing and Airbus are finding themselves scrambling to ramp up their assembly lines.

Airbus produces around 34 A320 family jets a month and aims to increase that figure to 40 — an unprecedented rate for an aircraft program — by next year, helped by the addition of a new single-aisle assembly line in Tianjin, China, which will make four planes a month by 2011. Production of the A380 superjumbo is scheduled to more than triple from 13 planes this year to 45 a year by the end of 2010.

Boeing, meanwhile, is planning to make 480 to 490 planes in 2008, up from 441 last year, and 500 to 525 planes in 2009.

Yet as the plane makers try to increase production, the interests of the airlines in buying jets could change with a slowing economy. All this comes as the air transport association in December slashed its forecast for 2008 industry profits by more than a third, to $5 billion from the $9.6 billion it had predicted in June, largely because of higher oil prices.

On Jan. 7 shares of Airbus’s parent company, European Aeronautic Defense and Space, dropped 7.5 percent after analysts at Deutsche Bank advised clients to sell the stock on concerns that demand would fall.

That said, analysts and industry executives still see opportunities for new sales. Mr. Leahy said he still expected strong demand this year from countries like China and India, where air traffic is likely to keep pace with economic growth. Carriers in the Middle East and the Gulf regions are still building their fleets, he said.

Others note that high oil prices might give airlines another reason to renew their fleet, which would benefit Airbus and Boeing.

“You could argue that high fuel prices are one of the best things to happen to the aircraft manufacturing industry,” Mr. Morris of Ascend said. Long-haul planes like the A380 and Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner offer a fuel-cost savings of about 20 percent a seat.

“When you look at the large sums of money spent on fuel, at least on long-haul, the arguments in favor of re-fleeting become pretty obvious,” he said. “The alternative — raising ticket prices in a weakening environment for air travel — is probably a losing proposition.”

A wild card remains the United States, where most carriers sat out the buying spree while they shored up their balance sheets. Several carriers, most notably Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and American Airlines, have dozens of planes that are more than 20 years old. But with the economic slowdown and access to financing becoming more difficult, some predict that American airlines could put off investments.

“The U.S. airlines have bigger fish to fry right now,” Mr. Leahy said.

But Mr. McVitie estimated that American airlines could order 500 to 750 planes in the next 18 months.

“This is probably the year they have to bite the bullet,” he said. “If collectively the U.S. industry has made a profit — albeit negligible — and we continue to see high prices for oil and a prolonged credit crunch, then I can’t see the point in waiting. The older airplanes just make the economics that much worse.”
433 2008-01-15 “For most of our history we were preliterate, so we had to do other things to get people to pay attention to a candidate,” Mr. Wright recalled.

Some campaigns held whiskey parties for potential supporters, he said, then handed out tiny jugs with the candidates’ names so voters “would remember who had gotten them drunk.”

Buttons and other devices, many of them manufactured in New York, provided visual reminders of a candidate’s roots — that Teddy Roosevelt was a former New York City police commissioner, or Tom Dewey a former Manhattan district attorney.

Mr. Wright suggested in an interview that William Henry Harrison’s handlers chose a log cabin to represent him as a man of the people on buttons, rather than a portrait (“He was ugly”) or a slogan about his credentials (“He had a subpar military career”), even though Harrison actually lived in a mansion.

“That’s the kind of man of the people I want to be,” Mr. Wright said.

Sarah M. Henry, who, with Thomas Mellins, is curating the exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, explained that New York City, which spawned so many candidates and political parties, “was the crucible for issues in national politics.”

The advent of the secret ballot about a century ago, she said, profoundly transformed the relationship between party and individual voters, from “a shared, public political culture” to one in which “you don’t have to flaunt your loyalty” with buttons and other displays of support.

The curators said the images and slogans in the collection suggest that politics was among the best forms of entertainment in the 19th century and serve as a reminder that dirty tactics and obscene campaign spending are not recent inventions.

Mr. Wright comes from a largely apolitical family — except for his Uncle Nat, who revealed at a family dinner in 1972 that he had been a lifelong Communist (and who donated his buttons and other items to the collection).

Under his agreement with his publisher, Mr. Wright said, he has “no political feelings,” although he said he found all the presidential candidates to be “a little disappointing.” (It was, however, a friend, Senator John McCain of Arizona, one of the Republican candidates, who suggested making the collection available in a Museum of Democracy.)

“There hasn’t been an election since Washington’s,” Mr. Wright said, “when we didn’t go to the voting booth without holding our nose.”

He discovered one of his oldest and most valuable artifacts in a Times Square junk store when he was attending Columbia in the 1970s. Beneath a stack of Horatio Alger novels, the young Mr. Wright found a flag adorned with George Washington’s picture and designed to celebrate the first president’s inauguration, for which Washington wore metal buttons that bore his initials and proclaimed “Long Live the President.”

The bickering couple who owned the store asked $200 but settled for $100 from a struggling student.

Years later, when Mr. Wright invited some American history buffs to look at his private collection, which featured the picture flag, a woman whispered, “Jordan, there’s a rip in the corner.”

“I will call the campaign headquarters in the morning to complain and ask for a replacement,” Mr. Wright replied tartly, adding later that what he really wanted to say was, “I hope you look as good when you are 230 years old.”
434 2008-01-15 “It would have been preferable if these issues could have been resolved amicably with Microsoft,” said Jonathan Todd, a spokesman for the European competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes. “But that has not proved to be the case. Therefore we have opened these formal investigations. That does not prove there is a violation. We will only be able to come to a conclusion after investigations.”

The legal battle that ended last year involved the bundling of a media player with Windows and the availability of information required to make rival software operate smoothly with Microsoft products.

In September, the Court of First Instance, Europe’s highest after the European Court of Justice, endorsed the commission’s 2004 decision to impose record fines on Microsoft.

The fresh complaint on interoperability, made by an alliance of software makers called the European Committee for Interoperable Systems, claims that Microsoft has not disclosed enough information for a range of products that compete with its Office and Outlook programs. The complaint, which is backed by corporations including International Business Machines, Nokia, Sun Microsystems and RealNetworks, was lodged with the commission in February 2006.

Opera, which employs just 480 people, protested to the commission last month.

“In the abstract, the fact that the commission would find something to go after Microsoft does not surprise me,” said Dennis Oswell, managing partner of Oswell & Vahida, a law firm in Brussels that specializes in antitrust cases. “But the fact that they have acted so quickly on a complaint from a small company without clout is surprising.”

Microsoft said it would “cooperate fully with the commission’s investigation and provide any and all information necessary.”

“We are committed to ensuring that Microsoft is in full compliance with European law and our obligations as established by the European Court of First Instance in its September 2007 ruling,” it added.

Tor Odland, a spokesman for Opera, welcomed the new investigation.

“Microsoft has been able to get away with an inferior product for 12 years in Internet Explorer,” Mr. Odland said. “Even with superior products such as Firefox and Opera, Microsoft retains a very big market share for PCs.”

Internet Explorer has the bulk of the browser market. Firefox has about 17 percent of the market, while Opera’s share is tiny.
435 2008-01-15 The only thing standing between the occupants of 375 Pearl Street and some of the most commanding views in Lower Manhattan is three inches of limestone.

Though the 32-story telephone company tower is not truly windowless, it might as well be. There are three-foot-wide slits running up and down the structure, some with glass in them. But, like the windows of the World Trade Center, these do little more than offer a tantalizingly small slice of what could have been an extraordinary panorama.

Conceived as a giant switching station for the New York Telephone Company, 375 Pearl Street is still occupied by the company’s corporate successor, Verizon, which has equipment and offices there. As it neared completion in 1975, Paul Goldberger, then the architecture critic of The New York Times, said the building was the “most disturbing” of the phone company’s new switching centers because it “overwhelms the Brooklyn Bridge towers, thrusts a residential neighborhood into shadow and sets a tone of utter banality” in the Civic Center.

So it is important news that Verizon has sold a condominium interest in 29 of the 32 floors to Taconic Investment Partners and Square Mile Capital. They plan to open up the facade with a new curtain wall, designed by Cook & Fox. (Verizon will own and remain on three floors.)

The project will effectively create one million square feet of new office space and could — if done well — refresh the Civic Center skyline, too.

Paul E. Pariser, co-chief executive of Taconic, said a reporter had told him: “ ‘Mr. Pariser, you have a challenge cut out for you — turning a G.E. dishwasher into an office building.’ I like that challenge.”
436 2008-01-15 RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — The Bush administration said it would sell 900 sophisticated satellite-guided missiles to Saudi Arabia as part of a $20 billion arms sale intended to bolster military relations with Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states and counter the rising influence of Iran.

The missile deal, valued at $123 million, was a mostly symbolic gesture, though the administration worried that some in Congress might object, since the missiles are some of the most accurate produced by the United States. The announcement came in a formal notification to Congress that coincided with Mr. Bush’s arrival here on the sixth day of his tour of the Middle East.

It was Mr. Bush’s first visit to the Saudi kingdom, part of an effort to reinvigorate a relationship that has been troubled by Iraq, the fight against terrorism, the threat of Iran and rising oil prices. King Abdullah met Mr. Bush at the airport and joined him in a review of an honor guard before a private meeting between the men on Monday night.

The $20 billion package was proposed last summer as a counterweight to a new American commitment to provide Israel with $30 billion in military aid.
437 2008-01-15 LONDON — Terra Firma, the private equity firm that recently acquired the music company EMI Group, plans to announce a reorganization Tuesday, including the elimination of close to a third of EMI’s staff, according to people briefed on the plans.

Terra Firma plans to dismiss more than 1,500 employees, out of about 5,500, as it moves to streamline marketing operations at EMI and focus on the discovery of new artists.

The cuts have unnerved managers of artists signed to EMI, including Robbie Williams and the Verve, who fear that support for their works will falter.

EMI, which Terra Firma acquired last year for £3.2 billion, or $6.4 billion, is perhaps the most troubled of the major record companies, which include the Universal Music Group, Sony BMG and the Warner Music Group, all of which are suffering from a continuing steep decline in sales of compact discs. EMI’s share of album sales in the United States fell to 9.4 percent last year from 10.2 percent a year earlier, according to Music & Copyright, a research service.

EMI and Terra Firma declined to comment. But a person briefed on the plans said reports of up to 2,000 job cuts were “probably a little bit on the high end of the range,” saying 1,500 was more likely. In any case, that would still represent a big share of employment at EMI Music, the recording division, which was expected to bear the brunt of the cuts. EMI’s music publishing unit, which has performed well, is expected to be affected less.
438 2008-01-15 Wall Street advanced sharply Monday after a rout on Friday as solid preliminary results from I.B.M. encouraged investors to return to the stock market.

International Business Machines, one of the 30 Dow Jones industrials, released preliminary earnings estimates for the fourth quarter that were 24 percent above year-earlier levels. The results also beat the forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.

After falling nearly 250 points on Friday, the Dow rose more than 170 points Monday.

I.B.M.’s news, coming as earnings season is about to begin in earnest, raised hopes that fourth-quarter results might not be as bad as feared.

Investors also moved back into financial services stocks ahead of Citigroup’s earnings report on Tuesday and Merrill Lynch’s report on Thursday. Both companies are expected to announce further capital injections to stanch mortgage-related losses.

The Dow gained 171.85, or 1.36 percent, to 12,778.15. I.B.M. was the biggest gainer in the Dow, rising $5.26, or 5.4 percent, to $102.93.
439 2008-01-15 They all asked the same basic question: When faced with a big, blank, obstructing Minimalist wall, too tall, wide and firmly in place to get over or around, what do you do? And they answered: You paint it in bright patterns, or hang pretty pictures on it, or drape it with spangled light-catching fabrics. The wall may eventually collapse under the accumulated decorative weight. But at least it will look great.

And where do you find your patterns and pictures and fabrics? In places where Modernism had rarely looked before: in quilts and wallpapers and printed fabrics; in Art Deco glassware and Victorian valentines. You might take the search far afield, as most of these artists did.

They looked at Roman and Byzantine mosaics in Italy, Islamic tiles in Spain and North Africa. They went to Turkey for flower-covered embroideries, to Iran and India for carpets and miniatures, and to Manhattan’s Lower East Side for knockoffs of these. Then they took everything back to their studios and made a new art from it.

Ms. Kaufman turned 19th-century American quilt designs into abstract nocturnes glinting with sewn-on beads. Mr. Zakanitch went for flowers in monumental paintings based on fabrics remembered from his childhood home in New Jersey. Ms. Schapiro also drew on floral images in a type of feminist-inspired collage she called “femmage.” And in her “Gates of Paradise” (1980) she applied domestic crafts materials — lace, ribbons, fabric trim and so on — to a theme associated with Lorenzo Ghiberti.

Ms. Carlson’s all-over tweedlike patterns, done with repeated strokes of thick paint, are less specific in their references. And even if Ms. Jaudon doesn’t insist on Islamic art as a source for her crisp interlace designs, it surely had some effect. Ms. Kozloff is forthright about the debt she owes to Moroccan and Mexican tile work. Her melding of brilliant colors with a basic Minimalist grid has yielded generous results in public architectural projects, and in her poetic and intensely political recent art.

Mr. Davis and Mr. Smyth lie a little outside the general P&D loop, one doing figurative work and the other mosaics. Mr. Robbin, who lived in Iran as a child, conflates geometric Persian motifs with others from Japanese silk kimonos. For Mr. MacConnel and Mr. Kushner, textiles themselves are a primary medium.

Mr. MacConnel glues pieces of Near Eastern and Southeast Asian fabric together into suspended open-work hangings. Mr. Kushner, who studied with Mr. MacConnel and traveled with Ms. Goldin to the Middle East, originally draped his painted fabric pieces over his own body in performances. One festive piece in the show, “Visions Beyond the Pearly Curtain,” is shaped like a chador, cape or kimono, although with its gathered swags and melon-orange curlicues it has the theatrical punch of a rococo opera curtain about to rise.

When Mr. Kushner finished this piece in 1975, P&D was taking off. It had avid collectors in the United States; in Europe it was a hit. Then interest dried up. Worse than that, in America the movement became an object of disdain and dismissal.

There were reasons. Art associated with feminism has always had a hostile press. And there was the beauty thing. In the neo-Expressionist, neo-Conceptualist late 1980s, no one knew what to make of hearts, Turkish flowers, wallpaper and arabesques.

Thanks to multiculturalism and identity politics, we know better what to make of them now; the art world’s horizons are immeasurably wider than they were two decades ago (without being all that wide). Besides, to my eye, most P&D art isn’t beautiful and never was, not in any classical way. It’s funky, funny, fussy, perverse, obsessive, riotous, accumulative, awkward, hypnotic, all evident even in the fairly tame selections by Anne Swartz, the curator for this show.

And not-quite-beauty is exactly what saved it, what gave it weight, weight enough to bring down the great Western Minimalist wall for a while and bring the rest of the world in. Let the art historical record show, in the postmovement future, the continuing debt we owe it for that.
440 2008-01-15 MADRID — The Spanish government on Monday dissolved Parliament and called general elections for March 9, officially opening what promises to be a close race between the governing Socialists and the opposition Popular Party.

The cabinet of Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero held a special meeting to set an election date, then Mr. Zapatero met with King Juan Carlos for his approval.

“We have a great country,” The Associated Press quoted Mr. Zapatero as saying. “We are a great country. We deserve the best of futures.”

Political analysts here predict a close contest between Spain’s main parties, with each trying to woo voters at the political center. Polls in recent days indicate that the Socialists have a lead of three to five percentage points over the Popular Party. That widens when voters are asked whether Mr. Zapatero or Mariano Rajoy, the opposition leader, is more appealing.

After four years of bitter political sparring in which the two main parties have offered sharply different visions for Spain, each has softened its message in recent weeks, seeking to draw centrist voters. The economy has become an increasingly important issue, amid fears of a slowdown. Signs of a slowing property market, and of higher inflation and unemployment, have caused concerns that a 10-year boom in Spain may be over.
441 2008-01-15 What happens when you rouse people hundreds of time a night when they go into deep sleep — besides the possibility that they might get seriously grumpy?

Their bodies behave as if they are on an express train to diabetes.

After just three nights of disturbed sleep, researchers have found, otherwise healthy young volunteers had trouble regulating their blood sugar. It was almost as if they had gained 20 to 30 pounds, said the study, which appears online in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The lead author is Dr. Esra F. Tasali of the University of Chicago.

For the study, nine volunteers spent two or three nights at a sleep lab on two visits. On the shorter visit, they were allowed to sleep undisturbed. On the longer, whenever they went into slow-wave sleep, they heard sounds loud enough to interrupt the sleep stage but not wake them.

Afterward, the volunteers were found to be less sensitive to the insulin the body produces to regulate sugar levels. And they did not produce more insulin to make up for it.

People with weight problems often do not sleep well, the researchers said. The same is true for many people as they age. The findings suggest that if sleep can be improved, perhaps the risk of diabetes may be lowered.
442 2008-01-15 OTTAWA — The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said on Monday that it would issue 2.75 billion Canadian dollars in stock at substantially discounted prices as part of an effort to ease investor anxiety about its subprime mortgage exposure.

The bank, based in Toronto, has by far the biggest exposure of any Canadian bank to troubled American mortgage debt, about $9.8 billion. It also confirmed that it would take a $462 million write-down on the unhedged part of that debt as well as a $2 billion write-off for subprime exposure insured by the troubled underwriter ACA Financial Guaranty Corporation.

The write-downs, which are deductible, will have an after-tax drag of $1.6 billion, the bank said, adding that further write-downs may be needed.

The late afternoon announcements were preceded by a trading freeze for Bank of Commerce shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange, an unusual event for any of Canada’s five large banks.

The new stock offering will come in two parts. Gerald T. McCaughey, the bank’s chief executive, said at a brief news conference that institutional investors have agreed to buy 1.5 billion Canadian dollars of the new equity.
443 2008-01-15 Joel and Ethan Coen, “No Country for Old Men”

Andrew Wagner, Starting Out in the Evening

Frank Langella, "Starting Out in the Evening"

Philip Seymour Hoffman, "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead"

Philip Seymour Hoffman, "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead"

Frank Langella, "Starting Out in the Evening"

Tommy Lee Jones, "No Country for Old Men"

Casey Affleck, “The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford”

Lauren Ambrose, "Starting Out in the Evening"

Lauren Ambrose, "Starting Out in the Evening"

"Before the Devil Knows You're Dead," Kelly Masterson

"Starting Out in the Evening," Fred Parnes and Andrew Wagner

"Away From Her," Sarah Polley

"Gone Baby Gone," Ben Affleck and Aaron Stockard

"Starting Out in the Evening," Fred Parnes and Andrew Wagner

"No Country for Old Men," Joel Coen and Ethan Coen

"The Diving Bell and the Butterfly," Ronald Harwood
444 2008-01-15 Scott Rolen was traded from the St. Louis Cardinals to the Toronto Blue Jays on Monday for Troy Glaus in a swap of all-star third basemen that was completed after the two passed physicals....
445 2008-01-15 Emily Hughes will miss next week's United States Figure Skating Championships because of a hip injury. The injury has prevented her from training. She said Monday that she hoped to resume ''serious training'' in four to six weeks. Hughes has been ...
446 2008-01-15 A DRUG THAT DOESN'T WORK The cholesterol-lowering drug Zetia, which is prescribed to about 1 million people a week, did not show any medical benefits in a two-year clinical trial, the drug makers Merck and Schering-Plough said.      GOOD NEWS FROM...
447 2008-01-16 Sales of personal computers increased faster in the fourth quarter of last year than expected, driven by lower prices and the move by Dell to sell through retail stores....
448 2008-01-16 The movie download offering from Netflix only offers older movies, so it is not a direct competitor to the new iTunes movie rental service, which emphasizes new releases....
449 2008-01-16 With the Rangers playing so far under expectations, it is natural that much of the criticism is leveled at their captain, Jaromir Jagr. But for Mike Milbury, the NBC broadcaster and former Islanders coach, it is always time to criticize Jagr. He w...
450 2008-01-16 Big corporations have been winning more than their share of victories lately in Congress and in the courts. But the California Supreme Court may have just brought things to a new low. It turns out that it does not have enough justices without fina...
451 2008-01-16 After hearings on steroids this week, what one blogger is calling "the most clueless congressman in Washington" flirts with laughingstock status among baseball fans: Rep. Christopher Shays (R-CT) delivered an embarrassing laundry list of mistakes ...
452 2008-01-16 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
453 2008-01-16 How much should people be able to quote from, remix, and reuse copyrighted material? That is the topic for today's debate between between Rick Cotton, of NBC Universal, and Columbia law professor Tim Wu. Not surprisingly, they disagree....
454 2008-01-16 The windowless concrete-block room in the bowels of Giants Stadium where reporters do their daily work is usually as sparsely populated as it is depressing. But it is easy to tell how big a game the Giants will play Sunday by the number of chairs ...
455 2008-01-16 A former Credit Suisse investment banker accused of leaking inside tips about a string of mergers "gave in to temptation," a federal prosecutor said on Tuesday as a retrial started in the case, according to Reuters. But the lawyer for Hafiz Naseem...
456 2008-01-16 As bond insurers continue to suffer from subprime-related mistakes, one of the largest, Ambac Financial Group, said it would raise at least $1 billion in capital and replace its chief executive. The bond insurer said it would raise its new capital...
457 2008-01-16 Ben Bernanke, meet Gary Crittenden. While you're easing credit, he is tightening it. The Federal Reserve's open market committee, headed by Mr. Bernanke, is widely expected to cut interest rates by at least half a percentage point when it meets at...
458 2008-01-16 HBM BioVentures, the Swiss biotech and medical-device investor with about $1 billion in net assets, soon expects to go public in a rare move for a venture capital firm. HBM has yet to disclose how much it intends to raise or other details of the o...
459 2008-01-16 A mortgage servicing firm Ocwen Financial has received an unsolicited $588 million offer to be taken private from an investor group led by its chairman and chief executive, William Erbey, and two private equity firms, it said Tuesday. Mr. Erbey, O...
460 2008-01-16 Shareholders in Northern Rock, the ailing British mortgage lender, voted at a special meeting Tuesday against proposals by two hedge funds that would have forced managers to seek shareholder approval for even small asset sales. The vote was a setb...
461 2008-01-16 Why we can't tell if the odds really are against us....
462 2008-01-16 William B. Isaacs, a professor of urology and oncology at Johns Hopkins and an author of the new report, said that if more research validates what has been found, men might want to get the new genetic test once in their lifetime, when they are 35, say. Those at high risk because of their genetics might then choose to start prostate cancer screening earlier than the usual age of about 50, using a blood test, PSA, that looks for proteins secreted by prostate tumors, Dr. Isaacs said.

“I think that makes sense,” said Dr. Howard Sandler, a professor of radiation oncology at the University of Michigan and a spokesman for the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

But others worry that more frequent testing could exacerbate what already is a major problem: most prostate cancers grow so slowly that they would have been harmless if left alone. But since doctors cannot tell which cancers are dangerous, they treat nearly all that they find. And treatment has serious side effects, including, often, impotence and incontinence.

Nonetheless, researchers say, the test is a harbinger of things to come.

“It’s the boutique medicine of the future, said Dr. Peter C. Albertsen, a professor of surgery and a prostate cancer specialist at the University of Connecticut. “We can know what diseases we will have to face in the rest of our lives.”

That worries him, as it does Dr. Edward P. Gelmann, who is deputy director of Columbia University’s comprehensive cancer center.

“Technology today enables us to find out a huge amount of information, Dr. Gelmann said. “But how does the public deal with this information? How does it help them make decisions? And if they make a decision does that lead to a day, a week, a month, of life saved?”

The study, by scientists at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, the Harvard School of Public Health, and Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, will appear in the January 31 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. It is being released online today because, journal spokeswoman Jennifer Zeis explained, “it is a very active area of research with a lot of competition.”

Prostate cancer researchers long knew that the disease has a genetic link. Studies of families and of twins indicated that a propensity to develop the cancer is inherited. But even though scientists spent years looking for genes, they found none that were reproducibly associated with a marked effect.

Now, with new technology that made it cheap and easy to scan the entire length of a person’s DNA, researchers tried a new approach. They began looking for small variations in tiny DNA regions that were more common in men who had prostate cancer than in men who did not. That resulted in the discovery, by several groups of investigators in Iceland and the U.S., of minor and common genetic variants that appeared to be linked to prostate cancer.

The variants are small alterations in gene sequences — they are not mutations that destroy a gene’s function. In fact, no one knows what their effect is and only one of the five variants is in an actual gene, in this case one that helps control the activity of other genes.

The next step was to ask whether those variants really could predict who had prostate cancer. So Dr. Jianfeng Xu, a professor of epidemiology and cancer biology at Wake Forest University School of Medicine and his colleagues studied a Swedish population of 2,893 men with prostate cancer and 1,781 men who did not have it. That led to their finding that each of the five variants independently predicted prostate cancer risk.

“Each confers a moderate risk,” Dr. Xu said, adding that the effect of having just one of the variants — a ten or 20 percent increase in a man’s chance of having prostate cancer — was not enough to justify using a single variant for screening. But, he added, because each conferred an independent risk, the risks added together so that men who had most or all of the variants ended up with a probability of prostate cancer that was significant.

Then they found that a family history of the cancer conferred an additional independent risk so that men with four or five genetic variants and a family history had nearly a 10 fold increase in their risk of prostate cancer compared to men with none of those risk factors. “That was very very surprising to us,” Dr. Xu said.

Now, says Dr. Isaacs, he and his colleagues are testing the genetic test in a population of several thousand men who have been seen at Johns Hopkins.

“Obviously, the test needs to be validated in multiple populations,” Dr. Isaacs said. “We think that can happen almost instantaneously,” he added, explaining that many investigators have blood samples and family histories of thousands of men who had been tested for prostate cancer.

But many cancer specialists say that if the test leads to more screening, that is not necessarily a good thing. There is already too much prostate cancer screening, they say, resulting in too much treatment. Dr. Albertsen said that 50 to 100 men are treated for every man whose life is saved.

“To me, it is a nightmare,” Dr. Albertsen said. “We are just feeding off of this cancer phobia.”

Donald Berry, who is chairman of the biostatistics department at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, agreed. A test like the genetic test for prostate cancer, he said, was likely to do more harm than good. Researchers, he added, “should worry at least as much about harms as they do about potential benefits.”

“We are engaging in a very dangerous enterprise,” Dr. Berry said.

What is needed, and what the new test does not provide, is a way to decide which cancers are dangerous and which are not, Dr. Isaacs noted. He hopes that additional research will reveal genetic markers of aggressive disease.

Still, Dr. Isaacs said, the new test could help patients if it is used with caution.

“We may be premature with this idea — everyone has a different way of thinking about this. But it should not take five years to know if we are on the right track. All this can happen very rapidly.”

“We have worked with enough families that have a positive family history to know that people are anxious to know their risk of prostate cancer,” he said.
463 2008-01-16 TOULOUSE, France — Airbus said on Wednesday that it had secured a record 1,341 orders for new aircraft last year, closely trailing Boeing but surpassing it in terms of deliveries as a surge in demand for air travel drove demand for new planes.

Airbus, which has been scrambling to cut costs in the face of stiff competition and a steadily weakening dollar, added that it had achieved nearly 500 million euros ($740 million) in cost savings last year, well ahead of its initial goal of 300 million euros.

Thomas Enders, the company’s chief executive, said: “2007 was a challenging but also successful year for Airbus. We were successful in the market and mastered the industrial challenges.”

The company is in the midst of restructuring its operations, which is expected to result in the elimination of about 10,000 jobs and the sale of up to 7 of its 16 European factories. Mr. Enders said Airbus had achieved about 30 percent of its planned staff cuts, or about 3,000 jobs, split between workers at Airbus and its contractors.

Mr. Enders declined to give a specific figure for cost savings in 2008 but said it would most likely be “considerably higher” than in 2007.
464 2008-01-16 CHICAGO — Boeing announced on Wednesday that it was delaying the first flight and deliveries of the 787 Dreamliner because of continued supply-chain problems.

The first flight is now scheduled for the second quarter instead of March, and deliveries are now expected to begin in early 2009 instead of late this year.

“The fundamental design and technologies of the 787 remain sound,” Scott Carson, the president and chief executive of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said in a statement. “However, we continue to be challenged by start-up issues in our factory and in our extended global supply chain.”

Mr. Carson said that while progress has been made on the assembly of the first plane, the pace at which jobs are being completed has not improved enough to stay on schedule.

The company has 817 of the fuel-efficient planes on order, valued at more than $100 billion.

The delay could frustrate the expansion plans of some big international airlines and potentially force Boeing to pay penalties to customers.
465 2008-01-16 Mr. Romney’s victory here means three different Republican candidates have won each of the first three major contests. The race moves to South Carolina and Nevada this weekend with no clear front-runner and two credible candidates, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, and former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee, yet to seriously contest a state.

Katon Dawson, the Republican chairman in South Carolina, declared the race for the party’s nomination wide open.

“Now, it’s our time to hold the nation’s first truly make-or-break contest this primary season,” Mr. Dawson said Tuesday night.

The economy and the troubles of the auto industry dominated the contest here from start to finish, with Mr. Romney seizing on Mr. McCain’s suggestions that the jobs lost “are not coming back.” Mr. Romney also capitalized on his business background and his father’s leadership in the auto industry to persuade voters that he was best equipped to deal with those problems.

In conceding defeat last night, Mr. McCain congratulated Mr. Romney but said he would be direct about the problems facing the economy.

“We did what we always try to do: we went to Michigan and we told people the truth,” Mr. McCain said. “I am as committed now as I have ever been to making sure that no state, whether it’s Michigan or South Carolina or anywhere in this blessed country, is left behind in the global economy.”

He continued: “But that global economy is here to stay and it is, by its nature, constantly changing, as you all know. To compete more successfully in it we must better prepare American workers and students to seize its opportunities. That is how we will build a stronger and more prosperous America.”

Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed that 55 percent cited the economy as their biggest concern, and 42 percent of them cast their ballots for Mr. Romney compared with 29 percent for Mr. McCain. In Iowa, by contrast, only 26 percent of Republican caucusgoers cited the economy as the most important issue, behind immigration. In New Hampshire, the economy was cited as the top concern by 31 percent of Republican primary voters, followed closely by Iraq, at 24 percent and immigration, at 23 percent.

Mr. McCain campaigned heavily in Michigan, and hoped that a victory in the state would cement a front-runner status for him heading into South Carolina.

A senior McCain adviser here said the Michigan result meant that Mr. McCain had to win in South Carolina to assert a dominance of the field. If he does not, this adviser said, it makes it more likely that Republicans will fail to coalesce around a candidate even after 21 states hold their nominating contests on Feb. 5.

The Michigan results showed much of Mr. Romney’s support came from the three-county Detroit metropolitan area, home of many well-off Republicans and where the Romney name is better known. Mr. Romney’s father, George, was governor of Michigan from 1963 to 1969, and he repeatedly highlighted his Michigan roots in campaign appearances.

The exit polls, conducted by Edison/Mitofsky for the television networks and The Associated Press, also found that Mr. Romney did well among those who decided in the last day or two, validating his strategy of saturating the state over the past five days with advertising and personal appearances.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, the only major Democratic candidate whose name was on the ballot in Michigan, was the winner on the Democratic side. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina withdrew their names at the request of the national Democratic Party, which penalized Michigan with the loss of its convention delegates because the early date of its primary violated party rules.

But state party leaders said they believed the Michigan delegates would be seated.

More than two-thirds of voters in Michigan’s Republican primary described themselves as Republicans, up from 48 percent in the 2000 Republican primary. This gave a clear boost to Mr. Romney, who won Republican votes by double-digit margins.

Mr. McCain countered with stronger support among independents and Democrats, but they accounted for a far smaller share of the electorate than in 2000. This year, 32 percent of voters here described themselves as independents or Democrats, down from 52 percent in 2000 when Mr. McCain defeated George W. Bush.

The exit polls of Michigan voters showed that more than two-thirds rated the national economy negatively (they divided between Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney). And just 16 percent said they felt they were getting ahead financially.

Voters with family incomes of less than $50,000 divided between Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain. Voters earning more tipped to Mr. Romney.

Voters were most likely to say that the quality that mattered most to them in a candidate was one who shared their values, and more of them supported Mr. Romney, followed by Mr. Huckabee.

Mr. Huckabee, speaking in South Carolina as the results trickled in, gave credit to Mr. Romney for his victory but pledged to win the next primary.

“He won a great race,” Mr. Huckabee said of Mr. Romney. “He worked hard. He, of course, has a great base there, but our hats are off to him for his victory there tonight.”

He continued: “So it looks like that I won Iowa, John McCain won New Hampshire, Mitt Romney won Michigan. Ladies and gentlemen, we’re going to win South Carolina.”

The race in Michigan forced the Republican candidates to focus chiefly on the dismal economy of the state, where thousands of manufacturing jobs have evaporated in the last several years and where the unemployment rate, 7.4 percent, is the highest in the nation.

Forty-two percent of Republican primary voters said Mr. Romney’s ties to Michigan helped sway their votes.
466 2008-01-16 “They are parceling out credit with a keen eye on the balance sheet,” said John Garvey, the head of the financial services advisory group at PricewaterhouseCoopers. “There is a flight to quality and a renewed focus on risk.”

That trend has directly countered the Fed’s efforts. Compared with a year ago, before the Fed began to lower the federal funds rate — the rate at which banks can borrow — conventional 30-year mortgages are lower, but so-called jumbo mortgages of more than $417,000 are higher.

“Over the second half of last year, the fed funds rate fell by 100 basis points,” or a full percentage point, said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG. “But almost any measure saw rising interest rates and tightened credit availability for many borrowers. The Fed needs to drive the fed funds rate down dramatically to get interest rates for the public and corporations to go down rather than up.”

Citi and its rivals are reacting to a period when credit standards were very loose, and many poor loans were made, leading to the current round of multibillion-dollar write-offs.

One measure of that came in a detail of the write-downs Citi announced. At the end of September, it put the value of some mortgage securities it owned at $2.7 billion. It had purchased those securities intending to repackage them as part of collateralized debt obligations and sell securities in the C.D.O.’s to investors.

The collapse of the C.D.O. market made such sales impossible, and Citi still owns the securities. But it has decided they are worth about 5 percent of what they had been, and has taken a write-down of $2.6 billion.

The write-downs taken by Citi, and by some rivals, are based on assumptions about how bad the mortgage and home-price problem will become. If those assumptions turn out to be too pessimistic, then the assets written down Tuesday will turn out to have greater value.

On the other hand, if the assumptions are too optimistic, more write-downs may come.

Many of the assumptions were not disclosed, but Mr. Crittenden did say that Citi was assuming that home prices would decline 6.5 percent to 7 percent in 2008, and by a similar amount in 2009. He did not say what Citi was assuming for later years.

Citi’s shares fell $2.12, to $26.94, a 7.3 percent loss that left the price less than half its level of a year ago.

That is bad news for investors for a reason other than the obvious one. The company plans to raise $14.5 billion by selling convertible preferred stock, with a 7 percent annual coupon. Of that, $2 billion will go to the public and the rest to a group of investors, including the government of Singapore and Sanford I. Weill, Citi’s former chief executive.

The conversion price of that new issue is to be 20 percent over the market price of Citi stock, but Citi refused to say over what period the market price would be calculated. The lower the price, the more dilution will be produced for existing shareholders.

Citi also reduced its dividend by 41 percent, but the payout remains high compared to the share price.

At 32 cents a quarter, the current annual yield is 4.75 percent, a quarter-point above the interest rate Citi pays on its “ultimate savings account.” A buyer of the stock gets a higher level of income, with better tax treatment and the possibility of capital gains.

But the share buyer also faces the possibility of capital losses. Perhaps investors recall what happened in 1991. On Jan. 15 of that year, exactly 17 years before Tuesday’s announcement, the dividend of Citicorp, a Citigroup predecessor, was cut 45 percent amid worries over losses from commercial real estate and loans to highly leveraged companies.

“I’m embarrassed,” Citi’s chief executive, John Reed, said then, of the dividend reduction. “I did not want to do it.”

Nine months later, the dividend was eliminated, and the stock fell well below the January price. “We clearly have picked up more, or at least our fair share of problems,” Mr. Reed said. The dividend was not restored until 1994.

Only two months ago, Citigroup arranged for its first big capital infusion of this cycle, with the government of Abu Dhabi investing $7.5 billion. It is guaranteed an 11 percent yield on that security, but only for a few years. Then the security will convert into common at a price that will vary based on Citi’s share price at the time. If Citi’s stock is at Tuesday’s level, Abu Dhabi’s $7.5 billion investment will be converted into common stock worth just $6.3 billion.

If all the bad news is out, and Citi can maintain the new dividend indefinitely, then the current share price will probably look amazingly cheap in a few years. The fact it has fallen so far shows how worried investors are that things can get worse.
467 2008-01-16 Net income was $2.27 billion, a 51 percent rise over the fourth quarter of last year, when Intel’s net income was $1.5 billion. Earnings per share were 38 cents, 2 cents short of analysts’ forecasts, according to Thomson Financial. They were 26 cents in the quarter last year.

Intel, the world’s largest computer chip maker, is closely watched as an indicator of the strength of the technology industry, and its strong performance in the third quarter bolstered investor confidence in October. But the first quarter is often Intel’s weakest, and investors are increasingly concerned that tendency could be compounded by an overall slowdown.

Two weeks ago, Banc of America Securities and JPMorgan downgraded Intel to a neutral rating on concerns of weakening demand.

“What we’re seeing are the first signs of a slowdown,” said Christopher Danely, an analyst with JPMorgan. “By the end of earnings season people will be convinced there’s a problem out there.”

Shares of Intel ended regular trading at $22.69, down 39 cents, or 1.7 percent. After the market closed and the earnings report was issued, the shares declined to $19.48, a drop of 14 percent.

“It’s disappointing,” said Cody Acree, an analyst with Stifel, Nicolaus & Company. “We were holding out hope that there’d be some comfort, but none was forthcoming.”

One bright spot was gross margin, which was 58.1 percent for the fourth quarter, beating the company’s own target, and improving from 52 percent in the third quarter.

For the full year, Intel reported revenue of $38.33 billion, an 8 percent gain over 2006, and net income of $6.98 billion, an increase of 38 percent.

“The fourth quarter capped a very strong 2007 for Intel,” Mr. Otellini said. “We achieved our goal of regaining product leadership across our product line and of becoming leaner over all.”

From a competitive perspective, Intel is widely perceived to have regained the upper hand. In recent quarters the company has revamped its lineup of processors, including a number of new multicore processors and its first quad-core chip. Many analysts say Intel seems to be reclaiming technological leadership over Advanced Micro Devices and the company appears to have regained some of the market share it lost.

A.M.D., the No. 2 chip maker, is scheduled to report earnings on Thursday. In October, it issued a mixed report, posting its fourth quarterly loss in a row while showing signs of progress in curbing its expenses.

The company had initially set a goal of breaking even in the fourth quarter, but many investors are skeptical that it can achieve that goal for at least a few quarters. “I don’t expect A.M.D. to have any good news anytime soon,” Mr. Danely said.

Shares of A.M.D. fell 6.7 percent in extended hours after ending at $6.12 in regular trading.
468 2008-01-16 Animal breeding takes time, so even with Tuesday’s actions, it is likely to be several years before products from the offspring of clones are at the grocery store in appreciable quantity.

While acknowledging that consumer acceptance remains a hurdle, proponents of cloning technology say it could have a major impact on the livestock industry by providing meat and milk that is better and more consistent.

“When you buy a box of Cheerios in New York and one in Champaign, Illinois, you know they are going to be the same,” said Jon Fisher, president and owner of Prairie State Semen in Illinois. “By shortening the genetic pool using clones, you can do a similar thing.”

“It could improve the quality of meat in the supermarket,” Mr. Fisher added. “It depends if customers allow it.”

Consumer groups immediately lambasted the F.D.A.’s report, saying that the science remains inadequate and that many consumers oppose cloning for religious or ethical reasons. Some members of Congress had sought to delay a decision until further studies were completed.

“It flies in the face of Congress’s wishes. It flies in the face of consumer wishes,” said Michael Hansen, a senior scientist at Consumers Union, the advocacy group that publishes Consumer Reports.

But Stephen Sundlof, director of the F.D.A. Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, said food from cloned animals was “indistinguishable” from that of conventionally bred animals.

“It is beyond our imagination to even have a theory for why the food is unsafe,” he said.

The F.D.A.’s approval extends to cloned cows, pigs and goats but not other farm animals like sheep; the agency cited insufficient data on cloned sheep. The F.D.A. said meat and milk from cloned animals and their offspring would not be labeled because it was the same as conventional food and did not pose a safety risk.

However, Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, has introduced legislation to require labels on cloned products, and consumer groups suggested that labeling would be a battleground in the near future.

The F.D.A.’s announcement came with an asterisk, given the Agriculture Department’s request for a continued moratorium on the sale of clones into the food supply. That request is likely to have little effect, since producers are not looking to sell clones; each still costs thousands of dollars. But it could force a few owners of dairy clones to dispose of milk from the animals rather than sell it.

“That doesn’t cause me any particular heartburn,” Mr. Walton said of the extended moratorium.

It remains to be seen how widely the technology will be adopted. Interest from the food industry has been tepid, with some companies declaring that they will not sell milk or meat from cloned animals or their offspring. Other types of reproductive technology, such as artificial insemination, faced resistance on farms when they were first developed but eventually became widespread.

Tuesday’s decision means cloning technology could move into commercial use little more than a decade after the world learned of Dolly the sheep, the first mammal cloned from an adult cell, in Scotland.

To create Dolly, scientists took an unfertilized sheep egg and removed the genetic material. They then inserted the genetic material from an adult cell. Machinery within the egg somehow reset the clock on the adult genes, and the new cell, after implantation into a surrogate mother sheep, developed into Dolly.

This technique has since become routine in laboratories, with clones produced in numerous species — not including humans, so far as is known. In public discussion, the technology is sometimes confused with other techniques that involve genetic manipulation, such as the transfer of genes into animals from unrelated species. But cloning is simply the creation of an identical genetic copy.

The F.D.A. tentatively declared food from cloned animals safe in 2003 and then came to the same conclusion after a draft risk assessment at the end of 2006.

The agency said it received more than 30,500 comments on that risk assessment, many of them form letters. It took some of those comments into account and added data from new studies to come out with the final risk assessment issued Tuesday.

The agency said that while some cloned animals have birth defects, presumably because genes are turned on or off at the wrong times, the ones that survive past a few weeks appear to be as healthy as conventional animals. And whatever those genetic abnormalities are, it said, they are not passed on to the conventionally bred offspring of clones.
469 2008-01-16 The movie studios, he said, knew it was time: “We talked to them and talked to them and finally a bit flipped. They know the rental model; we came to the conclusion it was the right model. It took months and it took a lot of discussions, but it wasn’t really that difficult once the bit flipped.”

In that interview, Mr. Jobs took pride in demonstrating the MacBook Air, a three-pound notebook computer that will sell at a base price of $1,799. Mr. Jobs said that in order to reach his goal of making the industry’s thinnest computer, Apple’s designers made a series of trade-offs that the majority of laptop buyers may not appreciate.

The computer uses a 1.8-inch disk drive, on which no more than 80 gigabytes of data can be stored. Memory is limited to a standard two gigabytes of RAM and its processor is slower than those of Apple’s other laptops. The design team jettisoned an optical disk storage device for playing DVDs. Mr. Jobs demonstrated a feature called Remote Disk that will make it possible to play the contents of a DVD via a wireless network from another Macintosh or Windows PC. Also, the MacBook Air’s battery is not removable.

Responding to a question about the growing array of media, including digital photographs, movies and music, that now swell most users’ hard drives, Mr. Jobs said, “Maybe this isn’t the computer for you.”

In the interview, Mr. Jobs chastised the recording industry for its efforts to handicap Apple and iTunes by offering digital music without digital rights management copy protection through competitors like Amazon.

“They’re trying to create a competitor to iTunes by denying us D.R.M.-free music,” he said. He noted, however, that because one major label, EMI, and independent music producers are selling D.R.M.-free music through Apple, iTunes customers now have access to what he said was about 35 percent of the market without copy protection.

“It’s been frustrating us a little,” he acknowledged. “The music industry and iTunes need to find a way to work together because we’re the best vehicle they have.”

During his presentation, Mr. Jobs also demonstrated the first major software upgrade for the iPhone. He surprised analysts by reporting that Apple sold four million iPhones during their first six months on the market, a number significantly above most market research firms’ projections.

He demonstrated a handful of features that have been added to the phone, including a navigation feature that allows the phone to find the user’s rough location on a map by using network databases that record the location of cellphone towers and Wi-Fi hot spots.

Apple shares slipped, losing $9.74, or 5.5 percent, to close at $169.04. In after-hours trading, shares fell another 3.6 percent.
470 2008-01-16 The State Assembly and Senate passed legislation on Tuesday authorizing an $8 million bailout of the 2,800-student Roosevelt school system in Nassau County. The legislation provides a one-time state grant of $8 million to the district, the only school system ever placed under state control, to settle a debt that had threatened to create a fiscal crisis. The legislation also doubles the amount of an annual state grant to the district for academic improvement, to $12 million from $6 million. The money will allow the district to raise its per-pupil spending. The legislation will now go to Gov. Eliot Spitzer for approval.
471 2008-01-16 Bank of America, the banking giant, said on Tuesday that it was scaling back its investment banking operations, shedding an additional 650 jobs after suffering heavy trading losses from bad mortgage investments.

The layoffs will be on top of 500 jobs that were eliminated in mid-October, when Bank of America executives signaled plans for a retreat. Together, the cuts represent about 19 percent of the investment bank’s 5,900 employees.

Executives said that they would reduce coverage of certain investment banking customers and narrow the services it provides to corporate clients overseas. They are also narrowing their trading activities, scaling back their presence in packaging the mortgages and other complex securities that have been hit hardest by a tightening credit market.

Bank of America also plans to sell its prime brokerage unit, which faced steep competition and huge investment requirements. The hedge fund Citadel Investments, which has a big prime brokerage arm, has been reported to be interested in the business. Bank of America has received several inquiries, executives said, but no decision has been made.

While many analysts and other experts expected a more drastic retrenchment, the moves are still a blow to the bank’s plans to develop a top-tier investment bank.
472 2008-01-16 NEW DELHI — A leading environmental research group based here has asked Coca-Cola to consider shutting down a bottling plant in the drought-stricken state of Rajasthan, saying that the plant is depleting scarce water supplies.

The recommendation came in a report released Monday by the organization, Energy and Resources Institute. The report was commissioned by Coca-Cola in 2006 in response to reports that pesticide residues had been found in its products.

The study found no pesticides in the water used at the six bottling plants it sampled, and said that water quality “generally meets the government regulatory standards.”

But the report expressed concern about the company’s use of scarce water supplies — an issue that has been raised repeatedly by villagers who live near several of the company’s bottling sites.

The assessment looked at 6 of the company’s 49 bottling plants in India, but highlighted conditions at the Kaladera plant in Rajasthan. The plant’s presence in this area would “continue to be one of the contributors to a worsening water situation and a source of stress to the communities around,” it said. The company should find alternative water supplies, relocate or shut down the plant, the report concluded.
473 2008-01-16 “That’s in Boeing’s favor right now,” Mr. Studioso said.

Production of the 787 includes an ambitious plan under which suppliers preassemble much of the plane and ship it to the Seattle area for final assembly. The method was meant to allow Boeing to build the 787 at a faster pace.

The company had watched while its rival, Airbus, struggled with assembling the mammoth 380 superjumbo jet and with completing a design for the 350. Now, the focus is turning toward Boeing’s problems, as industry efforts to create fuel-efficient and technologically advanced aircraft run into the realities of manufacturing.

Customers would like to get the bad news all at once, not in dribs and drabs, Mr. Studioso, the analyst, said. “You saw a slide in Airbus’s reputation when they came out with one delay or another. It’s not good.”

On a sharply lower market day, Boeing shares tumbled nearly 5 percent Tuesday, to $77.86, on the news, first reported on The Wall Street Journal’s Web site. The shares had been as high as $107.83 in the last year, but have been battered by the 787 delays.

In September, Boeing said that it would delay the 787’s first test flight by three months, but that deliveries — the first plane was to go to All Nippon Airways of Japan in May — would not be delayed.

But the following month, Boeing said deliveries would be delayed by six months, pushing the first delivery to December 2008. It said it expected to conduct the first test flight in March 2008. The company also brought in a new executive to oversee the 787 program.

Last month, providing an update, Boeing stood by the October assessment and said it would be able to deliver 109 of the planes in 2008, a startling pace in making such a big plane.

The problems have included a shortage of some fasteners and other parts used to assemble parts of the 787 and delays in some software.

Boeing sent its own workers out to suppliers around the world, hoping to speed things up, then bypassed some of the preassembly process and simply had suppliers ship their work in pieces to Boeing.

It was not clear on Tuesday whether Boeing encountered new problems, or delays in solving existing ones. A spokesman, Peter Conte, declined to comment.

Northwest Airlines has 18 787s on order and Continental Airlines has ordered 25. United States carriers have been adding international flights, for which demand is strong and there is less low-cost competition, and reducing domestic flights.
474 2008-01-16 The right of Britney Spears to visit her two little boys remained suspended under a ruling issued at a closed-door hearing by the Superior Court commissioner, Scott Gordon, on Monday in Los Angeles, The Associated Press reported. Neither Ms. Spears, 26, nor her former husband Kevin Federline, 29, was required to attend. He did; she came late to the courthouse but never went inside. He retains custody of the boys, Sean Preston, 2, and Jayden James, 1. Another hearing is scheduled for Feb. 19.
475 2008-01-16 “Shine a Light,” the Rolling Stones concert documentary by Martin Scorsese, right, will open the 58th Berlin International Film Festival on Feb. 7. Mr. Scorsese and the Stones will be in attendance, Paramount Pictures announced. The film, derived from more than half a million feet of concert footage, captures the band in two concerts at the Beacon Theater in New York, on Oct. 29 and Nov. 1, 2006, when guest performances were delivered by Christina Aguilera, Buddy Guy and Jack White of the White Stripes. The film will be released in North America by Paramount Classics on April 4.
476 2008-01-16 Re “Hungry for a Market, but Where?” (Jan. 2): Kim Severson is correct; the question is not whether New York City is ready for an indoor public market, but where to locate one so that it serves residents and vendors alike. The mayor and city officials must give serious consideration to a public market system that will benefit all New Yorkers. What could be more green than a network of markets that support local agriculture and food entrepreneurs while representing the city’s global nature?

The writer is senior vice president, Project for Public Spaces.
477 2008-01-16 “The government says it champions women, but it continues to lock us out,” said Margot Dorfman, chief executive officer of the chamber, who said the S.B.A. had stalled compliance.

The S.B.A., in response, said that writing the rules was a “complex and controversial responsibility” to establish guidelines to set-aside contracts based on gender. “The legislation requires us to establish that women-owned small businesses are underrepresented in an industry in which a set-aside would be created,” said Christine Mangi, the agency’s spokeswoman.

As to the criticism that the S.B.A.’s new rules include too few industries, Ms. Mangi said that the agency planned to revisit the issue “approximately every five years” and “update the affected industry sectors.”

Female-owned businesses, defined as at least 51 percent controlled or owned by females, were awarded 3.4 percent, or about $11 billion, in government contracts in 2006. The failure to hit the 5 percent mark, according to Congressional figures, deprived female owners of roughly $5 billion annually.

Last May, frustrated by the S.B.A.’s inaction, the House of Representatives passed a bill to raise the percentage for contracts for female-owned business owners to 8 percent from 5 percent, and to direct that 30 percent of annual government contracts, not 23 percent as now, be set aside for all small business.

The Senate has yet to act on the bill, which would wipe out the agency’s proposed rules from 2007, which are available in the Federal Register for public comment until the end of February. In the meantime, both the Senate and House small business committees plan hearings — the first will be in the House on Wednesday — to question the S.B.A. about its the rules.

“To suggest that the only women who deserve support are in industries as small as kitchen cabinet manufacturing is downright insulting,” said Nydia M. Velázquez, the New York Democrat who heads the House Small Business Committee.

She introduced the original women’s contracting bill, which was attached to the S.B.A. appropriations legislation and approved in December 2000. It was intended to carry out the goal Congress established in a 1994 law that women receive 5 percent of government contracts.

The 2000 legislation required the S.B.A. to conduct a study to identify industries where businesses owned by women were underrepresented and to set up procedures to verify eligibility for female-owned companies to receive preference.

The agency’s initial study of industries was derailed after a review by the National Academy of Sciences found it flawed. A federal district court judge, ruling in 2005 in the Women’s Chamber of Commerce suit, said the S.B.A. had “sabotaged” the start of the program and asked for a timetable for carrying it out; a hearing in the case is Jan. 28.

Last year, an S.B.A. study found that women received a disproportionately low number of federal contracts in three-quarters or more of the 140 industries, including manufacturing, real estate, health care and waste-management services. The study was conducted by the Kauffman-Rand Institute for Entrepreneurship Public Policy.

Ms. Velázquez also criticized the S.B.A.’s proposal that would limit each contract for businesses owned by women to $3 million (except for $5 million for manufacturing contracts), saying it would benefit “only a tiny fraction of the business women this country.” The S.B.A. said it was simply following dollar limits set by Congress.

Elizabeth Novak, chief executive officer of Environmental Waste Specialists, a three-person company in Chantilly, Va., that packages, transports and disposes of contaminated waste, counts herself among the critics of the proposed rules.

“I get almost no contracts now,” Ms. Novak said. “I’m pulling in $1 million in revenues a year now, but if I just had the opportunity to compete, I could triple that — and give the government a better deal for its dollar.”
478 2008-01-16 The United States remains the world leader in scientific and technological innovation, but its dominance is threatened by economic development elsewhere, particularly in Asia, the National Science Board said on Tuesday in its biennial report on science and engineering.

The country’s position is especially delicate, the agency said, given its reliance on foreign-born workers to fill technical jobs.

The board is the oversight agency for the National Science Foundation, the nation’s leading source of funds for basic research in the physical sciences.

The report, available at www.nsf.gov/statistics/indicators, recommends increased financing for basic research and greater “intellectual interchange” between researchers in academia and industry. The board also called for better efforts to track the globalization of manufacturing and services in the high-tech sector, and their implications for the American economy.

Over all, it said, surveys of science and mathematics education are both “disappointing and encouraging.” Fourth- and eighth-grade students in all ethnic groups showed improvement in math, the report said, but progress in science is far less robust. And knowledge gaps persist between demographic groups, with European- and Asian-Americans scoring higher than students from other groups.

Many Americans remain ignorant about much of science, the board said; for example, many are unable to answer correctly when asked if the Earth moves around the Sun (it does). But they are not noticeably more ignorant than people in other developed countries except on two subjects: evolution and the Big Bang. Although these ideas are organizing principles underlying modern biology and physics, many Americans do not accept them.
479 2008-01-16 Saudi Arabia, he said, shared the president’s concern that a downturn in the American economy could have profound effects around the world, including on the oil market. He even raised the prospect of “recession,” a word Mr. Bush studiously avoided in the interview, even when pressed about “the R-word.” But Mr. Naimi said Saudi Arabia would raise production only “when the market justifies it.”

“Presidents and kings have every right, every privilege, to comment or ask or say whatever they want,” Mr. Naimi said in a news conference after Mr. Bush’s remarks. “The concern for the U.S. economy is valid, but what affects the U.S. economy is more than the price of oil.”

Mr. Bush’s remarks on oil, made as voters went to the polls in Michigan, underscored a growing worry inside the White House that the economy could sour in his final year in office.

Mr. Bush has in general not weighed in so directly on economic matters. But with American consumers starting to feel the effects of rising energy costs, his administration is discussing ways to stimulate the economy. And he has raised the issue of oil’s impact in public and private meetings with the leaders of several Persian Gulf states, including Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and now Saudi Arabia.

The response has been muted, according to Ed Gillespie, the presidential counselor.

“They talked about the nature of the market and the vast demand that’s on the world market today for oil,” he told reporters late Monday, referring to the leaders Mr. Bush had met. “That was a point that was obviously made in the course of these conversations by our friends, and that’s a legitimate and accurate point.”

Mr. Bush last met King Abdullah in Crawford, Tex., in April 2005, before the Saudi leader’s half brother, King Fahd, died and he assumed the Saudi throne. Then, too, concern about rising oil prices prompted the Bush administration to prod Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s largest producer, to raise production to ease prices.

At the time, oil was selling for $54 a barrel; this year, futures have twice passed the $100-a-barrel mark, largely because of tensions between the United States and Iran.

Prices have fallen in recent days, though, as concerns grow that a possible recession in the United States might cut consumption, just as Mr. Bush warned King Abdullah.

Asked what specifically he wanted the Saudis and other OPEC producers to do, Mr. Bush said he hoped “that OPEC, if possible, understands that if they could put supply on the market, it would be helpful.” But he also said reducing prices would require new investments and exploration and a search for alternative fuels.

In Abu Dhabi on Monday, Mr. Bush toured an exhibition of alternative energies at the Emirates Palace hotel built by a cash-flush government at a cost of $3 billion. He praised “the can-do spirit” of those seeking to exploit new technologies to replace the resource that had made the Persian Gulf states he visited rich.

Tuesday’s talk of oil overshadowed other issues that have dominated Mr. Bush’s discussions with King Abdullah and other leaders. Those include the peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, the war in Iraq and the diplomatic confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program.

King Abdullah, like most Arab leaders Mr. Bush met, has not expressed full support for Israel living side by side with a Palestinian state, though he was instrumental in pushing through an Arab League proposal laying the terms for a peace that Israel has rejected. Mr. Bush, though, said the Persian Gulf leaders supported his peace effort, started in Annapolis, Md., in November.

“They want to see a deal done,” he said, adding that the United States had to overcome “years of disappointment.”

On the question of Iran, Mr. Bush said he tried to explain his desire to intensify international pressure on Tehran over its nuclear program, despite a National Intelligence Estimate released in Washington in December that concluded that the Iranians had halted a covert nuclear weapons program in 2003.

He distanced himself from that finding more starkly than before, arguing that Iran’s continued enrichment of uranium was a threat because the knowledge used to master that process could be transferred to weapons research.

“I defended our intelligence services,” he said, “but made it clear that they’re an independent agency, that they come to conclusions separate from what I may or may not want.”
480 2008-01-16 SAN FRANCISCO — Steven P. Jobs is rebooting Apple’s digital movie effort and putting the company squarely in the middle of an intensifying industry battle to download movies and Internet content to high-definition televisions.

On Tuesday at Macworld Expo, an annual trade show, Mr. Jobs announced that the company is adding movie rentals from all the major Hollywood studios to its iTunes download service. Mr. Jobs said that more than 1,000 regular definition and about 100 high-definition movies would be available by the end of February.

He also unveiled a sequel to Apple’s year-old, unsuccessful AppleTV — a set-top box designed to play those movies on a high-definition television set. The older version of AppleTV, introduced last year, required a computer connection. The newer version connects directly to the Internet and allows consumers to select movies and TV shows to watch directly from their TVs.

“We’ve all missed. No one has succeeded yet,” Mr. Jobs said of the industrywide effort to marry the Internet and the television. “We learned that what people really wanted was about movies, movies, movies. And we weren’t delivering that. So we’re back.”

The announcements come a week after the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, where many of Apple’s consumer electronics industry competitors like Samsung, Panasonic and Sharp introduced their own efforts to better integrate digital content and televisions. Other companies like Microsoft, Netflix and a set-top box start-up, Vudu, are trying to insinuate themselves into the digital movie business. They believe the Internet presents a chance to deliver a new generation of content to consumers.

Anxious to defend themselves from these rivals, cable and satellite companies are expanding their own on-demand offerings. Comcast, one of the nation’s largest cable companies, said last week it would have 6,000 movies available on demand by next year, with half of those in high-definition.
481 2008-01-16 Some Greenmarket farmers are finding ways to offer new items, even in midwinter.      Knoll Krest Farm in Clinton Corners, N.Y., known for its eggs, is using them to make fresh fettuccine. Plain pasta is $3 for 10 ounces, beet flavor is $4; other ...
482 2008-01-16 HUGE LOSS AT CITIGROUP Citigroup, the nation's largest bank, reported a staggering fourth-quarter loss of $9.83 billion and forecast that the housing market and the broader economy still had not bottomed out.         DIFFERING GOALS As the Federal...
483 2008-01-16 President Bush urged the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries on Tuesday to take into account the toll that high oil prices are having on the American economy, gingerly touching on an issue that has begun to color the last year of his...
484 2008-01-17 A 225-foot mural of sailing ships adorns what was once the main banking floor of Lee, Higginson & Company at 41 Broad Street. Rarely open to the public, the ballroom will be the site of a talk by Pete Hamill Thursday evening....
485 2008-01-17 Blogtalk: Two movers and shakers are moving to New York, the art of Chelsea, a big house for Brooklyn middle schoolers and more New York region links....
486 2008-01-17 I.B.M.'s long-term strategy of moving up to higher-profit businesses and increasingly relying on services and software is working. But the questions from Wall Street analysts had a common theme. Why are executives so comfortable about the 2008 out...
487 2008-01-17 Time Warner Cable plans to test a new price plan that would limit how much customers can download. Those who go over the limits might end up paying $4 to $30 to watch a high-definition movie....
488 2008-01-17 There is a bubble bursting far from America's housing market, shown by an index you've probably never heard of. The index is the Baltic Dry Index, and it measured shipping rates of a bunch of bulk dry commodities, lik grains, coal and iron ore. Si...
489 2008-01-17 The latest iPods have built-in clocks that could support music subscription services as well as movie rentals. The music industry still believes that their best option is to charge people a flat monthly rate for all they want to listen to. Apple, ...
490 2008-01-17 As long-time "From the Desk..." readers are no doubt aware, I spent the first ten years out of college working on Broadway as an arranger and conductor, killing time while trying to make my way as a composer/lyricist. Those days are long gone now,...
491 2008-01-17 The requested URL could not be retrieved

The following error was encountered while trying to retrieve the URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/17/technology/personaltech/17pogue-email.html

The remote host or network may be down. Please try the request again.
492 2008-01-17 Two intriguing points from Slate blogger Mickey Kaus. The first: Isn't the press making a bit too much of Hillary losing the black vote in the Michigan Dem primary to "uncommitted" by a 26 to 70 margin? The Michigan primary had been declared meani...
493 2008-01-17 John McCain hopes to be redeemed in South Carolina eight years after smear attacks there ruined his presidential campaign....
494 2008-01-17 Can't resist. I see that Anna Schwartz is blaming the Fed for the subprime crisis; I have some sympathy for this view, but not for the reasons she gives. But anyway, the article mentions the whole "did the Fed cause the Great Depression" issue, an...
495 2008-01-17 With deals for open-source software companies heating up, The 451 Group asks whether Oracle, IBM, Novell and other acquirers will push the level of open-source mergers and acquisitions to another record in 2008. Go to Report from The 451 Group »...
496 2008-01-17 The Credit Suisse Group bucked a financial sector trend on Thursday, announcing a worldwide expansion plan for its flagship private banking arm, Reuters reported. In contrast to layoffs elsewhere in a financial sector hard-hit by the credit crisis...
497 2008-01-17 Investors cheered JPMorgan Chase on Wednesday, underscoring how, in these troubled times on Wall Street, a drop in profits can still make a firm look like a champion - mostly because the drop wasn't worse. At least, notes TheStreet.com, that is th...
498 2008-01-17 At a coming-out party Wednesday for SAP's acquisition of Business Objects, executives left the door open for more big deals. On Tuesday SAP, the No. 1 provider of business software applications, completed its $7.1 billion purchase of Business Obje...
499 2008-01-17 The New York Stock Exchange agreed on Thursday to buy the American Stock Exchange, ending a once intense rivalry that began in colonial times when brokers traded in outdoor markets.

Both exchanges have battled for corporate listings and bragging rights since the early 1900s, with their trading floors just a short walk away from each other in Lower Manhattan. Newspapers around the country all listed the stock swings on the nation’s two dominant markets, until investors began paying more attention in the 1990s to technology issues on the upstart Nasdaq Stock Market.

Their evolution took a very different path — with the Big Board forming NYSE Euronext to become the world’s first trans-Atlantic exchange. The AMEX, unable to compete the way it once did, began to focus on trading options and other financial products.

The AMEX, which once hosted the likes of big-name stocks such as The New York Times Company and The Washington Post Company, now trades generally smaller companies that are often too illiquid to meet the standards of bigger rivals.

NYSE Euronext said it would pay AMEX’s seatholders, which are generally members that trade at the exchange, $260 million in stock. In addition, they would receive more stock after the sale of the AMEX’s landmark building on 86 Trinity Place — a landmarked art deco building that it moved into in 1921 and that sits only blocks away from the World Trade Center site.

The deal will give NYSE Euronext a second United States license for an option exchange. It would make the NYSE the No. 3 options marketplace in the country.
500 2008-01-17 A federal judge in New York said Thursday that he was “disappointed” in how investigators from the Central Intelligence Agency had handled videotapes documenting the harsh interrogation of detainees from Al Qaeda, adding that he was considering questioning agency officials who had watched the tapes about why they had made no record of them in their files.

The judge, Alvin K. Hellerstein of Federal District Court in Manhattan, said from the bench that he was astonished that the C.I.A. investigators had not kept records about the tapes, which were destroyed in 2005, even though they were an important part of an internal C.I.A. review of interrogation methods.

“I’m asked to believe that actual motion pictures, videotapes, of the relationship between interrogators and prisoners were of so little value” that no record of them was kept in C.I.A. investigative files, Judge Hellerstein said.

“I just can’t accept it,” he said. “If it came up in an ordinary case, it would not be credible.”

The tapes are now the subject of Congressional hearings and form the basis of a separate criminal investigation seeking to determine whether agency officials broke the law by destroying them or by concealing their existence. They showed agency operatives using harsh interrogations methods on two Qaeda detainees, Abu Zubaydah and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri.
501 2008-01-17 Hard lessons learned: This time Mr. McCain is deploying a South Carolina Truth Squad and much of the state’s Republican political establishment, which backed Mr. Bush in 2000. Mr. McCain, who over the last seven years methodically courted important South Carolina Republicans and showered them with money from his political action committee, now has them on board to try to intercept the attacks before there is major damage.

In 2000, said Trey Walker, Mr. McCain’s South Carolina political consultant, “it was a lot like sitting in the Norad command center looking up at that big board and seeing all these thousands of missiles coming in on you and being able to get off one little puff of smoke back.”

Now, Mr. Walker said, “If we get an indication there’s an early launch, we have certain detection devices out there, we’ll respond.”

Mr. McCain, who has acknowledged that the attacks in 2000 and his subsequent loss in South Carolina left him feeling angry and sorry for himself, now seems more determined to fight back aggressively in a state that once again could play a big part in determining the fate of his candidacy.

“We hear that phone calls are being made,” he told reporters on his campaign bus, the Straight Talk Express, on Wednesday afternoon. “We will not let it go this time.”

On Wednesday, within hours of the start of the automated calls, Mr. McCain’s South Carolina headquarters fired off thousands of e-mail messages with a statement from Henry McMaster, the state’s attorney general. “Allow me to set the record straight,” Mr. McMaster, a McCain supporter, said. “In the U.S. Senate, John McCain has been an unwavering voice for the rights of the unborn.” (Mr. McCain is a longtime opponent of abortion, but he supports research on stem cells gathered from embryos.)

On Tuesday, within hours of the first reports of the veterans’ flier, Mr. McCain’s campaign held a conference call with reporters to denounce the mailing, which showed a cartoon of Mr. McCain in a prison cell. Writing on the wall behind him said “Elect Me, Elect Me, P.O.W. for President” and “An Enormous Crime, The P.O.W.’s I Helped Leave Behind.”

Orson Swindle, a former prisoner of war with Mr. McCain in Vietnam, also issued a statement on Tuesday calling the flier a “vicious” fraud. “Nothing could be further from the truth,” the statement said. “I know because I was there. The truth is, the North Vietnamese offered John McCain early release, and he refused.”

And on Saturday night, within hours after Mr. McCain’s advisers learned of the people who objected to Mr. McCain’s divorce, his campaign sent out an e-mail alert to thousands of South Carolina supporters warning them of a potential dirty tricks campaign and advising them to call a McCain Truth Hot Line if they learned anything more.

“It’s a fancy name for a dedicated cellphone,” said Buzz Jacobs, the state director of Mr. McCain’s South Carolina campaign.

It is not clear who was behind the comments about Mr. McCain’s divorce, but the two other attacks can be directly traced to groups claiming credit, who seem primarily to attack at the time of presidential campaigns.

Common Sense Issues, the group attacking Mr. McCain about unborn children, is run by Patrick Davis, who was the political director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee in 2004. In a telephone interview on Wednesday from his base in Colorado Springs, Mr. Davis said that he started the automated phone calls in South Carolina on Tuesday night, shortly before the polls closed in Michigan’s primary, and that they were directed against Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, and Fred D. Thompson, a former senator from Tennessee, as well as Mr. McCain.

Mr. Davis, who organized similar automated calls in Iowa, New Hampshire and Nevada, agreed to let a reporter listen to one of them. The call first asked whom the listener was supporting in the primary. If the listener said Mr. McCain, the automated voice said that not only did Mr. McCain support research on “unborn babies,” but that in writing the McCain-Feingold bill tightening rules on campaign donations, Mr. McCain had created “the most restrictive assault on free speech ever passed in America.”

The call referred to the bill as the “McCain-Feingold-Thompson law,” evidently because Mr. Thompson had also backed it.

Mr. McMaster, South Carolina’s attorney general, said that his office was investigating whether some of the phone calls violated a state law that prohibits making automated calls directly to people and not to just their answering machines.

Vietnam Veterans Against McCain is led by Gerard W. Kiley, who led a similar effort against Senator John Kerry’s Democratic presidential campaign in 2004. Reached Wednesday at his home in Garnerville, N.Y., in Rockland County, Mr. Kiley said that he was effectively the only member of his group and that “we really don’t have any money to speak of.” Mr. Kiley said he thought Mr. McCain gave up too much information to the North Vietnamese and was wrongly claimed as a war hero.

Mr. Kiley, 61, a Vietnam veteran, said that he had worked for the past four decades for a major New York corporation that he declined to name.

Mr. Kiley said that his flier had been distributed by U.S. Veteran Dispatch, an online newspaper published by Ted Sampley, who did not return a telephone call on Wednesday afternoon. It was unclear how widely the flier was distributed.

On Wednesday, Mr. McCain was greeted in South Carolina by people waving Confederate flags. They passed out fliers saying that he had “joined with the enemies of South Carolina history & heritage, calling for removal of the battle flag from the South Carolina Capitol Dome.”

In 2000, Mr. McCain called the flag offensive and a “symbol of racism and slavery” but he later backed off and called it “a symbol of heritage.” Mr. McCain later said he regretted the shift, conceding that “I feared that if I answered honestly, I could not win the South Carolina primary,” and that “I chose to compromise my principles.”

This time, Mr. McCain is hoping that his “truth squad” and network of supporters will back him up. One of them is Mr. McCain’s good friend Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who was one of the few from the state’s political class to support Mr. McCain in 2000.

“I told him, ‘John, it’s not going to be me and you against the world this time,’” Mr. Graham said.
502 2008-01-17 At a briefing in Toulouse, France, on Wednesday, though, Thomas O. Enders, the chief executive of Airbus, would not be drawn in on the subject of the 787’s production troubles. “These are complex production processes,” Mr. Enders said. “We at Airbus know as well as anyone how difficult it is.”

Mr. Enders was speaking at an event to announce that Airbus had booked orders for a record 1,341 planes in 2007, closely trailing the 1,413 orders reported by Boeing this month. Airbus said it delivered a total of 453 planes to customers last year, up from 434 in 2006 and surpassing Boeing’s deliveries of 441 planes.

A surge in demand for air travel over the last three years, particularly in Asia and Europe, has driven a thirst for new planes from airlines. The combined order backlog for both Airbus and Boeing stands at more than 6,800 aircraft, worth roughly $750 billion at list prices.

Boeing said that the delay would not have a significant effect on its profit forecast for 2008. Its shares rose $2.01, or 2.6 percent Wednesday, to $79.87, after falling more than 4 percent Tuesday on speculation about the delay.

The first Boeing 787 will not make its initial flight until “around the end of the second quarter,” the company said Wednesday, instead of the end of the first quarter. And delivery of the first plane is expected in early 2009 instead of late 2008. Boeing had initially planned to deliver the first 787 in May to All Nippon Airways of Japan, which has 50 of the 787s on order.

Northwest Airlines, scheduled to be the first domestic carrier to receive the 787, with 18 on order, was “very disappointed” by the latest delay, a spokesman, Roman Blahoski, said. “We’re hopeful that Boeing will address the problems with the 787 production expeditiously and be in a position to provide us with a reliable delivery schedule.”

Continental, the other big domestic customer, with 25 787s on order, was disappointed, too, but “we still think the airplane is going to be a game-changer when it comes on line,” a spokesman, Dave Messing, said.

Airlines have little choice but to wait. The A350 is not expected to fly until 2013. Airbus said that it secured 290 orders in 2007 for the A350.

Still, Boeing’s inability to guarantee a delivery schedule “is a bit worrisome,” said Troy J. Lahr, an analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus & Company in Baltimore. “I would have thought by now, in the program, you would have a better understanding.”

Mr. Lahr said he expected that Boeing would scale back its initial production schedule of 787s to perhaps 65 for the first year. “I have confidence in 40,” he added.

The plan for making the airplane in large, mostly finished sections and shipping them to Everett, Wash., for final assembly was meant to transform airline manufacturing. But suppliers fell behind, struggling with a shortage of fasteners and, more recently, with the process of assembling many components together — a job traditionally done by Boeing.

So Boeing, wanting to move things along, had suppliers ship unassembled work to Everett. But, said Patrick Shanahan, who was brought in as general manager of the 787 program three months ago, “we underestimated how long it would take to complete someone else’s work.”

Determining the sequence of putting parts together has been a huge source of delays. Boeing, anticipating that suppliers would be doing the work, did not engage in the long, detailed engineering planning required to put tasks in order. “We were wrong” in thinking Boeing could quickly pick up where suppliers had failed, Mr. Shanahan said.

Of the thousands of parts in the 787, Boeing now lacks 27 — various pumps, generators, computers — needed to power the plane up and expects to have them by Monday, Mr. Shanahan said. An additional 20 parts not yet on hand, but expected soon, are needed for taxiing tests, he said.

Longer term, though, Boeing needs to shift the pre-assembly work back to its suppliers. And Boeing officials are visiting those companies and expect, in coming weeks, to be able to project when that work can be done there, on schedule and at a scale that will allow 787 production to increase.

Airbus is racing to catch up. Mr. Enders, the chief executive, said the detailed design for the A350 could be completed as early as this summer. The A350 is expected to cost at least $15.4 billion to develop.

Airbus expects to begin talks with European governments in the second half of this year about providing some of the initial financing for the A350, company executives said Wednesday, a move that risks heightening trade tensions with the United States over state aid to their respective aerospace industries.

Airbus and its parent, European Aeronautic Defense and Space, have said the group can finance part of the development of the A350. The group is also counting on financing help from suppliers in Europe, China, Russia and South Korea.

Company executives said any government loans would have to be carefully structured to stand up against a possible legal challenge from Boeing and the United States trade representative.

“We will have to make up our minds in 2008,” Mr. Enders said. “The important thing is to have something of a level playing field with our competitor across the Atlantic.”

In Geneva, a World Trade Organization panel appears likely to delay until summer a ruling on a United States lawsuit contending Airbus received billions of dollars in subsidized government loans for aircraft development in violation of global trade rules.

The European Union has filed a countersuit, contending that Airbus lost $27 billion in revenue from 2004 to 2006 because of state tax breaks and outright government grants to Boeing. It also contends that Washington has provided billions of dollars in indirect support to Boeing’s commercial jet programs through contracts with military and space programs.
503 2008-01-17 The researchers report that nearly half of the cases of prostate cancer among the roughly 5,000 men in the study could be attributed to the five gene regions and a family history, with some men having one or two of the gene variants and others having all five and a family history.

Prostate cancer becomes more common as men age — autopsies of elderly men find that most had prostate cancer, whether they knew it or not. But the men in this study had an average age of about 65, when the disease is less common and more likely to kill.

William B. Isaacs, a professor of urology and oncology at Johns Hopkins University and an author of the new report, said that if research validates what has been found, men may want to get the new genetic test when they are young, 35, say. Those at high risk because of their genetics might then choose to start prostate-cancer screening earlier than the usual age of about 50, using a blood test that looks for proteins secreted by prostate tumors.

“I think that makes sense,” said Dr. Howard Sandler, a professor of radiation oncology at the University of Michigan and a spokesman for the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

But others worry that more frequent testing could exacerbate what is already a major problem: most prostate cancers grow so slowly that they would have been harmless if left alone. But since doctors cannot tell which are dangerous, they treat nearly all that they find. And treatment has serious side effects, including, often, impotence and incontinence. Nonetheless, researchers say, the test is a harbinger of things to come.

“It’s the boutique medicine of the future,” said Dr. Peter C. Albertsen, a surgery professor and prostate cancer specialist at the University of Connecticut. “We can know what diseases we will have to face in the rest of our lives.”

That worries him, as it does Dr. Edward P. Gelmann, deputy director of the Comprehensive Cancer Center at Columbia University. “Technology today enables us to find out a huge amount of information,” Dr. Gelmann said. “But how does the public deal with this information? How does it help them make decisions? And if they make a decision, does that lead to a day, a week, a month, of life saved?”

The study, by scientists at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, the Harvard School of Public Health, and Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, will appear in the Feb. 28 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine. It was released online on Wednesday, a journal spokeswoman said, because “it is a very active area of research with a lot of competition.”

Researchers long knew that the disease often runs in families. Though scientists spent years looking for genes, they found none that were reproducibly associated with a marked effect.

With new technology to scan the entire length of a person’s DNA, researchers tried a new approach. They began looking for small variations in tiny DNA regions that were associated with prostate cancer. That resulted in the discovery, by several groups of investigators in Iceland and the United States, of the gene variants, small alterations in gene sequences. Unlike traditional genetic links to disease, the variants are not mutations that destroy a gene’s function. In fact, no one knows what their effect is.

The next step was to ask whether those variants really could predict who had prostate cancer. So Dr. Jianfeng Xu, a professor of epidemiology and cancer biology at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, and his colleagues studied a Swedish population of 2,893 men with prostate cancer and 1,781 men who did not have it. That led to their finding that each of the five variants independently predicted prostate cancer risk.

“Each confers a moderate risk,” Dr. Xu said, adding that the effect of having just one of the variants — a 10 or 20 percent increase in a man’s chance of having prostate cancer — was not enough to justify using a single variant for screening. But, he added, because each conferred an independent risk, the risks added up so that the more men had, the greater their risk. Then they found that family history of the cancer added an independent risk. “That was very, very surprising to us,” Dr. Xu said.

The next step, Dr. Isaacs said, is to look in other populations. “We think that can happen almost instantaneously,” he said, explaining how scientists have blood samples and family histories of thousands of men who were tested for prostate cancer.

But some said that if the test leads to more screening, it is not necessarily a good thing. There is already too much prostate-cancer screening, they say, resulting in too much treatment. “To me, it is a nightmare,” Dr. Albertsen said. “We are just feeding off of this cancer phobia.”

What is needed, and what the new test does not provide, is a way to decide which cancers are dangerous and which are not, Dr. Isaacs said. Still, he said the new test could help patients if it was used with caution. “We may be premature with this idea — everyone has a different way of thinking about this — but it should not take five years to know if we are on the right track. All this can happen very rapidly.”

“We have worked with enough families that have a positive family history to know that people are anxious to know their risk of prostate cancer,” he said.
504 2008-01-17 A little more than two months before he expects to have his second book in stores, José Canseco is switching publishers for “Vindicated,” his promised sequel to the incendiary best seller “Juiced: Wild Times, Rampant ’Roids, Smash Hits and How Baseball Got Big.”

Canseco has also switched collaborators. He is now working with Pablo F. Fenjves, a former National Enquirer writer who was the ghost writer of “If I Did It,” the book in which O. J. Simpson hypothesized about how he would have murdered Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman.

Berkley Books, an imprint of Penguin Group USA, was scheduled to publish “Vindicated” on opening day this spring but withdrew from the project Tuesday.

“By mutual agreement with José Canseco, we have decided not to publish his book ‘Vindicated,’ ” Craig Burke, a spokesman for Berkley, said in an e-mailed statement Wednesday. “After much consideration, we have agreed to part ways due to editorial delays that made it impossible to maintain our original publishing schedule.”

Berkley grew concerned after Don Yaeger, a former Sports Illustrated associate editor who was originally set to work with Canseco on the book, pulled out of the project a few weeks ago.
505 2008-01-17 If a friend’s digital music collection leaves you with playlist envy, instant gratification is one step closer. MiShare lets music connoisseurs swap files between iPods on the fly.

The device serves as a bridge between two iPods (though not the Shuffle or Touch models) and allows sharing of songs, videos and photos. It can transmit a 3-megabyte song in about 6 seconds, or a 60-megabyte album in under 2 minutes. Pushing a button copies the most recently played song; holding it down copies the whole playlist.

But miShare doesn’t eliminate the need to connect to a computer altogether. When you sync your iPod with iTunes, you are prompted to unlock any songs and videos that are protected by Apple’s anticopying system by entering the original purchaser’s user name and password.

Unprotected songs are available for immediate playback (but sharing responsibly is always a good idea).

The device, which will be available this month for $100 from mishare.com, is simple in form, but the manual is a must-read for the technologically timid.
506 2008-01-17 Three former agents of the New York office of the Drug Enforcement Administration filed a defamation lawsuit on Wednesday against NBC Universal studios, claiming that the movie “American Gangster” libeled D.E.A. agents.

The movie, which was released in November, depicts the life of Frank Lucas, a Harlem drug dealer who earned millions of dollars on the streets before his arrest and successful prosecution in Manhattan in 1975.

The former agents — Jack Toal, Gregory Korniloff and Louis Diaz — accused NBC Universal of including an incorrect postscript at the end of the film stating that Mr. Lucas’s eventual cooperation with the government led to the convictions of “three-quarters” of the agents who served with the New York D.E.A. from 1973 to 1985.

Despite such claims, no D.E.A. agents were prosecuted following the Lucas trial, said Dominic F. Amorosa, a lawyer for the agents who is also the former prosecutor who tried the Lucas case.

“With this utterly false and defamatory statement, the defendant has ruined and impugned the reputations of these honest and courageous public servants in the eyes of millions of people,” the former agents wrote in their complaint, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
507 2008-01-17 BERLIN — The Czech Republic and the United States are within months of signing three framework agreements on the deployment of the Pentagon’s missile shield, Karel Schwarzenberg, the Czech foreign minister, said Wednesday.

One agreement would be related to the deployment of radar installations on Czech territory, he said. The second would involve American and Czech companies cooperating on research, development and the deployment of the ballistic missile defense system. The third would establish the status of United States forces stationed on Czech territory.

“We hope to conclude the negotiations on the text by the end of spring,” Mr. Schwarzenberg said, referring to the defense cooperation agreement. “The document should minimize the legal, trade and political limitations and create favorable conditions for establishing new ties and contacts between Czech and American researchers and businessmen.”

The Czech announcement, during talks in Prague that included Lt. Gen. Henry A. Obering III, director of the United States Missile Defense Agency, and American and Czech defense contractors, came as Poland’s new center-right government resumed talks with the United States over the terms for deploying up to 10 interceptors on Polish territory.

In talks on the missile shield, the Czech Republic has set much more modest demands than Poland has. It has requested that its companies be involved in some of the defense contracts, as well as the development of the system.
508 2008-01-17 On a recent morning, Mr. Driehaus, a wiry man who wears Paul Smith suits and a distinctive aureole of silver hair, welcomed several visitors to his home, which he has owned for more than 20 years but only began to occupy a year ago. The intervening years were spent contemplating various renovation schemes. “I bought it as a house-in-waiting,” he said. “I wasn’t married then, but I thought it would be a nice home for a future family.”

The exterior of the house — a three-story red-brick subdued Queen Anne that dates from 1887 — has carved-stone detailing that recalls the work of the noted Victorian designer Charles Eastlake. When Mr. Driehaus acquired the house, the interior had been chopped up and rearranged. Since then, however, he has completed a top-to-bottom renovation with the help of John Nelson, a Chicago architect. “The house was designed around Richard’s collections,” Mr. Nelson said. “We looked at his antiques first and then created rooms to hold them. We had these negotiations about which things would go to the museum and which would go to the house. Luckily, we had more than enough for both.”

On the first floor, a striking front hall contains a three-story spiral staircase and four Hector Guimard-designed Art Nouveau chandeliers. Next is a suite of parlors, the first of which looks like something out of Edith Wharton’s “Age of Innocence,” right down to the gilded harp in the window and a suite of gilded French furniture.

The real dazzler here, however, is the living room, a two-story space at the back of the house. The room features silver walls, a massive onyx and polished nickel-plated steel fireplace and 11 Joseph Urban-designed panels from the now demolished Ziegfeld Theater in New York, of medieval musicians in shades of brown, gold and green. In addition, there are two sets of panels depicting the birth of Aphrodite from the grand salon of the Normandie, an Art Deco ocean liner of the period.

The effect is overtly theatrical. One expects to find George Gershwin or Harpo Marx lounging on the couch while Alexander Woollcott shakes the cocktails.

Leaving the 1920s behind, one ascends to the second floor and to Mr. Driehaus’s Art Nouveau bedroom, with furniture by Louis Majorelle, a major Art Nouveau designer.

The third floor, meanwhile, consists of a sunny rooftop conservatory with a glass terrazzo floor and a suite of rooms that includes a sitting area equipped with Viennese Secessionist furniture.

The basement holds a Gothic-inspired wine cellar and game room with a stone hearth, a Tiffany chandelier and paintings by Edward Burne-Jones.

In some ways, Mr. Driehaus could be described as a late bloomer. A bachelor until his early 50s, he did eventually marry and have two daughters. During this period, however, the house remained empty because his wife never liked the place.

“Her response was, there’s no light, no garden and it’s not big enough,” he said, sounding vaguely outraged. In truth, the house — which has heavily swagged and draped windows — is a little dim and shadowy. Mr. Driehaus, however, points out that this is entirely appropriate for a 19th-century house. In any case, he loves it.

“We took something that was good and made it even better,” he said.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, the marriage didn’t work out. Today Mr. Driehaus lives there alone, tended by Michael Wedlake, his cheery British major-domo, basking in his reputation as one of the city’s premier bon vivants.

Most would agree that he gives some of the best parties in the Chicago area. In addition to the numerous dinners and receptions he sponsors as part of his various philanthropic endeavors, he is noted for his annual birthday extravaganza. Held each July for a thousand or so guests at his baronial lakefront estate in Lake Geneva, Wis., a Hamptons-like resort an hour and a half north of the city, it is considered the high point of the local summer social season.

“He gets everyone,” said Sugar Rautbord, a socialite and some-time novelist, who has worked with Mr. Driehaus on several charitable initiatives. “You never know who the person on your right will be — it might be a model or a mogul or a famous architect, or it might be Cardinal George. He likes to bring everybody together.”

This past summer, the party had a historic circus theme with a parade of jugglers and acrobats. Mr. Driehaus, who prides himself on knowing how to make an entrance, rode in on an elephant, wearing a top hat and a ringmaster’s costume, and beaming and waving to the assembled crowd.

“I never did anything until I was 50,” he said. “I spent my early years making money for my clients. Now I’m ready to have some fun.”

Of course, he still finds time for his passions, most notably what he considers the dismal state of contemporary architecture. Five years ago, he founded the Richard H. Driehaus Prize for classical and traditional architecture, an annual $200,000 award administered by the University of Notre Dame School of Architecture in nearby South Bend, Ind. He doubled the size of the prize last year, making it one of the largest architectural prizes in the country. (The much-better-known Pritzker Prize carries a $100,000 award.)

“It just seemed like the right thing to do,” Mr. Driehaus said. “Business is good and $100,000 is not what it used to be.”

In his campaign to reverse what he sees as a century of dehumanization in architecture, Mr. Driehaus has attracted some high-powered allies.

“I think he’s a remarkably fresh and inventive thinker who has a genuine and deep passion for design,” said Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic for The New Yorker and a member of this year’s Driehaus Prize jury.

His new museum is in a three-story, 24,000-square-foot stone mansion, built for Samuel J. Nickerson, the founder of the First National Bank of Chicago, in 1883. The cost was $450,000, then a fantastic amount.

Mr. Driehaus acquired the Nickerson house in 2003 from the American College of Surgeons, a professional association that had owned it since the 1920s. Shortly afterward, he hired M. Kirby Talley Jr., an Amsterdam-based author and art historian, to oversee the restoration.

“My marching orders were to take it back to 1883,” Mr. Talley said. “It’s remarkable to find a situation like this where you can honestly say that no expenses were denied to do the job the right way.”

The museum will display objects from Mr. Driehaus’s collection of late-19th and early-20th-century art and artifacts and also offer special exhibitions.

Mr. Driehaus, who grew up on the city’s distinctly unglamorous southwest side in a middle class family that slipped a few notches after his father, a mechanical engineer, developed Alzheimer’s disease in his 50s, started collecting after he got out of college and began working as a stock picker for various investment firms. Initially, collecting was a hobby, but it became something more in the early 1980s when he decided to open a bar.

The bar, called Gilhooley’s, faced competition from chain restaurants like Houlihan’s and T.G.I. Friday’s that featured funky — if faux — Tiffany lamps and stained-glass windows.

“I thought having real ones might give me an advantage,” he said. He has since donated the bar to Saint Xavier, a Catholic university.

Something about the period — the late 19th and early 20th centuries — clearly sparked him.

“The 19th century speaks to me in an organic, natural and harmonious way,” he said. “Design today is just not as heartfelt.”

Tiffany is a particular passion — Mr. Driehaus currently has about 30 windows and 60 lamps. But these are just part of a vast trove of statues; candelabrum; clocks; paintings; posters; various urns, vases and vessels; silver punch bowls; carved mantles and screens; carpets; and dozens of cabinets and commodes as well as one of the few original Hector Guimard-designed Paris Métro entrances in private hands.

The bulk of this loot adorns Mr. Driehaus’s various offices and residences, with the overflow going into storage in a west side warehouse.
509 2008-01-17 And yet he avoided public disputes with monarchical leaders widely accused of limiting freedoms as he sought Arab support for the peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians, the war in Iraq, diplomatic efforts to isolate Iran and easing the strain on the American economy caused by high oil prices.

On Sunday, in the United Arab Emirates, Mr. Bush delivered what his aides described as the keynote address of the trip when he spoke of setbacks in democratic reforms in remarks that his aides said were aimed at Egypt, among other nations.

“You cannot build trust when you hold an election where opposition candidates find themselves harassed or in prison,” he said. “You cannot expect people to believe in the promise of a better future when they are jailed for peacefully petitioning their government. And you cannot stand up a modern and confident nation when you do not allow people to voice their legitimate criticisms.”

Mr. Bush has previously criticized Egypt for arresting Mr. Mubarak’s main opponent in the presidential elections in 2005, Ayman Nour, who Mr. Bush last year said was “unjustly imprisoned.” Mr. Bush has also met with another prominent opposition leader, Saad Eddin Ibrahim, who has since fled Egypt, fearing arrest.

Mr. Bush mentioned neither man directly and included only an oblique reference to “strong civic and religious leaders who love their country and are determined to build a democratic future.”

“I appreciate the example that your nation is setting,” he said, facing the Egyptian president.

Mr. Mubarak expressed strong support for Mr. Bush’s efforts to broker a peace treaty in Israel, something that has become a focus of last year of the Bush administration. “We’re ready, hand-in-hand with the United States of America” to support the process Mr. Bush has advocated, he said, “for the sake of comprehensive and just peace.”

Neither mentioned a source of tension between Israel and Egypt, its control of its border with Gaza. Israel has accused Egypt of laxity or complicity in smuggling weapons through tunnels into Gaza, which is under the control of Hamas, the Islamic group.

“Egypt has to do more,” Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told The Jerusalem Post last week. “Those tunnels need to be dealt with,” she said. “We’re prepared, obviously, to give” assistance, “but the will to do it is very important here.”

An administration official said that Gaza figured prominently on Mr. Bush’s agenda for the talks in Egypt on Wednesday, but it was not clear how hard he pressed the issue of Egypt’s willingness to help isolate Hamas in Gaza. Mr. Bush’s visit here was the shortest of his trip, which included stops in Israel, Kuwait, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. He stayed only three hours, reflecting Egypt’s diminished significance to the administration. Mr. Mubarak noted the brevity, saying in English, “You need much more days.”
510 2008-01-17 Citigroup, the biggest American bank, on Tuesday reported a fourth quarter net loss of $9.83 billion, its biggest loss on record, reflecting write-downs on subprime mortgage investments of $18 billion.

That number is twice what the bank forecast only two months ago, and Asian investors are concerned other American financial institutions, including Merrill Lynch and Bank of America, may also announce huge losses in the coming days.

Asian banks have felt little of the subprime fallout on the scale of their American counterparts, though the contagion is also widening here. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the Japanese bank, likely lost as much as $470 million on subprime investments last year, more than 10 times more than its previous estimate, executives with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters on Wednesday.

Fears for a recession in the United States increased as retail sales declined 0.4 percent in December. Consumption makes up almost 70 percent of the value of the American economy, and had until recently held up even in the face of rising subprime problems.

A recession in the United States could drag down the economies of Asia, many of which depend on a healthy American economy to sustain exports. To avoid that outcome, investors expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates a half point from the current 4.25 percent when it meets later this month.

But with the Chinese economy enjoying double-digit growth and serving as a new market for exports from the region, it is possible that China will pick up some of the slack if the United States slows, shielding Asia from economic problems in America. On Wednesday, China tried to rein in growth by raising the proportion of deposits that banks must hold in reserve for the eleventh time since the start of 2007.

Slumping stocks sent the price of relatively safe Japanese bonds soaring, and yields, which move conversely to price, declined to the lowest levels since September 2005. The yield on the 10-year government bond declined by four basis points to 1.385 percent.

The dollar also slid against the Japanese yen, as carry trades in which investors raise funds at low Japan interest rates and invest them in assets in countries such as the United States, were reversed and funds flooded back into the Japanese currency.

The dollar bought only 105.97 yen at one stage in Asian trade, the first time it has dipped below 106 since May 2005.

The Meat of the Matter in a Pasta Debate

Op-Ed: In Baseball, Fear Bats at the Top

Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Search Corrections RSS First Look Help Contact Us Work for Us Site Map
511 2008-01-17 No fielder has ever blamed it for an error. No pitcher has ever blamed it for a home run. No hitter has ever struck out and said “it was A.D.D.”

But now we learn that last season, 103 players said they had it. That’s 7.6 percent of the 1,354 players who were at one point on a 40-man major league roster. That’s a mind-boggling increase from the 28 players who supposedly had it in 2006.

What we don’t know is whether 75 players suddenly discovered last year that they had A.D.D. or that 75 players were newly afflicted with it or that this is simply just a bunch of garbage.

I do not mean to make light of the condition, certainly not for the people who genuinely have it. But considering the newly discovered prevelance of A.D.D. in baseball, I am highly skeptical of the claims.

Players now claim they have it so they can receive therapeutic-use exemptions from the ban on the use of stimulants. Amphetamines, for half a century or more the stimulant of choice in baseball, are banned, so players have turned to other stimulants, although they are banned as well without a prescription.

By receiving an exemption, a player can use stimulants like Ritalin and Adderall, which are prescribed for people who really have the disorder. A player receives an exemption by having a doctor submit medical records to the independent doctor who oversees and authorizes exemptions.

Far be it for me to question the legitimacy of players’ claims, but I am questioning their claims. In today’s medical world, doesn’t it seem unlikely that a person discovers at age 25 or 30 that he has A.D.D.?

Can it go undiagnosed? Yes. But did it go undiagnosed in 103 major league baseball players?

Undiagnosed and untreated attention deficit disorder was the key to the Howe case in 1992, and it was a defense formulated by his lawyer, Richard Moss, who also argued the grievance before the arbitrator, George Nicolau.

Moss was the players union lawyer who won some of the most significant grievances in baseball’s legal history. Moss gained Catfish Hunter his freedom in a breach-of-contract grievance against Charlie Finley, the owner of the Oakland Athletics, in 1974. A year later, Moss won the Messersmith-McNally case, a decision that created free agency.

But Moss had an even more difficult task in overturning Commissioner Fay Vincent’s lifetime ban of Howe, and he succeeded in having the ban overturned and Howe reinstated.

Two psychiatrists, chosen by one doctor for each side, concluded that Howe had attention deficit disorder and had never been properly treated for it.

Howe, who had a family history of alcoholism, began drinking at 15 and used cocaine and marijuana during his college years. He said he used cocaine before the ceremony when he received the Rookie of the Year award in 1980.

Between late 1982 and late 1988, he was hospitalized and treated six times in four different facilities for drug and alcohol abuse. Vincent’s suspension of Howe was his seventh in baseball. But Nicolau found reason for Howe’s horrid history.

“We now know,” Nicolau wrote in his 54-page opinion, “that Howe has an underlying psychiatric disorder that was never diagnosed or treated; that this disorder has been a contributing factor to his use of drugs; and that absent treatment for the condition, he remains vulnerable to such use.”

Nicolau found other reasons to overturn the lifetime ban, including baseball’s failure to test Howe every other day for drug use, as had been stipulated, but it was A.D.D. that stood out.

In his decision, Nicolau directed that Howe needed “professional psychiatric care” for the disorder and the behavioral problems associated with it.

As it turns out, Howe was way ahead of the times. He was a pioneer. Interestingly in light of this week’s development, in his Howe opinion, Nicolau wrote that one of the psychiatrists “cautioned against treatment with medication for any A.D.D. patient involved in competitive athletics.”

In light of that advice, those players who have therapeutic-use exemptions may want to reconsider their treatment and opt instead to see Officer Krupke.
512 2008-01-17 At the same time, an economy getting a subprime pummeling has nudged Iraq from the center of Americans’ concerns. The victory of McCain’s rival Mitt Romney in the Michigan primary came in a state craving quick fixes for 7.4 percent unemployment. McCain didn’t offer that.

So, three states have chosen distinct Republican candidates, with a social conservative, Mike Huckabee, triumphing in Iowa; McCain taking New Hampshire with independent support; and Romney using his C.E.O. image to win Michigan. Bush’s party is split: God, heroic nation and Wall Street are out of sync.

It’s been widely assumed that the Democratic Party’s shoot-itself-in-the-foot capacity, evident in 2004, would have to hit overdrive to wrest defeat from victory this year. These Republican splits comfort the notion of inevitable Democratic triumph.

But, as Norman Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute noted, “There’s no doubt that the one Republican candidate that leaves most Democrats quaking is McCain. They’re uneasy about the breadth of his appeal.”

McCain’s attractiveness to independents, between 10 percent and 30 percent of the vote nationally, involves policy and personality. His readiness to take on global warming, back immigration and demand legal representation for war on terror detainees give him centrist appeal at the price of opposition within his party.

But McCain does not win the wavering as policy wonk; he’s flesh and blood. The straight-talking survivor of more than five years of Vietnamese imprisonment is at home in his own skin in a way Bush will never be. McCain has a temper but no need to be macho to convince. He walks without his arms clenched.

None of this would matter if McCain’s support of the Iraq war had condemned him. But it now appears that is not the case. In New Hampshire, where independents were an important factor, McCain’s support was broad. He tends to defy categorization.

But he’s categorical in his opposition to tyranny. Saddam Hussein, as Nick Cohen, a British author, observes in his important book on liberal hypocrisy in Iraq called “What’s Left?,” represented “not a tin-pot dictator but real Fascism,” complete with a “messianic one-party state” and “armies that swept out in unprovoked wars” and “secret policemen who organized the gassing of ‘impure’ races.”

This death-and-genocide machine killed about 400,000 Iraqis in internal persecutions and another million or so people in Iran and Kuwait. When you’ve been imprisoned, as McCain has, you know what terror means: death of spirit, soul, life itself.

Saddam’s nightmare ended in a misbegotten, mishandled, bloody and costly war. Does Bush’s fraudulent, blunder-ridden rush to war matter more than the prizing of 26 million human beings from a sadistic tyrant who modeled himself on Hitler and Stalin?

That core question has seldom, if ever, been dignified by honest debate through all the verbal Iraq wars fought on U.S. soil. I still believe Iraq’s freedom outweighs its terrible price. So does McCain. In the looming battle between the Baptist minister, the corporate whiz and the war hero — and perhaps Mr. 9/11 — to unite the frayed strands of Republicanism, McCain now has a fighting chance.

If he’s nominated, some lines would be blurred in the White House fight. McCain’s not my choice for president. He’s too conservative across a range of social questions, and his temperament and age raise concerns. But he’s too honorable to dismiss at a moment so critical to U.S. standing in the world.
513 2008-01-17 SUPPORT FOR STIMULUS PLANBen S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has told lawmakers that he can support tax cuts or spending measures to stimulate the economy, even if they  increase the budget deficit, provided the measures are quick an...
514 2008-01-18 Also in the Morning Buzz: Rudolph W. Giuliani’s ties to a company seeking to sell border technology, the debut of Susan Dominus’s new Metro column and a collector’s decision to return 10 antiquities to Italy....
515 2008-01-18 Is the march of technology taking away rights people used to enjoy, such as the ability to make personal copies of things they buy? Tim Wu, of Columbia Law School, says technology is eroding the value of ownership. Rick Cotton, of NBC Universal, s...
516 2008-01-18 Stories of triumph, hope, loss and love based on the popular Times Vows column and told by the couples themselves.
517 2008-01-18 CNBC interviews New York Governor Elliot Spitzer on new financial regulations in the state.
518 2008-01-18 A former Goldman Sachs trader who helped lead a $6.7 million insider-trading conspiracy - and then cooperated with the government - was sentenced to time served by a federal district court judge on Friday. The former trader, David Pajcin, whose te...
519 2008-01-18 A commission assembled to revamp New York State's financial regulations recommended on Friday having a single regulator to oversee the securities industry, instead of the current four overseers. The group of state officials and financial executive...
520 2008-01-18 After a successful run at VH1, Michael Hirschorn "is leaving the cable network to form his own production company, which will develop shows initially for that channel and others owned by MTV Networks, including MTV, CMT, and Logo," Bill Carter rep...
521 2008-01-18 Elissa Schappell (Emily Tobey) Elissa Schappell is the author of the novel "Use Me" and a co-editor of the anthology "Money Changes Everything." 1) What are you working on? I'm currently working on a book of fiction called "Blueprints For Building...
522 2008-01-18 Announcing a long-rumored deal, NYSE Euronext said on Thursday that it had agreed to acquire the American Stock Exchange for $260 million in stock to increase its business in options, exchange-traded funds and cash products. The deal, which is exp...
523 2008-01-18 The mortgage lender Countrywide Financial may have to pay Bank of America a fee of $160 million if a deal to buy it falls through, according to a regulatory filing on Thursday. Bank of America said last week that it would buy Countrywide in a shar...
524 2008-01-18 The auto parts supplier Delphi said Thursday it had won approval from nearly all of its creditors and cleared away an objection by bondholders for its plan to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Among the objections Delphi needs to resol...
525 2008-01-18 Independent News & Media said late Thursday it would pay 86.6 million euros ($127 million) for the 50 percent of Clear Channel Independent, an African advertising firm, that it doesn't already own. It had previously owned Clear Channel Independent...
526 2008-01-18 The London Stock Exchange opened a Beijing office Friday, stepping up its rivalry with United States markets to attract listings by fast-growing Chinese companies expanding abroad. The opening of the office came as British Prime Minister Gordon Br...
527 2008-01-18 Special-purpose acquisition vehicles have become increasingly popular in the last year or so, with well-known deal-makers such as Ronald Perelman and Nelson Peltz sponsoring SPACs of their own. The latest to hit the market is Sapphire Industrials,...
528 2008-01-18 Across the past eight years, no one has worked harder at a political remake for this state’s conservative-steeped presidential primary than Senator John McCain. He took care to pronounce the nation Christian and made peace with the Bible Belt’s evangelical political bosses after angrily sassing them in his disastrous 2000 run here.

Now wooing the party machine after flourishing as its maverick, Mr. McCain reversed himself to endorse President Bush’s deficit-feeding tax cuts after initially opposing them and is portraying the happy warrior offering expiation to the party. (He literally embraced Mr. Bush in signing on to the president’s re-election tour four years ago.)

The senator can be heard this week furiously defending Mr. Bush’s Iraq war and drawing big cheers from crowds as he approaches the Saturday primary vote, looking for a second chance at the nomination. He’s counting on party history since 1980 — aiming to be another of the New Hampshire and South Carolina double-winners who have consistently secured the nomination.

Significantly, he’s remembering to defend against more of the midnight smears that staggered him in 2000. Mr. McCain is even dealing creatively with that campaign’s vicious canard, that he fathered a black daughter out of wedlock. This time, his wife and campaign literature offer beguiling — strategically pro-life — images of the girl’s adoption at Mother Teresa’s clinic.

The McCain profile is to embody patriotism itself, just as his nearest competitor, Mike Huckabee, embraces Christianity in seeking the heavy evangelical vote. This has set up a kind of Flag-vs.-Cross showdown, with Mr. McCain building a surprising lead in state polls — for what they’re worth in a year when voters seem to be rummaging through the G.O.P. possibilities, more than settling on one.
529 2008-01-18 A special tribunal of the army-backed emergency government adjourned the start of the corruption trial of Sheik Hasina Wazed, a former prime minister and the leader of a top political party, the Awami League, until next week, lawyers said. Sheik Hasina has pleaded not guilty to extorting $435,000 from a business group while in power from 1996 to 2001. She — along with her political rival, Khaleda Zia, the leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party and also a former prime minister — is among 150 high-profile figures who have been arrested as part of the emergency government’s anticorruption crusade, and as part of its attempt to break the women’s stranglehold on the country’s politics and keep them from participating in the next election.
530 2008-01-18 New York City has one of the country’s most generous public matching finance systems. During the 2001 campaign, council candidates received four dollars for every one they raised. That ratio has since been increased to six to one.

Mr. Martinez insisted yesterday that all of the invoices from his 2001 campaign were legitimate receipts for services performed. He was considering appealing the decision, he said.

“We have not committed any wrongdoing and we certainly didn’t fabricate any documents,” said Mr. Martinez, a Democrat of Washington Heights.

Dick Dadey, executive director of the government watchdog group Citizens Union, called it one of the worst abuses in the history of the city’s campaign finance program, which began in 1989. “He wrongly took taxpayer dollars for his 2001 campaign and spent them on very questionable and unknown expenses,” Mr. Dadey said.

The board began auditing Mr. Martinez’s 2001 campaign expenses in the spring of 2002. In its eight-page decision Thursday, the board contended that Mr. Martinez repeatedly stalled and requested multiple extensions to gather documentation.

When the board finally received what the campaign claimed were all of its invoices in late 2003, the board became suspicious of several of the receipts, which seemed to have been generated by the same hand. Several, for example, had the same typographical error in the billing address, listing it as “612 Wets 178 Street.”

Included among these were bills for $4,000 and $3,500 from separate firms for consulting and translation services.

Another group of receipts appeared to have come from similar templates in the Microsoft Office Excel computer program, with identical formats, leading the board to conclude they were not original receipts. These included a $570 bill from Caridad Restaurant for catering service and $1,560 for purchase and repairs of a campaign bus.

The board also concluded that invoices for payments to about 18 people for campaign work and get-out-the vote activities were fabricated.

After the board filed a notice of violations, which included allegations of fraud, against Mr. Martinez in late 2004, the councilman sued the board, claiming the charges were too vague for his campaign to respond. The State Supreme Court in Manhattan granted a preliminary injunction stopping the board from moving forward with the allegations.

The board got the injunction lifted on appeal, and in June reissued a detailed list of 17 violations totaling $100,780, which would have been the largest ever assessed for a City Council race.

The board held a hearing in September and after deliberating, dropped some of the charges, including any allegations of fraud, and reduced the fines, though some smaller violations were added, for a total of 12.

In 2006, Mr. Martinez was fined $31,820 for misrepresenting the source of contributions in his 2003 campaign, according to the board.
531 2008-01-18 Just days after being told that milk and meat from cloned livestock were safe for human consumption, Europeans were warned Thursday that cloning causes suffering to the animals.

A report by the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies says that the risks of negative effects were grave enough to keep cloned products off the European market.

There are “doubts as to whether cloning animals for food supply is ethically justified,” the group said in a statement. “At present,” the group said, it does “not see convincing arguments to justify the production of food from clones and their offspring.”

The group’s assertions come after a separate preliminary report by the European Food Safety Authority. That group, which advises members of the European Commission and governments, said last Friday that cloned products appeared to be safe for human consumption. The food authority’s definitive report is expected in May.

“Both studies are important, and you can’t say we will favor either one of them,” Nina Papadoulaki, the commission’s spokeswoman on health issues, said Thursday.
532 2008-01-18 NYSE Euronext said on Thursday that it had agreed to acquire the American Stock Exchange for $260 million in stock to increase its business in options, exchange-traded funds and cash products.

The deal is expected to close in the third quarter and to bolster the 2009 earnings of NYSE Euronext. The transaction is subject to approval by Amex members and regulators.

Amex members will be entitled to receive extra shares of NYSE Euronext based on the net proceeds from the expected sale of Amex’s headquarters in Lower Manhattan.

NYSE Euronext said the deal would save $100 million a year within two years.

Amex had 2007 operating revenue of $178 million and it had a pretax net loss of $36 million.
533 2008-01-18 MARKET PLUNGES  The stock market plunged again, falling 3 percent on bad economic news. Investors took little comfort from reassuring words by the chairman of Federal Reserve or an emerging consensus from President Bush and Democrats in Congress a...
534 2008-01-19 At many events, John McCain is appearing alongside supporters whose focus is intercepting negative attacks before there is major damage.
535 2008-01-19 I think I can speak for all of the Republican candidates when I say South Carolinians are never just fair weather friends.

I am very grateful to our South Carolina team and to the many dedicated volunteers who gave so generously of their time and labor and kept us competitive in some pretty challenging times, my friends.

And there is a lot of people we want to thank, so many.

Among them are my dear and beloved friend, Lindsey Graham, the senior senator...

My dear and beloved friend, the great, great, great Attorney General of the state of South Carolina, Henry McMaster.

The leader in the South Carolina legislature, a leader in the fight to reduce taxes, less government, less regulation, has made South Carolina a wonderful place to work and to live, the speaker, Bobby Harrell (ph).

(APPLAUSE) I hope you all know how much your friendship means to me. The debt I owe you is a privilege and an obligation which I promise you I will faithfully discharge.

I want to thank my wonderful wife, Cindy, the best campaigner in the family...

My daughters Meghan and Sidney, who are with us tonight; as well as my son, Doug, and our children who could not be here; and of course, my friends, my mother, Roberta McCain.

It is obvious to me, and to all who know me, that we would not be where we are tonight, but for your love, encouragement and faith in me.

In the course of this campaign, I have tried as best I could to tell people the truth -- to tell them the truth about the challenges facing our country and how I intend to address them.

As I have said before -- and you have heard me -- before I can win your vote, I must earn your respect. And the only way I know how to do that is by being honest with you.

I have tried to do that throughout this campaign and to put my trust in your willingness to give me your fair consideration. So far, it seems to be working pretty well.

You and I are aware that for the last 28 years, the winner of the South Carolina primary has been the nominee of our party.

We have a ways to go, of course. There are some tough contests ahead, starting tomorrow in the state of Florida, where we are going to win...

We are well on our way to that and I feel very good about our challenges.

My friends, as pleased as we are about the results -- we have a reason to celebrate tonight -- I know that I must keep foremost in my mind that I am not running for president to be somebody, but to do something.

I am running to keep America safe, prosperous and proud. I am running to restore the trust of the American people in their government.

I am running so that our children and their children will have even greater opportunities than the ones we were blessed with. I am running so that every person in this country, now and in generations to come, will know the same sublime honor that has been the treasure of my life: to be proud to be an American.

I seek the nomination of our party, because I am as confident today as I was when I first entered public life as a foot soldier in the Reagan Revolution -- that the principles of the Republican Party -- our confidence in the good sense and resourcefulness of free people are always in America's best interests.

In war and peace, in good times and challenging ones, we have always known that the first responsibility of government it to keep this country safe from its enemies, and the American people free of a heavy handed government that spends too much of their money, and tries to do for them what they are better able to do for themselves.

We want government to do its job, not your job; to do it better and to do it with less of your money; to defend our nation's security wisely and effectively, because the cost of our defense is so dear to us; to respect our values because they are the true source of our strength; to enforce the rule of law that is first defense of freedom; to keep the promises it makes to us and not make promises it will not keep.

We believe government should do only those things we cannot do individually, and then get out of the way so that the most industrious, ingenious and enterprising people in the world can do what they have always done: build an even greater country than the one they inherited.

My friends, I know and you know we are facing challenging economic times, and we must be responsive to the concerns of Americans who fear they are being left behind in the global economy.

But nothing is inevitable in our country. We are the captains of our fate.

We can overcome any challenge as long as we keep our courage, and stand by our defense of free markets, low taxes and small government that have made America the greatest land of opportunity in the world.

My dear friends, I have served our country all my adult life, and I am prepared for the high office I seek.

I asked South Carolinians to help give me the opportunity to serve the country I love a little while longer.

You have done that, and I will never forget it. I promise you I will always put America -- her strength, her ideals, her future -- before every other consideration.

Thank you for your trust. I will not let you down, so help me God.

Good night and God bless you as you have blessed me.
536 2008-01-19 With 97 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, led with 33 percent of the vote, just ahead of Mr. Huckabee’s 30 percent.

Former Gov. Mitt Romney, who coasted to an easy victory earlier on Saturday in the Nevada caucuses, fell to fourth place behind Fred Thompson, the former senator of Tennessee.

A triumphant Mr. McCain greeted cheering supporters in Charleston, where he thanked South Carolina voters “for bringing us across the finish line first in the first-in-the-south primary.”

Still, Mr. McCain cautioned that his campaign “has a ways to go” and noted that he faces several “tough contests ahead.”

Mr. Huckabee, in his concession speech, also urged his supporters to look ahead to the next stage of the campaign.

“We’re not going to sit around and second guess,” he said, adding that he felt “a sense of just sheer joy that we got as far as we did when nobody thought it was possible for us to be in contention.”

In an apparent dig at Mr. Romney, whose attacks ads he has criticized, Mr. Huckabee said he “would rather be where I am and have done it with honor than have won with the dishonor of getting there by attacking somebody else.”

He ended his speech saying, “The path to the White House is not ending here tonight.”

With the Republican field split among three front-runners, each of whom has won at least one early contest, South Carolina’s primary is being closely watched for signs of how the candidates might fare as the race expands into the South.

Mr. Thompson, who has yet to win a primary or caucus, had hoped that a stronger showing in South Carolina could breathe some life into his flagging campaign.

Some observers had speculated that Mr. Thompson would drop out of the race if he did not place in the top two. But in a prime-time speech to supporters, Mr. Thompson only thanked his campaign staff and reiterated what he described as his “strong consistent conservative beliefs.”

On occasion, however, Mr. Thompson’s words slipped into the past tense. “We will always be bound by a close bond,” he said. “We have traveled a special road together for a very special purpose.”

The results in South Carolina began to arrive hours after Mr. Romney won the Republican caucuses in Nevada by a wide margin. But his victory there was likely to be overshadowed by the South Carolina results, because his rivals largely decided to ignore Nevada. Mr. McCain of Arizona and Mr. Huckabee were looking to score support from military families and evangelical Christian voters, two powerful blocs in South Carolina that represent a core section of the Republicans’ conservative base.

Mr. Romney, speaking in Florida, delivered a stump speech with a celebratory air, despite the prospects of a poor showing in the Palmetto State. He pointed out that Michigan and Nevada, along with Florida, usually play pivotal roles in the general election, and argued that his success in those states would bode well for Republican prospects in November.

“Those are two big battleground states,” Mr. Romney said. “Winning them is a big indication of a very successful presidential campaign. That’s one reason we fought so hard in those states.”

While open to all voters, the primary was dominated by Republicans and conservatives. Eight in 10 voters described themselves as Republicans (up from six in 10 in the 2000 primary), and more than half were white evangelical Christians.

About 45 percent of Mr. Huckabee’s supporters described themselves as very conservative, while about the same number of Mr. McCain’s supporters said they were moderate or liberal, according to a poll conducted as people left polling places around the state.

Most of Mr. Huckabee’s supporters described themselves as evangelical or born-again Christians, and most said they attended religious services at least once a week. Six in 10 Huckabee supporters said it mattered a great deal that a presidential candidate shared their religious beliefs.

On the matter of electability, more voters said Mr. McCain had the best chance of winning the general election in November than any of the other candidates. But voters were divided between Mr. McCain and Mr. Huckabee over who was most likely to bring change to the country.

Voters said they were more concerned about the nation’s economy than they were about illegal immigration, the war in Iraq or terrorism.

They said it is more important that the eventual nominee shares their values than that he has the right experience or is forthright or is likely to beat a Democrat in the fall, according to a poll conducted as people left polling places around the state.

Two-thirds of the voters say their own family’s finances are holding steady, while about one in ten say they are falling behind. More than a third of those who participated in the poll taken as voters left polling places said it matters a great deal to their vote that a candidate share their religious beliefs. More than 4 in 10 say abortion should be illegal in most cases and another 3 in 10 say it should be illegal in all cases.

The exit poll was conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International for the National Election Pool.

Poor weather conditions, including rainstorms and reports of snow, were expected to play a role in Saturday’s outcome. Aides to Mr. McCain debated whether it would help or hurt his chances, with some seeing an advantage for Mr. Huckabee, because the evangelical Christian voters he is counting on are often highly motivated.

Others thought the conditions could help Mr. McCain, since the worst weather was forecast for parts of the state where Mr. Huckabee is the strongest. Milder weather was expected along the coast, where Mr. McCain is strongest.

The state director of Mr. McCain’s campaign, Buzz Jacobs, said early this afternoon that some McCain supporters had been turned away from polling places in Horry County because electronic voting machines were not functioning properly.

“Some voters say they are being instructed to return at a later time,” Mr. Jacobs said in a statement. “We are disturbed by these reports and hope that this issue is resolved immediately. We encourage any voters who were turned away from the polls to return again to their polling place this afternoon to exercise their constitutional right to vote.”

In Nevada, it appeared that Mr. Romney’s last-minute campaigning in the state paid off. With 98 percent of the electoral precincts reporting, the former Massachusetts governor had 51 percent of the vote, while Senator McCain and Representative Ron Paul each had 13 percent. Mr. Huckabee was running fourth with 8 percent.

Mr. Romney’s rivals overlooked Nevada, largely because state rules do not automatically assign delegates to the winning candidate, unlike South Carolina.

“Today, the people of Nevada voted for change in Washington,” Mr. Romney said in a statement released by his campaign. “For far too long, our leaders have promised to take the action necessary to build a stronger America, and still the people of Nevada and all across this country are waiting. Whether it is reforming health care, making America energy independent or securing the border, the American people have been promised much and are now ready for change.”

In an interview aboard his campaign plane as he flew to Florida, Mr. Romney said he could “not be more pleased” and made the argument once again that it was important to rack up delegates, no matter what the contest.

“Nevada has 34 delegates,” he said. “And I want those delegates.”

In a sign of just how unsurprising the result was, after one question from a reporter about how he felt, he went back to talking about his economic stimulus package.

Mr. Romney’s $250 billion plan is far larger than President Bush’s proposed $150 billion plan and contains. Besides tax cuts for individuals and corporations, the plan has several provisions targeting homeowners, raising loan limits from the Federal Housing Administration and lowering down payment requirements to help more people qualify for loans.

When asked later whether his victory had any diminished significance given how his rivals had mostly chosen not to campaign in Nevada, Mr. Romney again said it was the delegate count that mattered.

“I’m not looking just to get a couple of high profile victories,” he said. “I want go get delegates and I want to win this nomination.” Before leaving the Nevada, Mr. Romney handed out doughnuts to supporters and caucus goers at a 7:30 a.m. stop at a Las Vegas high school. Many of the several dozen in the enthusiastic crowd, however, appeared to be supporters who had driven in from California, as caucus goers did not need to show up until 9 a.m.

In a sign of just how much better organized Mr. Romney was in the state than his rivals, all but one of the signs lining the entrance to the high school were his, with a lone sign for Mr. McCain interrupting the pattern.

Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, got on the back of a pickup truck to address the crowd of well-wishers in the early morning cold.

“You guys have been turning folks out, and by virtue of that I think we’re going to have a great, successful day today,” Mr. Romney said.

“Across the country in South Carolina, people are voting there also and I’m hoping to do real well there,” he continued. “I’m hoping to win, but I don’t know what the outcome will be. But with two golds and two silvers, we’re feeling pretty good.”

Mr. Romney also focused on Nevada because the state has a sizable Mormon population.

Still, his Nevada victory is certain to be overshadowed by the outcome in South Carolina.
537 2008-01-19 Evangelicals are expected to make up an even larger share of South Carolina primary voters, and recent polls show Mr. Huckabee locked in a close race with Senator John McCain of Arizona.

“What we didn’t know initially was would all the Christian right activists that Karl Rove built up over the last eight years come to us and give us a ground force, and that is what we have proved over the last several weeks,” said Ed Rollins, Mr. Huckabee’s national chairman. Mr. Rollins described a two-pronged pitch, playing up Mr. Huckabee’s Christian convictions to fellow evangelists and his empathy for working people to more secular voters.

But as Mr. Huckabee has moved to the front of the Republican field and as the race will now quickly move beyond the Bible Belt, his ability to harmonize both elements is under new scrutiny from the liberal and conservative sides of the pew.

Some evangelical observers say they marvel at Mr. Huckabee’s knack for making even the most conservative tenets of orthodox Southern Baptist faith, about creation, the accuracy of the Bible or gender roles, sound downright moderate when he is speaking in television interviews or at public debates.

“He is like Houdini,” said Oran P. Smith, president of a Christian conservative group, the Palmetto Family Council, admiring Mr. Huckabee’s recent defense of an official Southern Baptist statement about the family that he endorsed eight years ago.

The statement said, “A wife is to submit herself graciously to the servant leadership of her husband,” and “serve as his helper in managing the household and nurturing the next generation.”

Many Southern Baptists understand that to mean that just men are meant to occupy certain leadership roles like church pastor.

But in a debate last week in Myrtle Beach, S.C., Mr. Huckabee said the position required no subordination at all. It meant, he said, both husbands and wives “mutually showing their affection and submission as unto the Lord.”

“Biblically,” he added, “marriage is a 100-100 deal. Each partner gives 100 percent of their devotion to the other.”

Mr. Smith said, “It was masterful.” He was “still struggling,” Mr. Smith added, to understand just how Mr. Huckabee had put together his answer.

Mr. Huckabee has not always been so graceful. Speaking to a not-particularly religious crowd near Detroit on Monday, before the Michigan primary, he slipped into an argument to amend the Constitution to ban abortion and same-sex marriage, “so it’s in God’s standards, rather than try to change God’s standards.”

“Does it mean that the Constitution does not measure up to God’s standards? Is the Constitution anti-God?” asked Ted Olsen, an influential online commentator for an evangelical standard-bearer, Christianity Today. “Honestly, I’m thinking that this quote probably cost Huckabee more evangelical votes than it won him.”

By Friday morning, Mr. Huckabee had backed away from his comments, saying in an interview with CNN that he understood the Constitution as a “secular document” and had described his support for those amendments “a little more awkwardly than I have in the past.”

In debates and other interviews, Mr. Huckabee has frequently complained he is unfairly singled out for theological questions. “Everybody says religion is off limits, except we always can ask me the religious question,” he said in the recent Republican debate in Myrtle Beach.

And he has deflected some religious questions like his views about the eternity awaiting non-Christians. He has definite views about that, he said, but they are not relevant to public office.

In another debate, though, he interrupted Rudolph W. Giuliani for a chance to answer a religious question.

“Can I help you out, Mayor, on this one?” Mr. Huckabee volunteered.

But although his closing speeches barely mention religion, his final commercials here, on television and Christian radio, have entirely focused on his Christian credentials. “Faith doesn’t just influence me,” Mr. Huckabee says in one commercial. “It defines me.”

He has indeed made an art of escaping politically delicate questions about theology. He has said he favors the biblical account of creation over Darwinian evolution, but he also said he considered the two approaches largely compatible, with God’s potential role limited to the original jump-start, a view many liberal Christians endorse.

“Did he take the rib out of Adam?” Mr. Huckabee told Charlie Rose in an interview. “I have no reason to believe he didn’t. But I don’t know.”

He said there was “a strong body of science that really can put forth the argument for an evolutionary process,” but also “room for believing” in God as “a prime mover” in the process.

Such answers may not be complete statements of Southern Baptist orthodoxy, Mr. Smith of the Palmetto Family Council said, but a fuller statement of a “judgmental” faith is not likely to win Mr. Huckabee many votes outside the evangelical world.

The real question, Mr. Smith added, is, How does he decide when to say, ‘‘I am not going to answer that,’’ and when to do his Houdini routine?
538 2008-01-19 “The urban poor, the rural landless and small and marginal farmers stand to lose,” said He Changchui, the agency’s chief representative for Asia and the Pacific.

A startling change is unfolding in the world’s food markets. Soaring fuel prices have altered the equation for growing food and transporting it across the globe. Huge demand for biofuels has created tension between using land to produce fuel and using it for food.

A growing middle class in the developing world is demanding more protein, from pork and hamburgers to chicken and ice cream. And all this is happening even as global climate change may be starting to make it harder to grow food in some of the places best equipped to do so, like Australia.

In the last few years, world demand for crops and meat has been rising sharply. It remains an open question how and when the supply will catch up. For the foreseeable future, that probably means higher prices at the grocery store and fatter paychecks for farmers of major crops like corn, wheat and soybeans.

There may be worse inflation to come. Food experts say steep increases in commodity prices have not fully made their way to street stalls in the developing world or supermarkets in the West.

Governments in many poor countries have tried to respond by stepping up food subsidies, imposing or tightening price controls, restricting exports and cutting food import duties.

These temporary measures are already breaking down. Across Southeast Asia, for example, families have been hoarding palm oil. Smugglers have been bidding up prices as they move the oil from more subsidized markets, like Malaysia’s, to less subsidized markets, like Singapore’s.

No category of food prices has risen as quickly this winter as so-called edible oils — with sometimes tragic results. When a Carrefour store in Chongqing, China, announced a limited-time cooking oil promotion in November, a stampede of would-be buyers left 3 people dead and 31 injured.

Cooking oil may seem a trifling expense in the West. But in the developing world, cooking oil is an important source of calories and represents one of the biggest cash outlays for poor families, which grow much of their own food but have to buy oil in which to cook it.

Few crops illustrate the emerging problems in the global food chain as well as palm oil, a vital commodity in much of the world and particularly Asia. From jungles and street markets in Southeast Asia to food companies in the United States and biodiesel factories in Europe, soaring prices for the oil are drawing environmentalists, energy companies, consumers, indigenous peoples and governments into acrimonious disputes.

The oil palm is a stout-trunked tree with a spray of frilly fronds at the top that make it look like an enormous sea anemone. The trees, with their distinctive, star-like patterns of leaves, cover an eighth of the entire land area of Malaysia and even greater acreage in nearby Indonesia.

The palm is a highly efficient producer of vegetable oil, squeezed from the tree’s thick bunches of plum-size bright red fruit. An acre of oil palms yields as much oil as eight acres of soybeans, the main rival for oil palms; rapeseed, used to make canola oil, is a distant third. Among major crops, only sugar cane comes close to rivaling oil palms in calories of human food per acre.

Palm oil prices have jumped nearly 70 percent in the last year because supply has grown slowly while demand has soared.

Farmers and plantation companies are responding to the higher prices, clearing hundreds of thousands of acres of tropical forest to replant with rows of oil palms. But an oil palm takes eight years to reach full production. A drought last year in Indonesia and flooding in Peninsular Malaysia helped constrain supply. Worldwide palm oil output climbed just 2.7 percent last year, to 42.1 million tons.

At the same time, palm oil demand is growing steeply for a variety of reasons around the globe. They include shifting decisions among farmers about what to plant, rising consumer demand in China and India for edible oils, and Western subsidies for biofuel production.

American farmers have been planting more corn and less soy because demand for corn-based ethanol has pushed up corn prices. American soybean acreage plunged 19 percent last year, producing a drop in soybean oil output and inventories.

Chinese farmers also cut back soybean acreage last year, as urban sprawl covered prime farmland and the Chinese government provided more incentives for grain.

Yet people in China are also consuming more oils. China not only was the world’s biggest palm oil importer last year, holding steady at 5.2 million tons in the first 11 months of the year, but it also doubled its soybean oil imports to 2.9 million tons, forcing buyers elsewhere to switch to palm oil.

Concerns about nutrition used to hurt palm oil sales, but they are now starting to help. The oil was long regarded in the West as unhealthy, but it has become an attractive option to replace the chemically altered fats known as trans fats, which have lately come to be seen as the least healthy of all fats.

New York City banned trans fats in frying at food service establishments last summer and will ban them in bakery goods this summer. Across the country, manufacturers are trying to replace trans fats. American palm oil imports nearly doubled in the first 11 months of last year, rising by 200,000 tons.

“Four years ago, when this whole no-trans issue started, we processed no palm here," said Mark Weyland, a United States product manager for Loders Croklaan, a Dutch company that supplies palm oil. “Now it’s our biggest seller.”

Last year, conversion of palm oil into fuel was a fast-growing source of demand, but in recent weeks, rising prices have thrown that business into turmoil.

Here on Malaysia’s eastern shore, a series of 45-foot-high green and gray storage tanks connect to a labyrinth of yellow and silver pipes. The gleaming new refinery has the capacity to turn 116,000 tons a year of palm oil into 110,000 tons of a fuel called biodiesel, as well as valuable byproducts like glycerin. Mission Biofuels, an Australian company, finished the refinery last month and is working on an even larger factory next door at the base of a jungle hillside.

But prices have spiked so much that the company cannot cover all its costs and has idled the finished refinery while looking for a new strategy, such as asking a biodiesel buyer to pay a price linked to palm oil costs, and someday switching from palm oil to jatropha, a roadside weed.

“We took a view that palm oil prices were already high; we didn’t think they could go even higher, and then they did,” said Nathan Mahalingam, the company’s managing director.

Biofuels accounted for almost half the increase in worldwide demand for vegetable oils last year, and represented 7 percent of total consumption of the oils, according to Oil World, a forecasting service in Hamburg, Germany.

The growth of biodiesel, which can be mixed with regular diesel, has been controversial, not only because it competes with food uses of oil but also because of environmental concerns. European conservation groups have been warning that tropical forests are being leveled to make way for oil palm plantations, destroying habitat for orangutans and Sumatran rhinoceroses while also releasing greenhouse gases.

The European Union has moved to restrict imports of palm oil grown in unsustainable ways. The measure has incensed the Malaysian palm oil industry, which had plunged into biofuel production in part to satisfy European demand.

Another controversy involves the treatment of indigenous peoples whose lands have been seized by oil plantations. This has been a particular issue on Borneo.

Anne B. Lasimbang, executive director of the Pacos Trust in the Malaysian state of Sabah in northern Borneo, said that while some indigenous people had benefited from selling palm oil that they grow themselves, many had lost ancestral lands with little to show for it, including lands that used to provide habitats for endangered orangutans.

“Finally, some of the pressures internationally have trickled down. Some of the companies are more open to dialogue; they want to talk to communities,” said Ms. Lasimbang, a member of the Dusun indigenous group. “On our side, we are still suspicious.”

As the multiple conflicts and economic pressures associated with palm oil play out in the global economy, the bottom line seems to be that the world wants more of the oil than it can get.

Even in Malaysia, the center of the global palm oil industry for half a century, spot shortages have cropped up. Recently, as wholesale prices soared, cooking oil refiners complained of inadequate subsidies and cut back production of household oil, sold at low, regulated prices.

Street vendors in the capital, Kuala Lumpur, complain that they cannot find enough cooking oil to prepare roti canai, the flatbread that is the national snack. “It’s very difficult; it’s hard to find,” said one vendor who gave only his first name, Palani, after admitting that he was secretly buying cooking oil intended for households instead of paying the much higher price for commercial use.

Many of the hardest-hit victims of rising food prices are in the vast slums that surround cities in poorer Asian nations. The Kawle family in Mumbai’s sprawling Dharavi slum, a household of nine with just one member working as a laborer for $60 a month, is coping with recent price increases for palm oil.

The family has responded by eating fish once a week instead of twice, seldom cooking vegetables and cutting its monthly rice consumption. Next to go will be the weekly smidgen of lamb.

“If the prices go up again,” said Janaron Kawle, the family patriarch, “we’ll cut the mutton to twice a month and use less oil.”
539 2008-01-19 “My friends, we are in challenging times,” he said, summing up his pitch. “I am running for president of the United States of America because I believe the transcendent challenge of the 21st century is the struggle against radical Islamic extremism, which takes many forms, is the greatest force of evil we’ve ever faced, and is bent on our destruction and our extinction. And my friends, we will never surrender. They will.”

While they crisscrossed the state, Mitt Romney, who spent months and millions of dollars campaigning in South Carolina, spent the day on the other side of the country, campaigning in Nevada, which is holding its lightly contested Republican caucuses on Saturday, and then flying to Burbank, Calif., for a taping of “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno” on NBC. But Mr. Romney continued to advertise heavily on television across South Carolina.

“I figure it’s the only way I can be in South Carolina and Nevada at the same time,” he told reporters on Friday. “Mike Huckabee did it before Iowa and he won, so maybe it’ll do the same thing for me.”

The campaign here in South Carolina is crucial for several candidates. Mr. McCain, who has predicted victory here, needs to win to show that he can replicate his showing in New Hampshire, and to get momentum to carry him into Florida for its Jan. 29 primary and to the more than 20 states with nominating contests on Feb. 5.

Mr. Huckabee needs to show that he can duplicate his success in the Iowa caucuses. And Fred D. Thompson, the actor and former Tennessee senator who has failed to win any contests, is staking his candidacy on a strong showing here, in the first Southern primary.

But while there were a number of independent groups engaged in last-minute negative advertisements and phone calls, the campaigns largely refrained from attacking one another directly as they moved into the final stage of calling voters and mobilizing get-out-the-vote efforts for Saturday, despite forecasts of inclement weather.

The sharp distinctions between the campaigns were evident in their final ads.

The McCain campaign ran ads making fun of a proposal to spend federal money on a museum dedicated to Woodstock, highlighting his endorsement from The State, the largest newspaper in South Carolina, and speaking about his life of service to his country and the sacrifices of South Carolinians fighting overseas in a closing ad that featured Mr. McCain speaking directly to the camera, in front of an American flag.

The Huckabee campaign, by contrast, worked to drill into the conservative heart of his base, running just one ad which proclaims him a “Christian Leader” exclusively since Wednesday. It begins, “Faith doesn’t just influence me; it defines me.”

Bob Wickers, the Huckabee campaign’s media consultant, said: “Our message is all about his unwavering faith. Do we worry about turning off other folks? No. We want to energize that base.”

Mr. McCain has cited his anti-abortion credentials more than usual here, both because it is a popular issue in the state and because anti-McCain phone calls have been made suggesting that he supports abortion rights. But for the most part he has promoted himself here as a fiscal conservative and a military hawk.

“I’m confident, in South Carolina, we will get our share of social conservative voters because of their fear of radical Islamic extremism, because of their belief in our biblical obligation to stewardship of our planet, and three, their belief in our biblical obligation to maintain the integrity and security of the state of Israel,” he said aboard his bus.

The candidates also campaigned with different kinds of surrogates. Mr. McCain campaigned this week with Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma; Jack F. Kemp, the former congressman and vice-presidential nominee; Phil Gramm, the former Texas senator; and Cale Yarborough, the champion Nascar driver, who was born in South Carolina. Mr. Huckabee campaigned with Chuck Norris, the action star, and Ric Flair, the platinum-blond 16-time World Wrestling Entertainment champion.

One of the few direct engagements came from Mr. Thompson, who is competing with Mr. Huckabee for the votes of social conservatives. He criticized Mr. Huckabee for describing the Constitution as “a living, breathing document.”

“Frankly, I assumed this came from Senator Clinton or Senator Obama,” Mr. Thompson said in a statement. “He does not appear to understand that reliance on the notion that the Constitution is a living, breathing document is precisely the kind of wrong-headed thinking about the Constitution that gave us Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion across our nation, and Lawrence v. Texas, which decriminalized sodomy.”
540 2008-01-19 In 1969, Mr. Solomon was asked by Robert S. McNamara, then the president of the World Bank, to create the International Investment Corporation for Yugoslavia and to organize joint ventures between that country and Western enterprises. Mr. Solomon was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, historically the most influential of the Federal Reserve system’s 12 regional banks, from 1980 to 1985. At the New York Fed, he dealt with titans of American banking like David Rockefeller of Chase Manhattan and Walter B. Wriston of Citibank. He also played an important role shaping and carrying out the nation’s domestic and international monetary policies.

It was a particularly trying time, with a debt crisis troubling much of the third world and even threatening the solvency of some of New York’s largest banks. In 1984, at the urging of Paul A. Volcker — the Federal Reserve Board chairman at the time and Mr. Solomon’s predecessor as the New York Fed president — Mr. Solomon worked to persuade banks to limit the amount of interest charged to financially troubled developing countries.

Many loans, particularly to Latin American countries, were tied to the prime rate in the United States, which was then hovering around 12 percent. Mr. Solomon facilitated special lending arrangements with foreign countries while they worked out new financial arrangements with creditors.

Born in Arlington, N.J., on Dec. 27, 1919, Mr. Solomon was one of three children of Jacob and Edna Yudin Solomon. His father owned a restaurant and bar. After graduating from the University of Chicago in 1941 with a bachelor’s degree in economics, Mr. Solomon was hired by the War Department and sent to Iran, where he controlled construction of the roadway used to haul Lend-Lease supplies to Russia.

In 1948, Mr. Solomon received a master’s degree in economics and public administration from Harvard and began working as a securities analyst. In 1950 he married Constance Kaufman, and the couple moved to Mexico. There Mr. Solomon started a food company and began selling an innovative product to Mexican housewives: dehydrated soups. Nine years later, General Foods bought the company, making the Solomons millionaires.

Mr. Solomon decided to enter public service. On the recommendation of the economist John Kenneth Galbraith, he was appointed deputy assistant secretary of state for Latin America in the Kennedy administration; he later rose to assistant secretary of state for economic affairs.

Mr. Solomon’s wife died in 1998. Besides his son, Adam, of Manhattan, he is survived by a daughter, Tracy Ford. of San Rafael, Calif.; and two grandchildren.

In 1986, after retiring from the Fed, Mr. Solomon became chairman of the investment banking firm S. G. Warburg (U.S.A.). That year, he was also named chairman of P.S. 1.

Mr. Solomon’s interest in art had been kindled during professional stays in foreign countries, where he began collecting sculptures.

Collecting, however was less exciting to Mr. Solomon than creating. For more than 30 years, at his studio in Manhattan, he sculptured wood, bronze, terra-cotta and fiberglass figures.

“I remember saying to my wife,” he told The New York Times in 1987, “  ‘I’d like to do something that doesn’t involve manipulating money or people.’ ”
541 2008-01-19 A former Goldman Sachs trader who helped lead a $6.7 million insider-trading conspiracy was sentenced to time served by a Federal District Court judge in Manhattan on Friday.

The former trader, David Pajcin, whose testimony led to the arrest of a half-dozen other individuals, including another former Goldman banker, was released Friday afternoon after serving about two years in prison.

“Judge Marrero is a very thoughtful and thorough judge,” Jesse M. Siegel, Mr. Pajcin’s lawyer, said of Victor Marrero, the sentencing judge. “I was confident he would make the right decision, and he did.”

Along with Eugene M. Plotkin, a former Goldman associate, Mr. Pajcin led one of the broadest insider-trading schemes in years. The ring spanned an ocean and involved a dozen people. Among those involved were a former Merrill Lynch analyst, two former printing plant workers and an exotic dancer.

Their three-pronged plan relied on confidential information on future mergers, provided by the former Merrill analyst; information stolen from pre-publication copies of BusinessWeek magazine; and grand jury testimony from an investigation into Bristol-Myers Squibb.

Federal investigators first got wind of the conspiracy when an account in the name of Mr. Pajcin’s aunt, a retired underwear seamstress in Croatia, registered a $2 million profit from trading in Reebok options. That activity had taken place just before the sneaker maker’s sale to Adidas Salomon.
542 2008-01-19 Sam Ashaolu, the most seriously wounded of the players, is still a student at the university. Ashaolu had fragments of two bullets in his head and still has pieces of one. He recently underwent another operation because of migraine headaches.

Everhart was hospitalized about three months after the shootings, on Christmas Day, with a ruptured colon. Four months ago, he had another operation to remove part of his colon. He said stress contributed to his health problems, but he was reluctant to elaborate because, he said, other coaches may use it as a weapon in recruiting. “They’ll say, ‘This guy is falling apart,’ ” he said.

Rivals, he said, use fear to discourage prospects from Duquesne.

“Absolutely, without a doubt,” Everhart said during an interview in his office on Wednesday. “The moms and dads say: ‘Five basketball guys got shot? What’s wrong with that picture?’ ”

The Dukes went 10-19 last season as James and Mensah sat out their transfer year while healing. This season, the Dukes are good enough to beat weaker teams, yet they have lost close games against Drake (77-73), Pitt (73-68) and Rhode Island (80-78).

Mensah is the leading scorer at 14.3 points a game, and James is second at 13.9. The Dukes also get 8.1 points and 5.8 rebounds from the freshman forward Damian Saunders.

Saunders replaced last season’s leading scorer, Robert Mitchell (16.4), who transferred to Seton Hall. Saunders chose Duquesne after he was turned away from Marquette for what he called academic reasons.

Did Saunders hesitate about joining Duquesne because of the shootings? “Nah, it didn’t worry me,” he said. “I figured it was a one-time thing.”

Duquesne, a private Catholic university of about 10,000 students, once was a basketball power. The wall behind the basket at Duquesne’s 5,358-seat A. J. Palumbo Center has a sign celebrating the team’s last N.C.A.A. appearance, in 1977.

But in a city with three major sports but no N.B.A. team, the Dukes now trail the University of Pittsburgh in college basketball popularity. The Panthers routinely contend for Big East titles and N.C.A.A. tournament berths in their new arena about three miles away. The Duquesne athletic department is ambitious again, but the Dukes’ last winning season was in 1993-94.

Everhart moved swiftly when he was hired in 2006, acquiring two Division I transfers: James, a forward from Northeastern, and Mensah, a guard from Siena. They were friends from Brooklyn and Notre Dame Prep in Massachusetts. They joined five junior college transfers and two holdovers from a 2005-6 team that went 3-24 under Danny Nee.

The dance was the new group’s first social gathering.

“In the big picture, God has blessed us,” said Everhart, referring to other, more violent, campus shootings.

When a visitor suggested it could have been like last April’s one-man rampage at Virginia Tech that left 32 dead, plus the shooter, Everhart pointed to his framed Hokies basketball jersey on the wall above his desk.

Ashaolu still stops by practice, where Everhart coaxes smiles from him with encouraging words and friendly banter. But Ashaolu sometimes lowers his gaze and shields his eyes from bright light. He has said he wants to play, but his brother, John, is concerned.

“The doctors say the more stress, the more chances he could get a seizure,” John Ashaolu said. “He had a seizure last summer.” John Ashaolu said it was best that Sam “lives his dream” of basketball through his teammates and their younger brother, Olu, who plays for Louisiana Tech. “I know he is down about not being able to play,” John Ashaolu said.

Everhart brought Ashaolu to Fordham on Friday for his first road trip — but not to play. John Ashaolu said he sympathized with his brother’s frustration. “I can just imagine being in his shoes,” John said.
543 2008-01-19 A move by Gov. Eliot Spitzer to expand the DNA database — not nearly as radically as Mr. Bloomberg wants to — died on the vine last year in the state Capitol. The Republican-led Senate passed it; the Democrat-led Assembly passed a different measure.

Still, the importance of DNA testing resounds in law enforcement.

It was discussed on Thursday at the state District Attorney’s Association’s board of directors meeting, said Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney. Those prosecutors embrace the notion of expanding genetic testing, he said, because “too many” violent people “all too often escape identification and remain free.”

At the same time, Mr. Brown says that he and his colleagues see the challenges and quandaries raised by Mr. Bloomberg’s proposal — and heed them.

“We recognize the fact that there are these kinds of issues, such as the impact on the DNA labs, the costs, the sealing of case files in the event of a dismissal of the charges, and the training issues and all of the civil liberties issues,” Mr. Brown said. “Those are questions that have to be answered, and we recognize that fact, but we would like to move in the direction of getting DNA for all arrests, much the way we do with fingerprints.”

As a practical matter, Richard Aborn, president of the Citizens Crime Commission, a group that monitors crime and police policies, said that administering a DNA test was the easy part.

“It is, in fact, the easiest biological sample to take,” Mr. Aborn said. “You literally take a cotton swab and rub it inside the cheek.”

More complicated, and potentially time consuming, is building up the kind of expertise and infrastructure to collect and store the DNA, and to train people in laboratories in the correct handling of this potential evidence.

John Feinblatt, New York City’s criminal justice coordinator, said that “very little training” was needed for police officers to learn to do the swabbing; it takes 30 minutes and is more about completing paperwork than taking the swab. He said the training would be carried out at the Police Academy or during in-service training. Currently, the Police Department takes about 350 swabs a month, so a base of knowledge exists. At the state police crime laboratory in Albany, where the samples would be sent, a “huge statewide apparatus” is in place that has been managing incremental increases in the DNA caseload over the years, he said.

In terms of cost, Mr. Feinblatt said the program would probably cost about $7 million annually, with kits priced at $4 each. But he said that the costs were negligible.

“When you think about the potential for preventing crime, it is hard to put a dollar figure on preventing homicides and rapes and robberies and burglaries, which are the kinds of cases most commonly where you find DNA evidence,” Mr. Feinblatt said.

Chauncey Parker, who was the director of criminal justice services under Gov. George E. Pataki, said an expansion of the DNA database would require more resources for equipment and personnel. But, he said, the database is capable of expansion.

“It’s not like you need to invent the iPod; you are just making more of them,” said Mr. Parker, who is director of the New York/New Jersey High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, a federally financed crime-fighting program. “This is no more complicated; it is just scaling it up.”

However, officials at the New York Civil Liberties Union said that privacy issues aside, the mayor’s proposal would require turning the collection and analysis of DNA samples into a mass-production operation. That, said Donna Lieberman, the group’s executive director, would be an invitation to error, inefficiency and fraud.

“By massively expanding the database to include misdemeanors, what you do is overwhelm the system with samples that inevitably slow down the process of investigating,” said Robert Perry, the group’s legislative director. “This is not as simple and clear a process as it is sometimes presented.”

Ms. Lieberman said DNA analysis is a precise science, and its precision “depends on a whole host of human input, which can go awry at any step in the process.”

Mr. Feinblatt stressed that once the DNA was collected, it would be treated the way fingerprints are treated now.

“If somebody is found not guilty, what happens to the fingerprint?” he said. “The person can have a choice of having it destroyed or returned to them, and we would treat DNA the exact same way.”

For as many questions as they raised, several people in and out of law enforcement praised the concept of the proposals, discounting criticism the ideas have drawn from privacy advocates and others.

“I think it is literally the 21st century fingerprint,” Mr. Aborn said. “And we should treat DNA samples the same way we treat fingerprints.”

As for the plan to offer up to the six-figure prize to any entrepreneur who can build a device to instantly analyze evidence, like blood, at a crime scene, Mr. Feinblatt said the administration was trying to encourage scientists’ creative potential.

“We know that science is working hard on this issue,” he said. “By creating this prize, we are trying to push it over the finish line.”
544 2008-01-19 UBS, Europe’s biggest bank, said on Friday that it would close an American unit that invested in fixed-income securities as it scales back risk-taking after writing down the value of subprime mortgage investments by $14.7 billion last year.

UBS will close the principal-finance unit and cut the number of employees who underwrite, package and trade mortgage-related securities by 50 percent from the peak in August, the chief executive, Marcel Rohner, wrote in a note to employees. The company will reduce the capital committed to its real estate unit by two-thirds and appoint a new risk manager.

The bank, which ousted Mr. Rohner’s predecessor, Peter A. Wuffli, in July, said last week that 2008 would be another “difficult” year for the financial industry. UBS wrote down the value of debt securities and leveraged loans as subprime-mortgage turmoil in the United States caused credit markets to slump.

The “reshaping of our proprietary credit operation is in line with the investment bank’s strategy to reduce risk concentration and balance sheet utilization,” Mr. Rohner wrote.

The company did not say how many people in the investment-banking division, which numbered 22,800 at the end of September, will be affected. Last month, UBS said that it planned to raise 13 billion francs ($11.8 billion) from the Government of the Singapore Investment Corporation and an unidentified Middle Eastern investor by selling bonds convertible into shares.

UBS will also simplify its credit operations with a single team covering investment grade, loan sales and trading, cross-over and high-yield businesses; scale back Canadian and European power and gas trading; and combine equity and debt underwriting, Mr. Rohner also wrote. The company already closed its global credit strategies proprietary desks in Asia and Europe.
545 2008-01-19 SAN DIEGO — A former Border Patrol agent who helped smuggle more than 100 people into the United States and shared internal documents with leaders of the smuggling ring was sentenced Friday to three years in federal prison.

Prosecutors said that as a border agent, Jose Olivas Jr., 46, befriended a member of the ring and was eventually drawn into the smuggling, serving as a scout when he was off duty. For a year ending in April 2006 he drove to a Border Patrol checkpoint on Interstate 5 north of here near San Clemente at least 10 times and told smugglers if it was safe to proceed.

He also shared agency intelligence on one of the ring’s leaders, Maria del Pilar Fierro Herrera, who is a fugitive, and helped her buy a car used in the smuggling, and allowed another member of the ring to use his birth certificate to obtain a driver’s license. For all this, Mr. Olivas, who pleaded guilty in October under an agreement with the government, netted about $1,200 to $2,400, baffling Judge Barry Ted Moskowitz of United States District Court, who questioned why the agent would jeopardize his 10-year career for such a relatively small amount.

Mr. Olivas, standing in red inmate clothing with his back turned to more than a dozen Border Patrol agents in their green uniforms — some there to support him, others to condemn — told the judge he was a single parent struggling to overcome financial problems in raising two teenagers.

“Everything just built up,” he said, apologizing for “breaking the trust that was given to me.” His lawyer, Elizabeth A. Missakian, denied that her client had dated Ms. Fierro, but offered little explanation other than desperation for his criminal turn.

“Something went wrong,” Judge Moskowitz told Mr. Olivas, wondering aloud why he had not sought loans or other legitimate financial aid and speculating that the smuggling ring had recruited him for a better understanding of Border Patrol procedures.
546 2008-01-19 LONDON — Both engines on the British Airways jumbo jet that crash-landed just short of a runway at London’s Heathrow Airport on Thursday failed to respond to a demand for more power during the final few moments of the flight, British investigators said Friday.

The crash, the first of a Boeing 777, damaged the plane beyond repair. One passenger was seriously hurt, and 12 passengers and crew members received minor injuries. The plane, on a flight from Beijing, struck the ground about 1,000 feet short of the runway and skidded onto the beginning of the pavement.

The Air Accidents Investigation Branch, in a preliminary report, said that a “significant amount of fuel” had leaked in the crash, indicating that there was still fuel on board, although the report did not clarify whether fuel was flowing to the engines properly. Experts said that another question investigators would need to answer was whether there had been a problem with the fuel itself, drawn from the bottom of the tanks at the end of the long flight.

The 777 model, which entered commercial service in 1995, relies heavily on computers, and another area for examination is whether the software functioned properly. The investigators said in their statement that the plane’s autopilot called for more thrust, and then the human pilots moved the throttles to do the same, with no result. The malfunction became apparent at an altitude of about 600 feet and two miles away from the intended touchdown, the statement said.

The captain of the flight, Peter Burkill, said in a statement on Friday, “I am proud to say that every member of the team played their part expertly yesterday,” but said he could not comment on the technical details while the investigation was under way.

Part of the main landing gear was torn off and another part was jammed up into the wing; the airplane plowed on its belly across open grass before slowing to a halt when it hit the tarmac. The 136 passengers and 16 crew members exited through emergency slides.

Several passengers told British news organizations that they had been unaware of the emergency until it was over. “It was a very quiet, normal flight. I didn’t have the feeling we had crashed until we left the plane,” said Jerome Ensinck, a passenger. “When you look at the plane you realize it could have been way, way worse,” he said in a television interview.

About 687 Boeing 777 aircraft are now in use. The airplane that crashed was delivered to British Airways in 2001, Boeing said.
547 2008-01-19 In the drug labeling case, the plaintiff was a guitar player who suffered the career-ending amputation of her right arm after being injected in a hospital with an anti-nausea drug made by Wyeth.

Gangrene and subsequent amputation was a risk from intravenous administration of the drug, Phenergan. The plaintiff, Diana Levine, argues that the federally approved label did not give doctors a specific enough warning about the risks of the method used to give her the drug.

The state courts in Vermont allowed Ms. Levine to sue for damages under state law and upheld a jury verdict of more than $6 million. The manufacturer’s Supreme Court appeal, Wyeth v. Levine, No. 06-1249, argues that the lawsuit was pre-empted by the Food and Drug Administration’s approval of the label.

The Bush administration, which reversed a longstanding policy against pre-emption in drug cases, is supporting the appeal. In a brief filed this month in response to the Supreme Court’s request for its views, the administration said the agency’s approval of the Phenergan label “reflects F.D.A.’s expert judgment that the labeling strikes the appropriate balance.” The brief added: “Where, as here, F.D.A. was presented with information concerning the relevant risk, a jury’s imposition of liability based on a drug’s F.D.A.-approved labeling would interfere with F.D.A.’s expert judgment.”

Nonetheless, the court’s decision to grant Wyeth’s appeal at this point was surprising. The administration urged the justices to defer action until they decide, later this term, another medicine-related pre-emption case that was argued last month.

That case, Riegel v. Medtronic Inc., No. 06-179, presents a question under a separate statute, the Medical Device Amendments, which governs the F.D.A.’s premarket approval process for devices like the balloon catheter at issue in the case. There is considerable overlap between that process and the one for approving new drugs under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which is at issue in the new case.

The court had also agreed to decide a third pre-emption case involving the F.D.A., concerning whether state law can be used to determine whether a manufacturer defrauded the agency in seeking approval for a drug application. That case, Warner-Lambert v. Kent, No. 06-1498, will be argued Feb. 25. The justices have not announced whether they will hear the new case in April or at the start of the new term in October.

The proliferation of pre-emption cases on the court’s docket in part reflects the considerable turmoil in the lower courts over the complex issues involved. It also reflects a concerted effort by the business community to push for federal pre-emption as a shield against state courts.

The United States Chamber of Commerce filed a vigorously worded brief in the cigarette case that the court accepted Friday, emphasizing for the justices the “jurisprudential gulf” that separates various lower court rulings on whether federally approved or required product labels should be given pre-emptive effect against state tort liability.

Referring to the lower court’s ruling in the cigarette case, the chamber’s brief said that “if allowed to stand, the First Circuit’s approach would Balkanize cigarette labeling, advertising, and promotion into a state-by-state endeavor,” adding that “it is difficult to imagine a more powerful blow to the interest of nationwide uniformity and consistency.”

The plaintiffs’ brief to the court emphasized the factual allegations of their case: that Philip Morris knew from its own research that based on actual smoking habits, smokers received the same tar and nicotine from “light” cigarettes as from regular brands, but that the company kept this from the F.T.C.
548 2008-01-19 NAIROBI, Kenya — Protests cooled in Kenya on Friday as opposition leaders, still furious about last month’s presidential election, announced that they were switching tactics from street demonstrations to boycotts.

After three days of nationwide rallies that degenerated into battles with police officers, the country was mostly calm, save for a few flash points. Witnesses said police officers shot and killed at least two people in Kibera, a huge slum on the outskirts of Nairobi, the capital. Earlier in the day, vandals uprooted a length of train tracks running through Kibera, where a freight train was looted Thursday.

In Narok, a town near the Masai Mara game reserve, ethnic clashes erupted with men battling in the streets, using bows and arrows and machetes. Witnesses said at least five people were killed, and a Kenyan television network showed images of men dancing around a body in Narok’s downtown.

In Mombasa, Kenya’s second-largest city and a major port for East Africa, hundreds of protesters emerged from mosques to call for a new election. Police officers responded with tear gas and gunshots. Witnesses said at least one person was killed, bringing the deaths from the week’s disturbances to more than 20, including several children.

The zero-tolerance policy of the Kenyan police is drawing increasing criticism. Western diplomats in Nairobi have urged the government to allow peaceful rallies —currently banned — and to stop using lethal force against unarmed demonstrators.

Opposition leaders and their supporters have been protesting the elections in December in which Mwai Kibaki, Kenya’s president, was declared the winner by a narrow margin over Raila Odinga, the top opposition leader, amid widespread evidence that election officials had tampered with results.
549 2008-01-19 When the number of Americans out of work starts to rise sharply, a recession occurs.

By that token, the latest figure for unemployed workers is, at the least, a danger sign.

The Labor Department reported that in December some 7,655,000 people were unemployed, meaning they were both without a job and looking for one. That figure was 13.2 percent higher than the 6,760,000 figure in the previous December. In the past, a 13 percent annual rise has been the sign of a recession every time.

Before December, there have been nine cycles in the United States since 1950 in which the annual change in unemployment rose to 13 percent or higher.

In eight of those cases, by the time the rise got to 13 percent, the recession had already begun, according to later conclusions by the National Bureau of Economic Research. In the other one, the recession began three months later, as depicted in the accompanying charts, which show the year-over-year change in the number of unemployed workers from one year before the increase hit 13 percent until one year after the recession ended. (In the case of the early 1980s, when there were two recessions close together, the chart shows both of them.)

The bureau does not, by the way, define a recession as two quarters of decline in the real gross domestic product, although that is a widely used shorthand. Instead, it says “a recession is a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months, normally visible in real G.D.P., real income, employment, industrial production, and wholesale-retail sales.”
550 2008-01-19 He is not asking for a favor. Rather, he believes he deserves a good deal because he is a good customer.

“I’m not just asking for a discount,” he said. “I’m spending more with you than someone else, and I should be treated better or differently.”

Consumer Reports reported in November that it surveyed 2,167 people and found that 90 percent of those who haggled over furniture, electronics, appliances and even medical bills had received a lower price on at least one purchase in the last three years.

Most of the bargainers said they saved $50 or more, and in the case of cellphone deals and medical fees, more than a quarter saved at least $100.

Sally Greenberg, executive director of the National Consumers League, calls herself the queen of haggling and estimates that she gets a lower price 90 percent of the time.

She, like most profitable deal makers, says she never acts aggressive, self-righteous or angry.

“You want to be polite and say ‘could you’ and ‘I’d be grateful,’  ” she said. “You have to have a fine-tuned sense of what’s fair. Don’t chisel people out of things if they can’t afford it.”

Like Lou, if she is a long-term customer, she always asks for a discount.

“I’ve spent many, many thousands at my dentist,” she said. So when she needed an expensive procedure, she asked what his actual cost was versus what she was being charged — and negotiated a lower price.

Ours is one of the few countries where haggling is not generally accepted, but this was not always so, said Herb Cohen, author of the best seller “You Can Negotiate Anything.” Remember Manhattan, the Native Americans and some beads?

“Americans used to have great reputations as negotiators,” said Mr. Cohen, who in his career as a negotiator helped develop the F.B.I. hostage-negotiating program and was an adviser on terrorism to President Jimmy Carter. “But after World War II, we had a virtual monopoly on almost everything.”

So Americans no longer had to bargain. That can make it confusing to people visiting the United States. I remember when my sister’s soon-to-be father-in-law visited from Israel for her wedding. He was buying dress shoes at Nordstrom and tried to get the price down.

It did not work.

Our family often chuckled at that story, but the last laugh may be on us. Ms. Greenberg said that department stores are not off-limits to haggling. But a little subtlety might help.

“Ask if the item is going on sale soon — or just came off sale — and whether you can have the lower price,” she said. Often, the saleswoman has coupons behind the counter.

“I’ll ask, ‘do you have a coupon for me?’ and they’ll pull them out,” she said. Or if you have an expired coupon, sometimes you’ve got to beg, and say ‘C’mon, can’t you honor this?’ Sometimes they don’t have the authority and sometimes they do.”

It might help, as Mr. Cohen said, to see yourself as negotiating, rather than haggling, which has an ugly sound and has the connotation of someone willing to wrestle for that last dime.

“You don’t have to be a phony,” Mr. Cohen said. “You can tell the truth. Come in in a genial way, smiling with a low-key pose of calculated incompetence. The key words are, ‘Can you help me?’  ”

Thomas C. Chiarella, a writer for Esquire magazine and a visiting professor of creative writing at DePauw University, once researched an article by spending three months trying to haggle for everything from the street vendor’s hot dog to gasoline for his car.

For Mr. Chiarella, bargaining is not demeaning, but quite the opposite — a matter of connecting. “If you make someone feel seen, then you yourself feel seen, and then they want to make a decision in your favor,” he said.

For example, he had a habit of stopping in a little tobacco store and buying cigarettes for his girlfriend.

“I told the guy, it would really make it worth my while if you could price them like a carton instead of a single pack,” Mr. Chiarella said. In exchange, he would come by every week for five packs.

The vendor agreed, and the trip to the tobacco shop “became something to look forward to every week; I then began to buy cigars.”

That is the ideal negotiation, or in the lingo, a win-win situation.

Hotel rooms are a great place to try your skills because an empty hotel room is lost money. My husband used to work at a place where the woman responsible for reserving rooms for out-of-town guests would always say, “This is our budget — what can you do for us?” With that strategy, we stayed at a beautiful room overlooking San Francisco for $100.

If you already have a room, see if you can upgrade.

Mr. Chiarella said that when he was taking his son to Le Parker Meridien in New York, he told the reservation clerk that it was his son’s 23rd birthday (which was true) and after a bit of back and forth, spent $100 on an upgrade that would normally have cost $300.

“The woman was happy it was my son’s birthday,” he said. “People like making connections.”

Most people I talked to said there were a few things to avoid when haggling. You can say what your budget is, but do not lie and do not plead poverty because it doesn’t ring true.

Even when you think the leverage is all on the other side, it may be worth a try. My friend Anne Marie once got stuck inside her son’s bedroom when the original lock broke off. Her toddler was on the other side.

She shouted for help from a neighbor through the window, and a locksmith came over. He wanted to charge $200.

“I said, ‘I won’t pay that kind of money,’ and got it down to around $75,” she said. “It was a game of chicken.”

Here are a few of Mr. Cohen’s suggestions for successful negotiations:

¶Make sure it is worth your time. Generally that means only bargain on big-ticket items.

¶Don’t fall in love with anything you’re trying to buy — you should care, but not too much.

¶Remember — you have the power. Money talks, but money can also walk.

Also, keep in mind that the more time a sales representative has invested in a sale, the more he will want to give you a bargain. Mr. Cohen gives the example of trying on three or four suits and deciding on the fifth one.

“They bring in the tailor and the salesman is gleefully writing up the bill. Then I turn to the salesman and say, ‘What kind of tie will you throw in for free?’  ”

It works for free shirts, too.
551 2008-01-19 TIGHTER CREDIT IN EUROPE  The European Central Bank said  that lenders had sharply tightened credit standards in response to turmoil in financial markets, meaning that less money was likely to be available to companies for investment and to consum...
552 2008-01-20 John McCain was the target of Chuck Norris's apparent frustration over Mike Huckabee's loss, and he went for a McCain sore spot, his age....
553 2008-01-20 John McCain's wins in South Carolina and in New Hampshire and his competitive position in the polls in Florida make him more of a front-runner than anyone else....
554 2008-01-20 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
555 2008-01-20 PHOENIX (AP) — Fans have paid a couple of thousand dollars for their Super Bowl tickets and hundreds for the plane trip.

Real estate companies and enterprising Arizona homeowners are hoping that some Super Bowl fans heading to the Feb. 3 game will shell out big money for a weeklong stay at a stylish home, complete with maid services, a luxury vehicle and in some cases, home cooking.

William Kerbs, a 34-year-old mortgage company owner, is renting out his suburban Fountain Hills home for $125,000 the week of the Super Bowl at University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Ariz.

His 7,200-square-foot home has two spas, a 1,000-square-foot pool, marble and hardwood floors, and four washers and dryers. Kerbs said additional negotiable perks would include a maid and the use of his 2007 Bentley.

“My Realtor told me that Beyoncé rented out a house in Paradise Valley for $250,000,” he said. “I just said maybe we’ll just try it to see what happens.”
556 2008-01-20 “They are showing a kind of radicalism to reform, religion and the current situation,” he said.

Even some of those who object to President Ahmadinejad say permitting the growth of Marxist student movements is dangerous.

For example, former President Mohammad Khatami, a moderate by Iranian standards, recently raised concern over the growth of leftists at universities. He drew a comparison with the struggles before the 1979 revolution and said after the shah’s government had banned religious groups, leftist groups encouraged armed struggle against him, according to the news agency ISNA.

Leftist students use an anti-imperialist discourse toward the United States and say they have no plans to overthrow the Iranian government. But they refer to the government as a capitalist regime and condemn pro-democracy politicians who support change as “bourgeois.”

In a leftist publication called Khak, meaning earth, a member who was jailed wrote in an editorial in May, “In this leftist movement we need to move based on the ideas of Marx, Engels and Lenin.” Marxists need “grass-roots and radical social movements,” he emphasized.

Another member, a woman who has an anonymous blog at faaryaad.blogfa.com (faaryaad means shout), writes “Reform died, long live revolution.”

One leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of government reprisal, said, “We think the regime is a capitalist regime and Mr. Ahmadinejad is a true fascist.”

Members are atheists and attack poverty in Iran as well as other countries, including the West. They consider no socialist country their role model, oppose pro-democracy students and accuse them of trying to reform a system that cannot be reformed.

Yet they have no specific agenda for change and seem almost nihilistic at times.

“We don’t think we can change anything in the near future,” said a 22-year-old student at Tehran University and member of a group called the Radical Marxists, who asked not to be identified. “But as students we think we can transfer our knowledge about class, capitalism and equality to society, especially the workers.”

Another member, Shahin, 21, who said his father was also a Marxist and was executed by the government in 1988, said the students ultimately want “free education, free health care and higher salaries for workers.”

Analysts familiar with them said leftist student groups began to emerge in the early 2000s when the democracy movement was suffering setbacks and many of their supporters were becoming disillusioned.

The government ignored the leftist students until December when the government began cracking down on their leaders.

As in many countries, a majority of intellectuals in Iran has been influenced by Marxist ideas since the 19th century. Much of the literature written since then is closely interwoven with leftist notions. However, Marxists never gained power here. They played an important role in the success of the 1979 revolution but they were soon marginalized by the Islamists and their members were forced into exile. Many were executed in 1988.

Authorities allowed all of Marx’s books to be published after the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991. Leftist books sell very well these days, one bookstore said. The store said the most popular books were those about the Confederation of Iranian Students, the most active organized opposition during the two decades before the 1979 revolution. Many of its members were influenced by leftist ideas.

Now, once again, it appears the government has decided to suppress the left. The number of arrests has reached 40 and those detained remain in the notorious Evin prison.

At least three Marxist groups operate at the universities around Iran. The Radical Marxists have the most supporters, according to students. The other two organizations are workers groups.

The 22-year-old Radical Marxists member said that she had rejected Iran’s laws against women when she was 7 and had to wear the Islamic hood known as a maghnaeh to cover her hair for the first time. “In religion class, we always got angry as women when we read in the books that the head of the family is the man,” she said.

Reza Sharifi, 34, the leader of the youth branch of Mosharekat, a party that seeks change, said it was hard for the government to suppress Marxist students at the same time it was seeking better relations with leftist leaders worldwide.

“The government paved the way for leftist movements in the country when its best friends became Castro and Chávez,” he said, referring to Fidel Castro of Cuba and Hugo Chávez of Venezuela.

“The whole idea was that any country that was against America was on our side,” he said. “As a result, all communist leaders became the Islamic Republic’s best friends.”
557 2008-01-20 As the economy weakens, consumers hunt for bargains. Sometimes, however, a bargain can be a literal steal, and a dangerous one at that. The World Customs Organization estimates that 7 percent of goods traded in the world are counterfeit — a black market that increasingly includes pharmaceuticals, electronics and other products that must be safe enough to use.

With some $200 billion worth of those pirated or counterfeited goods coming into the United States each year, already weak regulatory agencies are overwhelmed. That means that far too often the burden falls on the buyer to avoid getting stuck with, or hurt by, hazardous fakes. That is not always easy, and the horror stories in recent years have included pet food that harmed or killed hundreds of pets in the United States. More recently, counterfeit batteries have been recalled because they tend to overheat and even explode.

Consumer Reports offered a good primer this month on how to spot the dangerous fakes. Like others who talk about the three Ps — price, place and packaging — the magazine’s editors warn that a superlow price should be the first clue. Buyers should also be wary of retailers who fail to provide a receipt or pay sales tax. Flimsy packaging or misspelled words offer more signals. Underwriters Laboratory, which gives a seal of approval to electronics, now uses an expensive, difficult-to-copy hologram. Plenty of holiday lights or power strips with bogus UL seals still make it past customs agents.

Some people in Congress want to tighten penalties on counterfeiters, a good but modest move. More to the point, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Food and Drug Administration need more money. And businesses that often avoid acknowledging the fake trade, for fear of damaging their brand, should be more open with consumers about how to tell the difference between real and unreal. Until then, buyer beware.
558 2008-01-20 Perry said he had five years left on a deal with TaylorMade and three years with Hartford Life. In most cases, Links Sports would be entitled to a fee each year until the contract expires.

“I told Dave I’d pay him all the contract money, but he wants it all up front,” Perry said. “I said, ‘When I get paid, you’ll get your percentage.’ He offered me a buyout deal, which was probably 95 percent of the contract. I could write him a huge check.”

But Perry said he had a contract with a company that went bankrupt, and he did not receive anything.

“What if I write him a big check and something like that happens?” he said.

Campbell did not want to discuss the situation, other than to say it was disappointing.

“I’m just trying to get everything settled with him and get on my way,” Campbell said.

Parker once said that in 2004, he had more Ryder Cup players than any other agency, a roster that included David Toms. In 2005, Toms filed a lawsuit against Parker; it was settled out of court.

“I was the first guy with him. I got him in the business,” Perry said. “I should have known a red flag was up when David Toms sued him.”

WAITING FOR WIE Michelle Wie did not play the Sony Open for the first time since 2003, and her swing coach, David Leadbetter, said last month the plan was to play one or two L.P.G.A. Tour events in Hawaii.

It seems that it will only be one at most.

The tour opens Feb. 14 with the SBS Open at Turtle Bay on Oahu, but a tournament official said last week that all the sponsor exemptions were taken. That leaves Wie only the Fields Open at Ko Olina, where she finished third in 2006.

CUT CLEANUP The Player Advisory Council for the PGA Tour considered four options before approving the proposal that only the nearest number to 70 play on the weekend if the cut includes more than 78 players. The proposal passed by a 75 percent margin.

The other options were top 60 and ties; top 65 and ties, as is done in Europe; the nearest number to 70 regardless of how many players finished top 70, including ties; and a Saturday cut of top 70 and ties, which Jeff Sluman has advocated for years.

One council member who favored the change was Rich Beem, who finished 119th on the money list in 2007, the final year of his five-year exemption from winning the P.G.A. Championship.

“If this rule hurts anybody, it hurts me,” Beem said. “Go look at my record. I live on the cut line.”

Brad Faxon won at Hartford in 2005 after making the cut on the number; under the new policy, he would have kept playing because 77 guys made the cut. His concern is that in a situation like the Sony Open, some players are denied a chance to move up.

“But if you know the rule before you start, make sure you’re not on the cut line,” Faxon said.

The worst complaint of the weekend was that players did not know about the new policy. But he tour sent an e-mail message when the change was approved in November.
559 2008-01-20 Data from the 2000 census shows that the city’s Cambodian population decreased by 31 percent from 1990 to 2000. According to a census analysis by the Hmong Studies Internet Resource Center, the decline occurred as nearly all the country’s other Cambodian communities were expanding.

At the high-water mark of 1990, census figures show, 2,565 Cambodians lived in the city, primarily in the Fordham, University Heights and Bronx Park East sections of the Bronx. Most were refugees who were resettled in New York after fleeing the repressive Khmer Rouge regime, which fell in 1979 and claimed nearly two million lives. According to an analysis of 2005 numbers prepared by the Census Bureau, barely 1,000 Cambodians then remained in the city.

“Everybody is leaving,” Mr. Sungkriem said recently at an IHOP restaurant near his apartment. “It used to be if you walk down Fordham Road, you would bump into lots of Cambodians walking or shopping. Now you can be driving up and down all day, and you never see any.”

Trials are finally expected to start sometime this year for five major Khmer Rouge figures who were detained and will face a special tribunal backed by the United Nations, but many of New York’s dwindling number of Cambodians are focusing on more immediate problems.

“In the ’80s, people didn’t understand what Cambodians were,” Mr. Sungkriem said. “They just called us Chinos. But if you said you were a gangster, you were a star. A lot of people have grown out of that, though, and there are no jobs, no community services. So a lot of people left.”

Among those eager to leave is Paul Keo, 36, who moved to the Bronx when he was 11 and grew up with Mr. Sungkriem.

Mr. Keo, who recently married, works as a technical administrator for Pratt Institute, and the other day, dressed in corduroy pants, fleece jacket and running shoes, he could easily have been mistaken for a Pratt student, save for the ring of keys on his belt.

Although he enjoys his work, he is increasingly weighing the options. “The community here is broken,” he said in an empty Pratt classroom. “I really don’t want my children to grow up in the same difficult environment I did.”

FOR many Cambodians who came to the city in the ’80s, the high school years were tainted by crime and violence, and poor schools left them prepared only for the manufacturing jobs that had already begun leaving the city. Mr. Keo said his solution was to “steal” his education. “After high school,” he said, “I would go to colleges and sit in on classes and observe the material without registering.”

The problems of Cambodians in New York were compounded because the community, small to begin with, became established during a decade when the city struggled on many fronts.

“The violence they experienced during the Khmer Rouge was similar to the violence they saw every day in the Bronx,” said Chhaya Chhoum, director of the Youth Leadership Project at CAAAV, formerly the Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence. “So they were never able to move away from their trauma.” The group occupies a former convent on Valentine Avenue near Fordham Road that it plans to make a Southeast Asian cultural center.

In the turbulent Bronx, few of the Cambodian cultural, religious and community centers that have formed in places like Long Beach, Calif., Lowell, Mass., and Minneapolis took root.

Groups like the Vietnamese fared better. Although many of them came to the Bronx roughly around the same time as the Cambodians, they arrived in larger numbers. And unlike the Cambodians, a culturally isolated people, the Vietnamese forged bonds with the city’s large Chinese population, with whom they share cultural ties.

One result of the exodus of the city’s Cambodians is a widening generation gap. Cambodians who remain in New York tend to be older and in failing health; those who leave are typically younger emigrés who attended school in the United States and have the ability or the resources to find jobs elsewhere, often in hotels or garment factories.

One emigré, Siek Chanty, 51, who is unemployed and spends time at the center, said she wanted to leave the Bronx but had nowhere to go.

Many who were separated from their families during the war have located relatives in places like California or Texas. But, Ms. Chanty said through an interpreter, “I haven’t found anyone.”
560 2008-01-20 Yet Mr. Stovall’s analysis also showed that between the official starting and ending dates of those recessions, the S.& P. held relatively steady, gaining 0.1 percent, on average.

To be sure, this wasn’t always the case. In the most recent recession, from March to November 2001, stocks tumbled by around 8 percent. And in the severe recession that ran from November 1973 to March 1975, the S.& P. lost nearly a quarter of its value.

Moreover, the early stages of recessions generally aren’t smooth sailing. A separate study of stocks and recessions by Ned Davis Research showed that equity prices tend to drop nearly 5 percent in the first six months of contractions.

But the typical recession since World War II has lasted 10 months, on average, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. And over those entire periods, stocks have historically held their ground.

Why is this important? Well, some economists think that the economy is already in a recession. Earlier this month, the Merrill Lynch economist David A. Rosenberg said that recent employment data suggested the economy might have slipped into a recession at the end of last year. If it did, that could turn out to be reasonably good news for the equity markets now.

Keep in mind that in three of the last four recessions, stocks didn’t simply hold steady — they actually gained ground. In the recession from July 1990 to March 1991, for instance, the S.& P. 500 rose 2.5 percent, despite a severe sell-off in the summer of 1990. And in the recession from January to July of 1980, stocks climbed nearly 6 percent.

There is something else to consider. If the economy is already in recession, the Fed will probably have more impetus to cut short-term interest rates to fuel economic activity. And as Nick Raich, director of equity research at the National City Private Client Group in Cleveland, said, “if the Fed is going to get aggressive from here, it could give a boost to stocks later in the year.”

Aggressive rate cuts could also shorten the duration or severity of a slowdown.

In most cases, stocks tend to rebound as the economy emerges from a recession. The S.& P. study found that after 10 of the last 11 recessions, stocks soared in the ensuing six months. On average, the S.& P. index gained 12.1 percent.

If you measure the market’s performance from recession lows, rebounds are even more compelling. Ned Davis Research looked at the last 10 recessions and found that stocks rose 24 percent, on average, in the six months after hitting a recession low. That is why Tim Hayes, chief investment strategist at Ned Davis, said that while a recession could continue to pressure the stock market, “it could also lead to a great buying opportunity.”

Of course, there are no guarantees that the market will hit bottom in the middle of this slowdown. For instance, after the last recession ended in November 2001, stocks fell 18 percent over the next 12 months.

Still, there are reasons to believe that this will not be a repeat of the bear market of 2000-2.

For starters, Mr. Stovall said, “valuations in the market lead me to believe that this market decline will end up being either a correction or a very light bear market.” Although the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500 approached 40 in the final stages of the 2001 recession, the ratio today is only around half of that, indicating that stocks aren’t nearly as pricey.

Moreover, Mr. Raich noted that while profits were likely to take a hit in an actual recession, the weakness in earnings in the third and fourth quarters of 2007 would make for relatively favorable comparisons in the second half of 2008. “So there are some bright spots for the market,” he said. “They’re just being overshadowed right now by all this recession talk.”
561 2008-01-20 Whether humans will embrace or resist an innovation is the billion-dollar question facing designers of novel products and services. Why do people adapt to some new technologies and not to others? Fortunes are made and lost on the answer.

Great innovations have foundered over human stubbornness. Consider the Picturephone, trumpeted by AT&T at the New York World’s Fair in 1964 as a major technological advance. Engineers reasoned that if hearing someone’s voice over the phone was terrific, wouldn’t seeing a face be even better?

Consumers didn’t think so. AT&T’s Picturephone, which would have added around $90 to a person’s monthly phone bill in 1974, a huge amount for the time, “was superfluous, adding little information to voice alone, especially considering its high price,” said Kenneth Lipartito, a professor of history at Florida International University.

Even today, when adding video to a phone is a trivial cost, consumers may rebel. Video-conferencing often remains an activity forced on people by their employers.

Resistance to technology is an omnipresent risk for every innovator. Even a device as fabulously freeing as the personal computer struck some people as an abomination. In 1990, the poet Wendell Berry famously declared his perpetual allegiance to the typewriter in his essay, “Why I Am Not Going to Buy a Computer.”

Few people joined him, however, a reminder that rejection isn’t the real specter facing new gear. Adaptable humans usually trade one technology for another, rather than reject any and all. To be accepted, innovations must deliver benefits — enough benefits to make change worthwhile.

“As consumers we’re constantly asking ourselves, where do we draw the line? How far do we go?” says Mitchell Kapor, chairman of the Open Source Applications Foundation in San Francisco.

Businesses crave a sweet spot: where the line is drawn in favor of the innovator. The late Akio Morita, founder of Sony, talked about satisfying appetites that people didn’t even know they had. He achieved such a feat with the Sony Walkman, the music player introduced in 1979. While at the Lotus Development Corporation, Mr. Kapor created another such “killer app,” or application: the spreadsheet for the PC.

Killer apps are sought-after innovations because people get addicted to them and make behavioral changes that might otherwise be unthinkable. “Those who benefit from a technology adapt to its constraints and become dependent on it,” says John Staudenmaier, editor of the journal Technology and Culture and a historian of technology at the University of Detroit Mercy.

Dependency drives profits, the ultimate arbiter — for some — of an innovation’s success. Look how Apple has converted the mania for the iPod into record profits — and a record stock price.

IPod “addiction” seems benign. Yet some worry that other innovations may harbor health threats. As a result, they may be vulnerable to what Marc Ventresca, a lecturer at the Saïd Business School at Oxford, calls the “frog boiling” problem. For the frog, gradually rising heat causes no alarm — until the water is so hot that death is imminent.

“Adaptation can sometimes be dangerous, but the hazard isn’t apparent until it is ‘too late,’” Mr. Ventresca says.

While people may be fearful of allowing a seductive technology to imperil them — the “Frankenstein effect” — they may also fear the consequences of not changing their ways. As the case of climate change illustrates, many consumers are enthusiastic about changing their behavior — in this case, the way they drive cars — if they believe that by adapting to new technologies they will save themselves and the planet. Think of the Prius again.

FOR technological innovators, the cash register can ring either way. They may achieve a smash-hit breakthrough, or simply make a slight improvement in a technology that humans already feel comfortable with. Most innovators no longer even try to predict human reactions to their creations.

Henry Kressel, a partner at Warburg Pincus and a co-author of “Competing for the Future: How Digital Innovations Are Changing the World,” says, “You throw technologies into the market and see what sticks.”

The hope is that passionate “early adopters” will blaze a path toward mass acceptance of a new technology. Yet the truth is that no one can tell in advance which innovations people will adapt to and which will become the next example of the Picturephone.

Where people draw the line can be known only after the fact. Which is why innovation is always a risky — even humbling — business.
562 2008-01-20 Maintaining such large tracts of agricultural land, as opposed to single farms surrounded by housing, is vital to sustaining farming, Mr. Abbott said, because a greater amount of land will allow for more adaptability over time.

“This is New Milford’s last, best hope to keep farming intact the way they know and love it,” he said.

Mayor Murphy envisions creative public-private partnerships like those that facilitated protection elsewhere, notably the 130-acre Hunt Hill Farm and the 105-acre Sullivan Farm, which is owned by the town and operated by the New Milford Youth Agency. The idea is not just to buy up development rights, she said, but to make farming viable for a new generation.

“You could have many or one owning the development rights, many or one owning the land, many or one owning the structures,” she said.

New Milford is taking a more proactive approach to agricultural preservation than most other Connecticut towns. They more typically “wait until there are very few farms left, and they end up protecting the last farm in town,” said Elisabeth Moore, director of projects for the Connecticut Farmland Trust, which has helped conserve 14 state farms.

Farmland preservation committee members acknowledge, however, that the odds of holding onto the whole tract for agricultural purposes are slim.

“We’re about 50 years too late,” said Curtis Chapin, the preservation committee’s chairman and a part owner, with his siblings, of the Chapin farm. When he was growing up in the 1950s, New Milford was home to more than 100 farms, including his father’s dairy. As farmers aged and younger generations moved on, even those owners who might have preferred to preserve their farms couldn’t necessarily afford to.

“Farmers aren’t philanthropists,” said Mr. Chapin, a home remodeler who continues to hay part of his land and keep beef cattle. “It’s their retirement.”

His own family’s farm was forced into sale as the result of a legal dispute among the siblings, he said. (Mayor Murphy is engaged to one of them, Clark Chapin, a state representative.) An uneven, partly wooded area that Curtis Chapin describes as “steep as a cow’s face,” the farm became a preservation target only about four months ago, after the Litchfield Hills Greenprint identified it as an important piece of the 1,000-acre stretch.

Mr. Chapin would much rather that the property remain farmland than go the way of a nearby field now divided into residential lanes named Guernsey and Hayrake. Concerned that his participation on the committee might prompt criticism now that his family’s farm is among the preservation priorities, Mr. Chapin is considering stepping down.

George and Vivian Harris are hoping that their land, a former dairy farm, will remain in agricultural use, said their daughter, Janet Harris. Even after retiring from dairy farming, her father has maintained hayfields and a pumpkin patch for families in the fall. Her mother, a vocal farming advocate, invites school tour groups to visit. But her parents are faced with increasing health concerns — Mrs. Harris was recently hospitalized — and the family is pursuing approval of three subdivisions within their property.

Though developers are standing by, “no one’s beating down the door,” Janet Harris said, “because I think they understand the family’s position in preferring that it stay as open space.”

The two farms not currently on the market are the 320-acre Reimer farm and the similarly sized Kimberly farm, still a very active operation.

Funds for farm preservation are available through the federal Farm and Ranch Lands Protection Program, the state Farmland Preservation Program and, for smaller farms, the state Open Space and Watershed Acquisition Grant Program. Assembling those grants can take anywhere from one to two years, preservationists say, and are not sufficient to match a farm’s market value.

Mr. Chapin tries to stay optimistic, but having watched farm after farm fall, he has cynical moments. “One day, we’re going to wake up and see we don’t have any more room to grow our food,” he said, “because it’s all McMansions.”
563 2008-01-20 To all those traditional developmental stages in a child’s life, like learning to walk, talk and read, we can now add technological milestones like using a mouse, downloading music and surfing the Internet.

This becomes clear from a new report by the NPD Group, a market research firm, that measures the amount of digital content that children consume for their entertainment each month. The ages covered are 2 to 14. These days, somewhere between talking and reading, many tiny toddlers are hoisting themselves up to a screen and making their first fumbling moves toward technological mastery.

According to an NPD survey of mothers, the most popular digital activity for children in this age group is playing games, followed by listening to music (reading not essential for either).

We await a more detailed report on how these activities have affected the popularity of bedtime stories, playing with trucks and swinging on a swing set.
564 2008-01-20 Emily Joy Jones was married on Sunday evening to Preston LeRoi McGowan. The Rev. Mariah A. Britton, a nondenominational minister, is to officiate at the Rockleigh, a caterer in Rockleigh, N.J.

The bride, 35, is studying for a Ph.D. in urban educational policy at Rutgers in Newark. She graduated from Spelman College in Atlanta and received a master’s degree in elementary education from Mercy College in the Bronx.

She is the daughter of Maggie Funderburk Jones of Englewood, N.J., and the late John R. D. Jones. Her mother retired as a home economics teacher at Intermediate School 115 in the Bronx. Her father was a music teacher at P.S. 113 in Manhattan.

The bridegroom, 39, is a senior corporate development analyst at Chubb & Son, an insurance company in Warren, N.J. He graduated from Cornell and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.

He is a son of Eunice M. McGowan and Ivan C. McGowan of Neptune, N.J. His mother retired as a quality assurance manager at Roxanne Swimwear, a manufacturer in Neptune, N.J. His father is an electrical engineer for the Defense Department at Fort Monmouth in New Jersey.
565 2008-01-20 Three months later, 100,000 people watched as a nighttime fire turned the interior of the half-completed building into a furnace and sent a tower of flames into the sky. The nave had been just a shell; what burned was the network of wooden scaffolding around the interior walls. Chunks of stone popped off the face, and fires spread to adjacent buildings. Sparks even ignited a Christmas tree in a sixth-floor apartment at 99 Claremont Avenue, adjacent to the church. (The apartment house has since been torn down.)

Construction eventually resumed, and when Riverside Church opened in 1930, The New York Times said that its tower was the highest of any church in America, 392 feet. In his opening sermon, Fosdick said that if Jesus were to return, he would disapprove of the frequent wrangling over policies and rituals that separated the different Christian denominations.

The huge Gothic-style tower arrived at an unusual time for American architecture, when the purity of European Modernism began to make the historic styles seem like bad habits. Writing in The New Yorker in 1930, George Chappell found fault with the “scrambled Gothic” design and described the tower as “impressive in size, yet strangely lacking in majesty.” But Mr. Chappell admired the restraint and simple proportions of the great nave.

In a 1934 piece in The New Yorker, Lewis Mumford was tougher, calling it one of several particularly leaden “dead colossi,” which also included the Federal Courthouse in Lower Manhattan.

A overflow crowd of more than 2,500 people had the opportunity to ponder architectural tastes themselves when they came to the church in 1932 for the wedding of Blanchette Hooker and John D. Rockefeller III, whose brother Nelson was best man.

Since last year, the Gothic tower has been cloaked in scaffolding, as Howard L. Zimmerman Associates and Beyer Blinder Belle oversee $4 million in repairs to the limestone, especially the highest sections that are most exposed to the weather.

Edward Pon, a project architect for the Zimmerman firm, said the wind limits the amount of decking and netting that can be in place at any one time — too much wind on too much material could be unsafe. As it is, giant swaths of netting on the lower stories facing Riverside Drive flap in the breeze like galloping black giraffes.

Usually such enclosures detract from architectural aesthetics, but it this case the spidery steel network and thick wooden decking soften the wind-swept austerity of what has always been a chilly, formal monument.

Riverside Church is open Monday through Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; on Sundays, after the main service at 10:45 a.m., the church remains open until 4:40 p.m.

Although tours are available (information is on the church’s Web site, theriversidechurchny.org; click on “About Us”), in the middle of the week the giant nave is often empty, and a visitor can explore undisturbed.

On their 1926 European trip, the architects particularly admired the low, wide nave of the cathedral at Girona, Spain, and so Riverside has a roomier quality than lofty English-style cathedrals. Meandering around the curving stone staircases can seem like stumbling across some magnificent undiscovered French church not listed in any guidebook.

That is especially true of Christ Chapel, hidden unless you look for it. It is a breathtaking private 11th-century-style oblong of cream-colored sandstone with small, high windows, a tiny secret counterpoint to one of New York’s biggest churches.
566 2008-01-20 Maintaining such large tracts of agricultural land, as opposed to single farms surrounded by housing, is vital to sustaining farming, he said, because a greater amount of land will allow for more adaptability over time.

“This is New Milford’s last, best hope to keep farming intact the way they know and love it,” Mr. Abbott said.

Mayor Murphy envisions creative public-private partnerships like those that facilitated protection elsewhere, notably the 130-acre Hunt Hill Farm and the 105-acre Sullivan Farm, which is owned by the town and operated by the New Milford Youth Agency. The idea is not just to buy up development rights, she said, but to make farming viable for a new generation.

“You could have many or one owning the development rights, many or one owning the land, many or one owning the structures,” she said.

New Milford is taking a more proactive approach to agricultural preservation than most Connecticut towns. They more typically “wait until there are very few farms left, and they end up protecting the last farm in town,” said Elisabeth Moore, director of projects for the Connecticut Farmland Trust, which has helped conserve 14 state farms.

Farmland preservation committee members acknowledge, however, that the odds of holding onto the whole tract for agricultural purposes are slim at best.

“We’re about 50 years too late,” said Curtis Chapin, the preservation committee’s chairman and a part owner, with his siblings, of the Chapin farm. When he was growing up in the 1950s, New Milford was home to more than 100 active farms, including his father’s dairy. As farmers aged and younger generations moved on, even those landowners who might have preferred to preserve their farmland couldn’t necessarily afford to.

“Farmers aren’t philanthropists,” said Mr. Chapin, a home remodeler who continues to hay part of his land and keep beef cattle. “It’s their retirement.”

His own family’s farm was forced into sale as the result of a legal dispute among the siblings, he said. (Mayor Murphy is engaged to one of them, Clark Chapin, a state representative.) An uneven, partially wooded area that Curtis Chapin describes as “steep as a cow’s face,” the farm became a preservation target only about four months ago, after the Litchfield Hills Greenprint identified it as an important piece of the 1,000-acre stretch.

Mr. Chapin would much rather that the property remain farmland than go the way of a nearby field now divided into residential lanes named Guernsey and Hayrake. Concerned that his participation on the committee might spark criticism now that his family’s farm is among the preservation priorities, Mr. Chapin is considering stepping down.

George and Vivian Harris are hoping that their land, a former dairy farm, will remain in agricultural use, according to their daughter, Janet Harris. Even after retiring from dairy farming, her father has continued to maintain hayfields and a pumpkin patch for families in the fall. Her mother, a vocal farming advocate, invites school tour groups to visit. But her parents are faced with increasing health-care concerns — Mrs. Harris was recently hospitalized — and the family is pursuing approval of three subdivisions.

Though developers are standing by, “no one’s beating down the door,” Janet Harris said, “because I think they understand the family’s position in preferring that it stay as open space.”

The two farms not currently on the market are the 320-acre Reimer farm, and the similarly sized Kimberly farm, still a very active operation.

Funds for farm preservation are available through the federal Farm and Ranch Lands Protection Program, the state Farmland Preservation Program and, for smaller farms, the state Open Space and Watershed Acquisition Grant Program. Assembling those grants can take anywhere from one to two years, preservationists say, and are not sufficient to match a farm’s market value.

Mr. Chapin tries to stay optimistic, but having watched farm after farm fall, he has plenty of cynical moments. “One day, we’re going to wake up and see we don’t have any more room to grow our food,” he said, “because it’s all McMansions.”
567 2008-01-20 Re “The Shrinking Market Is Changing the Face of Hip-Hop” by Kelefa Sanneh [Dec. 30]:

Your article on the sales of rap and hip-hop failed to mention two possible reasons for the slowdown: people, including some hard-core fans, are tired of the same cornerstone lyrics that denigrate women and flaunt gratuitous violence over the same tired beats; or, an even worse fate, hip-hop isn’t relevant or exciting anymore.
568 2008-01-20 It took Israel 18 years to extricate itself from Lebanon after Israel invaded in 1982, with the fighting starting and ending at Beaufort Castle, a majestic Crusader fort at the top of a mountain that has been the site of centuries of bloody battles. In the film the military and political leaders are detached from reality, while the soldiers battle an unseen enemy whose missiles rain down randomly. It underscores the absurdity of the last months of a war, when, as the soldiers put it, they are guarding “the mountain so it won’t run away.”

Debunking military myths and the deglorification of war is nothing new in Israeli culture. Micha Shagrir, an Israeli producer and director, said, “It’s hard to think of a heroic war film” made in Israel in the last 40 years. Mr. Shagrir produced “Avanti Popolo,” a popular 1986 movie that took a comic approach to war through the adventures of two Egyptian soldiers lost in the desert after the 1967 conflict.

But when the rock singer Jacko Eisenberg, who won Israel’s version of “American Idol” in 2006, revealed in an interview that he had turned up at the army recruitment office after his call-up, guitar in hand, and refused to hold a gun, it contributed to a public brouhaha over what kind of role models should be given exposure in Israel.

Several of those cast as soldiers in “Beaufort” avoided military service, dragging the movie into the celebrity draft-dodging debate. “In no other Western country would a director be asked how he could cast men in the role of soldiers who hadn’t served themselves,” Mr. Cedar said, describing the media campaign against the celebrities as a “populist witch hunt.”

Mr. Eisenberg had also said, with questionable taste, that “without musicians, there would be no songs to sing at the memorial services of soldiers who’ve been killed.”

Mr. Cedar put it more sensitively: “The way I see it, there is more than one way to contribute to deterring our enemies, other than with tanks.”

The 1982 Lebanon war was Israel’s first that lacked domestic consensus. The supposedly glorious conquest of Beaufort on the first day had been plagued by a string of mishaps that resulted in bloodshed. Later, when the decision to take Beaufort was investigated, it was found that there had been an order from the top brass, in a Tel Aviv bunker, not to capture the mountain, but that the order had “disappeared into thin air,” Mr. Cedar said.

The third feature film made by Mr. Cedar, who immigrated to Israel with his family from New York when he was 5, “Beaufort” represents a coming of age in his dealings with the army. It also won him the best director award at the 2007 Berlin International Film Festival.

His first film, “Time of Favor” (2000), was a thriller about a plot by Jewish extremists to blow up the Muslim holy shrines on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. His second, “Campfire” (2004), set in the early 1980s, tells the story of an Israeli widow and her two daughters who try to gain acceptance into an insular religious group planning a settlement in the West Bank. “That one was about my Bayit Vegan life,” said Mr. Cedar, referring to his religious, Zionist upbringing in the Jerusalem neighborhood of that name.

The idea for “Beaufort” emerged in 2001. Mr. Cedar had read an extensive article called “The Accursed Mountain” by the Israeli journalist and author Ron Leshem about Beaufort and the last months in Lebanon in the Hebrew daily Yediot Aharonot. “It changed my hard disk,” Mr. Cedar said. “It shattered me.” Mr. Leshem went on to write a book about Beaufort in 2005, as well as the screenplay for “Beaufort” with Mr. Cedar.

Unable to film in Lebanon, which is still enemy territory, Mr. Cedar created a replica of the outpost near Nimrod, an almost identical Crusader fort on the Israeli side of the border.

“Beaufort” ends on what Mr. Cedar intended to be an optimistic note, with the last Israeli soldiers leaving Lebanon and looking ahead to a civilian future. By the time it was released, in 2007, however, Israel had already been in and out of Lebanon for another war, this time against the Hezbollah militia in the summer of 2006, which claimed the lives of 160 Israelis and more than a thousand Lebanese. “The movie had closure, but then it turns out it’s not over,” Mr. Cedar said. “And it might never be.”

Since his stint in military jail, the army hasn’t called Mr. Cedar again. He lectures to its educational corps and spokesmen’s unit, and officially, he’s been moved out of combat into a reserve unit for preserving the paratroopers’ heritage. “I’m supposed to serve as a consultant for military ceremonies, which I’m happy to do,” Mr. Cedar said. “But so far nobody’s asked for my opinion.”
569 2008-01-20 But as anyone who has traveled in Italy can attest, exotic is rarely the point in a restaurant there. What matters is simplicity, judgment and respect for the ingredients: the well-balanced salad, the perfectly cooked meat, the gnocchi that won’t stick to your molars. Call it the Tony Bennett test. Divino passes, with honors.

Spinach salad, for starters, had an inordinate amount of character for such an unassuming dish. The tender leaves, with their faint mineral flavor, held their own against a vibrant mustard-garlic vinaigrette; walnuts, roasted figs and slices of pear poached in red wine made this the kind of appetizer you could enjoy with a suave, plummy Chianti Classico. (Unfortunately, the Tuscans on Divino’s wine list start at $45 a bottle and head swiftly north from there.)

The gnocchi alla Caprese — light-textured potato dumplings with tomato sauce, bits of mozzarella and an aromatic hit of basil — were terrific. So was veal loin, a magisterial cut of meat: two and a half inches thick, bearing handsome grill marks and a delicious charred taste, with a garnish of sweet red and yellow papers and a deep-flavored reduction of stock and wine.

Other appetizers included those shrimp with white beans, which were nicely set off with sautéed grape tomatoes and a bracing overlay of sage; and a $24 antipasto for two (or three), which offered simple pleasures like a marinated portobello mushroom and a breaded, gently fried cake of goat cheese. While the menu didn’t indicate that pastas could be had by the half-portion as appetizers, the reserved but experienced staff was accommodating — allowing us to enjoy a starter of scallops over linguine in a scintillating arrabbiata sauce.

Indeed, all the pastas and risottos (most of them incorporating seafood) were ample and well turned out. Seafood standing alone, like red snapper and salmon, was accurately cooked and full of character. And a boned, pan-roasted Cornish hen over white beans and sautéed escarole was moist, crisp, garlicky and just about perfect.

Desserts were fine too, especially a dense, dark chocolate torte and a creamy ricotta cheesecake. Seeing us enjoying an after-dinner conversation with our espresso cups drained, the headwaiter, Sam Bruncaj, didn’t hustle us out; he brought a half-bottle of vin santo, the sherrylike dessert wine said to be an aid to digestion (and conversation). It was on the house — a typical gesture from a restaurant that seems to have found its identity not in inspiring customers but in making them happy.

THE SPACE A minimally decorated dining room with 70 seats. (An upstairs space for 100 more was not in use during the reviewer’s visits.) The first-floor dining room and restrooms are fully accessible.

THE CROWD Casual and sedate. THE STAFF Polite if not overly friendly.

THE BAR Cozy and companionable. The wine list is generic, except for an armful of expensive Italian reds.

THE BILL Lunch entrees, $9 to $18. Dinner entrees, $14 to $36. All major credit cards accepted.

WHAT WE LIKE Antipasto for two, shrimp with white beans, spinach salad; gnocchi, risotto and pastas; Cornish hen, loin of veal; cheesecake, chocolate torte.

IF YOU GO Lunch: Monday to Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner: Monday to Thursday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 11 p.m.; Sunday, 4 to 9 p.m. Reservations recommended. Ample free parking behind the restaurant.
570 2008-01-20 WHAT’S the difference between a brasserie and a bistro? Not much, when the places being compared are Brasserie Cassis, which opened in the Plainview Center in November, and its older sibling, Bistro Cassis in Huntington, which opened in 2001. (Bistro Citron in Roslyn, which opened two years later, is also under the same ownership.)

By the traditional definition, brasseries in France are beer-centered, while bistros feature wine. Brasserie Cassis offers only 7 beers but 85 wines. Its prices and menu are very similar to those at Bistro Cassis. The main difference between the two restaurants is size: The Plainview newcomer is far larger than the Huntington storefront.

Brasserie Cassis is a beauty that evokes Belle Époque Paris with distinctive globe chandeliers, colorful period posters, black and white photographs of Paris, red leather booths and banquettes, marble-topped tables and a zinc bar. The dining room has bare wood floors. There are no soft surfaces, and the noise can be deafening, especially at tables in the center of the room.

Service, on the other hand, is a joy. Waiters are attentive and upbeat. Busboys whirl around the room like dynamos delivering bread, butter, pâté and water. Refills of soft drinks are complimentary and appear the minute one is finished; so do the hunks of chewy baguette.

I would start a meal here just as I would at Bistro Cassis, with the frisée salad. The feathery tangle of greens is tossed with chewy batons of crisp bacon and arrives with a poached egg on top. Diners break the yolk and mix it into the salad, creating a lush dressing in the spirit of a Caesar. The onion soup is another showstopper, rich and sweet from caramelized onions.
571 2008-01-20 The South Carolina primary has accurately predicted the Republican presidential nominee since 1980, and since 1988 it has often played a decisive role. The McCain campaign sought to highlight that history here this week, but he is still left facing a scrambled field of opponents, including Mitt Romney, whose lopsided victory in the lightly contested Nevada caucuses Saturday gave him his second win in a week. He defeated Mr. McCain in the Michigan primary on Tuesday.

In his concession speech, Mr. Huckabee praised Mr. McCain for running “a civil and a good and a decent campaign” and vowed to battle on.

“The reason that I want to encourage you tonight is to remind you that politics — and particularly this year, more than perhaps any other — this is not an event,” he said. “It is a process. And the process is far, far from over.”

With 94 percent of the electoral precincts reporting, Mr. McCain had 33 percent of the vote, Mr. Huckabee 30 percent, Fred D. Thompson 16 percent, and Mr. Romney 15 percent.

The distant third-place finish was a severe blow to the candidacy of Mr. Thompson, an actor and former Tennessee Senator. He had been counting on a strong showing in a Southern state to revive his fortunes, and gave a rambling speech in which he urged his followers to “stand strong.”

The primary also narrowed the field of Republican candidates, leading Representative Duncan Hunter of California to drop out of the race.

For Mr. McCain, the victory was especially sweet. His presidential hopes were dealt a crippling blow here eight years ago when he lost to George W. Bush after a primary battle that was marked by vicious personal attacks on Mr. McCain and his family. This time his campaign aggressively responded to the few attacks that were leveled at him in fliers and phone calls, both debunking them and using them to gain sympathy for Mr. McCain. The campaign also enjoyed the support of the political establishment in the state.

“You and I are aware that for the last 28 years, the winner of the South Carolina primary has been the nominee of our party for president on the United States,” he said at a victory rally at the Citadel, a military school, where he kissed his mother, Roberta, 95. “We have a ways to go, my friends, and there are some tough contests ahead, starting tomorrow in the state of Florida. But, my friends, we are well on our way tonight.”

The campaign now heads to Florida, where Mr. McCain faces another challenge: Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has been advertising heavily and campaigning nearly nonstop there. His campaign hopes a win there will rescue his faltering candidacy.

The South Carolina contest was crucial for Mr. McCain and Mr. Huckabee, who were trying to build on earlier victories — Mr. McCain in New Hampshire and Mr. Huckabee in Iowa — to establish their dominance in the still-muddled Republican field.

Mr. McCain had predicted that he would win the primary here, and, although many polls were close in the last week, he campaigned as if he were the strong front-runner, pressing his twin issues of military strength and fiscal conservatism. He never disparaged or engaged Mr. Huckabee, even in the face of a spate of phone calls and radio advertisements attacking him by independent groups supporting Mr. Huckabee.

Mr. McCain’s campaign tried to portray him as the one candidate ready to be commander in chief, a message it sought to drive home with a big rally at an aircraft carrier museum here and a visit Saturday morning to a company that makes armored vehicles for the troops. He traveled with current and former senators and prominent state officials.

Mr. Huckabee, meanwhile, tackled South Carolina as if it were his home ground, with a populist patter and a calculated sense of the state’s stress points. He leaned heavily on secular themes in his public appearances — delivering an I-feel-your-pain economic message — but was very much the ordained Baptist minister on the airwaves, embracing the evangelical belt in the Midlands and western hills. The one commercial he ran over the last three days focused on his Christian beliefs.

Mr. Huckabee also emphasized his Southern origins in Greenville and Spartanburg, urging listeners to “support a Southerner who has run a Southern state.”

And he seized on several issues to try to galvanize conservative voters. Although he made a point of being compassionate toward illegal immigrants as the governor of Arkansas, he took a resolutely anti-immigration stance in South Carolina, sending out a mailing on the subject and becoming the first presidential candidate to sign a pledge promising not to give amnesty to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Huckabee also dove into the murky waters of Southern cultural identity politics, raising a dormant issue Thursday when he said that it was not his business whether the state chose to fly the Confederate battle flag over the Capitol. (The state removed the flag in 2000.) That same day an apparently unaffiliated group, Americans for the Preservation of American Culture, began running radio advertisement criticizing Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney on the issue, while praising Mr. Huckabee.

The McCain campaign grew concerned Saturday morning when voting problems were reported in Horry County, which includes Myrtle Beach, where they had expected strong support.

Gary Baum, a spokesman for the South Carolina State Election Commission, said voting machines in 15 or 20 of the county’s 118 precincts were not properly set up for voting, forcing voters to use emergency paper ballots. Mr. Baum said there might have been some precincts that did not have enough paper ballots.

The McCain campaign said it had received reports that some voters were turned away from the polls without voting.

Mr. Baum said that the voting machines worked, but that elections workers had not properly cleared test votes, rendering it impossible to open the machines for actual voting. He said workers were sent to the precincts to fix the machines

Despite pouring millions of dollars into South Carolina, Mr. Romney struggled in the state. So he abandoned the state to compete in the lightly contested caucus in Nevada.

Mr. Romney’s runaway victory in Nevada was powered to a large degree by Mormons, according to an entrance survey reported by The Associated Press. Mormons made up a quarter of Republican caucus participants, and 95 percent of them voted for Mr. Romney.
572 2008-01-21 Spencer Ackerman, left, of The Washington Independent and Megan McArdle of The Atlantic debate whether John McCain deserves the front-runner status the media has given him.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
573 2008-01-21 Markets from Frankfurt to Mumbai went into a tailspin, puncturing the hopes of many investors that Europe and Asia will be able to sidestep an American downturn....
574 2008-01-21 John McCain opened his final push in Florida with an appeal to the powerful Cuban-American community....
575 2008-01-21 The big problem with attempts to provide temporary economic stimulus is how to ensure that the money gets spent. As Milton Friedman pointed out 50 years ago, consumers tend to base their spending on "permanent income" - the income they expect to h...
576 2008-01-21 MIAMI — Senator John McCain of Arizona arrived to Latin salsa music on Monday at the Versailles restaurant in Little Havana, downed a cortadito — a shot of espresso with steamed milk — and with the other Republican presidential candidates opened a final assault in Florida before the state’s presidential primary on Jan. 29.

“We come into Florida with some wind in our back and recognize we have some hard campaigning in the next eight days,” Mr. McCain told a packed news conference in the back room of Versailles, a restaurant offering guava and cheese pastries that is a must-stop for political candidates seeking to appeal to the state’s powerful Cuban-American community.

Mr. McCain, who was left for dead by the political class five months ago, was surrounded by an intense crowd of cameras and reporters as he sought to ride a wave of momentum from his victory over former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas in South Carolina’s Republican presidential primary on Saturday. Mr. McCain was buoyed by reports of two polls released Monday showing him with a double-digit lead over Rudolph W. Giuliani in New York, the former mayor’s home state.

“It’s like a new state on the map,” said Mark McKinnon, a McCain adviser who was traveling with Mr. McCain in Florida on Monday. “We always thought Giuliani would win New York.”

Mr. McCain is planning a fund-raiser on Tuesday in a significant corner of Mr. Giuliani’s home turf, the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan. Mr. McCain is actively seeking cash this week to finance his campaign through the expensive Florida primary and into the tsunami of primaries in 20 states, including New York, on Feb. 5. His Tuesday schedule calls for him to campaign in Pensacola, Fla., in the morning, leave Orlando at 1 p.m. for New York, appear at the fund-raiser, then return to Orlando around 10 p.m. and resume campaigning in Florida on Wednesday morning.
577 2008-01-21 Stocks followed suit when markets opened in the Western Hemisphere. Canadian stocks closed down 4.75 percent, and a key market index in Brazil was off 6.6 percent.

And trading Monday in stock index futures, while light and not always a reliable indicator, pointed to a substantial decline when markets reopen on Wall Street. Futures in the Dow Jones industrial average were down 520 points, or more than 4 percent.

Investors were scarcely comforted by President Bush’s announcement on Friday of an economic stimulus package of as much as $145 billion. Mr. Bush’s “shot in the arm,” economists said, did not persuade the rest of the world that the United States will escape a recession, or that it will either.

The turmoil will put even more pressure on the European Central Bank, which has charted a different course from the Federal Reserve by warning that it might raise interest rates to curb inflation, rather than cut them, as the Fed has, to ward off a recession. Mr. Mayer and others predict the bank will be forced into an about-face in coming months.

While Asia has been less buffeted by the credit crisis than Europe, the Bank of China now appears vulnerable, with analysts predicting it will have to write down the value of its American mortgage holdings.

Investors in Asia have been in a state of denial about a possible recession in the United States, said Adrian Mowat, JPMorgan’s chief strategist in Asia. But now, he said, “there’s no debate about it.” The only question, he added is “how long and deep” a recession might be.

In Japan, which may be facing a new recession of its own, most indexes were off by more than 3 percent on Monday and were down another 4 percent in early trading on Tuesday.

The angst about the United States belies the popular theory that Europe and Asia are not as dependent on the American economy as they once were, in part because they trade more with each other. The theory, known as decoupling, has been used to explain why economies like China and Germany have kept growing robustly, even as the United States has slowed.

“The market is not at all convinced about decoupling, and I think the market is probably right,” Mr. Mayer said. “When you look at it more closely, we’re suffering from the same issues.”

The housing market, after a long boom, is cooling off in several countries, notably Britain, Spain and Ireland. That will depress the growth rate in those countries, which are among Europe’s economic pace-setters.

European banks continue to make unwelcome disclosures about write-downs of mortgage assets, even if the losses are not as dire as those reported by Citigroup or Merrill Lynch. Banks loans across Europe are being constrained, according to a recent survey by the European Central Bank.

German banks, in particular, are still haunted by the American subprime mess. WestLB’s troubles came a week after a German property lender, Hypo Real Estate, lost one-third of its market value after it disclosed higher-than-expected losses from the credit crisis.

WestLB, after warning that its 2007 losses would be more than twice its earlier estimate, said its key shareholders, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and regional savings bank, had agreed to inject to inject 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) of fresh capital into the bank to stabilize it.

Also on Monday, Commerzbank warned it would make additional write-downs in the fourth quarter of 2007. This caught analysts off guard, since Commerzbank has been fairly upbeat about its exposure.

“The amounts are not so significant,” said Simon Adamson, a banking analyst at CreditSights, an independent research firm in London. “It was more the way the market was caught by surprise.”

Shares of Commerzbank fell 10 percent Monday, Deutsche Bank declined 6.7 percent, Société Générale of France dropped 8 percent, BNP Paribas declined 9.6 percent and the ING Group of the Netherlands was off 10.5 percent.

But the damage extended to the shares of energy companies like BP and Royal Dutch Shell, which dropped on worries that a global economic slowdown would crimp the demand for oil and gas.

“The problem is more deeply rooted in anxiety about the global economy than it is in Germany,” said Boris Boehm, an asset manager at Nordinvest in Hamburg. “People are really afraid. But it’s a good thing because fear, along with action, gets the market to its proper level quickly.”

Those jitters extended to fast-growing markets, like China, and those, like India, that are thought to be relatively insulated from the United States. Shanghai’s Composite Index closed down 5.1 percent, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 5.5 percent, also the most since Sept. 11, 2001.

Emerging markets have sagged recently, and Monday’s rout may signal a basic shift in sentiment, analysts said. Mr. Mowat of JPMorgan said that it did not matter whether markets were separated by geography or asset class because, he said, “we trade together in corrections.”

No matter how many bridges, roads, and power plants China builds, or how many new cars India sells, a downturn in the United States will ripple across Asia’s economies, experts said.

“If the United States consumer quits buying things, it is going to hurt in Asia,” said Deborah Schuller, an Asia regional credit officer for Moody’s Investors Service. She said most rated corporations there would be able to withstand a nine-month recession in the United States, but if it were to stretch to 12 months or more, there could be some serious problems.

Worries about China are adding to Asia’s uneasiness. Its private property market is in the midst of a shakeout, and scores of small developers have gone out of business. Chinese banks were hard hit on Monday, in part because they hold the bulk of Asia’s exposure to subprime mortgages.

In Japan, stock markets fell to their lowest levels in more than two years on concerns that an American recession could be accompanied by a home-grown one. The Nikkei 225 fell 3.9 percent.

Investors were unnerved by data from the Japanese Finance Ministry, which said that growth was slowing in five of the Japan’s economic regions. The Japanese economy has been weighed down by stagnant housing investment and a poor employment picture outside the major cities.

Australian stocks slid again on Monday, their tenth consecutive day of losses, and the country’s longest losing streak for more than 25 years. The S.& P./ASX 200 index dropped 2.9 percent as investors scrambled to get out of companies perceived to have high exposure to debt.

Allco Finance Group, a once-high-flying transport infrastructure fund that was part of the consortium that tried to buy Qantas Airways last year, was among the hardest hit, dropping over 35 percent.

In both Europe and Asia, there may be further shocks, as banks total the fallout from their investments in the American mortgage market. Deutsche Bank, for one, will report its annual results on Feb. 7.

“There’s an old saying in the market that banks lead us into recession and banks lead us out,” Mr. Boehm of Nordinvest said.
578 2008-01-21 Fred Funk won the Champions Tour’s season-opening MasterCard Championship on Sunday in Kaupulehu-Kona, Hawaii, birdieing the final two holes for a seven-under 65 and a two-stroke victory over Allen Doyle.The 51-year-old Funk was coming off a 10th-place tie last week in the PGA Tour’s Sony Open. Doyle, who blew a four-stroke lead, shot a 68.
579 2008-01-21 PHOENIX (AP) — No team playing the second night in a row on the road wants the opponent to be the Phoenix Suns. The Nets were an example of that Sunday.

Amare Stoudemire had 28 points and the Suns made it 14 consecutive victories at home by routing the Nets, 116-92.

Raja Bell, who was 5 for 10 on 3-point attempts, added 20 points. The Nets have not won in Phoenix since March 13, 1993.

Six players, including the five starters, scored in double figures for the Suns. Shawn Marion had 16 points and 11 rebounds and matched his season high with 5 steals. Boris Diaw had 14 points, 10 rebounds and 6 assists.

Steve Nash had 13 points and 9 assists and Leandro Barbosa added 12 points as Phoenix matched its season high of five consecutive home victories.
580 2008-01-21 It matters not how strait the gate,

 How charged with punishments the scroll,

I am the master of my fate:

 I am the captain of my soul.

The young Henley had written this following the amputation of his foot because of tubercular infection. He lived until age 53, apparently unbow’d and unafraid, a productive poet, critic and editor. (The one-legged Henley also served as an inspiration for his close friend Robert Louis Stevenson’s “Treasure Island” character Long John Silver.)

One can see why “Invictus” might have appealed to the young McCain. One can see why snatches of it might have stuck in his mind while a prisoner of war, and after. But his allusion to its coda reminds us of what’s so distinctive about McCain as a contemporary political figure: He’s not thoroughly modern.

In this he differs from his competitors. Mitt Romney is the very model of a modern venture capitalist. Mike Huckabee is the very model of a modern evangelical. Rudy Giuliani is the very model of a modern can-do executive. They are impressive modern men all. But John McCain is a not-so-modern type. One might call him a neo-Victorian — rigid, self-righteous and moralizing, but (or rather and) manly, courageous and principled.

Maybe a dose of this type of neo-Victorianism is what the 21st century needs. A fair number of Republican and independent voters seem to think so, if one can infer as much from their support of McCain at the polls. But, amazingly, a neo-Victorian straightforwardness might also turn out to be strategically smart.

McCain has been the only Republican candidate who hasn’t tried to out-think the process. Perhaps out of sheer necessity, after his campaign imploded last summer, he simply picked himself up and made his case to the voters in the various states.

Meanwhile, the other G.O.P. candidates are creatures of our modern age of analysis and meta-analysis, and their campaigns have sometimes been too clever by half. Rudy Giuliani believed it would look bad to contest states he might not win. He therefore pulled back from Iowa, New Hampshire, Michigan and South Carolina — and in the process surrendered his lead in Florida and nationally.

Conservatives were excited about Fred Thompson last spring. But Thompson apparently decided it would be too simple to strike while the iron was hot. He never recovered. And Mike Huckabee, after an extraordinary run in the fall, brought on experienced campaign pros, changed his position on immigration, raised the issue of the Confederate flag — and lost South Carolina.

Meanwhile, trying to be clever, Mitt Romney left South Carolina and headed to Nevada, thinking he could get more attention for his expected victory in the caucus there. If he had stayed and campaigned in South Carolina, he still would have won Nevada. And he might have cost McCain enough votes that McCain would have lost South Carolina to Huckabee, a much better outcome for the Romney campaign.

Yesterday, on “Fox News Sunday,” using his most up-to-date talking points, Romney claimed to be an outside-the-Beltway candidate, by contrast with John McCain, “who has been in Washington all [his] life.”

Romney might have paused before charging McCain with being a prisoner of Washington. In the late 1960s and early 70s, while Romney was a missionary in France and a law and business student at Harvard, McCain wasn’t living the good life here in the nation’s capital. He was “tied up at the time,” as he once reminded the audience in a Republican candidates’ debate, tied up and perhaps reciting to himself lines from “Invictus.”
581 2008-01-21 “Barack’s campaign — like him or not, support his policies or his politics or not — the brilliance of this black man winning in Iowa and nearly winning in New Hampshire is a huge victory for Dr. King’s dream,” Niger Innis said. “It doesn’t mean that the fight is over, but the battlefield certainly has changed.”

As the son of a white American mother and a black Kenyan father, with support from many upper-income white voters and a campaign not focused on racial issues or his racial identity, Senator Obama seems to some observers to embody Dr. King’s emphasis on integration. To some, Mr. Obama’s candidacy also recalls the way the civil rights leader expanded his focus on racism to include economic and foreign policy issues shortly before he was assassinated 40 years ago in Memphis, where he had gone to support a strike by sanitation workers.

“Dr. King had become very unpopular before his death, talking about things that black men did not have the right to talk about,” George Hulse, an H.M.O. executive and board member of the Caribbean American Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said over bagels Friday at the chamber’s King breakfast.

“They could not talk about economic issues. They could not talk about international affairs. They could not talk about world issues,” said Mr. Hulse, vice president of external affairs for Healthfirst. He recalled the controversy that Dr. King stirred with his “Beyond Vietnam” speech at Riverside Church in New York in 1967.

But those subjects are now cornerstones of the Obama campaign, a campaign that Mr. Hulse said Dr. King’s trailblazing had made possible.

Many of the people who had Mr. Obama on their minds as Dr. King’s birthday celebration approached emphasized that they had not decided whether to vote for him. His main opponent, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, also enjoys strong support among civil rights leaders and African-Americans. And many of the organizations that commemorate the holiday are nonprofit groups that by law cannot endorse candidates.

Rather, Mr. Obama’s name came up alongside Dr. King’s as people declared that the civil rights leader was no longer a symbol only for African-Americans, or as they expressed hope that the two senators — a possible first female president and a possible first black president — would resist temptations to focus the campaign on race and gender.

Roy Innis said he was glad they seemed to have pulled back from a dust-up over Mrs. Clinton’s recent remark that Dr. King’s work came to fruition after President Lyndon B. Johnson pushed through the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

“It’s so funny when someone tells the truth and they have to apologize for it,” he said of Mrs. Clinton. “L.B.J. knew the redneck opposition and busted their kneecaps and broke their arms. So it was a collaboration between King and the civil rights movement and L.B.J.”

Even the Bush administration can take some credit for making Mr. Obama’s campaign possible, Mr. Hulse said at the Caribbean breakfast, by making Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice the first black secretaries of state.

But if Dr. King were alive today, Mr. Hulse added, he would be talking about how much the war in Iraq — in which Mr. Powell and Ms. Rice had a significant role — is “taking away from the middle class,” much as he spoke, at Riverside Church, of Vietnam’s toll on the poor.

Debra Lesane, a consultant who is helping the chamber plan seminars on banking and credit, said Dr. King would be deploring the subprime mortgage crisis, which has disproportionately affected minority homeowners.

Paraphrasing Dr. King, Mr. Bassford, the Moneytree executive, agreed. “It’s not good enough to have all the rights to engage in all the areas of commerce, if you don’t have the ability,” he said at the Nasdaq ceremony. “What good is it to be able to sit at the lunch counter if you don’t have the money to buy a hamburger?”

Mr. Bassford has championed voluntary standards for ethics and transparency for the storefront check-cashing services that many low-income families rely on for short-term loans they cannot get from banks, Niger Innis said, explaining why the Congress of Racial Equality was honoring a purveyor of high-interest short-term loans.

Economic issues also were at the forefront for people who felt disconnected from the holiday.

The Industrial Workers of the World has chosen the King holiday to protest against Starbucks for not providing holiday pay to its employees on that date. But some baristas said they had never heard of the campaign by the union, which is fighting to organize them.

“It’s just a day like any other, like all holidays,” said Fernando Heredia, 22, who often works holidays at the Starbucks at Eighth Avenue and 43rd Street. He said he had not thought much about Dr. King since high school.

Just outside the Nasdaq ceremony, Jordan Ramos, 19, on a cigarette break in Times Square, said that he would not get the holiday off from his media services job, and that Dr. King loomed larger for his Puerto Rican grandmother, who had lived through the civil rights struggle.

But he said he had come to connect Dr. King’s message to issues of more immediacy for him, like immigrants’ rights. “It’s not just about African-Americans but about all minorities, how we’re all treated,” he said.

Nearby, Idris, 35, an immigrant from Ghana who declined to give his last name, said he could not take the holiday off because he is paid on commission for selling tour bus packages to passers-by. He said that he felt excluded in the United States, and that Dr. King’s message held little reassurance.

“It’s an American thing to me,” he said.
582 2008-01-21 Sulley Muntari scored in the 90th minute to give host Ghana a 2-1 victory against Guinea in the opening match of the African Cup of Nations in Accra. Ghana, a four-time African champion, took the lead in the 54th minute on Asamoah Gyan’s penalty kick, but Guinea tied it in the 64th, when Oumar Kalabane scored.
583 2008-01-21 They include MK2, a French movie theater owner; Lovefilm, a DVD rental company in Britain that expanded into digital downloads; and Glowria, a similar business in France.

Last month, Microsoft expanded a service that allows users to download movies over its Xbox 360 video game console, opening up in Britain, France, Germany and Ireland, about a year after starting it in the United States.

The European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, warned this month that there were significant barriers to developing digital media distribution in its 27 member countries. And Viviane Reding, the commissioner who oversees media, said that by midyear she would propose ways to make it easier to sell content online, including efforts to streamline digital commerce across borders.

“Europe’s content sector is suffering under its regulatory fragmentation, under its lack of clear, consumer-friendly rules for accessing copyright-protected online content, and serious disagreements between stakeholders about fundamental issues” like copying of digital works, Ms. Reding said in a statement.

One problem she cited was the need for content distributors to secure individual licenses to films and other copyrighted material in every country in which they planned to do business. The commission said it would examine ways to encourage rights holders, including movie studios, to issue “multiterritory” licenses.

While pan-European approaches might seem desirable in Brussels, that is not always the case in national capitals, particularly in smaller countries fearful about the decline of their own cultural industries.

European regulators, media companies, telecommunications providers and “collecting societies,” which gather royalties for copyright holders, battled for years over how to license digital music for pan-European use. Some artists and politicians have objected to efforts by the European Commission two years ago to ease music licensing by requiring collecting societies, which used to have national monopolies, to compete with each other across boundaries.

Another difficulty for European digital distributors is the system of “windows,” or staggered schedules, that governs the release of films in different formats, from the cinema to DVDs to pay TV to video on demand and, finally, television.

The release windows can vary widely from country to country. In Britain, many Hollywood films are released at the same time as in the United States, or not long afterward. In other European countries, there may be a lag of several months.

Some movie studios — like Warner Brothers, in a deal with the Belgian cable company Belgacom — have experimented with simultaneous release of films on DVD and video on demand; elsewhere, including France, there is a significant gap between the DVD and video-on-demand release.

Apple declined to discuss the timetable for its planned movie rental service in Europe.

But the company may already be more familiar than many other companies with the intricacies of European content licensing, having recently settled an investigation by the European Commission into the pricing policies on its iTunes music store. Apple recently agreed to lower its prices on the British iTunes to the levels in the euro zone but blamed record companies for the discrepancy.

Despite the challenges that Apple and others will face, the European Commission predicts that revenue from digital sales of “creative content,” including films, music and video games, will rise to 8.3 billion euros in 2010 from 1.8 billion euros in 2005, or to about $12.2 billion from $2.6 billion, across the European Union.

Some of the biggest beneficiaries may be local experts who can help the likes of Apple negotiate the legal and regulatory minefields.

Nick Thomas, European media industry analyst at JupiterResearch in London, said, “If you’re an intellectual property lawyer, there’s probably a lot of money to be made over the next few years.”
584 2008-01-21 PARK CITY, Utah — So much for the sellers’ market. The Sundance Film Festival’s opening weekend, often the setting for rapturous audience reactions and frenzied all-night bidding wars, drew to a close looking more and more like a disappointment, if not an outright dud.

Over and over again films played here to auditoriums packed with acquisition executives, who then could be glimpsed slinking out one by one. Over and over again rumors of deals proved false.

That could change, of course, and film agents said that as recently as last year the first big sale — of “Grace Is Gone,” to the Weinstein Company for $4 million — didn’t take place until Sunday night. But the dismal box office performance of Sundance films like that one (it earned less than $37,000) may be a reason this year’s festival marketplace started off so slowly.

“A lot of people got burned last year,” said Tom Bernard, co-president of Sony Pictures Classics. “You never lose money on a movie you don’t buy.”

John Sloss, who represented “Grace Is Gone” and is handling more than a dozen films this year, said: “I see the fear in buyers’ eyes. Nobody wants to overpay for a movie. I think once the deals start going, they’ll go. It’s just that no one wants to be the first to do a big deal.”
585 2008-01-21 She has arranged search parties, talked with dozens of shop owners, handed out hundreds of fliers, and festooned intersections with sad little signs that bear his photograph. “Missing Gary Chronister,” the signs say. “Confused & Unable to Call Home.” In searching the surrounding woods of this prospering county just northwest of Atlanta, she has come upon homeless veterans in lean-tos, living lives of invisibility.

But the longer her son remains missing, the more complex his story becomes. Last week the sheriff’s office in Cherokee County, to the immediate north, issued a warrant for his arrest on charges that he molested a young girl last summer. Dr. Futrell says it is untrue, unfair — un-Gary.

She also maintains that he is not on the run. For one thing, she and the child’s mother both say that investigators told everyone months ago that there were too many inconsistencies to prosecute a case. For another, Mr. Chronister was living in Bibb County, 100 miles to the south: if he was on the run, why would he run toward his pursuers?

“Because my son has disappeared, and is talking to himself, then he’s guilty,” Dr. Futrell says. “He’s not running; he’s walking.”

Or so the sightings say. Here he is, walking near the Circle K convenience store on Highway 41, a big smile on his face. And here he is, at a stoplight on Wade Green Road, trying to cross the street but not making it, walking out a few feet and then back, out and back, head bowed, smiling.

The smile, his mother says, voice breaking, “seems to be a hallmark of my son.”

Dr. Futrell returned recently to the Huddle House, driving up in her son’s pickup that she hopes he might recognize from the road. Stacks of “Missing Gary Chronister” signs, each one adorned with a small American flag, sat in its bed.

She is 53, stout and tired, with a ready smile conveying disbelief at what her life has become. A school psychologist by profession, now a manhunter by circumstance. That is why she chose a back booth: she wanted to see everyone and everything.

Her ever-ringing cellphone rang again before she could take a bite of her meal. “This is Gary’s mom,” she answered, hopeful, then not. “No, no, that wouldn’t be Gary ... I so appreciate you calling, though. Thank you so much. Keep your eyes open, sweetie.”

Dr. Futrell said her son has a great intellect, a mild case of Tourette’s syndrome and a sense of right and wrong so rigid that he sometimes struggles through the grays of life. He is also a loner. Asked if he ever had a girlfriend, his mother said with a note of reluctance, “Not really.”

After earning a bachelor’s degree in English in 1998 from the University of Tennessee, he enrolled in a seminary in Kentucky to pursue “full-time Christian service,” his mother said. But things didn’t work out there, and he had a lot of outstanding college loans. So, several weeks before 9/11, he joined the Army.

Over the next three years he spent several months in Afghanistan and several in Iraq, helping to erect guard towers, install light fixtures and build memorials for dead soldiers. Although he saw no combat he came home different, his mother said, with the only telltale sign a check mark on a military document, next to the words “personality change.”

Mr. Chronister disappeared many days into his bedroom, which he kept boot-camp spotless. He had trouble holding jobs. Then came his first psychotic break, in which he quietly disengaged from reality. Tests revealed an unspecified brain injury. Was it from being beaten up when he was 16? Was it from something that happened in the military?

After several go-rounds with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Mr. Chronister finally received medication that seemed to work, but only for a while. “This is the first day of my healing,” he wrote in his journal on Nov. 8. Within two days, he was gone.

Now the police are looking for Gary Chronister, up, down and around Highway 41. And so, still, is his mother, who hasn’t forgotten one of their last conversations. He had said he was having trouble again controlling the thoughts, and she answered, “Son, I’m here.”
586 2008-01-21 GREEN BAY, Wis. — Lawrence Tynes did not wait for Giants Coach Tom Coughlin to call for the field-goal team in overtime. He knew roughly where the ball was, inside the 50. He had already missed two critical fourth-quarter attempts, one with four seconds left that would have sent the Giants to the Super Bowl. He wanted another try as badly as anything he ever wanted in his life.

“I just ran out onto the field,” Tynes said. “He had to make a decision, and I wanted to make the decision for him.”

This time, Tynes did not miss. His 47-yard field goal defeated Green Bay, 23-20, for the National Football Conference championship. After the kick went through, Tynes sprinted to the locker room, forcing the jubilant quarterback Eli Manning to hug holder Jeff Feagles instead.

“He ran off without me,” Feagles said. “I guess he thought he was going to get mobbed.”

Not quite. “I just wanted to get out of the cold,” Tynes said.

Everyone on the Giants’ sideline would have gotten warmer faster had Tynes converted his previous two attempts. He hooked a 43-yard attempt wide left with 6 minutes 49 seconds to play and the score tied, 20-20. The Giants got the ball just before two-minute warning and drove to the Packers 18, where Manning spiked the ball to stop the clock and set up the kick, but Tynes punched a 36-yard attempt badly left after Feagles pulled down a high snap.
587 2008-01-21 GAMING FREELY In a major departure from its traditional business model, Electronic Arts, the video game industry bellwether, plans to announce that it is developing an installment in its hit series Battlefield that will be distributed on the Inter...
588 2008-01-21 Sulley Muntari scored in the 90th minute to give host Ghana a 2-1 win over Guinea in the opening match of the African Cup of Nations in Accra. Ghana, a four-time African champion, took the lead in the 54th minute on Asamoah Gyan's penalty kick, bu...
589 2008-01-21 WEISS--Walter A. 1 year, half a heart and so many ''if only's''. Love, Ronnie...
590 2008-01-22 Today’s stormy market looks as if it will be finding an echo in the weather for participants arriving in Switzerland on Tuesday for the World Economic Forum in Davos. For travelers touching down in Zurich, the “predominant weather is forecast ...
591 2008-01-22 The Writers Guild of America has decided to withdraw its proposals relating to reality show and animation writers, removing a major impediment to a potential settlement between the guild and the alliance of major Hollywood studios. In a letter to ...
592 2008-01-22 Despite a 10 percent drop in Apple's shares, the company did very well in the fourth quarter, putting $3 billion in the bank. It plans to address its main weakness--slow growth in iPod sales--by emphasizing the Internet capability of the iPod Touc...
593 2008-01-22 The econoblogs have been great reading - and some of the commenters offer some much needed comic relief. At Calculated Risk, the housing crisis blog, a new update on ABX and CMBX (measuring, roughly, what subprime-backed and commercial real-estate...
594 2008-01-22 Heath Ledger, a nice guy to deal with and a talented actor - he was nominated in 2005 for best actor for his role as a conflicted cowboy in "Brokeback Mountain" - was found dead in a Manhattan apartment. He was 28....
595 2008-01-22 Bobby G is a series on the Mojo HD Network that follows a publicity-loving entrepreneur and venture capitalist.
596 2008-01-22 Word leaks out before the Republican candidate can get to New York for the official news....
597 2008-01-22 Several members of our roundtable from across the country assess the fireworks and the outcomes of last night's debate....
598 2008-01-22 In the midst of troubles in the stock market today, Mitt Romney has a new ad out in Florida touting his economic plan. He also offered some investment advice on the stump....
599 2008-01-22 Both CNBC and Fox Business Network covered the market turmoil extensively. Whether markets are falling or rising, viewership of the business news network CNBC swells on volatile trading days. The same will likely be true for the four-month-old Fox...
600 2008-01-22 Images of the nominees for the 80th annual Academy Awards....
601 2008-01-22 Crisis begets drama. Perhaps one of the more compelling stories of the 1987 market crash was the offering of British Petroleum shares. At the time, the Thatcher government was about to mark another victory in its privatization crusade by triumphan...
602 2008-01-22 Following a full day of trading in the U.S. after 2 days of market dives around the world....
603 2008-01-22 A share sale this week for RiskMetrics Group, the owner of Institutional Shareholder Services, the proxy advisory service, could go a long way toward determining whether the new-issues market will have a smooth or bumpy ride in the early part of t...
604 2008-01-22 Will the Super Bowl halftime show be this good? Just asking....
605 2008-01-22 Quebecor World, the second-largest commercial printer in the world, filed for bankruptcy protection in Canada and the United States on Monday. The Montreal-based company, which prints a wide variety of publications at plants in the United States, ...
606 2008-01-22 From today's Science report: "A banana in every tree!" Just as there are myriad strategies open to the human political animal with White House ambitions, so there are a number of nonhuman animals that behave like textbook politicians. Researchers ...
607 2008-01-22 Over time, the demands of a social animal’s social life may come to swamp all other selective pressures in the environment, possibly serving as the dominant spur for the evolution of ever-bigger vote-tracking brains. And though we humans may vaguely disapprove of our political impulses and harbor “Fountainhead” fantasies of pulling free in full glory from the nattering tribe, in fact for us and other highly social species there is no turning back. A lone wolf is a weak wolf, a failure, with no chance it will thrive.

Dario Maestripieri, a primatologist at the University of Chicago, has observed a similar dilemma in humans and the rhesus monkeys he studies.

“The paradox of a highly social species like rhesus monkeys and humans is that our complex sociality is the reason for our success, but it’s also the source of our greatest troubles,” he said. “Throughout human history, you see that the worst problems for people almost always come from other people, and it’s the same for the monkeys. You can put them anywhere, but their main problem is always going to be other rhesus monkeys.”

As Dr. Maestripieri sees it, rhesus monkeys embody the concept “Machiavellian” (and he accordingly named his recent popular book about the macaques “Macachiavellian Intelligence”).

“Individuals don’t fight for food, space or resources,” Dr. Maestripieri explained. “They fight for power.” With power and status, he added, “they’ll have control over everything else.”

Rhesus monkeys, midsize omnivores with ruddy brown fur, long bearded faces and disturbingly humanlike ears, are found throughout Asia, including in many cities, where they, like everybody else, enjoy harassing the tourists. The monkeys typically live in groups of 30 or so, a majority of them genetically related females and their dependent offspring.

A female monkey’s status is usually determined by her mother’s status. Male adults, as the ones who enter the group from the outside, must establish their social positions from scratch, bite, baring of canines and, most importantly, rallying their bases.

“Fighting is never something that occurs between two individuals,” Dr. Maestripieri said. “Others get involved all the time, and your chances of success depend on how many allies you have, how wide is your network of support.”

Monkeys cultivate relationships by sitting close to their friends, grooming them at every possible opportunity and going to their aid — at least, when the photo op is right. “Rhesus males are quintessential opportunists,” Dr. Maestripieri said. “They pretend they’re helping others, but they only help adults, not infants. They only help those who are higher in rank than they are, not lower. They intervene in fights where they know they’re going to win anyway and where the risk of being injured is small.”

In sum, he said, “they try to gain maximal benefits at minimal cost, and that’s a strategy that seems to work” in advancing status.

Not all male primates pursue power by appealing to the gents. Among olive baboons, for example, a young male adult who has left his natal home and seeks to be elected into a new baboon group begins by making friendly overtures toward a resident female who is not in estrous at the moment and hence not being contested by other males of the troop.

“If the male is successful in forming a friendship with a female, that gives him an opening with her relatives and allows him to work his way into the whole female network,” said Barbara Smuts, a biologist at the University of Michigan. “In olive baboons, friendships with females can be much more important than political alliances with other males.”

Because males are often the so-called dispersing sex, while females stay behind in the support network of their female kin, females form the political backbone among many social mammals; the longer-lived the species, the denser and more richly articulated that backbone is likely to be.

With life spans rivaling ours, elephants are proving to possess some of the most elaborate social networks yet observed, and their memories for far-flung friends and relations are well in line with the species’ reputation. Elephant society is organized as a matriarchy, said George Wittemyer, an elephant expert at the University of California, Berkeley, with a given core group of maybe 10 elephants led by the eldest resident female. That core group is together virtually all the time, traveling over considerable distances, stopping to dig water holes, looking for fresh foliage to uproot and devour.

“They’re constantly making decisions, debating among themselves, over food, water and security,” Dr. Wittemyer said. “You can see it in the field. You can hear them vocally disagree.” Typically, the matriarch has the final say, and the others abide by her decision. If a faction disagrees strongly enough and wants to try a different approach, “the group will split up and meet back again later,” said Dr. Wittemyer.

Age has its privileges, he said, and the older females, even if they are not the biggest, will often get the best spots to sleep and the best food to eat. But it also has its responsibilities, and a matriarch is often the one to lead the charge in the face of conflicts with other elephants or predatory threats, sometimes to lethal effect.

Hal Whitehead of Dalhousie University and his colleagues have found surprising parallels between the elephant and another mammoth mammal, the sperm whale, possessor of the largest brain, in absolute terms, that the world has ever known. As with elephants, sperm whale society is sexually segregated, the females clustering in oceanic neighborhoods 40 degrees north or south of the Equator, and the males preferring waters around the poles.

As with elephants, the core social unit is a clan of some 10 or 12 females and their offspring. Sperm whales also are highly vocal. They communicate with one another using a Morse code-like pattern of clicks. Each clan, Dr. Whitehead said, has a distinctive click dialect that the members use to identify one another and that adults pass to the young. In other words, he said, “It looks like they have a form of culture.”

Nobody knows what the whales may have to click and clack about, but it could be a form of voting — time to stop here and synchronously dive down in search of deep water squid, now time to resurface, move on, dive again. Clans also seem to caucus on which males they like and will mate with more or less as a group and which ones they will collectively spurn. By all appearances, female sperm whales are terrible size queens. Over the generations, they have consistently voted in favor of enhanced male mass. Their dream candidate nowadays is some fellow named Moby, and he’s three times their size.
608 2008-01-22 The sell-offs, which are believed to be tied to global fears about a recession in the United States, came after two years of spectacular stock gains for Chinese investors. The major indexes all reached record highs in recent months.

“This is significant,” Jing Ulrich, an analyst at JPMorgan, said after Tuesday’s selloff. “Looking back, it must have been 10 years since I saw this kind of thing happen, during the Asian financial crisis.”

Mr. Ulrich and other analysts are not yet saying this is the end of the bull market in China, but they certainly sound gloomy about the prospect of stock gains in a weakening global economy which could dampen growth prospects in China.

Indeed, some analysts are already hinting that the Chinese government may be forced to step in and restore confidence in a market that is susceptible to wild mood swings.

But officials in Beijing issued no major statements on Tuesday about the plunge in stock prices. Officials repeatedly warned investors last year that prices could fall sharply.

A huge sell-off in the 1990s led to a nearly decade-long bear market, one that persisted even after 2002, when China’s economy turned red hot and new investment poured into the country.

Many angry investors even picketed government offices, saying they were cheated out of their retirement or life savings.

That situation only began to change in 2006, after a series of partial privatizations and other government measures helped reignite the stock market, fueling another mad rush to buy stocks, particularly hot initial public stock offerings, or IPO’s.

Before long, retirees were camping out at brokerage houses, college students were quitting school to play the market and maids were calling themselves day traders.

Insider trading and stock scams multiplied, and many analysts began referring to the Chinese equity markets as the nation’s biggest gambling den.

The euphoria could be seen in popular mobile-phone messages that friends sent to one another, encouraging them to dive in and buy stocks.

A line from China’s national anthem, “Arise ye who refuse to be slaves,” was soon replaced in phone messages with, “Arise! Ye who haven’t opened an account! Pour your gold and silver into the hot market!” Now, the investing herds are selling.

Of course, whether a huge stock downturn will lead to social instability is unclear. But economists and analysts in China frequently discuss the possibility.

They also say many investors are operating on the belief that the government will not allow a stock market crash before the Olympic games get underway this summer, out of fear that a social crisis would spoil the country’s highly anticipated coming-out party.

And so, analysts say, everyone is trying to time exactly when to get out with their huge winnings intact.

“One big risk in the future is the rumors that say that before the Olympics, in June and July, some big investors will probably run away, pulling all their money out,” said Zhao Xinge, an associate professor of finance at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai. “This fear lurks around, badly influencing the psychology of investors.”

The worries are exacerbated by the widespread feeling among investors and analysts that Chinese stock prices have risen too sharply, making a mockery of stock-price valuations seen in other countries.

“At these kinds of levels, it doesn’t take much to unhinge things,” said Stephen Green, an Shanghai based economist at Standard Chartered Bank, referring to the recent sell-off.

China’s economy, experts say, is not the problem; it may slow this year, but growth prospects remain robust.

There are signs of trouble, such as rising food and energy prices and a credit tightening that could crimp growth in some sectors, like real estate. But few analysts are alarmed. They say the Chinese economy, and perhaps the stock market, can withstand the challenges.

“I think this is just short-term turbulence,” said Qian Qimin, an analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities in Shanghai. “The macroeconomy for China goes well, so the stock market won’t be so bad in 2008.”

The biggest challenge, though, may be investor sentiment. After two years of phenomenal stock gains and new riches, many investors may worry that the party is ending, and sell their stocks. China does not yet have a culture of long-term investment; its markets are driven mainly by speculators.

Many of the investors are people like Zhang Liying, a 55-year-old retired hotel worker who put her life savings into the stock market. And now she is bitter.

“The stock market is terrible these days,” Zhang said seated before a terminal at a Shanghai brokerage house on Tuesday afternoon, looking at a screen of losing stocks. “I’m quite worried — not just worried, but angry. I think most other small investors are angry too, because we are always the losers. The big investors and the government are smart enough to know when to pull out and when to invest more. This is a totally unfair game for us.”
609 2008-01-22 The move came as efforts continued to put together an economic stimulus package that could win swift bipartisan approval. President Bush met with Congressional leaders at the White House on Tuesday afternoon, expressing confidence that his administration and Congress would find “common ground” on a stimulus package.

“Everybody wants to get something done quickly,” Mr. Bush said, referring to the economic “uncertainty.” “We want to make sure it’s done right.”

For the shaken world markets, the Fed’s move seemed to provide some relief. When trading resumed after a Monday holiday, Wall Street initially joined in the plunge that had shaken Europe and Asia for two days. But after opening down by more than 460 points, the Dow Jones industrial average regained most of its losses, closing off 128.11 points, or 1.1 percent, at 11,971.19. It was the lowest close in 15 months.

Other indexes were down slightly more, but still less than the futures markets had indicated. And European markets came surging back, shaking off early losses, though not enough to make up for Monday’s plunge. Stocks in London and Paris closed more than 2 percent higher.

Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, said the timing of the Fed’s cut may turn market performance into a referendum on the Fed’s move.

“By itself, it’s not necessarily a wrong thing to do if you’re worried about systemic stability,” Mr. Hatzius said. “Nevertheless, it’s a little tricky because it ties you from a short-term perspective to what happens in the stock market.” A sell-off could be viewed as a vote of no confidence from investors, he said.

Economists were divided on Tuesday about whether the rate cut would help the economy stave off a recession.

“This is an effort to catch up and get ahead of flagging confidence in the weakening economy,” said Mr. Zandi, who has criticized the Fed for not responding faster to the current crisis. A smaller cut “might have created more panic among investors,” he added. “But the fact that they moved in such a decisive way strongly signals that they are going to work very aggressively to shore up confidence in the economy.”

In a related action, the Fed approved a 75 basis-point decrease in the discount rate, to 4 percent.

Futures markets are now expecting the Fed to cut another quarter-point off the federal funds rate at its regular meeting, which begins on Jan. 29.

In its statement, the Fed said: “The committee took this action in view of a weakening of the economic outlook and increasing downside risks to growth. While strains in short-term funding markets have eased somewhat, broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate and credit has tightened further for some businesses and households.”

“Moreover,” the statement continued, “incoming information indicates a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets.”

Fed officials also indicated, albeit obliquely, that they were concerned about a possible recession. “Appreciable downside risks to growth remain,” the Fed said in its statement.

The White House maintained a confident face, but clearly worried about the impact of the global sell-off. “Americans should be confident that the long-term health of the American economy remains strong,” the press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said on Tuesday morning.

As the market news broke on a holiday, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. called President Bush on Monday afternoon to brief him about what was happening.

“We don’t comment on daily fluctuations in the markets,” Ms. Perino said on Tuesday. She also declined to comment on the Federal Reserve’s rate cut, but she did urge Congress to move quickly to pass a stimulus measure, saying she hoped one could be passed within “weeks not months.”

“I’m not going to close the door, but I’m not suggesting that anyone believes it has to be bigger” than the roughly $150 billion figure already discussed, Ms. Perino said. Later, according to The Associated Press, Ms. Perino said that at this point the White House had not “seen higher numbers floated by members of Congress” and that Mr. Bush believed that the growth package he has outlined is “the right amount.”

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Tuesday that Congress should aim to have a bill to President Bush for his signature within three weeks, Bloomberg News reported.

Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Banking Committee, said the Fed’s action was only a first step toward dealing with the recent economic downturn and financial turmoil. “More action from policymakers is needed to help restore investor confidence and ease financial strains on homeowners,” he said.

In addition to the stimulus package that Congress is considering, he said, other steps will be needed to restore long-term growth and stability. He cited legislation to reform the Federal Housing Administration, to end predatory lending and to promote affordable home ownership.

The jockeying over legislative initiatives came as the head of the Congressional Budget Office cautioned that stimulating the economy using tax rebates or other fiscal policy measures is not simple or quick, and risks aggravating inflation if the impact arrives after the economy has recovered on its own.

Testifying before the Senate Finance Committee, the official, Peter Orszag, said workload issues at the Internal Revenue Service would prevent the mailing of rebate checks until after the peak tax filing in late May or early June. And then it could take 8 to 10 weeks to distribute the checks, meaning the impact of the action might not be felt until the second half of 2008 or early 2009.

Responding to questions, Mr. Orszag said previous efforts to stimulate the economy showed that lower-income families were more likely to spend extra money soon after receiving it, rather higher income households with the capacity to borrow. He said the key to any program to bolster the economy would be to get the funds to people who will spend it within two months.

He said any stimulus action should focus on the underlying economy, regardless of what was happening in financial markets, like stock and bond exchanges. In fact, he said, some forecasters are calling for “sluggish growth” this year, rather than a recession, where output actually shrinks for two consecutive quarters.

Mr. Paulson, speaking to the United States Chamber of Commerce, said Tuesday that the administration and Congress needed to agree quickly on a stimulus package.

“Time is of the essence and the president stands ready to work on a bipartisan basis to enact economic growth legislation as soon as possible,” Mr. Paulson said.

Mr. Paulson said he was optimistic that the administration and legislators could find a bipartisan “common ground” on the economic package and “get this done before winter turns into spring.”

He also said he hoped to do something in the next couple of weeks “that will make a difference this year.”

The Treasury Department, he said, was focusing on the way home mortgages are originated and traded and said the department is developing a new regulatory framework for subprime and jumbo mortgages where he said markets were not functioning well.
610 2008-01-22 A fire started in an empty nightclub in downtown Lawrence and spread quickly through 16 buildings, destroying homes and businesses and forcing residents to flee in their pajamas into the bitterly cold night. One person suffered minor injuries. The fire started in a nightclub that was being renovated and spread quickly on a stiff wind through the block that included wood-frame buildings from the early 1900s. Three of the buildings were being rehabilitated by Habitat for Humanity. Fire officials in Lawrence, which is about 30 miles north of Boston, said the cause was suspicious. State and city fire officials were investigating with agents from the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Some people were clad only in pajamas as they ran outside into the 12-degree weather, with wind chill below zero. Water sprayed by firefighters froze, covering buildings and streets with ice. About 150 people were evacuated from the area, said Lt. Scott McNamara of the Lawrence police.
611 2008-01-22 California, the nation’s largest agricultural producer, is trying to increase its share of the hundreds of millions of dollars in food products that Cuba buys every year from the United States under a loophole in Washington’s trade embargo against the island. A. G. Kawamura, California’s secretary of food and agriculture, is leading a delegation of 18 business officials to Havana this week to promote products like nuts, citrus fruits and wine. California sold about $700,000 in products to Cuba in 2007, but the state predicted that the figure could be increased to $180 million. Pedro Alvarez Borrego, chairman of the Cuban government company that imports food products, said the biggest thing Cuba wanted from California was help in lifting what Havana calls an economic blockade.
612 2008-01-22 A spokesman for Quebecor World, Tony Ross, said that without the financing, the company would run out of cash by Thursday. But he added that its managers were confident that the courts would approve the measure.

A series of acquisitions during the 1990s transformed Quebecor from primarily a Canadian-based company, with a particular focus on French-language media properties, into an international player with operations in the United States, Europe and parts of Latin America.

In 2002, when Quebecor World was the biggest commercial printer in the world, some of its managers approached Mr. Péladeau with a proposal to buy the operation in conjunction with the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts for about $5 billion. But he rejected the plan and removed the executive who made the approach.

The younger Mr. Péladeau, who is 45 years old, is something of a celebrity in Quebec, partly because of his common-law relationship with a popular host, Julie Snyder, on the TVA television network, another Quebecor property.

His first high-profile assignment within the family empire was moving to France in 1994 to build Quebecor World’s operations in Europe. That investment, however, soured in part because European labor laws have made restructuring difficult.

Mr. Péladeau personally led the failed negotiations with Quebecor World’s banks after a deal to sell the European operations to Roto Smeets of the Netherlands for about $340 million also fell apart. That sale had been ordered by a board that is led by Brian Mulroney, the former prime minister of Canada who is also a director of Quebecor.

A spokesman for Quebecor, Luc Lavoie, said Mr. Péladeau was disappointed that the financing plan had been rejected by the banks largely because it put them further down the list of creditors. But he added that the bankruptcy filings gives Quebecor a chance to completely separate itself from the printing business.

“There are people who are saying the impact will be positive for Quebecor,” he said. Mr. Lavoie declined to comment on its short-term financial impact for Quebecor, which owns newspapers throughout Canada along with Quebec’s leading cable TV operator.

To emphasize the separation, Quebecor has asked the court to remove its name from that of Quebecor World.
613 2008-01-22 Mr. Schillaci suffered an emotional breakdown, was briefly hospitalized and later received a $290,000 legal settlement from the city. “It really damaged me,” said Mr. Schillaci, now 60, massaging his face with thick hands. “I thought I was doing something good for once, my civic duty and all. Then he steps on me.”

Mr. Giuliani was a pugilist in a city of political brawlers. But far more than his predecessors, historians and politicians say, his toughness edged toward ruthlessnessand became a defining aspect of his mayoralty. One result: New York City spent at least $7 million in settling civil rights lawsuits and paying retaliatory damages during the Giuliani years.

After AIDS activists with Housing Works loudly challenged the mayor, city officials sabotaged the group’s application for a federal housing grant. A caseworker who spoke of missteps in the death of a child was fired. After unidentified city workers complained of pressure to hand contracts to Giuliani-favored organizations, investigators examined not the charges but the identity of the leakers.

“There were constant loyalty tests: ‘Will you shoot your brother?’ ” said Marilyn Gelber, who served as environmental commissioner under Mr. Giuliani. “People were marked for destruction for disloyal jokes.”

Mr. Giuliani paid careful attention to the art of political payback. When former Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins spoke publicly of Mr. Giuliani’s foibles, mayoral aides removed their official portraits from the ceremonial Blue Room at City Hall. Mr. Koch, who wrote a book titled “Giuliani: Nasty Man,” shrugs.

“David Dinkins and I are lucky that Rudy didn’t cast our portraits onto a bonfire along with the First Amendment, which he enjoyed violating daily,” Mr. Koch said in a recent interview.

Mr. Giuliani retails his stories of childhood toughness, in standing up to bullies who mocked his love of opera and bridled at his Yankee loyalties. Years after leaving Manhattan College, he held a grudge against a man who beat him in a class election. He urged his commissioners to walk out of City Council hearings when questions turned hostile. But in his 2002 book “Leadership,” he said his instructions owed nothing to his temper.

“It wasn’t my sensitivities I was worried about, but the tone of civility I strived to establish throughout the city,” he wrote. Mr. Giuliani declined requests to be interviewed for this article.

His admirers, not least former Deputy Mayor Randy M. Mastro, said it was unfair to characterize the mayor as vengeful, particularly given the “Herculean task” he faced when he entered office in 1994. Mr. Giuliani’s admirers claimed that the depredations of crack, AIDS, homicide and recession had brought the city to its knees, and that he faced a sclerotic liberal establishment. He wielded intimidation as his mace and wrested cost-savings and savings from powerful unions and politicians.

“The notion that the city needed broad-based change frightened a lot of entrenched groups,” said Fred Siegel, a historian and author of “The Prince of the City: Giuliani, New York and the Genius of American Life.” “He didn’t want to be politic with them.”

He cowed many into silence. Silence ensured the flow of city money.

Andy Humm, a gay activist, worked for the Hetrick-Martin Institute, which pushed condom giveaways in public schools. When Mr. Giuliani supported a parental opt-out, the institute’s director counseled silence to avoid losing city funds. “We were muzzled, and it was a disgrace,” Mr. Humm said.

Mr. Giuliani says he prefers to brawl with imposing opponents. His father, he wrote in “Leadership,” would “always emphasize: never pick on someone smaller than you. Never be a bully.”

As mayor, he picked fights with a notable lack of discrimination, challenging the city and state comptrollers, a few corporations and the odd council member. But the mayor’s fist also fell on the less powerful. In mid-May 1994, newspapers revealed that Mr. Giuliani’s youth commissioner, the Rev. John E. Brandon, suffered tax problems; more troubling revelations seemed in the offing.

At 7 p.m. on May 17, Mr. Giuliani’s press secretary dialed reporters and served up a hotter story: A former youth commissioner under Mr. Dinkins, Richard L. Murphy, had ladled millions of dollars to supporters of the former mayor. And someone had destroyed Department of Youth Services records and hard drives and stolen computers in an apparent effort to obscure what had happened to that money.

“My immediate goal is to get rid of the stealing, to get rid of the corruption,” Mr. Giuliani told The Daily News.

None of it was true. In 1995, the Department of Investigation found no politically motivated contracts and no theft by senior officials. But Mr. Murphy’s professional life was wrecked.

“I was soiled merchandise — the taint just lingers,” Mr. Murphy said in a recent interview.

Not long after, a major foundation recruited Mr. Murphy to work on the West Coast. The group wanted him to replicate his much-honored concept of opening schools at night as community centers. A senior Giuliani official called the foundation — a move a former mayoral official confirmed on the condition of anonymity for fear of embarrassing the organization — and the prospective job disappeared.

“He goes to people and makes them complicit in his revenge,” Mr. Murphy said.

This theme repeats. Two private employers in New York City, neither of which wanted to be identified because they feared retaliation should Mr. Giuliani be elected president, said the mayor’s office exerted pressure not to hire former Dinkins officials. When Mr. Giuliani battled schools Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines, he demanded that Mr. Cortines prove his loyalty by firing the press spokesman, John Beckman.

Mr. Beckman’s offense? He had worked in the Dinkins administration. “I found it,” Mr. Beckman said in an interview, “a really unfortunate example of how to govern.”

Joel Berger worked as a senior litigator in the city corporation counsel’s office until 1996. Afterward, he represented victims of police brutality and taught a class at the New York University School of Law, and his students served apprenticeships with the corporation counsel.

In late August 1997, Mr. Berger wrote a column in The New York Times criticizing Mr. Giuliani’s record on police brutality. A week later, a city official called the director of the N.Y.U. law school’s clinical programs and demanded that Mr. Berger be removed from the course. Otherwise, the official said, we will suspend the corporation counsel apprenticeship, according to Mr. Berger and an N.Y.U. official.

N.Y.U. declined to replace Mr. Berger and instead suspended the class after that semester.

The Citizens Budget Commission has driven mayors of various ideological stripes to distraction since it was founded in 1932. The business-backed group bird-dogs the city’s fiscal management with an unsparing eye. But its analysts are fonts of creative thinking, and Mr. Giuliani asked Raymond Horton, the group’s president, to serve on his transition committee in 1993.

That comity was long gone by the autumn of 1997, when Mr. Giuliani faced re-election. Ruth Messinger, the mayor’s Democratic opponent, cited the commission’s work, and the mayor denounced the group, which had issued critical reports on welfare reform, police inefficiency and the city budget.

So far, so typical for mayors and their relationship with the commission. Mr. Koch once banned his officials from attending the group’s annual retreat. Another time, he attended and gave a speech excoriating the commission.

But one of Mr. Giuliani’s deputy mayors, Joseph Lhota, took an unprecedented step. He called major securities firms that underwrite city bonds and discouraged them from buying seats at the commission’s annual fund-raising dinner. Because Mr. Lhota played a key role in selecting the investment firms that underwrote the bonds, his calls raised an ethical tempest.

“We are sending exactly the right message,” he said. “Their reports are pretty useless; they are a dilettante organization.”

Still, that dinner was a rousing success. “All mayors have thin skins, but Rudy has the thinnest skin of all,” Mr. Horton said.

Mr. Giuliani’s war with the nonprofit group Housing Works was more operatic. Housing Works runs nationally respected programs for the homeless, the mentally ill and people who are infected with H.I.V. But it weds that service to a 1960s straight-from-the-rice-paddies guerrilla ethos.

The group’s members marched on City Hall, staged sit-ins, and delighted in singling out city officials for opprobrium. Mr. Giuliani, who considered doing away with the Division of AIDS Services, became their favorite mayor in effigy.

Mr. Giuliani responded in kind. His police commanders stationed snipers atop City Hall and sent helicopters whirling overhead when 100 or so unarmed Housing Works protesters marched nearby in 1998. A year earlier, his officials systematically killed $6 million worth of contracts with the group, saying it had mismanaged funds.

Housing Works sued the city and discovered that officials had rescored a federal evaluation form to ensure that the group lost a grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Martin Oesterreich, the city’s homeless commissioner, denied wrongdoing but acknowledged that his job might have been forfeited if Housing Works had obtained that contract.

The mayor’s fingerprints could not be found on every decision. But his enemies were widely known.

“The culture of retaliation was really quite remarkable,” said Matthew D. Brinckerhoff, the lawyer who represented Housing Works. “Up and down the food chain, everyone knew what this guy demanded.”

The mayor’s wartime style of governance reached an exhaustion point in the late 1990s. His poll numbers dipped, and the courts routinely ruled against the city, upholding the New York Civil Liberties Union in 23 of its 27 free-speech challenges during Mr. Giuliani’s mayoralty. After he left office, the city agreed to pay $327,000 to a black police officer who was fired because he had testified before the City Council about police brutality toward blacks. The city also agreed to rescind the firing of the caseworker who talked about a child’s death.

In 1999, Mr. Giuliani explored a run for the United States Senate. If he won that seat, he would leave the mayor’s office a year early. The City Charter dictated that Mark Green, the public advocate, would succeed him.

That prospect was intolerable to Mr. Giuliani. Few politicians crawled under the mayor’s skin as skillfully as Mr. Green. “Idiotic” and “inane” were some of the kinder words that Mr. Giuliani sent winging toward the public advocate, who delighted in verbally tweaking the mayor.

So Mr. Giuliani announced in June 1999 that a Charter Revision Commission, stocked with his loyalists, would explore changing the line of mayoral succession. Mr. Giuliani told The New York Times Magazine that he might not have initiated the charter review campaign if Mr. Green were not the public advocate. Three former mayors declared themselves appalled; Mr. Koch fired the loudest cannonade. “You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Mr. Mayor,” he said during a news conference.

Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr., chairman of a Charter Revision Commission a decade earlier, wrote a letter to Mr. Giuliani warning that “targeting a particular person” would “smack of personal politics and predilections.

“All this is not worthy of you, or our city,” Mr. Schwarz wrote.

Mr. Mastro, who had left the administration, agreed to serve as the commission chairman. He eventually announced that a proposal requiring a special election within 60 days of a mayor’s early departure would not take effect until 2002, after both Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Green had left office. A civic group estimated that the commission spent more than a million dollars of taxpayer money on commercials before a citywide referendum on the proposal that was held in November 1999.

Voters defeated the measure, 76 percent to 24 percent. (In 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg advocated a similar charter revision that passed with little controversy.)

Mr. Green had warned the mayor that rejection loomed.

“It was simple,” Mr. Green said. “It was the mayor vindictively going after an institutional critic for doing his job.”

None of this left the mayor chastened. In March 2000, an undercover officer killed Patrick Dorismond, a security guard, during a fight when the police mistook him for a drug dealer. The outcry infuriated the mayor, who released Mr. Dorismond’s juvenile record, a document that legally was supposed to remain sealed.

The victim, Mr. Giuliani opined, was no “altar boy.” Actually, he was. (Mr. Giuliani later expressed regret without precisely apologizing.)

James Schillaci, the Bronx whistle-blower, recalled reading those comments and shuddering at the memory. “The mayor tarred me up; you know what that feels like?” he said. “I still have nightmares.”
614 2008-01-22 The long boom that began in the late 1990s put an end to that one-sided world. As prices spiked, buyer’s agents and brokers became popular as sounding boards, advisers and negotiators. The estimates they are now involved in two-thirds of all residential purchases.

That makes this the first housing collapse in which large numbers of buyers had a real estate professional explicitly looking after their interests. The Ummel case poses the question: In a relationship built on trust, where promises are rarely written down and where — as in this case — there is no signed contract, what are the exact obligations of these representatives in guiding their clients through a sizzling market?

“Agents have a lot of fiduciary duties, but they don’t make money unless they close the sale,” said Joel Ruben, a real estate lawyer in Manhattan Beach, Calif. “In an inflated market, there are built-in temptations to cut corners.”

The defendant in the Ummel case is Mike Little, a veteran agent with ReMax Associates. He will argue that Marty Ummel, who brought the case with her husband, Vernon, is trying to shift the blame for the couple’s own failures of research and due diligence.

“They simply didn’t do what is expected of a knowledgeable, sophisticated buyer, and are now looking for someone other than themselves to take responsibility,” Roger Holtsclaw, an agent who was hired by Mr. Little as an expert witness, said in a court deposition.

Ms. Ummel is 60; Mr. Ummel, 71. With retirement on the horizon, they decided in late 2004 to move from the San Francisco Bay area to , where they would be near their grown children.

Since they were not making the move for job reasons, they decided to take their time and focus on finding a house that was a good value. In a boom, that is no simple task for buyer or agent.

It is clear the Ummels did not rush into a decision: They dismissed one agent and canceled deals on two houses before Mr. Little found them a prospect on a cul-de-sac in a five-year-old luxury development. A deal was struck with the owner, herself a real estate agent, for $1.2 million.

Mr. Little also worked as a mortgage broker. The Ummels say he encouraged them to get their loan through him. Mr. Little ordered an appraisal of the house but did not respond to the couple’s requests to see it, the suit charges.

A few days after the couple moved in, in August 2005, they got a flier on their door from another realty agent. It showed a house up the street had just sold for $105,000 less than theirs, even though it was the same size.

Then they finally got their appraisal, which told them the house up the street was not only cheaper but had a pool. Another flier in early October mentioned a house down the street that was the same size and closed the same day as the Ummels’ but went for $175,000 less.

The Ummels accuse Mr. Little not only of withholding information but of exaggerating the virtues of their house to push them into a deal.

Ms. Ummel said in her deposition that Mr. Little had told them “many times that it was a very good buy.”

“And you believed that?” asked David Bright, the lawyer who represents both Mr. Little and ReMax Associates, which was also named in the suit.

Mr. Horner, the lawyer, said valuation is a tricky area for brokers.

“Brokers aren’t appraisers,” said Mr. Horner, one of the writers of a guide to suing brokers. “They have no obligation to opine about value. But once they do, it becomes a gray area whether it’s puffery or a misstatement of a known fact.”

Most people who made a bad real estate deal might wince and move on, but people who know Ms. Ummel describe her as unusually determined. She spent a year picketing ReMax offices on weekends.

Mr. Ummel, an administrator at Dominican University, gave her his permission to pursue the case, on one condition: “Don’t tell me how much the legal fees are.” So far, the bills come to $75,000, more than Ms. Ummel’s annual salary as a fund-raiser at in San Marcos.

“I do not think I’m obsessive-compulsive, but I am 114 pounds of absolute perseverance,” Ms. Ummel said.

That persistence has put the Ummels at the forefront of a developing legal question. When buyers have sued their agents in the past, the cases focused on problems with the property itself, often alleging failure by the broker to disclose a known hazard or maintenance issue. After reviewing litigation records for the last five years, the National Association of Realtors could find no cases that revolved solely around the question of valuation.

Ms. Ummel’s original suit included the appraiser, who was accused of skewing his report to make the Ummel’s house seem worth the purchase price, and the mortgage broker. Modest settlements have been reached with both.

In a brief phone interview, Mr. Little called the case “ridiculous,” adding: “The lady’s a nut job. I didn’t do anything wrong.”

Mr. Little said that contrary to Ms. Ummel’s claims, the suit was motivated mainly by the declining market. “When people see their home values and assets declining, they always feel there’s someone to blame,” he said. “This is a dangerous time for all of us in the industry.”

The agent declined several requests to expand on his remarks. His lawyer declined to be interviewed. So did Geoff Mountain, a co-owner of ReMax Associates, which owns the office that the Ummels were dealing with.

Both sides have hired appraisers who have combed the surrounding development. Mr. Little’s appraiser concluded the four-bedroom, 3.5-bath house was worth $1,150,000 to $1.2 million in the summer of 2005. The Ummels’ appraiser said it was worth $1,050,000.

The outlines of Mr. Little’s defense can be seen in his lawyer’s lengthy deposition of the Ummels. Even in a relatively new development, Mr. Bright said, no two houses and no two deals can be seen as identical. For instance, a pool does not necessarily add value because “some buyers like it, some don’t.”

Mr. Little never showed the Ummels the house down the street because the backyard could be viewed from other houses, the lawyer said, and the couple had said they valued their privacy. Ms. Ummel disputes saying this.

The agent who left the flier that led to the case, Margaret Hokkanen, is sympathetic to Mr. Little.

“People are responsible for their own decisions,” said Ms. Hokkanen, who has been subpoenaed as a defense witness.

Her husband and partner, John Hokkanen, is more ambivalent.

“We have seen so much misrepresentation over the last five years,” he said. “So I appreciate where these buyers might be coming from: ‘I’m a lowly consumer, you’re certified by the state of , you didn’t do X, you didn’t do Y, and I got hurt.’ ”

The Ummels may be on the leading edge of the law, but they are unlikely to be alone for long. With the market falling, many homeowners owe more on their mortgages than their houses are worth. And many of those deals involved brokers who are required to carry professional liability insurance, presenting a tempting target for angry buyers.

“If you put someone into a property at the top of the market, you look really bad if it goes down,” said K. P. Dean Harper, a real estate lawyer in Walnut Creek, Calif. “There are a lot of letters going out from lawyers to real estate agents saying, ‘My client would never have purchased if you had properly evaluated the market conditions and the value of the property.’ ”
615 2008-01-22 Mr. Solow owns another prominent skyscraper, on West 57th Street, and he clearly wants to add the G.M. Building as a bookend to his collection. He contends that he was the highest bidder to Conseco, the financial services company that sold the property in August 2003 to Mr. Macklowe for $1.4 billion. Mr. Solow says that his bid of $1.4 billion makes him its legitimate owner.

Mr. Solow, who has filed more than 200 lawsuits with varying degrees of success, is suing Conseco, claiming that it set up a “sham auction” with the intent of eliciting “stalking horse” bids from other buyers, all the while intending to sell to Mr. Macklowe.

“Mr. Solow’s lawyers will vigorously pursue all his claims, including a claim for the building," a spokesman for Mr. Solow, Michael Gross, said.

Responding in court, Conseco and Chuck Cremens, a consultant who oversaw the sale for Conseco, have said that Mr. Macklowe was the highest credible buyer. In any event, they say that the company expressly told bidders in sale documents that it “could sell to whom it chose — or to no one at all.”

According to a deposition by Wayne L. Maggin, a broker for Eastdil Secured, who conducted the sale for Conseco, Mr. Solow submitted a bid for $1.4 billion, while Mr. Macklowe’s two-part offer was for $1.365 billion and as much as $1.38 billion. Mr. Maggin said that Mr. Cremens authorized him the next morning to contact Mr. Macklowe and offer him the tower for $1.4 billion, if Mr. Macklowe provided a nonrefundable $50 million down payment.

Mr. Solow’s suit, however, contends that under New York law, Conseco had a legal and fiduciary obligation to conduct a fair auction and get the highest possible price for the property. Although Judge Jones dismissed Mr. Solow’s request for a declaratory judgment and Conseco’s motion for dismissal, she said that the case could go forward on the allegations that Conseco breached its duty to hold a fair auction and committed fraud. The decision was not a judgment on the merits of the case.

Mr. Macklowe, who declined comment, has taken a keen interest in the suit. His lawyers have tried to quash a subpoena from Mr. Solow seeking information about Mr. Macklowe’s debt obligations on the G.M. Building. In court papers, he referred to Mr. Solow’s lawsuit as a “thinly veiled attempt by one player in the New York real estate market to obtain a broad swath of sensitive financial information about a competitor.”

None of this helps the cash-strapped Mr. Macklowe, who owes Fortress Investment Group $1.35 billion, including interest, which is due on Feb. 9. Part of the collateral for that loan is a 49 percent interest in the limited partnership that owns the G.M. Building, along with Mr. Macklowe’s personal guarantee.

He also owes Deutsche Bank $5.8 billion on a loan Mr. Macklowe used a year ago to buy seven Midtown office towers from Equity Office Properties. He is also in default on a $510 million loan for a development project at what was once the site of the Drake Hotel, at Park Avenue and 56th Street.

The real estate industry generally agrees that Mr. Macklowe’s properties are prime buildings in one of the world’s best business districts. The question is whether Mr. Macklowe, a shrewd real estate gambler, can raise the cash he needs.

For now, he has hired Darcy Stacom and Bill Shanahan, top sales brokers at CB Richard Ellis, to sell the G.M. Building for more than $3 billion, or to find a partner willing to invest.

Real estate executives fear that Mr. Macklowe’s travail could be a harbinger of problems to come in the city. Vacancy rates remain relatively low, but the problems in the credit markets could translate into layoffs, especially in the financial industry.

According to estimates by CB Richard Ellis, it would take about 60,000 layoffs in New York City and almost 15 million square feet of newly vacant space for the current market to turn sour for owners. At this point, said Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody’s Economist.com, it seems pessimistic to suggest that layoffs would rise to that level. But, he said, “I’d be surprised if the city gets away without a recession.”
616 2008-01-22 Lobbying from energy-intensive industries, particularly in Western Europe, means that the legislation could still face obstacles, and a review by Parliament and European governments could take more than a year.

In one concession, the countries would be allowed to keep money raised by selling permits that could amount to 30 billion to 50 billion euros a year, or $44 billion to $73 billion, by the end of the next decade, according to European officials who asked not to be identified because of the delicate nature of the plans.

Governments still could be urged — and may even be required — to put part of the revenue toward programs like research and development for reducing emissions and encouraging renewable sources of power, the officials said.

Henrik Hasselknippe, the director for European emissions trading analysis for Point Carbon, a research and consulting company in Oslo, said one aspect of the announcement this week would be a commitment to make polluters buy many more — and in some cases all — of their permits, starting in 2013.

Industries currently in the system, including steel factories, are allocated most of their permits by national governments and use the trading system to buy more or sell surplus.

Europeans took an early lead in efforts to curb global warming by championing the Kyoto climate treaty and by establishing the largest carbon-management system in the world. The three-year-old system involves complicated quotas that cap emissions from thousands of factories across the trade bloc. Companies buy or sell permits based on whether they overshoot or come in beneath their pollution targets.

Supporters of the system say limiting supply by stopping government handouts of permits would eventually drive up the cost of polluting and force companies to reduce emissions and adopt environmentally sound innovations.

In one of the most significant steps toward reducing corporate influence over pollution permits, the new system would take aim at electric utilities specifically, requiring them to buy all of their permits to offset greenhouse gases, instead of being allocated most at no cost.

Under the proposal, the regulators would limit the number of allowances in Europe — ending the scope for a government to allocate more than necessary — and steadily decrease the amount of allowances available after 2012 for manufacturing industries besides the power sector.

In a concession to sectors like steel, and to ease opposition from industries and political leaders in countries like France, the officials are expected to allow some free distribution of permits until 2020.

But the steel industry failed to obtain another measure it wanted to help its competitive position.

The European Union will delay a decision until at least 2010 on whether to impose a carbon tax or similar mechanisms on imports from countries where industries do not face added costs from climate legislation.
617 2008-01-22 Breast cancer patients who had reconstructive surgery using implants immediately after mastectomies were twice as likely to acquire infections as women who immediately had breast reconstruction using their own tissue, according to a study published yesterday.

The article in Archives of Surgery, which examined the medical records of breast surgery patients at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis from mid-1999 to mid-2002, found that 50 of 949 patients acquired an infection at the surgical site within a year after surgery.

Roughly 12 percent of the infections occurred in mastectomy patients who immediately had implant surgery, compared with roughly 6 percent of infections in those who immediately had breast reconstruction using their own abdominal tissue, the study said. In noncancer patients, about 1 percent of infections occurred after breast reductions and no infections occurred after breast augmentation using implants, the study said.

“The bottom line is that implants are associated with an increased risk of infection in breast cancer patients,” said Margaret A. Olsen, the lead author of the study and a research assistant professor of medicine at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. “The question is what factors contribute to this increased risk and what can be done to prevent it?”

The study noted whether patients had other medical conditions like diabetes, but it did not report how many underwent radiation or other treatments that might have played a role in the infections.

The study did analyze the cost to the medical center of each infection — about $4,100 per patient — a hospital-acquired complication not covered by managed care, she said.
618 2008-01-22 VENICE — City officials on Monday opened a new water-bus line here with one special feature: no day-trip tourists allowed.

The new line — reserved for holders of the Carta Venezia pass — was introduced to lessen the impact of the estimated 20 million people who visit Venice each year on the city’s beleaguered residents.

“It’s an extra service for residents who are forced to bear the brunt of mass tourism,” said Mayor Massimo Cacciari. About 60,000 people live in the city’s historic center. “It’s evident that tourism is growing,” the mayor added during an interview on the line’s maiden voyage. “If people want to come to Venice they can come, but we have to allow residents to live better.”

Marcello Panettoni, director general of the Venice transport authority, said the new line was a response to citizens’ complaints that the hordes of tourists cramming onto water buses, with luggage in tow, had been leaving residents stuck on dry land. “They are our habitual clients, we have to cater to them above all,” he said, referring to the residents. “For people who live and work in Venice, better transportation had become essential.”

As tourism has boomed, the city has considered various proposals to stem the tide of visitors to Venice, from limiting access to the historic center to imposing a tourism tax. But such measures are logistically difficult to impose as well as unpopular with workers in the tourism industry.
619 2008-01-22 Re “Living in Fear and Paying a High Cost in Heart Risk” (Findings, Jan. 15): As the mother of a child with a life-threatening food allergy, I was greatly disheartened by John Tierney’s grouping the chances of dying from eating peanuts with being struck by an asteroid or drowning in a toilet. Public awareness and understanding of anaphylaxis and food allergies has grown enormously in the past decade, but it is my fear that this type of analogy trivializes a growing health condition that requires a serious attitude in order to save lives.
620 2008-01-22 In the worst-hit countries — all poor — laboratories have become faster at flu tests. Government veterinarians now move more quickly to cull chickens. Hospitals have wards for suspect patients, and epidemiologists trace contacts and treat all with Tamiflu — a tactic meant to encircle and snuff outbreaks before the virus can adapt itself to humans.

Bernard Vallat, director general of the World Organization for Animal Health, recently called the virus “extremely stable” and, thus, less likely to mutate into a pandemic form. Many prominent virologists would vehemently disagree. But others who argued three years ago that H5N1 would not “go pandemic” are feeling a bit smug.

Dr. Paul A. Offit, a vaccine specialist at Children’s Hospital in Philadelphia, was one of those who, he jokes, “dared to be stupid” by bucking the alarmist trend in 2005.

“H5 viruses have been around for 100 years and never caused a pandemic and probably never will,” he said.

But Dr. Offit said he backed all preparedness efforts because he expected another pandemic from an H1, H2 or H3, the subtypes responsible for six previous epidemics, including the catastrophic one in 1918.

“What I worry is that this has been a ‘boy who cried wolf’ phenomenon,” he said. “When the next pandemic comes, people will say, ‘Yeah, yeah, we heard that last time.’ ”

Some who were Cassandras in 2005 still are.

The fact that human cases fell slightly last year is “pretty much meaningless,” argued Michael T. Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota. The virus is still circulating and has evolved 10 clades and hundreds of variants.

World preparations thus far are “incremental,” he said, “like sending 10 troops to a war when you need 10,000.”

He noted that the H3N8 flu found in horses in the 1960s took 40 years to adapt to dogs, but that since 2004 it has spread to kennels all over the country.

The most worrisome aspect of H5N1, virtually all scientists agree, is that it persists in birds without becoming less lethal to them.

“This is the most serious bird flu virus that has ever been known,” Dr. Nabarro said. “By 2007, it was in 60 countries. It must be dealt with.”

Despite the culling of hundreds of millions of birds and the injection of billions of doses of poultry vaccine, the virus is out of control in some of the most populous countries — though exactly which ones are in dispute, because some are touchy about conceding that they cannot rid their flocks of it.

Dr. Vallat has named three countries where it is now endemic in local birds: Egypt, Indonesia and Nigeria.

Dr. Nabarro added Bangladesh, Vietnam and parts of China. Reports of recurrent outbreaks also persist in parts of India, Myanmar and Pakistan. Last week, villagers in India were reported to be killing and eating their flocks before government cullers, who paid less than a third of market value, could seize them.

Dr. Henry L. Niman, a biochemist in Pittsburgh whose Web site tracks mutations, argues that there is a separate reservoir in wild birds that extends across Eurasia. Late each fall, fresh outbreaks appear across Europe and down into the Middle East as geese and swans migrate from Asia toward Africa.

In December, dying birds were found in Poland and Russia, in Saudi Arabia and even in a kindergarten petting zoo in Israel.

On Jan. 8, it reached one of England’s most famous swan-breeding grounds, the Abbotsbury Swannery, which has been around since the 11th century.

The Western Hemisphere is in less danger, according to a study published in the journal PloS Pathogens, which analyzed viruses found in migratory birds sampled from 2001 to 2006 in Alberta and along the Jersey Shore. It found that none carried whole viruses from Eurasian bird pathways.

Therefore, the authors argued, it is more likely that any importation of the virus would be in “birds moved legally or illegally by humans.”

It may be even more likely that a human will be the first carrier. There was a close call in early December, when six members of one family in northern Pakistan fell ill, probably infected by a brother who had culled sick poultry.

Another brother, who lived on Long Island, went to Pakistan for the funeral and felt sick when he returned home. He turned out not to have H5N1, but it showed how easily the virus could have reached the Western Hemisphere.

Pakistan had its first human cases last year, as did Laos, Myanmar and Nigeria.

Many small mutations have been recorded that seem to make the virus more adaptable to humans and more resistant to known drugs, but no combination of those producing a superstrain has yet emerged.

Ninety percent of cluster cases have been among blood relatives, and Dr. Arnold S. Monto, an avian flu expert at the University of Michigan School of Public Health, said that suggested a genetic susceptibility that has not yet been defined.

It has long been known that the virus has difficulty attaching to receptors in human noses. A team at M.I.T. has refined that, showing that those receptors come in two shapes, cones and umbrellas, and that avian viruses attach more easily to the cones.

Rapid progress has been made in vaccines. The newest, Dr. Monto said, need just small amounts of antigen — 4 micrograms an injection instead of 90 micrograms — making them much more practical to produce.

Some scientists argue for vaccinating millions of people as a precaution. One dose, even if it is based on a three-year-old strain, might protect against death, if not infection. A second, fully protective dose could be made up from whatever strain has gone pandemic.

Right now, said Dr. Klaus Stöhr, who was chief of flu vaccines for the W.H.O. and now does the same for Novartis, it would take manufacturers about one year to produce a billion doses of any vaccine based on a new pandemic strain. But the pandemic would have circled the globe within three months.

“The peak would be over, and, principally, you’d be vaccinating survivors,” Dr. Stöhr said. Switzerland, he added, has a vaccine stockpile and plans to test it on soldiers, police officers and health care workers before deciding whether to offer it to all Swiss.

Because of the American swine flu debacle of 1976, in which a vaccine made against a pandemic that never emerged harmed more people than the flu did, experts say they think it is unlikely that many Americans would be willing to take such precautions.
621 2008-01-22 But what happened was not that simple, Mr. Conrad said recently, in his first in-depth interview since the close of the talks. The American delegation, in a way, was “set up” by other countries to take the blame, he said, adding that his prime goal was not to embarrass the United States but to keep the negotiations from getting derailed.

Divisions and confusion within the negotiating bloc of developing countries, which has long gone by the name the Group of 77 and China, were as much the cause of the diplomatic logjam as anything else, he said. Interviews with several other negotiators and observers supported his view.

“There was a certain feeling that maybe the U.S. could be the fall guy for this whole thing, that if G-77 couldn’t resolve its own issues, if it just held the line on a position they already knew the U.S. rejected, that the U.S. would be the one that stepped up and had to take the flak for collapsing the whole thing,” he said. “From Papua New Guinea’s standpoint, we couldn’t accept that.”

Mr. Conrad said the potential breakdown in the session’s final hours was particularly vexing to him because New Guinea and other forested tropical countries were finally getting attention for a proposal of payments by rich countries for preserving tropical forests. Deforestation currently contributes about a fifth of carbon dioxide emissions worldwide.

The boos for the United States, and cheers for Mr. Conrad, appeared to reflect widespread feelings, built over seven years, that the Bush administration had stalled progress in curbing greenhouse gases even as it claimed to be leading the effort.

In fact, Mr. Conrad’s statement was an intentional ironic echo of one made by another American official, James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the White House council on environmental quality, who had been quoted by Reuters earlier in the week as saying: “We will lead, we will continue to lead. But leadership also requires others to fall in line and follow.”

Mr. Conrad, 39, was born in the United States to Papuan parents but grew up in Wewak on New Guinea’s northern coast. He studied finance at top American universities, worked in investment banking and lives with his family in the New York City area. Besides representing New Guinea in climate talks, he runs the Rainforest Coalition, a group formed by tropical countries seeking compensation for the benefits of not cutting their forests.

In the interview, which can be seen on video (and commented on) at nytimes.com/dotearth, Mr. Conrad stressed the need for continued focus on cutting emissions wherever they come from, rather than on countries tussling for advantage, as was largely the case in Bali.

“I think collectively we as humanity have become more mature in this climate battle, and we understand collectively that we’ve got to turn off all the emissions sources in order to win,” he said. “The climate doesn’t know whether it came from a factory or from Papua New Guinea’s deforestation. We’ve really got to get all hands on deck and tackle all of the issues.”

He added: “If we can deliver sustainable revenues to communities living in rural areas of tropical countries that are deforesting simply to exist, then we have sort of a win-win-win proposition.”

He said the rich-poor divide in the talks, which crystallized in the final clash in Bali, is a distraction from the reality that all countries have agreed, by the end of 2009, to do something new: define a threshold for greenhouse gases beyond which the world will not go.

“We were all there for a collective good, and I was playing a role for the collective good,” he said. “We have an opportunity here, and that’s why I hope we don’t fumble it.”
622 2008-01-22 As exchanges opened on Tuesday in Asia, the decline only seemed to accelerate. Markets in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Sydney and Seoul, South Korea, all fell farther in the opening hours of trading than they had all day on Monday. The Hong Kong market plunged another 7.22 percent by late morning after tumbling 5.49 percent on Monday. In Tokyo, the Nikkei hit a low not seen since September 2005.

Monday’s sell-off was evenly distributed from east to west. The DAX index of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange plummeted 7.2 percent, its steepest one-day decline since Sept. 11, 2001. The 7.4 percent drop in the Sensex index in Mumbai was the second-worst single-day tumble in its history.

Stocks followed suit when markets opened in the Western Hemisphere. Canadian stocks were down nearly 5 percent, and a key market index in Brazil was off 6.6 percent.

Shares of banks led the decline on Monday in many countries, underscoring that the subprime mortgage crisis continues to hobble the global financial system. On Monday, a German state bank, WestLB, said it would report a loss of $1.44 billion in 2007 because of its exposure to deteriorating mortgage assets.

“There is indeed some panic,” Mr. Mayer said. “What we’re seeing, in Europe and Asia, is that the markets are pricing in a recession.”

Investors were scarcely comforted by President Bush’s announcement on Friday of an economic stimulus package of as much as $145 billion. Mr. Bush’s “shot in the arm,” economists said, did not persuade the rest of the world that the United States will escape a recession, or that it will either.

In reference to the global stock sell-off, Jeanie Mamo, a spokeswoman for the White House, said: “We don’t comment on daily market moves. We’re confident that the global economy will continue to grow and that the U.S. economy will return to stronger growth with the economic policies the president called for.”

The turmoil will put even more pressure on the European Central Bank, which has charted a different course from the Federal Reserve by warning that it might raise interest rates to curb inflation, rather than cut them, as the Fed has, to ward off a recession. Mr. Mayer and others predict the bank will be forced into an about-face in coming months.

While Asia has been less buffeted by the credit crisis than Europe, the Bank of China now appears vulnerable, with analysts predicting it will have to write-down the value of its American mortgage holdings.

Investors in Asia have been in a state of denial about a possible recession in the United States, said Adrian Mowat, JPMorgan’s chief strategist in Asia. But now, he said, many believe “there’s no debate about it.” The only question, he added, is “how long and deep” a recession might be.

In Japan, which may be facing a new recession of its own, most indexes were off Monday by more than 3 percent .

In Europe, the housing market is cooling after a long boom, especially in Britain, Spain and Ireland. That will depress the growth rate in those countries, which are among the region’s economic pace-setters.

European banks continue to make unwelcome disclosures about write-downs of mortgage assets, even if the losses are not as dire as those reported by Citigroup or Merrill Lynch. Bank loans across Europe are being constrained, according to a recent survey by the European Central Bank.

German banks, in particular, are haunted by the American subprime crisis. The troubles of WestLB came a week after a German property lender, Hypo Real Estate, lost a third of its market value after it disclosed higher-than-expected losses from the credit crisis. WestLB, after warning that its 2007 losses would be more than twice its earlier estimate, said its biggest shareholders, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and regional savings bank, had agreed to inject up to 2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) of capital into the bank to stabilize it.

Also on Monday, Commerzbank warned it would make additional write-downs in the fourth quarter of 2007. This caught analysts off guard.

“The amounts are not so significant,” said Simon Adamson, an analyst at CreditSights, an independent research firm in London. “It was more the way the market was caught by surprise.”

Shares of Commerzbank fell 10 percent Monday, Deutsche Bank declined 6.7 percent, Société Générale of France dropped 8 percent, BNP Paribas decreased 9.6 percent and the ING Group of the Netherlands fell 10.5 percent.

But the damage extended to the shares of energy companies like BP and Royal Dutch Shell, which dropped on worries that a global economic slowdown would crimp the demand for oil and gas.

“The problem is more deeply rooted in anxiety about the global economy than it is in Germany,” said Boris Boehm, an asset manager at Nordinvest in Hamburg. “People are really afraid. But it’s a good thing because fear, along with action, gets the market to its proper level quickly.”

Those jitters extended to fast-growing markets, like China and India, that are thought to be relatively insulated from the United States. The Shanghai composite index, which had risen nearly 88 percent in the year through Friday, closed down 5.1 percent on Monday, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 5.5 percent, also the most since Sept. 11, 2001. It had been up 24 percent in the year through Friday.

While emerging markets may have been poised for a drop after their run-up, the rout on Monday may also signal a basic shift in sentiment, analysts said. Mr. Mowat of JPMorgan said that it did not matter whether markets were separated by geography or asset class because, he said, “we trade together in corrections.”

No matter how many bridges, roads, and power plants China builds, or how many new cars India sells, a downturn in the United States will ripple across the economies of Asia, experts said.

“If the United States consumer quits buying things, it is going to hurt in Asia,” said Deborah Schuller, an Asia regional credit officer for Moody’s Investors Service. She said most rated corporations there would be able to withstand a nine-month recession in America, but if it were to stretch to 12 months or more, there could be serious problems.

Worries about China are adding to Asia’s uneasiness. Its private property market is in the midst of a shakeout, and scores of small developers have gone out of business.

In both Asia and Europe, there may be further shocks as banks tally the fallout from their investments in the American mortgage market.

“There’s an old saying in the market that banks lead us into recession and banks lead us out,” Mr. Boehm of Nordinvest said.
623 2008-01-22 Phil Mickelson has been slowed by an upper respiratory infection that threatens his participation in his much-anticipated showdown this week with Tiger Woods in the Buick Classic at Torrey Pines Golf Course in San Diego.According to a release from...
624 2008-01-22 SEVERE RECESSION ANXIETY Fear that the United States is in a recession is reverberating around the world as stock markets  plummeted and took with it the hopes of many investors that Europe and Asia will be able to avoid an American downturn. [Pag...
625 2008-01-22 WEISSMAN--Phyllis, on January 20, 2008. Beloved wife of the late Samuel, devoted mother of Paul and the late Jack, cherished grandmother of Saya, Nina and Scott. Services today, 12 noon, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vern...
626 2008-01-23 If anything, the speed at which market turmoil swept across the globe demonstrates how much globalization has taken root. But at the same time, that erosion of national boundaries has also been reflected in the rise of sovereign wealth funds and t...
627 2008-01-23 Audio clips: Seven New Yorkers speak out on their sushi-eating habits after laboratory tests find high levels of mercury in tuna....
628 2008-01-23 Alfonse M. D’Amato, the former three-term senator from New York, said that Senator John McCain has the best chance of attracting independent and Democratic voters to support his White House bid....
629 2008-01-23 Floyd Norris discusses the possible consequences of an American recession.
630 2008-01-23 It's not yet clear whether the nation as a whole has slipped into recession. But some parts of the country are clearly deep in the hole. That's the inescapable conclusion from the state-by-state indexes of economic performance that are published b...
631 2008-01-23 Improbably, a purveyor with a reputation for emptying pockets was coming to the rescue....
632 2008-01-23 Last week, before I left the United States, my friends in Ghana had been trying to explain to me the frenzy over tickets. My friend John Rue, who has been living in Ghana and had been searching for tickets nearly full-time, said last Thursday in a...
633 2008-01-23 DAVOS, Switzerland "This is not a normal crisis," George Soros, the hedge fund pioneer turned philosopher, said today to a group of reporters he had invited to lunch at the World Economic Forum. "It is the end of an era." It was the "era of superl...
634 2008-01-23 Floyd Norris discusses the possible consequences of an American recession.
635 2008-01-23 Human error is the offered explanation, but bloggers are joyously pairing "M.P.A.A." with "bogus," "botched," "grossly inflated" and "lying."...
636 2008-01-23 Britain's biggest hedge fund managers have outlined plans to bolster standards on disclosure, valuation and risk management in an attempt to clean up the image of the industry. After seven months of consultation led by a former Bank of England dep...
637 2008-01-23 Amid a spate of allegations of fraud at hedge funds, a London-based firm has created fraud insurance for investors. Protean Investment Risks, a newly-formed company that opened Monday, is offering its Protean insurance product to wealthy individua...
638 2008-01-23 The RiskMetrics initial public offering is scheduled for this week. According to The Wall Street Journal, it could be a "bellwether" for this year's I.P.O. market. It is also a test for the standard-bearer of corporate governance, Institutional Sh...
639 2008-01-23 Serbia announced Tuesday that Russia had bought Serbia's oil monopoly, the latest in Russia's recent string of energy acquisitions. The deal will also allow Moscow to send more natural gas to Europe through its South Stream pipeline. Four days aft...
640 2008-01-23 Swiss Reinsurance, the biggest reinsurer in the world, said the billionaire investor Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway took a 3 percent stake and will assume a share of its non-life business, giving Swiss Re's shares their biggest spike in four ...
641 2008-01-23 A founder of several Bayou Management hedge funds was sentenced to more than four years in prison Tuesday for a scheme to defraud investors. Judge Colleen McMahon of United States District Court in Manhattan sentenced James G. Marquez, 59, to 51 m...
642 2008-01-23 Back at Heathrow: I must have angered the travel gods. Right after I criticized Heathrow, I found myself back there, waiting for another delayed flight. It was an incremental delay, meaning the departure time kept inching back. Ground staff blamed...
643 2008-01-23 WASHINGTON — President Bush on Wednesday renominated Steven G. Bradbury to be an assistant attorney general in a move certain to be controversial because of Mr. Bradbury’s link to Justice Department memorandums authorizing the harsh interrogation of terrorism suspects.

Mr. Bradbury, who is from Maryland, has been serving as acting head of the Office of Legal Counsel in the Justice Department, in effect the department’s lawyer. If confirmed, he would become the office’s permanent head.

In his capacity as acting head, Mr. Bradbury came under intense scrutiny last fall when it was disclosed that he was the author of a pair of secret legal opinions that endorsed rough techniques for suspects in the custody of the Central Intelligence Agency.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, is among those Democrats who have said that the methods endorsed by Mr. Bradbury amount to torture. Last December, Mr. Bradbury’s nomination was one of several that were sent back to the White House by Mr. Reid rather than carried over into the New Year.

The resubmission of Mr. Bradbury’s nomination on Wednesday, a month after he failed to gain a Senate hearing as Congress was hurrying to adjourn for the holidays, was announced matter-of-factly in a White House statement that included a nomination for deputy Social Security commissioner and other posts.
644 2008-01-23 There were few obvious reasons for the market’s mood swings. The session started with a plunge after Apple and Motorola, two technology heavyweights, issued lackluster profit forecasts, raising fears about the resilience of corporate earnings in the face of a likely recession.

The reports spooked investors and dragged down the technology sector; Apple shares dipped by 10 percent, and shares of Motorola fell by nearly twice that amount.

“Apple is basically a bellwether,” said David Kovacs, a quantitative strategist at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa. “If a company such as Apple cannot withstand a slowdown, then what is the fate of all other companies?”

But other stocks, including those of many financial companies and some manufacturers, found favor among traders, a day after the Federal Reserve surprised investors with an aggressive, unscheduled interest rate cut. Shares of financial firms, beaten down by months of mortgage-related write-offs, recovered as investors drove up the stock prices of companies like Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, which leaped more than 12 percent.

The volatility on Wall Street came with the market at a 15-month low. And it followed another steep sell-off in European stock markets, which were disappointed after the head of the European Central Bank dampened investors’ hopes that the bank would follow the Fed’s lead in cutting interest rates.

Global stocks remained highly volatile a day after the Fed’s emergency interest rate cut on Tuesday. Asian shares gained sharply after a two-day mauling, and many European markets opened with modest gains, in part on hopes for a rate cut in Europe. But the chief European central banker, Jean-Claude Trichet, indicated in Brussels that no monetary easing was in the cards.

“In demanding times of significant market correction and turbulences, it is the responsibility of the central bank to solidly anchor inflation expectations to avoid additional volatility in already highly volatile markets,” Mr. Trichet told the European parliament, according to Reuters.

Mr. Trichet’s remarks, combined with signals from the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan and others that they intended to hold rates steady, sent major European indexes sharply lower, and overnight trading in American index futures signaled that Wall Street would open lower as well.

At the close, the CAC 40 in Paris was down 4.3 percent, the DAX 30 in Frankfurt was down 4.9 percent and the FTSE 100 in London was off 2.3 percent.

Eric Chaney, chief economist for Europe at Morgan Stanley in London, said the market was “impatient” for a European rate cut, but that Mr. Trichet’s comments were not quite as hawkish as some seemed to think.

“The E.C.B. had a tightening bias previously,” Mr. Chaney said, but “Trichet left open the possibility of a move toward a neutral bias.”

Even so, he said, European investors were unlikely to get any short-term relief from the bank, as “news from the real economy in Europe is very good,” and “we would have to see some bad news from the real economy rather than the markets,” before policy makers cut rates there.

Some traders questioned whether the Fed itself had overreacted.

“The Fed rate cut was both bigger and earlier than people expected,” said Manuel Martin, an equity strategist at WGZ Bank in Frankfurt. “Now people are starting to ask, ‘Is the U.S. economy really that bad off?’ ”

The strong rises on Asian indexes Wednesday reflected buying by speculators to cover short positions, and a sense that shares in the region had fallen more than was justified. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index, which experienced the biggest drops in Asia this month, led the region’s rebound, soaring 11 percent on Wednesday after the central bank there matched the Fed’s rate cut — an expected move, since the Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the United States dollar.

In China, the CSI 300 index rose 4.7 percent; in Japan, the Nikkei 225 gained 2 percent; in India, the Sensex, another of the biggest losers in the last two days, closed 5.6 percent higher on Wednesday. The Australian stock markets halted a 12-day losing streak.

But the gains on Asian markets were not big enough to erase the losses suffered there in recent days, as worries about the possibility of a crippling recession in the United States swept the globe.

“The system which supported the U.S. credit markets has collapsed,” said Yuuki Sakurai, director and general manager of the financial and investment planning department at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance in Tokyo. “Merely easing rates will not solve the root problem,” which was that the problems in the mortgage market had upset “standard measures of investment.”

Larry Jones, chief investment officer at Nedgroup Investments, said, “The basic U.S. economic problems are not over, and a lot of them are ahead of us.”

The recent nosedive in Asian markets shows that even if the fast-growing economies of Asia are able to avoid a slowdown from the problems in the United States, the region’s high-flying stock markets will not, he said.

Central banks in Asia faced the question of whether to follow America’s lead on interest rates or Europe’s.

“You have to stay in tune with the developments with the rest of the world,” the Asian Development Bank managing director, General Rajat Nag, told Reuters on Wednesday. “However, I think central banks in the region have to keep an eye on the inflation front as well,” he added.

Australia’s treasurer, Wayne Swan, said he welcomed the Fed’s move, while predicting that the domestic economy would remain strong despite any slowdown in the United States.

“It’s pretty fair to say that Australians can be confident that the prospects for growth in Asia and developing regions will help us withstand the fallout from the events in the United States and elsewhere,” he said.

Fred Zhang, a stock broker at Mansion House Securities in Hong Kong, said that Hong Kong investors were particularly encouraged by the Federal Reserve’s interest rate cut because of the correlation between currencies. Mr. Zhang said that while many investors were still worried, he was optimistic about the short-term prospects for the Hong Kong market.

“I think it will keep going upward,” he said.

After days of losses, “Asian markets were looking for a reason to move back” to prices that represent the fundamental numbers underlying them, said Subir Gokarn, Standard & Poor’s chief economist in Asia. Now investors need to overlook “the panic and the froth, and see what the reality is,” he said.
645 2008-01-23 Eric Chaney chief economist for Europe at Morgan Stanley in London, said the market was “impatient” for a European rate cut, but that Mr. Trichet’s comments were not quite as hawkish as some seemed to think.

“The E.C.B. had a tightening bias previously,” Mr. Chaney said, but “Trichet left open the possibility of a move toward a neutral bias.”

Even so, he said, European investors were unlikely to get any short-term relief from the bank, as “news from the real economy in Europe is very good,” and “ we would have to see some bad news from the real economy rather than the markets,” before policy makers cut rates there.

Some traders questioned whether the Fed itself had overreacted.

“The Fed rate cut was both bigger and earlier than people expected,” said Manuel Martin, an equity strategist at WGZ Bank in Frankfurt. “Now people are starting to ask, ‘Is the U.S. economy really that bad off?’ ”

The strong rises on Asian indexes Wednesday reflected buying by speculators to cover short positions, and a sense that shares in the region had fallen more than was justified. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index, which experienced the biggest drops in Asia this month, led the region’s rebound, soaring 11 percent on Wednesday after the central bank there matched the Fed’s rate cut — an expected move, since the Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the United States dollar.

In China, the CSI 300 index rose 4.7 percent; in Japan, the Nikkei 225 gained 2 percent; in India, the Sensex, another of the biggest losers in the past two days, closed 5.6 percent higher on Wednesday. The Australian stock markets halted a 12-day losing streak.

But the gains on Asian markets were not big enough to erase the losses suffered there in recent days, as worries about the possibility of a crippling recession in the United States swept the globe.

“The system which supported the U.S. credit markets has collapsed,” said Yuuki Sakurai, director and general manager of the financial and investment planning department at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance in Tokyo. “Merely easing rates will not solve the root problem,” which was that the problems in the mortgage market had upset “standard measures of investment.”

Larry Jones, chief investment officer at Nedgroup Investments, said, “The basic U.S. economic problems are not over, and a lot of them are ahead of us.”

The recent nosedive in Asian markets shows that even if the fast-growing economies of Asia are able to avoid a slowdown from the problems in the United States, the region’s high-flying stock markets will not, he said.

Central banks in Asia faced the question of whether to follow America’s lead on interest rates or Europe’s.

“You have to stay in tune with the developments with the rest of the world,” the Asian Development Bank managing director, General Rajat Nag, told Reuters on Wednesday. ”However, I think central banks in the region have to keep an eye on the inflation front as well,” he added.

Australia’s treasurer, Wayne Swan, said he welcomed the Fed’s move, while predicting that the domestic economy would remain strong despite any U.S. slowdown.

“It’s pretty fair to say that Australians can be confident that the prospects for growth in Asia and developing regions will help us withstand the fallout from the events in the United States and elsewhere,” he said.

Fred Zhang, a stock broker at Mansion House Securities in Hong Kong, said that Hong Kong investors were particularly encouraged by the Federal Reserve’s interest rate cut because of the correlation between currencies. Mr. Zhang said that while many investors were still worried, he was optimistic about the short-term prospects for the Hong Kong market.

“I think it will keep going upward,” he said.

After days of losses, “Asian markets were looking for a reason to move back” to prices that represent the fundamental numbers underlying them, said Subir Gokarn, Standard & Poor’s chief economist in Asia. Now investors need to overlook “the panic and the froth, and see what the reality is,” he said.

On Wall Street, shares of Apple fell more than 11 percent in pre-market trading after a disappointing earnings report late Tuesday.
646 2008-01-23 NEW DELHI — The United States Federal Reserve’s surprise rate cut stemmed bloodletting on the Asian stock markets on Wednesday, but heightened fears that a painful recession is imminent for the world’s largest economy.

Most major market indices across Asia saw several percentage point gains Wednesday, as some investors covered short positions and others found a buying opportunity in depressed stock prices. Tokyo’s Topix index closed up 2.46 percent, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index had gained 8.01 percent in late afternoon trading and Shanghai’s composite index was up 4.65 percent. Bombay’s Sensex, one of the biggest losers in the past two days, was up 3.56 percent in midday trading. Tawian’s benchmark index closed down 2.3 percent, on rising unemployment figures.

The gains that most markets enjoyed didn’t erase the losses they have suffered in recent days as panic over the impact of a possible recession in the United States swept the globe. Many investors and strategists said Wednesday they saw the Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke’s bold move as a sign that the economic outlook for the United States may be even worse than anticipated.

“The Fed’s surprise 75 bp rate cut underscored the size of the risks facing the global economy and its financial markets,” Merrill Lynch analysts wrote in an emerging markets report on Wednesday. The next question is “whether a collapse of the bond insurers would trigger widespread losses, magnifying strains on the global financial system,” the analysts wrote.

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said Wednesday that it would cut its key lending rate by 75 basis points, mirroring the United States Federal Reserve's move, but central bankers in Japan said they would hold fast. Hong Kong's currency is pegged to the dollar, so the move was not a surprise.
647 2008-01-23 The Chinese markets closed Tuesday before the Federal Reserve’s three-quarter-point interest rate cut. The Shanghai composite index had dropped 7.2 percent, to close at 4,559.75; the Shenzhen composite fell 7.7 percent; and Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng index plummeted 8.65 percent, to 21,757.63, way below its high near 32,000 in October.

In Japan, the blue-chip Nikkei index of 225 stocks fell 9.3 percent over two days, its worst such loss in 17 years.

Before Wednesday’s embryonic rally, Kwong Man Bun, chief operating officer of KGI Asia, a big futures broker, said: “At this stage, you can say there is panic selling in the market. We don’t think the Hang Seng index has found its bottom yet; the index will continue to go down and will only find its bottom when external markets, namely the U.S. market, stabilize.”

The major indexes in China, after reaching record highs in recent months, have plunged 15 to 30 percent.

Jing Ulrich of JPMorgan said, “Looking back, it must have been 10 years since I saw this kind of thing happen during the Asian financial crisis.”

Indian markets have been on a tear for a year — with a few stomach-turning drops and leaps along the way. The Sensex opened at a record of 20,970 on Jan. 8, some 51 percent higher than the year before. But by Tuesday’s close, it had lost 20 percent from that high. At one moment during the day, some of the biggest Indian blue-chip companies’ stocks were trading down 30 percent or more.

Wild daily swings of several hundred points have become common in Indian markets because of a growing number of momentum investors, an influx of foreign cash and highly leveraged domestic players. While such gyrations might drive some in other markets to store their cash in the mattress, in India they seem to be whetting investors’ appetites.

Neera Mathur, 61, a homemaker in New Delhi who is investing her husband’s savings, said Tuesday that her stock portfolio had lost 20 percent of its value in the recent downturn.

“I’m not worried because it will come back again,” she said. Ms. Mathur has experience on her side — she estimates that her investments have grown 500 percent in the last 10 years.

In fact, she planned to invest further in stocks over the next day or two. “The Indian economy is so robust,” Ms. Mathur added, “that it will overcome any impact of U.S. recession.”

Her outlook is common in India, where the booming equity markets have been propelled by annual economic growth around 9 percent.

While China and other Asian countries rely heavily on the United States to buy their exports, most of India’s growth is linked to domestic infrastructure construction and consumption.

Strategists in India say the recent stock market plunge has more to do with one-time factors than fundamental problems. The combination of fears of an American recession, margin calls by futures and options traders and a liquidity shortage because of huge public offerings led to the downturn, said Nipun Mehta, chief executive of Unitis Tower Wealth Advisors in Mumbai.

The appearance of the largest initial public offering in India could have contributed to the painful drops Monday and Tuesday, some investors say. The billionaire Anil Ambani sold 10 percent of his Reliance Power to the markets in a $3 billion stock issue that closed last Friday, a deal oversubscribed more than seventyfold. Indian investors seized on every bit of liquidity they could find to buy the stock, equity strategists said.

When the market starts to decline, there is normally enough money to encourage more purchases, but “because of the large public offering, the money was blocked,” said U. S. Roy, chief executive of SBI Life Insurance.

The Indian growth story “has been as strong as ever, and is gaining strength with every passing month,” he said.

Not everyone is so optimistic. India has recently been the “flavor of the month” for international investors, and domestic players have poured cash into the markets, said Abhay Aima, head of portfolio and wealth management at HDFC Bank.

UBS said in a report on Jan. 4 that India had replaced China as the most overvalued market in Asia. While the price of Hong Kong-listed mainland China companies had dropped since October to 28.7 times earnings from a high of 38, price-earnings ratios are at a record high of 28 times earnings in India, UBS noted, implying that cash from outside the country was artificially inflating stocks.

Net foreign buying in India exceeded $17 billion in 2007, UBS said, while in Asia over all, foreign investors were net sellers by $3.6 billion.

Chakri Lokapriya, head of India equities at BNP Paribas Asset Management UK, estimates that Indian corporate earnings will grow 22 percent in the next fiscal year, even if there is a global slowdown.

"What it comes down to is there has been a certain amount of panic selling, which is unwarranted," Mr. Lokapriya said. "For a long-term fund, it’s a good buying opportunity."

In a similar vein, Ms. Ulrich of JPMorgan and other experts were not willing to say that this was the end of the bull market in China. But they sounded gloomy about the prospect of stock gains in a weakening global economy that could damp Chinese growth.

Indeed, some analysts hint that the Beijing government might be forced to step in and restore confidence in a market susceptible to wild swings.

On Tuesday, Chinese officials issued no major statement about the plunge in stock prices. (Last year, they repeatedly warned investors that prices could fall sharply.)

A huge sell-off in the 1990s led to a nearly decade-long bear market, which persisted even after 2002, when China’s economy turned red hot and new investment money poured into the country. Many angry investors even picketed government offices, saying they had been cheated out of their retirement or life savings.

That situation began to change only in 2006, after a series of government measures helped reignite stocks, fueling a rush to buy equities — especially hot initial public stock offerings.

Before long, retirees were camping out at brokerage houses, college students were quitting school to play the market and maids were calling themselves day traders. Insider trading and stock schemes multiplied, and many analysts began referring to the markets as the nation’s biggest gambling den. Early in 2005, the Shanghai composite index was close to 1,000. Today, even after the recent huge sell-off, it remains above 4,500.
648 2008-01-23 The State of Missouri must provide transportation to clinics for inmates who want to have an abortion, a federal appeals panel ruled. In 2005, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the state had to allow a specific inmate to have an abortion after it tried to end the practice of driving prisoners to clinics for abortions. The American Civil Liberties Union then sought a federal ruling making the court’s decision a class-action on behalf of all imprisoned pregnant women in the state. Judge Dean Whipple of Federal District Court ruled in 2006 that the state must allow pregnant inmates to have abortions and take them to facilities for the procedure. The latest decision, by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, sided with the lower court. It was not clear whether the state would appeal.
649 2008-01-23 A member of the Kansas City Parks Board resigned after her membership in an anti-illegal-immigration group led two organizations, the National Council of La Raza and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, to hold their annual conventions elsewhere. The board appointee, Frances Semler, 74, a member of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, said she resigned because her involvement with the group had become too contentious and because she did not feel that Mayor Mark Funkhouser supported her. Ms. Semler defended her involvement with the group, which advocates vigilante patrolling of the Mexican border and reports illegal immigrants. “I’m a decent, nice person that happens to belong to the Minutemen and thinks our borders should be protected and our laws upheld,” she said.
650 2008-01-23 ORLANDO, Fla. — Senator John McCain of Arizona scooped up $1 million for his presidential campaign on Tuesday night in the center of Rudolph W. Giuliani’s political turf, the St. Regis Hotel in Midtown Manhattan, and announced the support of former Senator Alfonse M. D’Amato and a swath of the New York Republican establishment.

In a sign that Mr. McCain was now willing to battle Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, in the city and state that gave rise to Mr. Giuliani’s political fortunes, Mr. McCain released a list of his New York supporters, among them Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, and Peter G. Peterson, a co-founder of the Blackstone Group and a former secretary of commerce.

Also on the list was Michael C. Finnegan, who was counsel to former Gov. George E. Pataki of New York. Mr. Pataki has not endorsed a candidate for president, and it is not clear that he will. Edward F. Cox, a son-in-law of President Richard M. Nixon and a senior partner at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler, Mr. Giuliani’s former law firm, is the chairman of Mr. McCain’s campaign in New York.

Mr. Giuliani continues to have the support of much of the state’s Republican political hierarchy.

Mr. D’Amato stood in the St. Regis Library Room with former Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, another McCain supporter, and praised Mr. McCain before the start of the fund-raiser. “He will be, in my opinion, the strongest Republican candidate,” Mr. D’Amato said. “And for those of you who say, ‘Well, I disagree with him on one issue or another,’ if you want to win in November, John McCain, he’s the man.”

Mr. McCain said he was heartened by his frequent mentions on Monday night by the Democratic presidential candidates at a debate in South Carolina. “It’s pretty clear that they view me as their most formidable opponent,” he said, “and I agree with them.”
651 2008-01-23 Representative John Doolittle, under criminal investigation for his past ties to Jack Abramoff, the imprisoned über-lobbyist, has decided not to seek re-election. The nation may not have noticed his adieu, but surely other members of Congress can draw a timely lesson as they approach an important vote on whether to create an independent Office of Congressional Ethics.

The House’s own ethics panel was notoriously passive and uncurious during the Abramoff go-go years in which five Republicans ensnared themselves with luxury junkets and quid pro quo politicking. Mr. Doolittle’s wife enjoyed a soft job on the Abramoff payroll and also drew unusual paychecks cut from her husband’s own campaign treasury.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi is reportedly determined to move ahead with the proposal for a new oversight office employing six nonpartisan outsiders, appointed by the two party leaders. This would be a definite step forward — one that so far the Senate has shown no interest in emulating. The office would vet allegations of members’ misconduct and refer serious cases to the ethics committee for, we hope, conclusive investigation. The office would also be required to make a public accounting of what it refers to the committee, to make it harder to sweep its work under the carpet.

Unfortunately under the current plan, the new ethics office would be denied the subpoena power it needs to do a thorough job. Most House members, whose enthusiasm for house cleaning has clear limits, want it that way. A few members of both parties — particularly Democratic freshmen — are pressing the subpoena issue. We encourage them to fight on.

These newcomers, elected in the wake of the Abramoff scandal, understand the voters’ revulsion against corruption. Ms. Pelosi, who owes her leadership to these same forces, should listen and ensure that this badly needed oversight office has all the credibility and all the investigative power it needs.
652 2008-01-23 The major indexes in China, after reaching record highs in recent months, have plunged 15 to 30 percent.

Jing Ulrich of JPMorgan said, “Looking back, it must have been 10 years since I saw this kind of thing happen during the Asian financial crisis.”

Indian markets have been on a tear for the past year — with a few stomach-turning drops and leaps along the way. The Sensex opened at a record of 20,970 on Jan. 8, some 51 percent higher than the year before. But by Tuesday’s close, it had lost 20 percent from that high. At one moment during the day, some of the biggest Indian blue-chip companies’ stocks were trading down 30 percent or more.

Wild daily swings of several hundred points have become common in Indian markets because of a growing number of momentum investors, an influx of foreign cash and highly leveraged domestic players. While such gyrations might drive some in other markets to store their cash in the mattress, in India they seem to be whetting investors’ appetites.

Neera Mathur, 61, a homemaker in New Delhi who is investing her husband’s savings, said Tuesday that her stock portfolio had lost 20 percent of its value in the recent downturn.

“I’m not worried because it will come back again,” she said. Ms. Mathur has experience on her side — she estimates that her investments have grown 500 percent in the last 10 years.

In fact, she planned to invest further in stocks over the next day or two. “The Indian economy is so robust,” Ms. Mathur added, “that it will overcome any impact of U.S. recession.”

Her outlook is common in India, where the booming equity markets have been propelled by annual economic growth around 9 percent.

While China and other Asian countries rely heavily on the United States to buy their exports, most of India’s growth is linked to domestic infrastructure construction and consumption.

Strategists in India say the recent stock market plunge has more to do with one-time factors than fundamental problems. The combination of fears of an American recession, margin calls by futures and options traders and a liquidity shortage because of huge public offerings led to the downturn, said Nipun Mehta, chief executive of Unitis Tower Wealth Advisors in Mumbai.

The appearance of the largest initial public offering in India could have contributed to the painful drops Monday and Tuesday, some investors say. The billionaire Anil Ambani sold 10 percent of his Reliance Power to the markets in a $3 billion stock issue that closed last Friday, a deal oversubscribed more than seventyfold. Indian investors seized on every bit of liquidity they could find to buy the stock, equity strategists said.

When the market starts to decline, there is normally enough money to encourage more purchases, but “because of the large public offering, the money was blocked,” said U. S. Roy, chief executive of SBI Life Insurance.

The Indian growth story “has been as strong as ever, and is gaining strength with every passing month,” he said.

Not everyone is so optimistic. India has recently been the “flavor of the month” for international investors, and domestic players have poured cash into the markets, said Abhay Aima, head of portfolio and wealth management at HDFC Bank.

UBS said in a report on Jan. 4 that India had replaced China as the most overvalued market in Asia. While the price of Hong Kong-listed mainland China companies had dropped since October to 28.7 times earnings from a high of 38, price-earnings ratios are at a record high of 28 times earnings in India, UBS noted, implying that cash from outside the country was artificially inflating stocks.

Net foreign buying in India exceeded $17 billion in 2007, UBS said, while in Asia over all, foreign investors were net sellers by $3.6 billion.

Chakri Lokapriya, head of India equities at BNP Paribas Asset Management UK, estimates that Indian corporate earnings will grow 22 percent in the next fiscal year, even if there is a global slowdown.

"What it comes down to is there has been a certain amount of panic selling, which is unwarranted," Mr. Lokapriya said. "For a long-term fund, it’s a good buying opportunity."

In a similar vein, Ms. Ulrich of JPMorgan and other experts were not willing to say that this was the end of the bull market in China. But they sounded gloomy about the prospect of stock gains in a weakening global economy that could damp Chinese growth.

Indeed, some analysts hint that the Beijing government might be forced to step in and restore confidence in a market susceptible to wild swings.

On Tuesday, Chinese officials issued no major statement about the plunge in stock prices. (Last year, they repeatedly warned investors that prices could fall sharply.)

A huge sell-off in the 1990s led to a nearly decade-long bear market, which persisted even after 2002, when China’s economy turned red hot and new investment money poured into the country. Many angry investors even picketed government offices, saying they had been cheated out of their retirement or life savings.

That situation began to change only in 2006, after a series of government measures helped reignite stocks, fueling a rush to buy equities — especially hot initial public stock offerings.

Before long, retirees were camping out at brokerage houses, college students were quitting school to play the market and maids were calling themselves day traders. Insider trading and stock schemes multiplied, and many analysts began referring to the markets as the nation’s biggest gambling den. Early in 2005, the Shanghai composite index was close to 1,000. Today, even after the recent huge sell-off, it remains above 4,500.
653 2008-01-23 CHICAGO — Matt Blunt, the governor of Missouri and a Republican, announced late Tuesday that he would not seek re-election this fall, a decision that stunned many in the state’s political circles and threw the anticipated alignment of Missouri’s election into disarray.

Mr. Blunt, who had been widely expected to seek a second term, released a video address in which, seated beside his wife, Melanie, he told state residents that he had completed his promised agenda for the state.

“The habit of politicians is to remain in office and the desire to prove oneself in the next election is strong,” Mr. Blunt said. “After a great deal of thought and prayer, and with the knowledge that we have achieved virtually everything I set out to accomplish, and more, I will not seek a second term in the upcoming election. Because I feel we have changed what I wanted to change in the first term there is not the same sense of mission for a second.”

Mr. Blunt had been expected to face a difficult re-election bid, appearing headed for a battle with Jay Nixon, a Democrat, the state’s attorney general. Before Tuesday, the showdown between the two seemed to have already begun: both were aggressively raising money and regularly clashing publicly on state issues. Mr. Blunt’s announcement leaves the Republican Party with no certain nominee in the race.

“His approval ratings had been weak and there had been several open sores within his administration,” said Dave Robertson, a professor of political science at the University of Missouri, St. Louis. “The combination of that and the economic outlook that has really deteriorated in just a few weeks — any incumbent governor is going to have a very difficult time dealing with that.”

“I will continue to focus on changing the direction of our state so that more Missourians have access to health care, more Missourians can find good-paying jobs and more Missouri children can get the quality education they deserve,” Mr. Nixon said.

Mr. Blunt, 37, had been among the state’s youngest governors when he was elected and had been expected by many to pursue a long political career in the state; the son of Representative Roy Blunt, he came from a family of political leaders.

The governor has taken credit for repairing the state’s Medicaid program and balancing the state budget, but he has also wrestled with several problems, including what Mr. Robertson described as a mini-scandal.
654 2008-01-23 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois cited his plan for jump-starting the economy with $250 tax rebates, as he delivered an economic address at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. “We woke up this morning to bad news from Wall Street,” Mr. Obama said, a refrain that was echoed throughout the day by Democrats and Republicans alike.

Mr. Romney and Mrs. Clinton appeared best positioned to benefit from a sharp shift in voter concern from foreign affairs to the economy.

An ABC News/Washington Post poll of Democratic primary voters earlier this month found that Mrs. Clinton was seen as best equipped to handle the economy by 46 percent of respondents, compared with 33 percent who named Mr. Obama and 13 percent who named former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. Mrs. Clinton’s emphasis on the issue dovetailed with her effort to present herself as more prepared for the presidency than Mr. Obama.

Mr. Romney’s swift move to concentrate on the economy, to two audiences and a news conference Tuesday morning, reflected the belief by his advisers that his managerial background was as much an asset to him in this kind of environment as Senator John McCain’s military background was for him at a time when the war and national security were at the head of voter concerns.

Mr. Romney, in a speech to Jewish leaders in Boca Raton, sought to portray an air of reassuring confidence as he went through an economic plan that included tax cuts to business to encourage investment, as well as to individuals to spur spending.

“Every time I’ve seen things really get scary and the markets really collapse, I put aside my fear and say — aha, this is a buying opportunity,” he said. “My experience is, whatever goes down goes up.”

Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York was more sketchy as he answered questions about how he would handle the financial upheaval. Addressing a reporter he knew from New York, he pointed to his experience as mayor in suggesting that he was prepared to handle the crisis, but offered no details on what he thought should be in a stimulus package, or what taxes should be cut.

“Congress and the president should do a stimulus package and they should do a spending reduction package,” he said. “You’re familiar with that; we used to do that in New York.”

The shift could prove particularly complicated for Mr. McCain, of Arizona, who, in his own view, began gathering strength as a candidate after conditions in Iraq appeared to improve; he was long a proponent of increasing troop strength there, and national security and the war are the two mainstays of his campaign appearance. He brought up the action by the Federal Reserve before a question was asked at a news conference in Pensacola, and in a speech there, pushed elements of his own economic plan.

Those include eliminating the alternative minimum tax, making the Bush tax cuts permanent and cutting the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent. “And, my friends, we’ve got to cut spending,” he said. “Otherwise we will continue to borrow money from the Chinese.”

The Washington Post/ABC News poll found no appreciable differences among Republicans in their ratings of whether Mr. Romney, Mr. McCain or Mr. Giuliani would be best at dealing with the economy.

Mr. Edwards on the Democratic side and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas on the Republican side have both run campaigns that have hit populist themes — criticizing abuses by big business and Wall Street — and seemed to view the developments as something of a vindication of their arguments.

“They just told me as I was coming in that the Dow is already down 400 points,” Mr. Edwards said as he entered a town hall in Conway, S.C., prompting gasps from the crowd. “The truth is that there’s a disconnect between Washington and the government paying attention to what’s happening in real people’s lives as opposed to just paying attention to what’s happening on Wall Street.”
655 2008-01-23 Much of this week’s work takes place in the lobby of the Renaissance Riverview Hotel, where players face an unending succession of questions from team officials on everything from injuries to past disciplinary problems to their willingness to shift positions.

“It’s all just part of the process,” Kansas State wide receiver Jordy Nelson said after navigating the lobby Monday night. “They pay their players a lot of money, so they have to make sure they spend it the right way.”

By now, almost all players have agents, but a second tier of financial advisers and marketing representatives compete for their business in the lobby. Autograph hounds, a fixture in recent years, have been relegated to a parking garage.

As recently as three years ago, the Senior Bowl was a relatively low-key affair, with a local supermarket as its title sponsor. ESPN limited its coverage to the game and news media coverage was sparse.

Now the clothing manufacturer Under Armour is the title sponsor, blanketing its logo throughout the city and issuing players athletic wear for the week. The NFL Network will broadcast two hours of live practice coverage each day, along with an evening wrap-up show and Saturday’s game. More than 150 news media credentials were issued.

N.F.L. officials had hoped the increased television coverage of the game would encourage players to participate in this week’s activities as well as in next month’s scouting combine in Indianapolis, rather than waiting until campus workouts in March.

Two years ago, N.F.L. scouts were pleasantly surprised when offensive tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson — a consensus top-10 pick who was drafted fourth over all by the Jets — accepted an invitation to the Senior Bowl. It has become more typical for top prospects to turn down an invitation because of concerns about playing poorly or being injured.

Defensive end Chris Long, Ferguson’s former teammate at Virginia, declined an invitation, as did the top prospects Glenn Dorsey, a defensive lineman from Louisiana State, and Jake Long, a Michigan offensive tackle. Quarterbacks Matt Ryan (Boston College) and Brian Brohm (Louisville) backed out after initially agreeing to attend. The 55 juniors who have entered the draft are ineligible for the game.

“We try and get everyone,” the Senior Bowl spokesman Vic Knight said. “But some guys figure they don’t need more exposure at this point.”

Other players hope to become the next DeMarcus Ware, a relative unknown when he arrived at the Senior Bowl in 2005. Ware, a Pro Bowl linebacker for the Dallas Cowboys, impressed N.F.L. officials and was drafted 11th over all.

“Some of us haven’t gotten the attention,” said Jason Jones, a defensive lineman at Eastern Michigan. “This is a great opportunity to showcase what we can do.”

This week, players are being coached by the staffs of the San Francisco 49ers and the Oakland Raiders. It is a coveted task since it gives teams a chance to evaluate the talent closely. It is also a dubious honor, since a team would have to be free from a potential postseason conflict. Teams in the midst of head coaching changes typically turn down the request.

“We get to see how players interact with teammates at meals and in meetings and that tells you something about the person,” said 49ers Coach Mike Nolan, whose staff is coaching here for the third consecutive year. “Whether they’re doing something right or wrong, you get a better feel for them.”

A decade ago, most players stayed on campus to prepare for the scouting combine and the March workouts. Now they enroll in training centers to prepare themselves for the workouts leading to April’s draft.

“It’s nice to be able to concentrate solely on football,” said wide receiver Limas Sweed, who graduated from the University of Texas in December.

It is hard to focus on anything else at the Senior Bowl, the center of the N.F.L. universe before the final week of buildup for the Super Bowl begins.

“You play four years of college football and now you have to prove yourself all over again,” said Dre Moore, a defensive end who played at Maryland. “It’s a what-have-you-done-for-me-lately business, so you have to be up for the challenge.”
656 2008-01-23 By the close of trading Tuesday, stock prices, after gyrating wildly, had clawed much of their way back. Shares of banks and insurers of mortgage-backed securities, which had been battered in recent days, were among the day’s biggest gainers. Asian markets seemed to calm Wednesday morning with most exchanges opening higher.

“Wall Street is incredibly jittery,” said Len Blum, a partner at Westwood Capital, an investment bank in New York. “They don’t know how to react to it. The last time they did a rate cut in between meetings was after Sept. 11, 2001.”

The Fed’s move came as Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders pledged to work together on a bipartisan measure to jolt the economy with about $145 billion in tax rebates, tax breaks for businesses and possibly additional payments to low-income people.

“I believe we can find common ground to get something done that’s big enough and effective enough,” Mr. Bush told reporters. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, said he hoped Congress could pass a bill before the recess for Washington’s Birthday on Feb. 18.

Still, it was a nerve-racking day on Wall Street, with the Dow ending down 128 points, or about 1 percent. Even after the rebound, the major market indexes are down about 10 percent so far in January and even further off their recent highs in October. The Nasdaq composite index, which mostly reflects technology stocks, is off 18.3 percent.

Economists said it remained far from clear that the United States would avoid a recession, either because the Fed and the Bush administration had moved too slowly or because the economy’s woes were too acute to solve quickly and painlessly.

“This is unique in the modern history of the Fed,” said Vincent Reinhart, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute who was director of the Fed’s division of monetary affairs from 2001 to 2007.

Even so, it may not be enough to head off a downturn: changes in interest rates usually work with a lag time of at least six to nine months, and many economists say that a recession may already have begun.

Citigroup, citing the severely depressed housing market, the credit squeeze and high energy prices, predicted on Tuesday that the economy was about to start shrinking and would barely eke out any growth for all of 2008.

Fed officials stopped well short of such gloom and doom, but they made it clear they had been alarmed by both worsening data in the United States and the worldwide stock panic that began on Monday.

“Broader financial market conditions have continued to deteriorate,” the central bank said, noting that credit conditions have continued to tighten for many businesses and households, that the housing market continues to spiral downward and that job creation has slowed.

“Appreciable downside risks to growth remain,” the central bank said, its most forceful acknowledgment yet that the United States economy is on the brink of a recession as a result of the triple punch from the severe downturn in housing, the fallout from soured mortgages and the added blow of high oil prices.

The move represented a dramatic shift for Mr. Bernanke, who took over as Fed chairman two years ago. Mr. Bernanke, a former professor of economics at Princeton, had resisted calls for a big rescue effort by the Fed and favored a less personalized approach to monetary policy than his predecessor, Alan Greenspan.

But when Mr. Bernanke called policy makers together for an emergency meeting on Monday night, with regional Fed presidents participating over secure videoconference lines, he embarked on the boldest policy move in years.

This was only the fifth time that the Federal Reserve had reduced the overnight federal funds rate outside of its regularly scheduled policy meetings. It did so in October 1998, during Russia’s financial collapse, two more times in early 2001 as the economy was sliding into a recession and once more after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

This was also the central bank’s biggest one-day cut in the federal funds rate, which is its target for the overnight rate at which banks lend their reserves to each other. Until Tuesday’s reduction of three-quarters of a percentage point, the biggest individual cuts were by half a point.

The only comparable rate cuts were in 1982 and 1984, when the central bank, which was following different procedures, reduced the overnight rate by more than one percentage point over the span of several weeks.

Fed officials clearly hoped that a bold and decisive act would calm investors and restore confidence in credit markets, where fears about soaring defaults on subprime mortgages have increasingly forced banks to curtail their lending in other areas.

But while investors did react with relief, the Fed’s move also seemed to validate the fears that the economy is closer to a recession than policy makers had thought.

On Wall Street, many if not most analysts had assumed that the central bank would reduce overnight rates by half a percentage point at the next policy meeting. But with the meeting only one week away, few investors expected the Fed to cut rates before then — a move that could easily be seen as panicky behavior.

The Fed move carries other risks. Reducing the interest rate could push up the inflation rate, even as it bolsters consumer spending.

In a speech this month, Mr. Bernanke strongly hinted that the Fed would reduce rates again at the policy meeting scheduled for next week. Mr. Bernanke had clearly not expected to move before the meeting.

But the Fed chairman became notably more worried by late last week. Most of the incoming economic data pointed toward a slowdown. On top of rising unemployment in December and depressed holiday sales at many major retailers, there were signs of a worsening credit squeeze, new declines in housing starts and worries about the companies that insure mortgage-backed securities.

Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials contend they do not make decisions in order to calm financial markets. But analysts say they became alarmed about last week’s stock market plunge and Mr. Bernanke was even more alarmed by the huge drops Monday in foreign stock markets like Frankfurt, London and Hong Kong.

The drop in foreign stock prices undermined one of the last bright spots for the American economy — the prospect that a strong global economy, combined with a cheap American dollar, would spur enough export growth to offset a weakness at home.

The growing sense of crisis added urgency to efforts by Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders to bury their political animosities and agree on a short-term fiscal- stimulus package.

A spokesman for Mr. Paulson said that he had been busy reaching out to Congressional leaders all last week and that the market declines of the last few days had not by themselves forced him to quicken the pace.

Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders have both talked about a package that would inject about $150 billion in additional money into the economy. That would equal about 1 percent of the nation’s economic output, which economists and Fed officials said could make a difference if the money gets into people’s hands quickly enough.

But even if Congress passes such a measure by mid-February, which would require Republicans and Democrats to suppress their animosities and their contrasting economic approaches, the earliest that tax rebates would actually reach people would probably be this summer. At that point, it would help soften the blow but a recession might have already been under way for months.

Ultimately, it is the Federal Reserve that has the most power to avert or soften a recession. But its power is finite, and its primary tool — lower interest rates — takes time to work.

“Monetary policy works with a lag,” said Mr. Reinhart, the former top Fed official. “There’s nothing the Fed can do to prevent a recession if it is coming in the first half of this year.”
657 2008-01-23 A founder of several Bayou Management hedge funds was sentenced to more than four years in prison Tuesday for a scheme to defraud investors.

Judge Colleen McMahon in Federal District Court in Manhattan sentenced James G. Marquez, 59, to 51 months in prison, to be followed by two years of supervised release. He also was ordered to pay nearly $6.26 million in restitution.

“I made the terrible choice to take the easy way out when things started going wrong at Bayou,” Mr. Marquez said. “My actions and inactions directly injured investors of Bayou.”

Mr. Marquez, who left Bayou in 2001, pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge in December 2006.

Prosecutors said that Mr. Marquez conspired with Samuel Israel III, Bayou’s chief executive, and Daniel Marino, its chief financial officer, from 1996 to October 2001, to induce investors to contribute to funds by misrepresenting that the money-losing funds were highly profitable.

Mr. Marquez founded the Bayou funds with Mr. Israel, the government said. Bayou Management abruptly closed its doors in July 2005.

The fraud ballooned from more than $6 million when Mr. Marquez left the company to more than $400 million when Bayou closed its doors. In September 2005, Mr. Israel and Mr. Marino pleaded guilty to conspiracy, investment adviser fraud and other charges in connection with a scheme to defraud investors through the improper inflation of the value of Bayou’s funds. They are awaiting sentencing.
658 2008-01-23 CHICAGO (Reuters) — The CSX Corporation reported a better-than-expected quarterly net profit Tuesday as strong pricing for rail freight offset higher fuel costs and weaker volumes, sending its shares up more than 5 percent.

The railroad’s chief executive, Michael J. Ward, said that he did not expect an economic downturn.

“We still see growth in the economy this year,” Mr. Ward said in a telephone interview. “It will be slower growth, but I don’t think we’ll see a recession.”

Fourth-quarter net income rose more than 5 percent, to $365 million, or 86 cents a share, from $347 million, or 75 cents a share, a year earlier.

Excluding one-time items, profit increased to 85 cents a share, from 57 cents. Wall Street analysts had expected 64 cents before one-time items, according to Reuters Estimates.

Revenue increased 7.6 percent, to $2.58 billion, from $2.4 billion, even though freight volumes were flat for coal and fell in the automotive and intermodal categories.

Mr. Ward said the company, which is based in Jacksonville, Fla., planned price increases of 5 to 6 percent for 2008 and expected freight volumes to be flat to slightly up.
659 2008-01-23 A result is that the networks are expanding their reality plans, particularly as the ratings for some strike fare like “American Gladiators” are surpassing the viewership for the scripted shows they replaced.

NBC, which has embraced reality perhaps more ardently than its competitors, is even planning a prime-time reality special for May 11 that is being developed by and for an advertiser, Teleflora. The show — which also involves the NBC morning show “Today,” Redbook magazine and the Reveille production company — will center on a search for “America’s Favorite Mom.”

Needless to say, the winner can expect to be festooned with flowers, and a rose is to be named in her honor.

“We’re looking to be the best partners for our advertisers,” said Ben Silverman, co-chairman at NBC Entertainment, part of the NBC Universal division of General Electric. And one way to do that, he said, is “building programming assets in partnership with our advertisers.”

The trend of reality programs becoming showcases for brands is even having an impact on series in which advertisers are not paying to place products. For instance, the Clearly Canadian line of beverages is featured prominently in a reality series, “Bobby G: Adventure Capitalist,” which will make its debut Thursday on the Mojo HD network as part of a block of three business shows called “Mojo Money Night.”

The series follows the adventures — and misadventures — of Bobby Genovese, an entrepreneur in the field of so-called small-cap or penny stocks; he owns companies including the BG Capital Group and BG Capital Management.

A good deal of the plot of the eight weekly episodes of “Bobby G: Adventure Capitalist” is devoted to his efforts to revive Clearly Canadian through steps like hiring as an endorser a popular Canadian-born athlete, Steve Nash of the Phoenix Suns basketball team.

“I love brand-name companies, especially ones that have fallen on hard times,” Mr. Genovese said in a telephone interview. Even so, he added, “I had no idea the beverage business is as tough as it is.”

Mojo HD is part of In Demand Networks, which is owned by a consortium that includes Comcast and Cox Communications. The channel is aimed at an affluent audience, primarily male and ages 18 to 49.

Although brands are prevalent in “Bobby G: Adventure Capitalist,” the viewers are sophisticated enough to distinguish between programming and infomercials, said Nick Davis, executive producer of the series for Nick Davis Productions.

“We were encouraged to tell the story, warts and all,” Mr. Davis said. “If Clearly Canadian had imploded, we’d have covered it.”

The NBC special, “Teleflora Presents America’s Favorite Mom,” will be a kinder, gentler show, seeking entries from viewers in categories like single mothers, working mothers and “unconventional” mothers. A Web site, americasfavoritemom.com, has been set up to accept nominations; it can also be reached through teleflora.com.

The increasing interest among advertisers in branded entertainment is easily explained, said Lynda Resnick, chairwoman at Teleflora. “People are watching television; they’re just not watching commercials,” she said. “That is the distinction.”

But as a sponsor of branded entertainment, “you have to be integrated into the content, not added on,” Ms. Resnick said, because no one wants to watch “a talking head at the end of a show.”

“And I don’t want to bore people,” she added, so the show has to be entertaining enough to avoid playing like a program-length commercial.

The producer of the special, Reveille, is also creating reality series for NBC including “American Gladiators” and “The Biggest Loser.” Both have branded-entertainment deals with marketers like Subway restaurants, 24 Hour Fitness and Toyota.

“Advertiser partnerships support the show with media buys, with integrated promotions,” said Mark Koops, managing director at Reveille, which help “reach out for a wider audience” than the network alone could seek.

For example, Redbook, part of the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation, will encourage its readers to nominate favorite mothers and will feature the finalist and winning contestants from the TV special in coming issues.

“This idea Teleflora had is so of the moment,” said Mary E. Morgan, vice president and publisher at Redbook, “taking reality television and combining it with consumer-generated content.”

The reference was to the materials that consumers submit to enter the contest on the favorite-mom Web site: they can upload photographs and video clips in addition to submitting nominations.

Mr. Koops was among the executives who took over Reveille after Mr. Silverman, the chief executive, left to join NBC Entertainment. Mr. Silverman played down a perception that those ties were why NBC buys so many shows from Reveille.

“The greatest worry of all is if ‘American Gladiators’ had been a hit on Fox or CBS or ABC,” Mr. Silverman said. “Then your article is: ‘Forget the conflict of interest. Ben’s an idiot.’ ”
660 2008-01-23 Re “Deeper Cuts Are in Store at Citigroup” (Business Day, Jan. 15):

This debacle was foreseeable and avoidable. But the mortgage-related industry was blinded by greed and deafened by cockiness, and Citigroup’s pay-the-piper financial hit was plainly self-inflicted and deserved.

In contrast, the approaching recession, triggered in major part by the mortgage debacle, promises to deliver financial hits across the entire economic community. The scope of economic effect will reverberate far beyond the limited scope of control of the mortgage industry’s domain, and those extended losses will not be self-inflicted nor deserved by all those affected.

The cliché “life is not fair” seems particularly apt. Resolved: Capitalism is the most successful economic system. But unregulated capitalism undermines and, if unchecked, eventually topples the free marketplace pillar that well-functioning capitalism requires.

Ironically, unregulated capitalism becomes a well-regulated ticking time bomb, and our economic history of the last 100 years is replete with explosive examples — this simply being the latest one.
661 2008-01-23 BERLIN — Serbia announced Tuesday that Russia has bought Serbia’s oil monopoly, the latest in Russia’s recent string of energy acquisitions. The deal will also allow Moscow to send more natural gas to Europe through its South Stream pipeline.

Four days after signing a major pipeline deal with Bulgaria, the Russian state-owned energy giant Gazprom agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in NIS, the Serbian state-owned oil company. The deal was yet another blow to the European Union’s ambitions to build its own 2,000-mile pipeline to bring gas to Europe from Iran and Azerbaijan via Turkey, analysts said.

The Nabucco pipeline project of the European Union was conceived to allow Europe to reduce its dependence on Russia, which already supplies a quarter of the bloc’s natural gas. Nabucco has been dogged by logistical delays, lack of political will and disputes over financing, the analysts said.

“As regards the deal between Russia and Serbia, we can blame the E.U. for some of this,” said Borut Grgic, an energy expert and director of the Institute for Strategic Studies in Ljubljana, Slovenia. “In all its negotiations with Serbia when dealing with the future status of Kosovo, the E.U. never brought up with Serbia the issue of energy security and how Serbia could play an important role for Europe,” he added.

Gazprom has taken advantage of the disarray inside the European Union by forging ahead with its own contracts with Italy, Bulgaria, Hungary and now Serbia, as it consolidates its presence in southeastern Europe.
662 2008-01-23 In this country where more than 60 governments have fallen since World War II, the latest crisis began Monday, when Clemente Mastella, who resigned as justice minister last week amid a corruption investigation, said he would no longer support Mr. Prodi. That left the government two votes shy of a majority in the upper chamber, the Senate.

Last year, Mr. Prodi resigned after a similar defection of his allies and was able to stitch back the government. This time, he seemed intent on a more public fight, aimed at holding members of Parliament accountable in a vote and, some experts said, remaining the standard-bearer of the center-left. “Only Parliament can decide the fate of the government,” he told lawmakers, amid waves of both catcalls and applause.

A confidence vote in the lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, is scheduled for Wednesday, and in the Senate the next day.

Experts said Mr. Prodi should have no problem in the lower house, where he enjoys a comfortable margin. The Senate is considered far more difficult, but not impossible if he wins enough support from seven unelected lifetime senators, many of whom supported Mr. Prodi in other close votes.

But even if Mr. Prodi wins both votes, most experts agreed it would be hard for him to sustain the government much longer, and much attention here turned to the next possible step.

As president, Mr. Napolitano has essentially two options: to appoint a temporary caretaker government or to call new elections.

With Italian politics so bitterly divided, it could be hard to assemble a neutral government of technocrats, particularly since several major players, including Mr. Berlusconi, oppose the idea. But Mr. Napolitano has said he will not call new elections until changes are made to the election law, which is widely blamed for creating a thin, unstable majority no matter which side wins.

Several experts said few lawmakers favored elections, the center-left because of worries that Mr. Berlusconi might win, based on polls showing his party has the most support, and the center-right because several leaders would like to take Mr. Berlusconi’s place as leader of the center-right.

“Nobody wants to go to the polls, except Berlusconi,” said James Walston, a political science professor at the American University of Rome.

But Mr. Berlusconi also faces uncertainty. He has been feuding with his main partners in the center-right, though one of them, Gianfranco Fini of the National Alliance, has said he would support Mr. Berlusconi in elections.
663 2008-01-23 Over prosecutors’ objections, Judge Cooke gave Mr. Padilla credit for the three and a half years he spent in a naval brig in after his arrest in 2002 on suspicion of being involved in the dirty bomb plot, accusations that were dropped.

In detention, Mr. Padilla underwent prolonged isolation and intensive interrogations in conditions the judge called “harsh.” The conditions, she said, “warrant consideration in the sentencing.”

Mr. Padilla remained impassive at the hearing, but the co-defendants smiled and waved to supporters and family members as marshals led them from the courtroom. Lawyers for the three promised to appeal the sentences and verdicts, but they were in a somewhat victorious mood after the sentencings.

“It’s definitely a defeat for the government,” said Jeanne Baker, a lawyer for a co-defendant who was sentenced to 15 years and 8 months. A spokeswoman for the United States attorney’s office here, Alicia Valle, said the government was considering an appeal on the sentences. While acknowledging the terms were well below what prosecutors sought, Ms. Valle said: “These are serious sentences that effectively dismantle a North American support cell for terrorists. That’s a good thing.”

The sentences, after a three-month trial and a seven-day sentencing hearing, closed a chapter in Mr. Padilla’s odyssey that began with his arrest in May 2002 at O’Hare airport in .

Attorney General announced the arrest, saying Mr. Padilla was part of an “unfolding terrorist plot to attack the United States” by exploding a radioactive dirty bomb intended to cause “mass death and injury.”

Mr. Padilla was identified as an “enemy combatant” and held without charge. In 2006, as the prepared to weigh the constitutionality of his detention, he was transferred to the civilian courts here.

He was added to the conspiracy case of two men, Ahmad Amin Hassoun, 45, a computer programmer of descent, and Kifah Wael Jayyousi, 46, a public school administrator who came from .

The three were accused of belonging to a North American terrorism support cell that provided money, recruits and supplies to Islamic extremists globally.

Defense lawyers said the men were involved in humanitarian missions for persecuted Muslims in , Chechnya, , and other places.

The main evidence against Mr. Padilla, a former Chicago gang member with a long criminal record, was an application form that prosecutors said he had filled out to attend a Qaeda training camp in in 2000.

Last August, a federal jury here convicted the three of conspiracy to murder, kidnap and maim people in a foreign country and of two counts of material support.

Under federal guidelines, the co-defendants could have also been sentenced to life in prison.

Mr. Hassoun, who recruited Mr. Padilla in a Broward County mosque, received 15 years and 8 months. Mr. Jayyousi, said to be a financier and propagandist for the cell, received 12 years and 8 months.

William Swor, a lawyer for Mr. Jayyousi, criticized his sentence.

“The government has not made America safer nor promoted the rule of law,” Mr. Swor said. “The government has just made America less free.”

Mr. Padilla’s mother, Estela Lebron, told reporters outside the courthouse that the Bush administration had waged a misguided prosecution against her son, calling it “insane.” “He’s a human being and an American citizen,” she said. “He’s not a terrorist.”

Mr. Padilla’s case became the centerpiece of a debate about the Bush administration’s approach to prosecuting terrorism.

Administration officials had long maintained that some suspects could be properly handled only with military detention and trials by military commissions, not in the civilian system.

But the verdict against Mr. Padilla seemed to undercut that insistence and, in the eyes of administration critics, showed that the civilian system should have had the case from the start.
664 2008-01-23 A slowdown in the economy is likely to hurt technology companies like Apple, which are dependent on consumers shelling out hundreds of dollars for their products. Just last week, Sprint Nextel announced that it was losing customers more quickly than expected, raising fears that spending on cellphones and other devices was slowing across the industry. Intel was also cautious about its financial outlook last week, in part because of concerns about a recession.

A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., a senior analyst at Bernstein Research, said one reason for concern about Apple was that domestic sales of the iPod were less robust than the company had expected.

Indeed, Mr. Oppenheimer of Apple said that sales of the iPod in the United States were little changed in the quarter, although iPod sales abroad were quite strong. (Over all, Apple saw a 5 percent increase in iPod sales in the first quarter compared with the period a year earlier.)

What is worrisome, Mr. Sacconaghi said, is whether the flat domestic iPod sales are a harbinger of things to come for other Apple products.

“That’s the big question,” he said. “If they feel it here, could they feel it in other products and other parts of the world?”

Apple shares fell $5.72, or 3.5 percent, to close at $155.64. They were down more than $17 in after-hours trading.

The iPhone remained a bright spot for the company. Apple sold 2.3 million in the quarter, according to Mr. Oppenheimer, and is on track to sell 10 million in 2008, as projected.

Apple shipped 2.3 million Macintosh computers, and revenue from Macs grew 47 percent from the year-ago quarter.

Mr. Sacconaghi said sales of Mac computers could start showing lower year-over-year growth. IPod sales could suffer, he said, because the company has been slow to update its cheaper iPod models, and holiday sales of MP3 players at the retailer Best Buy were down.

At the Macworld Expo last week, Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s chief executive, made several announcements about new products or expanded services, including a new ultralight computer called the MacBook Air that, while elegant, has limited memory. Mr. Jobs also announced a deal with all of Hollywood’s major studios to allow digital movie rentals through the iTunes Store.
665 2008-01-23 FED ACTS WITH BIG RATE CUT  The Federal Reserve, confronted by deepening panic in global financial markets about a possible recession in the United States, struck back with the biggest one-day reduction of interest rates on record and at least tem...
666 2008-01-23 Here are the nominees in major categories for the 80th annual Academy Awards, which will be broadcast on Feb. 24 on ABC. A complete list is at  nytimes.com/awardsseason.     BEST FILM...
667 2008-01-24 Leaders of world finance told the holders of $2.5 trillion in sovereign wealth funds that they need to disclose more about their activities or risk further antagonizing American politicians. In a closed meeting at the World Economic Forum in Davos...
668 2008-01-24 Taking Questions: Lucas A. Ferrara, a partner at Finkelstein Newman Ferrara, is taking questions from readers through Jan. 30 on tenant-landlord issues....
669 2008-01-24 A State Supreme Court justice found that prosecutors had unfairly prejudiced members of the grand jury when presenting the case against Dennis P. Gallagher, a lawyer for the councilman said....
670 2008-01-24 Is John McCain the only Republican up to a Democratic challenge?...
671 2008-01-24 The editorial board of The New York Times is endorsing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic race and Senator John McCain in the Republican field....
672 2008-01-24 A lawsuit says the health claims of so-called “probiotic” yogurts dupe consumers....
673 2008-01-24 CNBC interviews Craig Barrett, chairman of Intel, on the outlook for tech sector.
674 2008-01-24 A. O. Scott reviews "Rambo," the fourth film in the Rambo series.
675 2008-01-24 The Pakistani chief turns intensely personal when asked about another enemy....
676 2008-01-24 Therapy that involves listening to or making music appears to reduce depression symptoms....
677 2008-01-24 Aired Wednesday night on NBC: Well, after that fight the other night between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton at the Democratic debates, John Edwards says he is "proud to represent the grown-up wing of the Democratic Party." No wonder he's in thir...
678 2008-01-24 CNBC interviews Henry Kissinger, former Secretary of State, on the shifting consequences of globalization.
679 2008-01-24 Painting Mrs. Clinton as the likely Democratic nominee...
680 2008-01-24 Tens of thousands more Palestinians flooded across the breached border crossing from Gaza into northern Egypt on Thursday....
681 2008-01-24 Our Open Caucus participant in Arizona gives us the scoop on a 10,000-person rally for Hillary Rodham Clinton near Phoenix....
682 2008-01-24 Drew Carey will host "The Price Is Right" in prime time on Fridays beginning Feb. 22. (CBS) Drew Carey's evening game show on CBS, "Power of 10," is on hiatus. But Mr. Carey will be back in prime time next month when episodes of "The Price Is Righ...
683 2008-01-24 Mitt Romney's new TV spot capitalizes on his endorsements from conservative publications, while John McCain's new Web ad looks toward the general election....
684 2008-01-24 Whispers have apparently emerged on Wall Street of late that Credit Suisse may pounce on Bear Stearns. While it may be just another rumor in a skittish market that's especially prone to them - neither firm would comment to Reuters on the speculati...
685 2008-01-24 Jefferies Group, the middle-market investment bank, reported a fourth quarter loss of $24 million, including a loss of $6 million on a consumer equities hedge fund since Jan. 1. As a result, the bank cut the amount of its capital committed to hedg...
686 2008-01-24 Throughout the West - in Colorado, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming - battles are raging over proposed coal plants. Caught up in two big ones, says Fortune, is The Blackstone Group. The private equity shop owns 80 percent of Sithe Glo...
687 2008-01-24 Popular agreed to sell much of its Equity One U.S. consumer finance business to a subsidiary of the American International Group for $1.5 billion, Popular said Wednesday. Puerto Rico-based Popular, which runs the Banco Popular franchise, is sellin...
688 2008-01-24 Constellation Brands, the world's biggest wine company, is selling its Almaden and Inglenook wine brands and the Paul Masson winery in Madera, Calif., to the Wine Group for $134 million. Constellation Brands said Wednesday that the deal with San F...
689 2008-01-24 Microsoft reported quarterly sales and profit gains that surpassed Wall Street’s expectations, and delivered an optimistic outlook, suggesting that a weakening economy will not slow down the world’s largest software maker.

Microsoft’s strong performance was led by its three major businesses: personal computer operating systems, office productivity programs and software that runs computers in corporate data centers. The company continues to struggle, lose money and trail behind Google in the new markets for Internet services and online advertising.

But for Microsoft, that is a financial challenge of the future that is overshadowed by the heft and continuing growth in its lucrative personal computer products, led by the Windows Vista operating system and Microsoft Office 2007. Its desktop software divisions accounted for 56 percent of the company’s revenues and more than 80 percent of the operating profits of its product groups.

“Microsoft is still investing, without much to show for it yet, in the online business, but that is kind of nitpicking when you look at the results of the company overall,” said Charles di Bona, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. “The strong performance seems to be pretty much across the board.”

Investors greeted the results in after-hours trading Thursday by sending Microsoft’s shares up 5 percent. They closed the regular session at $33.25, up $1.32, or 4 percent, after being battered along with other technology stocks earlier in the week.

For its second quarter, Microsoft reported net income of $4.7 billion, or 50 cents a share, a 79 percent rise compared with a year earlier. Analysts had predicted 46 cents a share.
690 2008-01-24 It was a notable year for the housing industry, and not in a good way.

In 2007, the median price of an American single-family home fell for the first time in at least four decades, according to the National Association of Realtors, a trade group.

The median price declined 1.8 percent to $217,800, the first annual decline since reliable records began in 1968. “It’s the first price decline in many, many years and possibly going back to the Great Depression,” said the group’s chief economist, Lawrence Yun.

Over all, sales of previously owned single-family homes fell 13 percent in 2007, the biggest drop in a quarter-century. Last month alone, home sales dipped 2.2 percent from November, to a 4.89 million annual rate. (The group’s survey excludes newly constructed homes.)

Inventories of single-family homes and condominiums remain elevated, as the housing industry struggles to climb out of its worst downturn since the early 1990s. Though the backlog of unsold homes ticked down slightly in December, at least one economist attributed the drop to discouraged homeowners “pulling their homes off the market in the face of continued weak demand and falling prices.”

“We still have a long way to go before prices sink to levels necessary to balance supply and demand in the housing market,” the economist, Joshua Shapiro of MFR, a research firm, wrote.

Potential home buyers have stayed on the sidelines as they expect prices to drop further in 2008. Economists predict the housing market will not bottom out until the summer, and even then will remain sluggish.

The median price of a previously owned home was off 6 percent last month from December 2006, and sales of condominiums fell 25 percent.
691 2008-01-24 BERLIN — Nokia said Thursday that it had extended its dominant share of the global mobile phone market to a record 40 percent in the fourth quarter as profit surged 44 percent on rising sales to China, Africa and the Middle East.

The company, based in Espoo, Finland, said profit rose to 1.84 billion euros, or $2.7 billion, from 1.27 billion euros a year earlier as sales climbed 34 percent to 15.7 billion euros from 11.7 billion euros.

Nokia said it sold 77.8 million cellphones in Asia, the Middle East and Africa in the quarter, nearly double the 42.3 million sold in Europe and North America. In China, Nokia’s fastest-growing, high-volume market, the company sold 20.2 million phones, an increase of 38.4 percent over a year earlier.

Nokia has pushed its global market share to 40.2 percent from 38.9 percent in the third quarter, according to Strategy Analytics, a research firm in Milton Keynes, England. Nokia’s market share exceeded the combined shares of its next three biggest competitors — Samsung, Motorola and Sony Ericsson.

“Psychologically, this is an impressive milestone to reach in a mostly open and free global market,” said Neil Mawston, director of wireless research at Strategy Analytics. “They have become more dominant over the past decade and this only strengthens their position.”

Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, the Nokia chief executive, said the company was well positioned to raise its market share further this year following its push to develop a wireless services business around Navteq, an American maker of digital maps, which Nokia is buying for $8.1 billion, as well as its wireless networks joint venture with Siemens, which broke even after losing money in its first six months of operation.
692 2008-01-24 LA JOLLA, Calif. — PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem was at Torrey Pines on Wednesday and outlined the tour’s drug-testing program, which will commence in July.

Finchem said he did not have a major concern about players “intentionally taking a step to violate these rules,” adding that his bigger concern was “players making mistakes and allowing things to get into their bodies that will trigger a positive response.”

MORE WESTCHESTER NEGOTIATIONS The PGA Tour remains in negotiations with Westchester Country Club about being the host to future FedEx Cup Playoff tournaments, Tim Finchem said.

Westchester was the host for the Barclays in 2007, and news media reports that the tour planned to move the ’08 event to Ridgewood Country Club in New Jersey have not been denied by the tour.

The ’09 event will be played at Liberty National as originally scheduled, and Finchem said, “We have a wide range of options before us,” which could include Westchester being the host to the 2010 Barclays
693 2008-01-24 A woman has been indicted on charges saying she had three large trees up to a century old cut down on environmentally sensitive federal land near Lake Tahoe to improve her view, prosecutors said. Officials said they were not aware of any similar federal prosecutions. The woman, Patricia M. Vincent, 58, was indicted last week on charges of theft of government property and willingly damaging government property. If convicted, she faces up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each count. The three ponderosa pines stood on a plot the Forest Service had designated as environmentally sensitive as part of a water quality plan. The trees were estimated to be 80 to 100 years old.
694 2008-01-24 NEWARK — The editor of a Brazilian community newspaper who said he was detained by the police in September sued the Police Department on Wednesday, saying that his rights were violated when officers demanded that he hand over photographs of a crime scene and handcuffed him to a bench when he refused.

The lawsuit, filed in the Federal District Court, is the latest complaint stemming from the events of Sept. 6, when a freelance photographer with the Portuguese-language paper Brazilian Voice stumbled upon the body of a woman in a trash-strewn alley in the Ironbound district. The photographer took pictures of the body and returned to the newspaper office. Then he and the editor, Roberto Lima, contacted the police.

A police official who came to the scene asked the photographer about his immigration status, violating a state directive that prevents local law enforcement officers from asking the immigration status of witnesses to crimes. In a statement released on Wednesday, the police director, Garry F. McCarthy, said that in response to the photographer’s allegations, the department had started a “more comprehensive training program” and had disciplined the police official, Deputy Chief Samuel A. DeMaio.

In the lawsuit, Mr. Lima, who returned to the alley with the photographer, maintains that Chief DeMaio bullied him and warned him not to publish pictures of the dead woman. He also says Chief DeMaio instructed another officer, Detective Lydell A. James, to seize the camera and an electronic storage card.

The journalists were taken to a police station, according to the lawsuit. When Mr. Lima asked that the camera be returned, he was told he would have to give the police all the copies of the photos taken at the crime scene, according to the suit. He refused, and a police officer handcuffed him to a bench for about half an hour but did not charge him, Mr. Lima says in the lawsuit.
695 2008-01-24 The government directed the state-owned Nepal Oil Corporation to roll back a steep rise in fuel prices after two days of protests that shut down much of the capital, Katmandu. On Monday, Nepal Oil increased kerosene and diesel prices by up to 20 percent. It was the second price increase since October.
696 2008-01-24 ATLANTA — Delta Air Lines, the nation’s No. 3 carrier, said Wednesday that it was hampered by high fuel prices in the fourth quarter but was able to narrow its loss because of a solid increase in sales.

A rival carrier, Southwest, however, reported that its profit doubled in the quarter because of its hedging against high fuel costs,

Delta, which is based in Atlanta, said that it lost $70 million, or 18 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $1.98 billion for the same period a year earlier. The airline did not provide a per share figure for the previous year, when it was in bankruptcy.

Excluding reorganization items, Delta said it lost $105 million in the quarter. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a loss of 18 cents a share. Analysts’ estimates generally exclude one-time items.

In the quarter, Delta hedged 21 percent of its fuel consumption, resulting in an average fuel price of $2.61 a gallon. Delta said it realized roughly $40 million in cash gains on fuel hedge contracts settled during the quarter.
697 2008-01-24 Members of the subcommittee pointed out that Russia was awash in oil revenue. The senior Republican member, Representative John Shimkus of Illinois, said that the United States had bought $11 billion in oil and oil products from Russia from January 2005 through last October and that, unlike right after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia was now running budget surpluses.

“Clearly, Russia can afford to participate,” he said.

According to the Government Accountability Office, while the program’s goal was to prevent technologies for weapons of mass destruction from leaving the Soviet Union, an analysis of 97 projects employing 6,450 scientists from former Soviet states found that more than half of them “never claimed to have W.M.D. experience.” And nearly 1,000 of the scientists were born in 1970 or later. The Soviet Union was dissolved in December 1991.

Department of Energy officials at the hearing quibbled with the specifics of the findings, saying that more than half were weapons scientists but that less than 60 percent fell in that category. They defended the program by saying that all the scientists working under it were being kept from helping other countries with dangerous technologies.

Robert A. Robinson, a Government Accountability Office official, said: “It feels a little bit like mission creep. When problem X is solved, we move the program into problem Y, into infinity.”

The subcommittee chairman, Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, said the program had become a “slush fund” for the Department of Energy’s national laboratories, which are paid to oversee it.

Some of the money went to six research projects related to the Energy Department’s Global Nuclear Energy Partnership, a proposal that Congress has not embraced and that would recover plutonium and other materials from spent reactor fuel, for reuse in a new class of reactors.

Energy Department officials could not say if they were financing any scientists in Russian groups directly involved in supplying fuel to Iran. But a State Department official, Richard J. K. Stratford, acting deputy assistant secretary for nuclear nonproliferation policy, who was testifying about a program run by his department to finance science centers in the former Soviet Union, said, “You could argue if you give Russia a dollar for whatever purpose, it frees up a dollar that can then be spent elsewhere.”

The State Department runs a program similar to the one at the Energy Department. It is based on institutes, not individual scientists, but has “graduated” some of the institutes as they have become self-sufficient. The State Department hopes to end the program by 2012. Several committee members called on the Energy Department to develop an “exit strategy.”

Adam M. Scheinman, the Energy Department’s assistant deputy administrator in the office of nonproliferation and international security, said scientists in the program had worked on projects involving land mine detectors, systems for needle-free injections, prosthetic limbs and radioisotopes for cancer treatments.
698 2008-01-24 Recent modest declines in world oil prices, together with government subsidies for refiners, have restored diesel supplies. Zhang Yanchao, a long-haul trucker who travels large areas of eastern China, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that after waiting up to 10 hours at a time for diesel in November, he now finds that he can drive up to service stations and refuel immediately.

But the alleviation of diesel shortages has come too late for many power plants because heavy snows have blocked roads and rail lines in recent weeks. The official Xinhua news agency said that coal reserves at power plants were perilously low, with just 17.7 million tons in the reserves and power plants burning two million tons a day.

The snow has also felled some crucial high-power transmission lines, officials at two power companies said in telephone interviews.

The downed lines have made it harder for the operators of China’s electricity grid — really a series of poorly connected regional grids — to redistribute power to areas that need it most.

Frigid weather has also increased demand for coal for heat, driving up prices for immediate coal deliveries. That has made coal mines more reluctant to fulfill their long-term, low-cost contracts to deliver coal to power companies.

“Coal enterprises must produce and sell coal based on the law, and deliver on their responsibility to society,” the government’s powerful National Development and Reform Commission in Beijing warned in an “urgent notice” to various industries, posted on its Web site on Wednesday. Low water levels in lakes have also limited the availability of hydroelectric power, the notice said.

Low electricity tariffs, particularly for residential users, have been another problem.

The central government issued an official “suggestion” to provincial governments last fall that they not allow increases in electricity tariffs charged to customers, as part of national price controls.

Provincial governments have responded by freezing tariffs, and even reducing them in the case of Guangdong Province in southeastern China, the home of much of the country’s export-oriented light industry.

The low tariffs have made it uneconomical for oil-fired plants to operate, and many have stopped doing so.

“It makes absolutely no sense for anyone to run a diesel- or oil-fired plant. They’re all shut down,” said a power company executive in China who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of commenting on regulatory policies.

The executive added that even when ordered by the government to resume operating at a loss, many state-owned oil-fired plants had not done so, scheduling maintenance and repairs instead.

Oil-fired power plants account for up to 15 percent of the power generation capacity in parts of southeastern China but very little elsewhere in China, where coal remains the primary source of electricity.

The rationing this winter is particularly embarrassing for China because the country’s power failures are usually limited to the summer, when ever-growing use of air-conditioning strains the power grid to its limits. Blackouts were more limited than usual last summer, as capacity finally seemed to be catching up with demand, which has been growing 13 percent a year.
699 2008-01-24 ST. PAUL — As Caroline Zhang pulled her free foot toward her head in a Biellmann spin, one of figure skating’s more difficult positions, her leg stretched with such apparent ease that she seemed to be made of elastic. Mirai Nagasu, like Zhang a promising 14-year-old, showed equally astonishing flexibility on a layback spin Wednesday, leaning so far that the back of her head nearly touched her backside.

If the sight of such supple young challengers at the United States Figure Skating Championships made Kimmie Meissner nervous, she was not saying. Meissner, the defending senior champion, finished her practice at the Xcel Energy Center and left without speaking to reporters.

“She just wants to train and keep her focus and not have distractions,” said Meissner’s coach, Pam Gregory.

Two years out from the 2010 Winter Olympics, this week’s competition shapes up as a typical mid-Olympiad introduction to the Next Ones, the up-and-coming skaters setting their sights on Vancouver, British Columbia.

Zhang, Nagasu and 16-year-old Ashley Wagner, the top three finishers at last year’s world junior championships, all moved up to the senior level and were expected to contend for medals here. So could Rachel Flatt, 15, the silver medalist at this season’s Junior Grand Prix final and a fifth-place national finisher as a senior last year. (Flatt competes as a senior nationally and as a junior internationally.)
700 2008-01-24 Pfizer Inc. said Wednesday that its fourth-quarter profit fell 70 percent from results a year ago that included gains on the sale of its consumer health business.

Its adjusted profit and sales both topped Wall Street expectations, and Pfizer, which makes the top-selling drug Lipitor, raised its revenue outlook for the 2008 fiscal year.

Net income fell to $2.88 billion, or 42 cents a share, from $9.45 billion, or $1.32 a share, a year ago, which included divestiture gains of $1.11 a share. Excluding items, net income in the latest period totaled $3.6 billion, or 52 cents a share.

Revenue climbed 4 percent to $13.07 billion, from $12.6 billion in the 2006 period, as international sales — aided by a weaker dollar — helped offset the loss of patent protection on the blood pressure drug Norvasc and the antidepressant Zoloft.

The results beat expectations of analysts polled by Thomson Financial, who had forecast fourth-quarter profit of 47 cents a share on $12.19 billion in revenue.

Sales of its cholesterol drug Lipitor rose 3 percent to $3.4 billion, as the weaker dollar helped offset slower United States sales.

Wall Street had expected revenue to be driven by Lipitor sales and contributions from several newer drugs. Pfizer said fourth-quarter sales of the smoking cessation drug Chantix surged to $280 million from $68 million a year ago; sales of the pain treatment Celebrex rose 18 percent to $637 million; and sales of the kidney cancer drug Sutent jumped 75 percent to $182 million.
701 2008-01-24 LOS GATOS, Calif. (AP) — Netflix, the online DVD rental service, said Wednesday that its fourth-quarter earnings rose 6 percent as it gained subscribers and its operating expenses fell.

For the quarter that ended Dec. 31, Netflix earned $15.8 million, or 24 cents a share, compared with $14.9 million, or 21 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The company said revenue rose 9 percent, to $302.4 million, compared with $277.2 million in the fourth quarter last year.

Netflix said subscribers grew 18 percent year over year, to 7.5 million. Operating expenses declined $7 million, or 7.8 percent, to $82.2 million.
702 2008-01-24 As Mississippi awaits a decision on whether it can spend $600 million of federal hurricane relief on a controversial plan to rebuild and expand a shipping port, the state has added $100 million of federal aid to a program to develop housing for low- and moderate-income workers.

The addition, which brings the housing program to $250 million, will produce more than 2,500 housing units, said Gov. Haley Barbour, who announced the increase on Tuesday.

Though it has been widely praised for the speed of its hurricane recovery effort, Mississippi has been criticized by religious and civic groups for slighting the needs of the poor. Congress gave the state $5.5 billion in hurricane recovery grants, with the proviso that half of it should be used to help low-income families, but critics say that less than a quarter of the money is being used that way.

The new allocation may not dampen that criticism because the money is being transferred from another program that was supposed to help the poor by giving grants to low-income homeowners whose houses flooded in Hurricane Katrina’s storm surge. That program received fewer applications than expected, the governor’s spokesman, Pete Smith, wrote in an e-mail message.

The state has distributed about $217 million in grants to more than 3,000 applicants to that program, according to data from the Mississippi Development Authority. A larger program, which primarily serves wealthier homeowners, has distributed more than $1 billion to more than 15,000 homeowners.

Advocates for the poor said that they were concerned that not everyone who qualified for a rebuilding grant had received one, and that in any event the state was still not committing enough money to programs to replace low-income housing, to help renters or to assist people whose houses were damaged by wind rather than flooding.
703 2008-01-24 Q. I downloaded all my vacation photos to Google’s Picasa, but I am having trouble finding information on how to use it. Google sends you to a chat room with other confused users. Any ideas where to look? There doesn’t seem to be a “Dummies” book.

A. If you find that the Help pages (picasa.google.com/support) for Google’s free image-editing and organization program are not enough, you can find answers elsewhere. While there may not be many books solely on Picasa, there are plenty of blogs that share Picasa lessons. The site at techtheman.blogspot.com/2007/07/picasa-tutorials.html is just one example.

Video tutorials are also available on the Web. The educational technology company LearningElectric.com has free video lessons that demonstrate how to use many of Picasa’s tools and features at www.learningelectric.com/picasa2. Geeks on Tour also has video tutorials at www.geeksontour.com/picasa.cfm.
704 2008-01-24 That issue has permeated the campaign here in advance of the Democratic primary on Saturday, in which at least half the voters are expected to be black.

Mr. Clinton also suggested in public remarks that his wife might lose here because of race. Referring to her and Mr. Obama, he said, “They are getting votes, to be sure, because of their race or gender, and that’s why people tell me that Hillary doesn’t have a chance to win here.”

Later in the day, he said that if Mr. Obama won the Democratic nomination, he would “do what I can to help him become president.” Mr. Clinton said he was “very impressed with the nonracial appeal” of Mr. Obama.

At about the same time, the Clinton campaign began running a radio commercial about Mr. Obama, which replayed Mr. Obama’s words from a recent interview with The Reno Gazette-Journal: “The Republicans were the party of ideas for a pretty long chunk of time there over the last 10, 15 years.”

“Really?” a voice-over in the Clinton commercial says. “Aren’t those the ideas that got us into the economic mess we’re in today?”

In his interview, Mr. Obama did not specify any particular idea and did not say he supported any of them, though Mrs. Clinton’s commercial strongly implies that he did.

The Obama campaign called Mrs. Clinton’s commercial “dishonest,” and Mr. Obama broadly implied at campaign appearances that the Clintons were misleading voters, though he did not mention the Clintons by name.

Mr. Obama further responded with his own radio advertisement, saying that it was Mrs. Clinton who had frequently sided with the Republicans on issues like the Iraq war and the North American Free Trade Agreement. “She’ll say anything, and change nothing,” the commercial said. “It’s time to turn the page.”

Mr. Obama spent the day in South Carolina, though his campaign was also preparing for Feb. 5 by expanding its television advertising into several states.

In Sumter, Mr. Obama specifically distanced himself from the Republicans. “No Bush, No Cheney, No Sense,” he chanted at a packed community center as the crowd repeated it so that everyone thundered together.

Mr. Obama often talks about his appeal to both independents and Republicans, and on Tuesday he said he wanted to work with Republicans, but that other politicians — he did not mention Mrs. Clinton by name — had distorted his statements. “Part of what happens in Washington is that folks will try to twist your words around,” he said.

“They’re trying to bamboozle you,” he said to the overwhelmingly black crowd. “It’s the same old okey-doke.”

Mr. Clinton’s remarks about the media, which the Clinton campaign has said is biased against them, came in response to a question from a CNN reporter in Charleston. The reporter told him that Dick Harpootlian, a former Democratic Party chairman in South Carolina and an Obama supporter, had called the Clinton campaign in South Carolina “reprehensible.” CNN also told him that Mr. Harpootlian had compared their tactics to those of Lee Atwater, the Republican operative who used racial politics and wedge issues.

“I never heard a word of public complaint when Mr. Obama said Hillary was not truthful,” Mr. Clinton said. “He had more pollsters than she did. When he put out a hit job on me at the same time he called her the senator from Punjab, I never said a word. And I don’t care about it today.” (The reference to the senator from Punjab was in a memo by an Obama campaign staff member.)

Mr. Clinton said no one in the audience in Charleston had asked him about how race was being used in the campaign. “They are feeding you this because they know this is what you want to cover,” he said. “What you care about is this. And the Obama people know that. So they just spin you up on this and you happily go along.”

In response, Bill Burton, an Obama spokesman, said: “At the end of the day, we trust in the wisdom of the people of South Carolina, and we won’t be deterred from the challenges facing their lives by the Clinton campaign’s sideshows.”
705 2008-01-24 ''Thread count is so last century,'' said Paul Hooker, the president of the luxury sheet company Sferra. ''It really means nothing.'' Those are confounding words from the guy who says he broke the 1,000-thread-count barrier seven years ago. Since ...
706 2008-01-24 The Swiss Reinsurance Company said that Berkshire Hathaway, the holding company controlled by Warren E. Buffett, had bought a 3 percent stake.  Swiss Re said it also agreed to cede 20 percent of  its property and casualty business to Berkshire ove...
707 2008-01-24 CRISIS FOR BOND INSURERS  State regulators met with representatives of a dozen banks to defuse a crisis facing two large, weakened bond insurers, MBIA and Ambac. A default by the two companies could leave buyers of the bonds on the hook for billio...
708 2008-01-24 Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in December compared with the period a year ago, despite efforts to curb a surge in food costs, the National Bureau of Statistics reported Thursday. The December rise brought inflation for 2007 to 4.8 percent, well...
709 2008-01-25 One of the hottest topics to pop at the World Economic Forum Thursday produced a certain sense of deja vu. Two years ago the leaders of hedge funds had to defend their track record at the confab in Davos, Switzerland. Last year it was the turn of ...
710 2008-01-25 George W. Anderson, the chief executive of Enterprise Engineering, left the scene and refused to give breath or blood samples after his vehicle hit a 59-year-old woman in the financial district, the police said....
711 2008-01-25 Taking Questions: Answers from Lucas A. Ferrara, a partner at Finkelstein Newman Ferrara who is taking questions from readers through Jan. 30 on tenant-landlord issues....
712 2008-01-25 Senator John McCain discusses what his approach to economic issues would be if he were elected president.
713 2008-01-25 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
714 2008-01-25 The Clinton campaign's plea to have Michigan and Florida delegates is seen as a cheap shot....
715 2008-01-25 Last Sunday marked the six-month anniversary of the Open blog. We originally launched Open to announce our presence at OSCON and the open source initiatives we had started at the Times. Since then, we've written 16 other posts (sorry, but at least...
716 2008-01-25 John Weiss, our Open Caucus participant in South Florida, joined the "A.A.R.P. crowd" at a John McCain rally in West Palm Beach this week....
717 2008-01-25 Bill Clinton unleashes a passionate defense of his wife and says if she and John McCain were their party's nominees, "the general election would be the most civilized election in American history."...
718 2008-01-25 Our Open Caucus participants offer their opinions on the recent Republican debate and how the political climate is shaping up in their home states....
719 2008-01-25 CNBC interviews Joseph Rice of Dubilier & Rice on where the smart money is going.
720 2008-01-25 The chairman of Intel discusses the economy and information technology with Katrin Bennhold of the International Herald Tribune.
721 2008-01-25 Shares of the Ambac Financial Group, the troubled bond insurer, rose in European trading Friday following a newspaper report, citing unnamed sources, that said Wilbur Ross is in talks to buy the company. The Evening Standard report said Ambac's ne...
722 2008-01-25 A film reviewer loses one of his perches....
723 2008-01-25 Global investment banks and small-cap companies rarely have much in common when it comes to raising capital, but they have both been using private placements to meet their financial needs, according to Financial News. Investment banks including UB...
724 2008-01-25 Sovereign wealth funds were hardly talked about 12 months ago. Now they are one of the hottest topics in global financial markets. Over the last year, these state-owned entities have spent more than $75 billion snapping up stakes in some of the wo...
725 2008-01-25 Recent stock market drops hurt some of the world's most famous hedge fund managers, who have long attracted money with promises that they could sidestep even the worst conditions. Bruce Kovner's Caxton Alpha Equity fund, Lee Ainslie's Maverick Fun...
726 2008-01-25 RiskMetrics Group began its highly touted initial public offering on Thursday, at a time when many others are shying away from a foray into the public markets. The owner of Institutional Shareholders Services, the proxy advisory firm, raised $245 ...
727 2008-01-25 After almost a year of fielding bids, Live Nation has sold most of its North American theater business, including the Broadway Across America touring network, to Key Brand Entertainment, a company owned by a British producer and run by an American...
728 2008-01-25 DAVOS, Switzerland As the securitization system crumbled last summer, some of the unfortunate owners of the securities discovered that there was no way to know how much they were worth. The derivative securities in question were quoted only by the...
729 2008-01-25 While the president was in West Virginia, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi were assailing the Bush administration on a wide spectrum of issues, foreign and domestic, and asserting that America had lost its moral compass under President Bush’s watch.

Mr. Reid denounced the administration’s handling of the Iraq war, its refusal to engage in diplomacy with Iran and other foreign policies that he said had corroded America’s moral leadership. “Perhaps on Monday, President Bush will show that leadership,” the senator said, alluding to the State of the Union address scheduled for Monday evening.

Ms. Pelosi said the House would act “quickly and decisively to put recovery rebates in the hands of hard-working Americans.” She did not mention possible differences with Senate Democrats and their hopes of modifying the stimulus package.

The White House sought to pressure the Senate in advance of Mr. Bush’s remarks. “We believe this is a very good, bipartisan compromise, and it would be unfortunate if the Senate did anything to slow it down or blow it up,” the president’s chief spokeswoman, Dana Perino, said Friday morning.

“If this agreement gets derailed in the Senate, the workers and the business people who are expecting this relief are not going to get it in time, or possibly not in time for it to have the effect that we would like it to have,” Ms. Perino said. “Now we’ve got an agreement with the House, and the president thinks that the Senate would be wise to go ahead and take that, and run with it.”

At least one prominent Senate Republican also hopes to modify the package. Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine said on Friday that she would use her position as a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee to try to get extended unemployment insurance benefits the final version.

“I was encouraged by the compromise stimulus package announced by the White House and House leadership yesterday, but I believe we should also address the long-term unemployment crisis America currently faces,” Senator Snowe said. “The number of long-term unemployed in this country is dramatically higher than during the last recession, and I hope that Congress will pass a stimulus package that responds to this pressing need for so many Americans.”

Mr. Bush told the House Republicans his State of the Union address would focus heavily on economic issues, including his desire to keep intact the tax cuts that he got through the Republican-controlled Congress early in the decade and which are due to expire in the next few years.

“The best thing we can do to deal with uncertainty in the economy is make the tax cuts we passed permanent,” the president said, to sustained applause.
730 2008-01-25 The navy destroyer Murasame left Yokosuka, to be joined by a tanker, to resume a refueling mission in the Indian Ocean as part of the American-led military effort in Afghanistan. Japan had performed the largely symbolic mission since 2001 but was forced to abandon it last fall when a divisive battle in Parliament caused a three-month suspension that was later overturned. “Japan will fulfill its global responsibilities,” Defense Minister Shigeru Ishiba said at a send-off ceremony attended by about 200 people.
731 2008-01-25 Investors sent Microsoft’s shares up 4 percent in after-hours trading Thursday. The shares closed the regular session at $33.25, up $1.32, or 4.1 percent, after being battered along with other technology stocks this week.

Other leading technology companies, like Intel and Apple, have reported strong quarterly results, only to have their shares punished after they warned of cloudy outlooks given the increasing possibility of an economic recession.

But Microsoft executives still sound confident. In a conference call with analysts, Christopher Liddell, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, said, “We have not seen any significant spillover for an economic slowdown in the U.S.”

Sixty percent of Microsoft’s business is now outside the United States, which helps insulate the company from the chill of a slowdown in the American economy. Even so, Mr. Liddell noted that Microsoft’s sales in the American market in the last six months had grown at a healthy 15 percent clip.

For its 2008 fiscal year ending in June, Microsoft offered a bit more optimism. The company said revenue for the year would be $59.9 billion to $60.5 billion, above the analysts’ consensus of $59.4 billion. Microsoft said its earnings would be $1.85 to $1.88 a share, up from Wall Street’s projection of $1.81 a share.

For its second quarter, Microsoft reported net income of $4.7 billion, or 50 cents a share, a 79 percent rise compared with a year earlier. Analysts had predicted 46 cents a share.

The company reported revenue of nearly $16.4 billion, or 30 percent higher than in the year-earlier quarter. The consensus revenue estimate of securities analysts, as compiled by Thomson Financial, was $15.9 billion.

The percentage gains in sales and profits in the quarter were inflated by comparison with the year-earlier quarter, when Microsoft deferred $1.64 billion in revenue and operating income because of the delay in shipping Windows Vista and Office 2007.

It issued coupons and free upgrades to consumers and businesses that bought personal computers in the holiday season of 2006, allowing them to upgrade to Vista and Office 2007 later.

Yet after adjusting for the effect of last year’s charge, Microsoft still had a stronger-than-expected performance, with revenue rising 15 percent and operating income up 27 percent.

Quarterly sales of the client group, which includes Windows Vista, rose 13 percent to more than $4.3 billion. The company’s antipiracy programs, working in cooperation with local police in 22 nations, have been particularly effective in the last six months, Mr. Liddell said, representing 3 percentage points of the year-to-year growth.

The business division, which includes Office, reported sales of $4.8 billion, a 15 percent gain. Most of that comes from Microsoft’s popular word-processing, spreadsheet and presentation programs. But Mr. Liddell noted that SharePoint, a program for collaboration by teams of workers, has grown to become a $1 billion-a-year product.

The entertainment and devices group, which includes the Xbox game consoles and video games, gained only 3 percent in sales, to $3.1 billion. But the year-ago quarter included a surge in revenue from the introduction of the Xbox 360. More significantly, the division reported a $357 million profit this year, compared with a $302 million loss a year ago, as Microsoft sold more games, which are solidly profitable.

The online services business grew 38 percent to $863 million, helped by the contribution of aQuantive, an online ad agency Microsoft bought last May for $6 billion. But losses more than doubled to $245 million.
732 2008-01-25 After many delays and cost overruns of nearly $100 million, the state’s newest courthouse, the Bronx County Hall of Justice, is scheduled to open next week, officials said on Thursday.

Cases will be heard on Monday at the $421 million courthouse, in the South Bronx near the borough’s other large courthouses, said Ronald Younkins, chief of operations for the Office of Court Administration.

Construction began in 2001 on the nine-story, 775,000-square-foot building that stretches for two blocks along 161st Street.

It was to be completed in 2005 at a cost of $325 million. But delays occurred because of a variety of problems, including soil contaminated with petroleum and the disqualification of the original contractor because of suspicions of mob ties.

The 200-space underground garage, which was declared unsafe after inspectors found that its ceiling had bowed, will not open along with the rest of the courthouse, officials said. It was unclear when it would be repaired, but engineers have determined that the garage problems are not a threat to the building’s overall structural safety.
733 2008-01-25 As Hideo Kumano, chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, put it: “The No. 2 global economy, Japan, should be playing a central role at a time like this. But the fact is Japan doesn’t have the strength or will to do that.”

Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda and other leaders have made it clear that they view the current crisis as American in origin, and beyond their reach. When questioned in Parliament on Tuesday about the global financial turmoil, Mr. Fukuda replied that it was “not something that came from the actual condition of Japan’s economy.”

However, on Thursday, a group of lawmakers from Mr. Fukuda’s Liberal Democratic Party, including former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, proposed several measures to revive Japanese stock markets, including suspending capital-gains taxes and creating a sovereign fund to invest in equities.

Economists called the proposals too small to make a difference. They also said that Japan had few real options.

First, the nation is already burdened with one of the world’s highest levels of government debt, $7.2 trillion, making it very unlikely that lawmakers would support an expensive package of new spending or tax cuts large enough to stimulate a $4.7 trillion economy.

In addition, such a stimulus package would face a struggle in Parliament, which has been in virtual political deadlock since the opposition Democratic Party of Japan won control of the upper house last summer.

Most economists say the likeliest step would be an interest rate cut by the central bank, the Bank of Japan. Many prominent politicians have urged the bank to lower the overnight lending rate back down to zero, where it was two years ago, from 0.5 percent now. A few call for more radical steps, such as intentionally creating low inflation to rekindle growth.

“Concerns over a recession are emerging not only in the U.S., but in Japan as well,” Kozo Yamamoto, head of the ruling party’s panel on monetary policy, told Bloomberg News on Wednesday. “The B.O.J. should cut rates back to zero immediately,” he said.

But most economists say a rate cut has a 50-50 chance at best. The current bank governor, Toshihiko Fukui, has a track record of resisting rate cuts. In fact, he has repeatedly spoken in favor of a continued raising of borrowing costs to prevent a repeat of a situation in the 1980s, when cheap money helped to create disastrous price bubbles in Japan’s land and stock markets. Just last week, Mr. Fukui reiterated his view that the current rate was too low.

A potential window for policy change appears next month, when the government is expected to name a successor to Mr. Fukui, whose five-year term ends in March. Of the two most likely candidates, one is now a deputy bank governor, Toshiro Muto, who would be expected to maintain the status quo. But the other, Kazuo Ueda, a former member of the bank’s policy board, has favored rate cuts to spur growth.

“The only effective policy option for Japan is choosing a more aggressive governor for the B.O.J.,” said Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho Securities. “The B.O.J. is the only place where policy action could take place these days.”

Mr. Iizuka and others say that Japan’s biggest problem is a lack of strong political leadership on economic issues. They say Prime Minister Fukuda, a soft-spoken party insider, has failed to articulate a clear vision of Japan’s economic direction.

At the same time, the government is widely thought to be hurting the economy with a series of bungled policies, including the sudden introduction of a strict new building code last summer that sent housing starts plunging 40 percent.

“There is no leadership, no economic focus,” said Jesper Koll, an economist who heads the Tokyo office of a hedge fund company, Tantallon Capital Advisors. “Then there are these screw-ups, which are a huge shot to confidence.”
734 2008-01-25 The median price of an American single-family home fell in 2007 for the first time in at least four decades, according to the National Association of Realtors, a trade group.

“It’s the first price decline in many, many years,” the group’s chief economist, Lawrence Yun, said Thursday. “And possibly going back to the Great Depression.”

The median price of a single-family home fell 1.8 percent, to $217,800, the first annual decline since reliable records began in 1968.

And even as prices plummeted, buyers vanished. Over all, sales of previously owned single-family homes dropped 13 percent in 2007, the biggest decline in a quarter-century. (The group’s survey excludes newly constructed homes.)

Economists now say the housing market, plagued by its worst downturn since the early 1990s, will not bottom out until at least the summer, and even then sales are expected to remain sluggish.
735 2008-01-25 We have strong disagreements with all the Republicans running for president. The leading candidates have no plan for getting American troops out of Iraq. They are too wedded to discredited economic theories and unwilling even now to break with the legacy of President Bush. We disagree with them strongly on what makes a good Supreme Court justice.

Still, there is a choice to be made, and it is an easy one. Senator John McCain of Arizona is the only Republican who promises to end the George Bush style of governing from and on behalf of a small, angry fringe. With a record of working across the aisle to develop sound bipartisan legislation, he would offer a choice to a broader range of Americans than the rest of the Republican field.

We have shuddered at Mr. McCain’s occasional, tactical pander to the right because he has demonstrated that he has the character to stand on principle. He was an early advocate for battling global warming and risked his presidential bid to uphold fundamental American values in the immigration debate. A genuine war hero among Republicans who proclaim their zeal to be commander in chief, Mr. McCain argues passionately that a country’s treatment of prisoners in the worst of times says a great deal about its character.

Why, as a New York-based paper, are we not backing Rudolph Giuliani? Why not choose the man we endorsed for re-election in 1997 after a first term in which he showed that a dirty, dangerous, supposedly ungovernable city could become clean, safe and orderly? What about the man who stood fast on Sept. 11, when others, including President Bush, went AWOL?

That man is not running for president.

The real Mr. Giuliani, whom many New Yorkers came to know and mistrust, is a narrow, obsessively secretive, vindictive man who saw no need to limit police power. Racial polarization was as much a legacy of his tenure as the rebirth of Times Square.
736 2008-01-25 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Bidders put up a total of almost $2.78 billion on Thursday in the opening rounds of the Federal Communications Commission’s auction of federally owned airwaves.

The figure represents the highest bids received for five separate blocks of spectrum at the beginning of the auction, which is eventually expected to bring the federal government at least $10 billion.

Companies qualified to bid include major carriers AT&T and Verizon Wireless, as well as possible new rivals like the Internet company Google, EchoStar Communications and Cablevision Systems.

Identities of bidders will remain secret until the entire auction ends.

Analysts said the major carriers could use the new spectrum to offer consumers advanced services like broadband access via mobile phones and wireless broadband to laptop computers.

The $2.78 billion worth of opening high bids included a $472 million offer for a closely watched block of spectrum, known as the D block, which would have to be shared with public safety agencies under F.C.C. rules.

It also included an opening high bid of about $1.24 billion for the sought-after C block, which carried another condition requiring that it be open to all devices and software applications as long as the minimum price was met.
737 2008-01-25 Gold gained $22.53, to settle at $912.85 a troy ounce. Crude oil futures rose $2.42, to $89.41 a barrel, after several days of declines. The euro also gained against the dollar.

Energy stocks led the day’s gains, while shares of financial companies continued to improve modestly after surging late on Wednesday.

“This is part of a bounce you’re going to have in a very, very oversold market,” said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at the Hartford, the financial services firm. “The big question is whether or not the market can stay on an uptrend, or does it fizzle out?”

Ms. Krosby said investors would be closely watching volume levels at the major exchanges over the next few days. “Volume represents conviction,” she said.

Thursday’s volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 2.18 billion shares, and advancing issues outnumbered decliners four to three.

The major European indexes closed up 4 percent or more and have almost completely recovered from the steep losses they suffered on Monday, when fears about an imminent recession in the United States led to a broad sell-off.

The FTSE 100 index in London gained 4.75 percent and the benchmark DAX index in Germany moved higher by 5.93 percent.

Major Asian markets also recorded overnight gains, with the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo up 2 percent.

Investors in the United States may also have been buoyed by a drop in unemployment claims, a leading indicator of the job market. The claims fell more than expected last week, the Labor Department reported on Thursday, suggesting that January payrolls might not have fallen as much as analysts feared.

But the good news was balanced by the bad: sales of previously owned homes in 2007 fell to their slowest pace in a quarter-century, the National Association of Realtors said.

Over all, sales fell 13 percent in 2007, and the median price of a single-family home declined for the first time in at least four decades.

Investors worldwide continue to closely monitor the movements of central banks in the United States and Europe. The chairman of the European Central Bank has signaled that he is unlikely to cut interest rates, citing concern over rising inflation, just two days after the Federal Reserve surprised investors by slashing its benchmark rate by three-quarters of a percentage point.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 28/32, to 104 15/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 3.70 percent, from 3.60 percent.

Following are the results of Thursday’s Treasury auction of 20-year inflation-protected securities:
738 2008-01-25 BERLIN — Nokia said Thursday that it had extended its share of the global cellphone market to a record 40 percent in the fourth quarter as profit surged 44 percent on rising sales to Africa, China and the Middle East.

The company, based in Espoo, Finland, said profit rose to 1.84 billion euros ($2.7 billion) from 1.27 billion euros a year earlier. Sales climbed 34 percent to 15.7 billion euros, from 11.7 billion euros.

Nokia said it sold 77.8 million cellphones in Asia, the Middle East and Africa in the quarter, nearly double the 42.3 million sold in Europe and North America. In China, Nokia’s fastest-growing high-volume market, the company sold 20.2 million phones, an increase of 38.4 percent over a year earlier.

The company pushed its global market share to 40.2 percent from 38.9 percent in the third quarter, according to Strategy Analytics, a research firm in Milton Keynes, England.

Nokia’s market share exceeded the combined shares of its next three biggest competitors: Samsung, Motorola and Sony Ericsson.

“Psychologically, this is an impressive milestone to reach in a mostly open and free global market,” said Neil Mawston, director for wireless research at Strategy Analytics. “They have become more dominant over the past decade, and this only strengthens their position.”
739 2008-01-25 “These are going to be tough negotiations,” said one senior Bush administration official preparing for negotiations with the Iraqis. “They’re not supplicants.”

Democrats in Congress, as well as the party’s two leading presidential contenders, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, have accused the White House of sponsoring negotiations that will set into law a long-term security relationship with Iraq.

But administration officials said that the American proposal specifically did not set future troop levels in Iraq or ask for permanent American bases there. Nor, they said, did it offer a security guarantee defining Washington’s specific responsibilities should Iraq come under attack.

Including such long-term commitments in the agreement would turn the accord into a bilateral treaty, one that would require Senate approval. The Bush administration faces the political reality that it cannot count on the two-thirds vote that would be required to approve a treaty with Iraq setting out such a military commitment.

Administration officials are describing their draft proposal in terms of a traditional status-of-forces agreement, an accord that has historically been negotiated by the executive branch and signed by the executive branch without a Senate vote.

“I think it’s pretty clear that such an agreement would not talk about force levels,” Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Thursday. “We have no interest in permanent bases. I think the way to think about the framework agreement is an approach to normalizing the relationship between the United States and Iraq.”

While the United States currently has military agreements with more than 80 countries around the world, including Japan, Germany, South Korea and a number of Iraq’s neighbors, none of those countries are at war. And none has a population outraged over civilian deaths at the hands of armed American security contractors who are not answerable to Iraqi law.

Democratic critics have complained that the initial announcement about the administration’s intention to negotiate an agreement, made Nov. 26, included an American pledge to support Iraq “in defending its democratic system against internal and external threats.”

Representative Bill Delahunt, Democrat of Massachusetts, said that what the administration was negotiating amounted to a treaty and should be subjected to Congressional oversight and ultimately ratification.

“Where have we ever had an agreement to defend a foreign country from external attack and internal attack that was not a treaty?” he said Wednesday at a hearing of a foreign affairs subcommittee held to review the matter. “This could very well implicate our military forces in a full-blown civil war in Iraq. If a commitment of this magnitude does not rise to the level of a treaty, then it is difficult to imagine what could.”

Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, who raised concerns in a letter to the White House in December, said the negotiations were an unprecedented step toward making an agreement on status of forces without the overarching security guarantees like those provided in the NATO treaty. He added that the Democratic majority would seek to block any agreements with the Iraqis, unless the administration was clear about its ultimate intentions in Iraq.

“There’s no exit strategy, because the administration doesn’t have one,” Senator Webb said in a telephone interview on Thursday. “By entering this agreement, they avoid a debate and they validate their unspoken strategy.”

Over recent days, administration officials acknowledged that the language of the Nov. 26 announcement went too far. The officials said that they were limiting the scope of the pending negotiations to issues that could be resolved this year, before the Security Council resolution expired.

To that end, administration officials said the draft text was narrowly written to codify what the administration regarded as four essential requirements for the American armed forces to continue the mission in Iraq.

In seeking immunity for contractors, the administration is requesting protections for the 154,000 civilian contractors working for the Defense Department in Iraq; most carry out such duties as driving trucks, preparing meals and the like. The administration says it depends heavily on those contractors, including about 13,000 private security contractors working for the Pentagon.

Under an earlier agreement between the United States and Iraq, those contractors have been exempt from Iraqi law. Justice Department officials have said it is not clear whether any crimes committed by contractors in Iraq, including the role played by Blackwater employees in a September shooting in Baghdad, would be subject to American law, but the administration has taken steps intended to close any loopholes.

In seeking authority to conduct combat operations, the Bush administration is seeking something similar to the current United Nations Security Council resolution, which allows the United States and other coalition forces to operate in Iraq “in support of mutual goals,” one Bush administration official said.

The official said the agreement sought by the United States could allow Iraq to “rescind that authority at a later date as the security environment improves and they take over the mission.”

In contrast to the contractors, the immunity being sought for American military personnel is a standard part of most recent agreements for basing American forces on foreign soil. Such agreements grant exclusive jurisdiction over American forces to American law, specifically the Uniform Code of Military Justice.

In terms of prisoners, the administration and military would like the Iraqis eventually to take control of all battlefield detainees. But they say that the United States still needs the authority to hold those prisoners, because Baghdad does not yet have the capacity — in personnel, facilities or legal structures — to manage the current detainee population of about 26,000.

Senior administration officials say concerns that the agreement will limit the decisions of the next president are not justified.

“More than 90 percent of this will be a pretty standard status-of-forces agreement,” said one senior official involved in drafting the American proposal. “It is not something that will tie the hands of the next president.”

The military-to-military aspect of the relationship is to be negotiated by July 31, well ahead of the Dec. 31 expiration date for the United Nations Security Council Resolution that has been the core legal authority for the American-led military mission in Iraq. Diplomats will also negotiate political and economic relations between the two countries.

The draft American text on military-to-military relations, now under discussion at the White House, Pentagon and State Department, is short, running fewer than 15 pages.

“It’s not ‘War and Peace,’ and it doesn’t have a lot of hard-to-read legal jargon,” said one military officer.

American officials are keenly aware that any agreement must be approved by Iraq’s fractured Council of Representatives, where Sunni and Shiite factions feud and even Shiite blocs loyal to competing leaders cannot agree.
740 2008-01-25 LOS ANGELES — Heath Ledger’s death has created an enormous marketing challenge for Warner Brothers in promoting its Batman sequel, “The Dark Knight,” in which he plays the Joker. But that is nothing next to the predicament confronting Terry Gilliam, who was less than halfway through directing his next film when Mr. Ledger, one of its stars, was found dead in a New York apartment on Tuesday.

Mr. Gilliam’s $30 million morality tale, “The Imaginarium of Dr. Parnassus,” stars Christopher Plummer as the title character, the leader of a traveling theater troupe that tempts its audiences with the chance to “transcend mundane reality by passing through a magical mirror into a fantastic universe of limitless imagination,” according to an official synopsis. Mr. Ledger played a troupe member who romances the character’s daughter.

The earthbound exterior portions of the film were shot on location in England in December and January, said Graham Smith, who served as a publicist for the film up to its London wrap last weekend. The production was then set to shift to Vancouver, British Columbia, where the fantastical portions of the action were to be shot using special effects on a soundstage.

Mr. Ledger’s death leaves the producers with few desirable options: recast and reshoot, rewrite and adjust, or abandon the project altogether. Mr. Gilliam wrote the movie with Charles McKeown, his collaborator on “Brazil” (1985) and “The Adventures of Baron Munchausen” (1988). (Mr. Gilliam has been famously plagued by production problems: his movie “The Man Who Killed Don Quixote” was abandoned after a flood and a $15 million insurance payout.)

Joanne Camacho, an insurance broker on “Imaginarium,” declined to comment Thursday. But Brian Kingman, managing director of Aon/Albert G. Ruben Insurance Services, a leading entertainment insurance underwriter, said that only 18 days of filming had been completed on the film, suggesting that about $14 million had been spent, and that Mr. Ledger had been named an “essential element” under the film’s cast-insurance policy.

That means the producers would have the right to abandon the film and recoup their spending on the project before his death. “Producers always try to complete the movie,” Mr. Kingman said. “The question is, can it be? They’ll have to analyze what’s been shot, what additional shots are needed, and can the missing scenes be doubled?”
741 2008-01-25 After almost a year of fielding bids, Live Nation has sold most of its North American theater business, including the Broadway Across America touring network, to Key Brand Entertainment, a company owned by a British producer and run by an American entertainment executive.

The deal, completed on Wednesday, also includes eight theaters that Live Nation leased or managed in Minneapolis, Boston, Baltimore and Toronto, as well as the Canadian arm of the touring business. The touring network includes agreements to market and produce shows at more than 40 theaters across North America. The sale price was $90.4 million.

The sale does not include everything that Live Nation initially put on the table: its share of the Chicago market, for example, was sold to its partner, the Nederlander Organization, for $60 million in November. But the purchase did not come with the more than $150 million price tag that was originally being batted around.

Now comes the hard part for the buyers: John Gore, 45, a British producer who has put up several successful West End shows and invested in Andrew Lloyd Webber productions; and Thomas B. McGrath, 51, a former vice president of the Viacom Entertainment Group who is the founder of a financial firm that specializes in acquiring and investing in entertainment businesses. (Dancap Productions will manage the Canadian properties for Key Brand.)

The road business in North America has been patchy in recent years and problematic for Live Nation’s theatrical division in particular. Presenters involved with the network since long before it was acquired by Clear Channel in 2000 (it was spun off as its own company in 2005) have been pulling out recently, prompted in part by a feeling that the theatrical business was an afterthought for a company more focused on concerts.

“As long as that happens, you’re likely to have disaffection with your partners,” Mr. McGrath said in a phone interview.
742 2008-01-25 But the pessimism is much greater among those closest to the financial system. While some take a functioning financial system for granted, in the same way they view highways or indoor plumbing, others see a system in crisis.

“We’re entering a perfect storm, a period of financial turbulence and very limited capital,” said one executive, whose company needs to borrow money to grow.

“What’s driving everyone crazy,” another executive said, “is, you don’t know who you can trust.” Both are well-known executives who did not want to call attention to themselves.

The new lack of trust has virtually closed down the securitization system that financed many companies and many mortgages. It has shaken other markets, where traders worry that counterparties — the people they trade with — will not be able to perform on contracts that may require large payments years later.

“It’s like walking blind in a minefield,” said Nouriel Roubini, a New York University economics professor who warned of an impending credit crisis at this conference a year ago. “You have no idea if your counterparty has a lot of toxic waste, or not much.”

Established financial markets dealt with that issue generations ago by using exchanges and standardized contracts. The exchange monitored the health of its members and guaranteed the trades. If you put in an order to sell 100 shares of I.B.M., it doesn’t matter to you if the buyer defaults. You will get your money anyway.

But in the over-the-counter market for financial derivatives, each trade depends on the counterparty. Many deal only with established banks, and the banks are expected to monitor the standing of the people they trade with.

Until this summer, it was easy to trust the banks. The Basel II capital guidelines for banks, now being phased in around the world, even relied on the banks’ own credit evaluations to decide how much capital they needed to back a given loan.

But what appeared to be a well-capitalized financial system has turned out to be the opposite, as big bank after big bank has had to seek huge capital infusions. Securities that banks had been able to keep off balance sheets — Mr. Roubini says regulators should never have allowed such things — have come back just in time to provide large losses.

“We did not,” an executive of one financial institution said, “fully understand the extent of the risks” in some securities. For obvious reasons, he did not want to be identified.

The newest big loss shows the problem is spreading.

On Thursday, Société Générale, the big French bank, reported that it had to write down 2 billion euros because of the same kind of problems that have besieged American banks. That was bad enough, but it also said it lost 4.9 billion euros from trading in European stock index futures. Société Générale said a trader had exceeded his trading limits.

The lack of trust has intensified because some banks offset big risks by purchasing insurance against defaults, and now the insurance seems dicey. The so-called monoline insurers, like MBIA, are in danger of losing their AAA ratings, and some have already done so.

Even worse, at least potentially, are the risks from credit default swaps, which have become a $45 trillion business. George Soros, the legendary hedge fund manager, called in reporters here to warn that some of those swaps had been sold by hedge funds that might be unable to pay if there were a wave of defaults by corporate borrowers.

His proposed method of dealing with that seemed unlikely to win approval, but it was interesting because of the extent of fear it showed.

He wants bank regulators to go in and audit the big financial institutions, and then either close them down or give them clean bills of health, with explicit guarantees of their positions. Then traders would know some counterparties were safe.

That such an idea could cost the Treasury billions, or give big financial advantages to the favored banks, or even amount to practical nationalization, did not seem to bother Mr. Soros. He is worried about the possibility of “systemic collapse.”

The fear at this forum is among the financiers.
743 2008-01-25 Confronting a new diagnosis can be frightening — and because research changes so often, confusing. Here are some questions you may not think to ask your doctor, along with notes on why they’re important.

Why are you considering a diagnosis of bipolar disorder?

Psychiatric illness is not as easily diagnosed as, say, an infection, in which a simple blood test can yield definitive answers. For bipolar disorder, a first step involves ruling out other possible mood disorders, such as depression.

Is bipolar disorder your area of expertise? If not, can you refer me to a specialist in mood disorders?

Bipolar disorder is a serious and incurable psychiatric illness with lifelong implications and complex treatment options. The diagnosis should be made only after a thorough and systematic workup by professionals with expertise specifically in mood disorders.

What side effects might I have from medication to control my illness?

Side effects of the powerful mood-stabilizing drugs prescribed for bipolar disorder include weight gain, acne, dizziness, headache and blurry vision. Not everyone has these reactions, but the possibilities should be discussed with the prescribing physician so you know how to report and handle them.

How do I know if the medication is working?

Because bipolar disorder affects mood, behavior and function, patients should precisely record any changes in response to medication, positive as well as negative. This helps the physician fine-tune dosages or substitute alternate medicines.

Can drugs for bipolar disorder affect other medical conditions (asthma, diabetes, heart problems, etc.)?

Bipolar specialists have several mood-stabilizing medications to choose from, depending upon what works best in combination with other drugs required for other medical conditions. It is important to keep all of your doctors up to date on prescribed medications, and to alert all of them if a new drug is added to the mix.

How do we communicate with you after hours or in an emergency?

Bipolar disorder can be volatile, including episodes in which patients could harm themselves or others. Patients and families should coordinate an emergency plan with the treating physician.

Aside from bipolar disorder, what other illnesses might explain my child’s symptoms?

A recent study indicates that some diagnosed with bipolar disorder may actually have a different psychiatric disorder, newly described as severe mood dysregulation. Researchers are in the process of refining diagnostic categories for psychiatric illness in children in order to better guide clinicians.

Isn’t it normal for teenagers to be moody and irritable?

Despite increased moodiness during the teen years, most adolescents are able to function well at home and in school, in after-school activities or jobs, and with their friends. When mood swings are severe enough to interfere with children’s and teenagers’ daily function — grades fall, the children can’t sleep, tantrums at home are severe, they can’t get along with peers or resort to alcohol and drug abuse — then psychiatric illness should be considered.

Is this your area of expertise? If not, can you refer me to a specialist in pediatric mood disorders?

Bipolar disorder is a serious and incurable psychiatric illness with lifelong implications and complex treatment options. The diagnosis should be made only after a thorough and systematic workup by professionals who are expert in pediatric mood disorders.

How might this medicine affect normal growth and development?

The mood-stabilizing drugs prescribed for bipolar disorder are powerful, with known side effects in adults on the gastrointestinal, circulatory and glandular systems. Since medications for bipolar disorder may interact with those for asthma, A.D.H.D. or other conditions, it is important to keep all of your child’s doctors up to date on prescribed medications and to alert all of them if a new drug is added to the mix.

What side effects should we look for?

Potential side effects include weight gain, acne, dizziness, headache and blurry vision. Not everyone has these reactions, but the possibilities should be discussed with the prescribing physician so you know how to report and handle them.

How will we know if the medication is working?

Because bipolar disorder affects mood, behavior and function, patients and parents have an important role to play in precisely recording any changes in response to medication. Any changes in mood, behavior, school or social life, for example — positive as well as negative — can help the physician fine tune dosages or substitute alternate medicines.
744 2008-01-25 Government agencies, universities, physicians and corporations frequently enroll patients in studies designed to test the effectiveness of new drugs, procedures and medical devices. Participants may benefit by gaining access to experimental therapies, and they make an important contribution to scientific research. For more information, please visit ClinicalTrials.gov , a service of the National Institutes of Health .

RECRUITING: Mitochondrial Dysfunction in the Pathophysiology and Treatment of Bipolar Disorder

Purpose: To examine whether mitochondrial function in cells is impaired in patients with bipolar disorder.

Eligibility: Adults ages 18 to 65 at least four weeks into a major depressive episode.

Purpose: To determine the effect of hormonal changes during the menstrual cycle on severity and persistence of depression and mania symptoms.

Eligibility: Women ages 18 to 45 with well-controlled bipolar disease and 25- to 31-day menstrual cycles.

Purpose: To identify behavioral, psychological and neurophysiological correlates of mood disorders in bipolar children and adolescents. The study includes outpatient assessment, full or partial hospitalization, discontinuation of all current medications, functional MRI scanning (a form of brain imaging) and starting new medications. No novel or experimental treatments are part of this study.

Eligibility: Children ages 6 to 17 in good physical health with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder who are unstable on current medications.

RECRUITING: Lithium for the Treatment of Pediatric Mania

Purpose: To examine the efficacy and safety of lithium and determine appropriate dosing in the treatment of pediatric patients with bipolar disorder.

Eligibility: Children and adolescents ages 7 to 17 diagnosed by a psychiatrist with bipolar disorder who have no psychotic symptoms.
745 2008-01-25 WEISS--Sharon, 65, passed away peacefully on January 24, 2008, after a long and valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Steve, devoted mother of David (Allison) and Danielle (Jon). Cherished grandmother of Rebecca and Jocelyn Weiss and Carter,...
746 2008-01-25 STIMULUS AGREEMENT House leaders and the Bush administration, hoping to give a quick adrenaline shot to the ailing economy, struck a deal for a $150 billion stimulus package, including rebates for most tax filers of up to $600 for individuals, $1,...
747 2008-01-25 KOTLIK--Emil J., 79, died January 23, 2008. Survived by cousins, Mary Ann and John Kral, Lois and Kristi Kral and untold relatives in the Czech Republic. A graduate of Stuyvesant High School, class of 1946 and the Baruch School at CCNY, Class of 1...
748 2008-01-26 The senator picks up a key endorsement that had been courted by all the Republican candidates....
749 2008-01-26 Despite reporting strong quarterly results, Intel suffered a blow to its stock when it unveiled a decidedly less-than-bullish forecast. Still, Craig Barrett, the chipmaking giant's chairman, defends his company's outlook as average. He spoke with ...
750 2008-01-26 The requested URL could not be retrieved

The following error was encountered while trying to retrieve the URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/26/world/asia/26cnd-rawalpindi.html

The remote host or network may be down. Please try the request again.
751 2008-01-26 Caterpillar, one of the world’s largest construction equipment makers, said Friday that its fourth-quarter earnings rose 11 percent on strong international growth.

The company, based in Peoria, Ill., said it expected solid profit growth from overseas sales this year as well.

Caterpillar earned $975 million, or $1.50 a share, compared with $882 million, or $1.32 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 10 percent, to $12.14 billion, from $11 billion in the prior-year period.

Analysts were expecting a profit of $1.50 a share on revenue of $11.79 billion, according to a poll by Thomson Financial.

Caterpillar expects economic growth in the Unites States to slow to 1 percent this year, partly because of continued weakness in home construction.
752 2008-01-26 DAVOS, Switzerland — United States regulators are considering forcing investment banks to make public markets in some of the more exotic financial instruments that have plunged in value in the last six months, the head of the New York Stock Exchange said Friday.

Duncan L. Niederauer, the chief executive of NYSE Euronext, said the exchange had been approached by officials from both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Treasury Department about providing a way to disclose both quotes and trades in the derivative instruments, like collateralized debt obligations.

Those instruments are now traded over the counter, and the only market in them is often made by the investment bank that created them. The value of some of them has plummeted as the credit squeeze tightened, angering holders.

“One day it is worth 90. The next day it is worth 22,” Mr. Niederauer said of some derivatives. “People wonder if it really went to 22 overnight.”

Catherine R. Kinney, the NYSE Euronext president, added, “There is a lot of pressure on the regulators from pension funds to price these.”

Mr. Niederauer said the consideration of such a move was at an early stage, and he did not know whether action would be taken. He said the exchange had said it would be willing to arrange to disclose quotes and transactions.
753 2008-01-26 I understand that Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain have been around a while (you call it “experience”), as has The New York Times. I, however, have not.

I am a 26-year-old independent-minded progressive voter. I am concerned about the millions of Americans without health care, the continuing global warming, our nation’s diminished place in the world and the seemingly endless war in Iraq.

I support Senator Barack Obama, a choice that I can understand you lack the foresight (or courage) to make.

You may, of course, endorse whomever you wish, and I suspect that your choice will win the Democratic nomination. But when you wake up on the morning after Election Day wondering why all the independent voters chose Mr. McCain and all the young voters stayed home, don’t blame us.

You write: “The potential upside of a great Obama presidency is enticing, but this country faces huge problems, and will no doubt be facing more that we can’t foresee. ... Mrs. Clinton is more qualified, right now, to be president.”

It would be unheard of for the board of governors of a corporation to select a chief executive without a proven record of accomplishments. The same holds true when electing a president of a country with more than 300 million people.

A president is the chief executive of the country. Thus your endorsement of Hillary Clinton is welcomed. That said, Barack Obama has great potential and would be an outstanding asset as a running mate for Senator Clinton should she get the nomination.

You did not adequately address my biggest misgiving about Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton: she displays a disturbing willingness to morph her positions to suit the politics of the moment, most notably in her bandwagon vote authorizing the Iraq war.

Mrs. Clinton’s explanations are grossly unsatisfactory. She is extraordinarily intelligent and knew perfectly well what that vote meant. But she took the easy route anyway.

True, the issue now is how the war will be ended, but the past is not irrelevant. Ending the war will require somebody willing to do what is painful and unpopular, a president for whom there are higher priorities than being president. That person is not Mrs. Clinton.

Those of us who support Senator Barack Obama are not merely drawn to some vague, rhetorical message of change.

We are drawn to the lucidity and common sense of his concrete ideas, and to the intellectual integrity that shows in their consistency over time.

Thank you for spelling it out with such crystalline clarity. I’m a liberal Democrat, surrounded by similar others who’ve been enthusiastic about Senator Barack Obama. I’ve said repeatedly that he’s not ready to be president and leader of the free world. Probably in 10 years, but not now.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is tough, strong, smart and a mom. She’s been called just about everything, but over time, who a person really is, inside, becomes transparent, no matter what she says or is said about her.

Senator Clinton has proved that she is warmhearted, honest and the best qualified over all. She will be able to accomplish the change Senator Obama has been so inspirational about.

The United States will be a better place after Mrs. Clinton is president. And she will restore our good standing in the world. I hope someday to see what a more seasoned Mr. Obama will do as president.

I respectfully disagree with your endorsement of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton for the Democratic nomination for president. Simply stated, two families controlling the presidency for 24 to 28 consecutive years would not be in the best interest of this country.

Senator Barack Obama or former Senator John Edwards would bring new ideas and leadership to the White House. Mrs. Clinton would bring only leadership.

A fresh start doesn’t begin with a former president. The Clintons had their chance and mostly did well, but it’s time to move on.

I believe that your editorial support for John McCain as the Republican primary choice is a serious mistake (“Primary Choices: John McCain,” editorial, Jan. 25). He supports the most conservative aspects of the Republican right wing.

He is in favor of making permanent the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest; he is opposed to women’s right to choose; he spoke out against torture of detainees, but quietly retreated when President Bush persisted with unlawful torture.

The most serious problem that Mr. McCain would present as president, however, is his determination to continue the war in Iraq until we reach some vague entity that he calls “victory.” He is a militarist. As president, he would be a menace, keeping us in an unwinnable, bloody, costly war without end.

Finally, we need Democratic control of the White House and Congress to undo the damage that President Bush has done to our country. Why should The New York Times endorse any Republican?

Your endorsement of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton for nomination as president is supported by the accomplishments, experience and qualifications she offers to the American people.

She has worked closely in and with local, state and federal government for the last 30 years. She has accomplished legislative and regulatory benefits for business, children, teachers, seniors and workers in many walks of life. Witness the support she has gained from groups representing those populations.

As a person, she possesses the demeanor, intelligence and personality quite evident through television (and in person) to deal with domestic and foreign officials, leaders and representatives. She is tough, smart and persistent, undistracted by critics and opponents. She knows how to cooperate and make progress.

These facts alone make her qualitatively more effective than her opponents — in either party.

A lifelong Democrat, I was saddened by your endorsement of Hillary Rodham Clinton. The Clintons are using “scorched earth” rhetoric to destroy Barack Obama personally and, in the end, destroy a Democratic Party inclusive of all Americans no matter what race, gender, economic level or religion.

Barack Obama is reaching out to embrace all Americans, not only African-Americans. He offers hope, new energy and fresh ideas for a better United States. He can bind the wounds of divisiveness and deception that have sent our country into decline at home and abroad.

The Clinton machine is willing to win at any price. They seem to forget their earlier moderate political ideas.

We need a leader who inspires hope, brings innovative ideas and attracts “the best and the brightest” to lead this nation, not another divisive leader who continues to divide our nation and our world. Barack Obama is such a leader. Hillary Clinton is not.

It is as if there is an iceberg dead ahead that we all can see, and you are urging the crew to steer right for it.

Hillary Rodham Clinton cannot win. To win the presidential election, you need to attract independent voters and some Republicans. Mrs. Clinton repels both.

If the Democrats follow your advice, they will lose the general election yet again.

The New York Times’s editorial page endorsing a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination is a bit like the Hatfields recommending a leader for the McCoys.
754 2008-01-26 Sylvester Stallone says he used human growth hormone, though not steroids, to get in shape for “Rambo,” which opened on Friday, and defends its use in an article on Time magazine’s Web site (time.com). Mr. Stallone, 61, says he gained 41 pounds to play Rambo by using prescription testosterone. “Everyone over 40 years old would be wise to investigate it because it increases the quality of your life,” he says. “Mark my words. In 10 years it will be over the counter.” HGH and other performance-enhancing substances have become a matter of concern to sports officials, who are fighting their use among athletes.
755 2008-01-26 An Alabama-based hedge fund gave notice Friday that it would try to elect directors to The New York Times Company board, a day after the same hedge fund gave similar notice to another newspaper company, Media General.

The hedge fund, Harbinger Capital Partners, a part of the Harbert Management Corporation, controls less than 5 percent of Times Company stock, a level that would require a declaration to federal regulators. It has accumulated control of more than 18 percent of Media General stock.

Even if it was successful in electing a slate of directors, Harbinger would not be able to take control of the board without an about-face by the controlling family at each company.

At the Times Company, the Sulzberger family owns the great majority of the Class B stock, which elects 9 of the 13 directors. The Bryan family, longtime owners of Media General, holds a similar position. Both families have stated that they do not intend to sell or to abandon the two-class arrangement that preserves their control.

In a statement, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., chairman of the Times Company, said, “We have a strong and independent board, but our board’s nominating and governance committee will review the nominations and make a recommendation to our shareholders in due course.”
756 2008-01-26 A fact-finding commission found that more than two dozen calls had been made from the pilot’s telephone to that of Maj. Gen. Muchdi Purwopraoyo, who was then a deputy director of the intelligence agency.

The conviction came after prosecutors appealed an acquittal by the court in 2006, which had overturned a conviction in a lower court the year before.

The acquittal had drawn furious public criticism of the government, which was accused of failing to protect human rights or to pursue military and police officers accused of serious crimes.

The criticisms were an embarrassment for President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who ordered further investigation by the police. He called the proceedings “a test case for whether Indonesia has changed.”

Now, with the highly publicized illness of former President Suharto, critics have again been asking whether powerful forces in the country still enjoy impunity. No case has been successfully brought against Mr. Suharto for either corruption or the repression and abuses of his 32-year rule.

The United Nations and the European Union have also raised concerns about the poisoning case. and last month the United States Congress voted to withhold $2.7 million in military aid unless Jakarta set a deadline for completing the criminal investigation.

Mr. Pollycarpus, a pilot with the national airline, Garuda, was a passenger in business class and had arranged an upgrade for Mr. Munir, so that they sat in the same cabin for 90 minutes.

Mr. Munir died when the plane was over Europe, and an autopsy found that he had swallowed three times more arsenic than his body could tolerate.

After Friday’s verdict, Mr. Pollycarpus said: “I have been made a scapegoat. It is very clear.” Speaking on Elshinta radio, he called the entire proceedings “a soap opera.”

A fellow human rights advocate, Usman Hamid, who had campaigned for the killers to be brought to justice, said the conviction was “an entry point to go after the masterminds.”

Mr. Munir’s widow, Suciwati, who had also campaigned to keep the case alive, said, “The police must follow this up by bringing to justice the former leaders of the spy agency implicated in this trial.”

She said the court had been too lenient.

“It would have been only fair if he were sentenced for life, so that he knows how it feels to lose someone you love,” she said.
757 2008-01-26 He also said that he would consider resuscitating the work of a bipartisan tax-reform commission, appointed by Mr. Bush, whose 2005 report on simplifying the tax code was largely ignored by the administration. Using the process that has been used to close military bases, Mr. McCain said he would ask Congress to vote yes or no on an entire tax-simplification program.

With recession fears mounting, Republican candidates have increasingly focused on the economy in recent weeks. This presents challenges for Mr. McCain, who has already angered some primary voters with his stances on immigration, global warming and campaign finance. Likewise, he has angered some conservatives by changing his position over the years on tax cuts.

Mr. McCain has joked on previous occasions about his lack of economic expertise. And in a debate earlier this month, he said that he would stimulate the economy by cutting government spending, a move that economists say would have the opposite effect.

“The issue of economics is not something I’ve understood as well as I should,” he said last month, according to The Boston Globe. “I’ve got Greenspan’s book.”

Recently, though, he has stopped making self-deprecating comments about his background and instead emphasized his role in helping to cut taxes and spending as “a foot soldier in the Reagan revolution.” Noting that he also later ran the Senate Commerce Committee, Mr. McCain said in the interview that he would feel no need to select a vice president with expertise in economic policy to balance his own foreign-policy experience.

He also pointed to a recent Wall Street Journal survey of economists, many of them from Wall Street firms, which found that he was easily their top choice for president. “I don’t need any extra help,” he said.

Mr. McCain described himself as being in the mold of Theodore Roosevelt, as a “free-enterprise, capitalist, full-bore guy” who nonetheless believes that the economy depends on government institutions “that need to do their job as well.”

Mr. McCain begins the story of his economic education in 1982, when the country was in recession and he was first elected to the House.

Once in Congress, he worked with Jack F. Kemp and Phil Gramm, two conservatives who were also in the House then, and Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist who was an aide to President Ronald Reagan, to pass tax cuts and spending restraints. Mr. McCain said that Mr. Gramm — “a guy who taught economics for 12 years at Texas A&M” and who has endorsed Mr. McCain — had been an especially important mentor.

“Those were my formative years,” Mr. McCain said. “We went from those abysmal situations when he came to office in 1981,” he said, referring to Reagan, “to a long period of economic growth and prosperity.”

During Reagan’s years in office, unemployment and inflation dropped sharply. Tax rates generally fell, as did spending on government programs outside the military. But there were also two significant downsides to the 1980s economy, and Mr. McCain has made an issue of both at different points in his career. The budget deficit soared, because the cuts in domestic spending were not large enough to make up for the Reagan tax cuts and a military buildup. And middle-class incomes grew at a much slower rate than they had in the 1950s or ’60s.

In the aftermath of his loss to Mr. Bush in the 2000 Republican primaries, Mr. McCain began emphasizing middle-class pocketbook issues. After having consistently voted for tax cuts in the 1980s, he was one of the few Republicans to oppose the administration’s tax cuts in 2001 and 2003. He said at the time that they benefited “the most fortunate among us at the expense of middle-class Americans.”

In the current decade, wage gains for most families have been even weaker than they were in the 1980s, and Mr. McCain has spoken during the campaign about the anxiety being caused by a globalization and technological change. Were he to win the Republican nomination, it is possible he would then put a bigger emphasis on such themes.

“Change is hard,” he said in a speech in Detroit in October, “and while most of us gain, some industries, companies and workers are forced to struggle with very difficult choices.”

To spur the economy, Mr. McCain has called for more spending on alternative-energy research. Spending on basic research, he said, could lead to a repeat of the Internet’s success story, in which government financing ultimately led to the creation of a huge private industry. He has also called for an expansion of community-college programs and an overhaul of unemployment benefits, to reflect the fact that people who lose their jobs now are often out of work for long periods.

Mr. McCain now favors the extension of the Bush income tax cuts, saying that letting them lapse would amount to a tax increase that would damage the economy. He said the Democrats’ plans to allow the expiration of the Bush tax cuts for households making at least $250,000 would simply redistribute wealth and lead to an endless fight over who was truly affluent.

“Americans don’t dislike wealthy people; they want to be wealthy people,” he added.

On several occasions over the last year, Mr. McCain has said that tax cuts can reduce the deficit by spurring additional activity that, in turn, leads to more taxes being paid. But numerous studies have found that not to be the case.

In the interview, Mr. McCain said, referring to tax cuts, “Whether they actually pay for themselves dollar for dollar, obviously there are differences in opinion.”

During his campaign, Mr. McCain has focused much more on spending than on taxes. He has called for the end of earmarks, which are pet projects inserted into spending bills by legislators.

They are “a very small part of the budget,” he said, “but so symbolic” — because they prevent politicians from having any credibility when they try to persuade the public about other budget cuts. The campaign has also said Mr. McCain would consider cutting the programs that the White House has identified as ineffective, which together make up 10 percent of the budget. The campaign has not specified which ones it would cut. In addition to Amtrak, the list includes various programs dealing with Defense Department communications, veterans’ disability and low-income heating assistance.

He has spoken in detail about reducing Medicare costs, which budget experts say are the biggest long-term fiscal problem. He has proposed changing the way that Medicare reimburses hospitals and doctors so that it stops paying for care that fails to make people healthier.

Both Reagan and the current President Bush vowed to cut spending enough to reduce the deficit but failed to do so. Mr. McCain said he believed he could succeed, even if he had not yet explained all of the cuts he would make.

“I think the time is ripe for spending restraint,” he said. “We can make the case more strongly than ever before, particularly to our Republican base, because they’re angry and they’re upset and they’re dispirited.”
758 2008-01-26 In a high-profile case that had become a test of the judiciary's independence, the Supreme Court convicted a former airline pilot for the 2004 arsenic poisoning of Munir Said Thalib, the country's leading human rights lawyer, aboard a commercial f...
759 2008-01-26 To the Editor:     Re ''Primary Choices: Hillary Clinton'' (editorial, Jan. 25):...
760 2008-01-26 COUNTRYWIDE SUIT WIDENSGoldman Sachs and 25 other underwriters of Countrywide Financial, the biggest American mortgage lender, were named as defendants in a suit by New York State and city officials, who claim they made misleading statements about...
761 2008-01-27 In a year when all five Oscar nominees for best picture would seem to have a shot -- and the muted Golden Globes did little to clarify the picture -- the Screen Actors Guild awards would seem to have a huge role to play. But there's just one small...
762 2008-01-27 The Republican candidate's town hall meeting this afternoon was packed....
763 2008-01-27 A day after being criticized for saying that Governor Mitt Romney had favored timetables for withdrawl from Iraq, Senator John McCain stood by his remarks at a press conference in Polk City, Florida.
764 2008-01-27 He appears on "Meet the Press" and is joined on the campaign trail by Florida's popular governor....
765 2008-01-27 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.