1 2006-06-01 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
2 2006-06-01 New shows in New York include "The Death of Little Ibsen" and "Dark Yellow."...
3 2006-06-01 A firm agreement for NYSE Group to merge with Euronext could happen "within days," said John Thain, chief executive of the NYSE Group, which operates the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Thain made his remarks to reporters Thursday at the NYSE's share...
4 2006-06-01 Morgan Stanley on Thursday announced a small step toward the chief executive John Mack's goal of bolstering the firm's asset management business. The firm said it had bought Oxhead Capital Management, a Boston-based hedge fund led by former execut...
5 2006-06-01 XTO Energy said on Thursday it had agreed to purchase Peak EnergyResources, a privately held company that produces natural gas in north Texas, for 2.555 million XTO shares, valued at about $105 million. Go to Article from Reuters » Go to News Rel...
6 2006-06-01 As executive pay packages have rocketed in recent years, their defenders have contended that because most are tied to company performance, they are both earned and deserved. But investors who plow through company filings often find that executive ...
7 2006-06-01 General Electric and Credit Suisse Group will team up in a $1 billion project to invest in infrastructure projects worldwide, the companies announced Wednesday. The joint venture, in which the companies will invest $500 million each, is intended t...
8 2006-06-01 The former chief executive of Gateway, Jeffrey Weitzen, won the dismissal of a fraud lawsuit after a federal judge said the Securities and Exchange Commission had not provided evidence of intentional wrongdoing. Judge Roger Benitez of United State...
9 2006-06-01 Microsoft's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, has defended his decision to increase spending next year and has signaled he is unlikely to increase the company's share buyback plan. Mr. Ballmer told investors on Wednesday at a Sanford C. Bernstei...
10 2006-06-01 The European Commission issued one of its largest fines against a cartel on Wednesday when it found five acrylic glass makers guilty of colluding and fixing prices. Arkema of France, formerly known as Atofina; Imperial Chemical Industries and the ...
11 2006-06-01 One reached the pinnacle of wealth and prestige as a dealmaker on Wall Street. The other was an academic superstar, brilliant but somewhat shy and more at ease in Bermuda shorts than suits. But now Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chief executive of Gold...
12 2006-06-01 The New York Board of Trade, looking to use ethanol listings as a way to increase its commodities trading ahead of a possible I.P.O. of its own, received a visit Wednesday from the winner of the Indianapolis 500. The bourse is trying to capitalize...
13 2006-06-01 Bank of China shares surged 15 percent on Thursday as they made their opening in Hong Kong and were snapped up by investors eager to tap into the sizzling Chinese economy. The bank, China's No. 2 lender, raised $9.7 billion from its initial public...
14 2006-06-01 Google on Wednesday poured cold water on speculation that it may be poised for a big buy. Company executives said they were looking toward big-name partnerships instead of major merger deals to expand Google's customer base. Here is what Google ch...
15 2006-06-01 Nasdaq's chief executive, Robert Greifeld, is clearly not sprinting to close a deal with the London Stock Exchange. In a meeting with his counterpart, Clara Furse, yesterday at the London exchange's headquarters, Mr. Greifeld did not raise the pos...
16 2006-06-01 Euronext, which is created from mergers of the Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels stock exchanges, as well as the London derivatives exchange Liffe, will become part of NYSE Euronext, the American holding company that will be created. Regulators from each country where stocks trade will continue to oversee that activity.

At the NYSE Group's annual meeting, Mr. Thain said a deal would probably take six months to approve.

The agreement is a significant victory for Mr. Thain, who joined the New York Stock Exchange in 2004 at a time when its reputation was in tatters over a pay scandal related to the former chairman, Richard A. Grasso, and a regulatory investigation that went to the heart of the exchange's floor-based trading system.

In two and a half years, Mr. Thain has overseen the transformation of the exchange from a member-owned club to a $10 billion publicly traded exchange coveted by deal-hungry partners around the world. Soon after the exchange acquired the Archipelago Holdings, the all-electronic exchange, last year, Mr. Thain made clear that he intended to create a multiproduct, global exchange.

Euronext shareholders will get 0.98 shares of the new company, and 21.32 euros in cash. NYSE shareholders will get one share of the new company for each of their shares.

Mr. Thain will be chief executive of the new company, and the head of Euronext, Jean-François Théodore, will be deputy chief executive. The board will be made up of 11 NYSE executives and 9 from Euronext. Any major strategic issues, including mergers and major divestitures, will require a two-thirds vote from the combined board. A simple majority of shareholders in both the NYSE Group and Euronext must approve the deal.

Euronext is the largest European stock market and Europe's second largest derivatives market. At today's annual meeting, Mr. Thain explained that the acquisition would diversify the New York Stock Exchange's earnings, which are currently concentrated on stock market trading, as well as its global reach. He pointed out that the futures market was "faster growing" and had "better margins."

Mr. Thain and his team flew to Paris over the weekend to work out the final details of the deal, including its regulatory structure. One director commented on how bright-eyed he looked considering all the travel. Mr. Thain got on a plane again tonight to return to Paris for a joint news conference to take place on Friday morning.

One Euronext adviser said this should "shut the door on the Deutsche Börse," which made a previous offer for the exchange.

A Deutsche Börse spokesman could not be immediately reached tonight.

Since he took over the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Thain has defended the value of floor brokers and specialists, repeatedly insisting they smoothed the volatility of stocks listed on the exchange. Today, Brendan Caldwell, a shareholder who said he controlled 4.2 million shares, said he interpreted comments that Mr. Thain made a few weeks ago on a conference call as an indication that specialists, humans who manage trading, would be replaced with computers.

"Your impression was not accurate," Mr. Thain countered.

It is unclear what will happen to the floor or the hybrid model of trading that is being put in place. According to the announcement, Atos Euronext Market Solutions, the entity that manages Euronext's technology, will manage the integration of NYSE Euronext's three cash trading systems (the hybrid system at the NYSE, the Archipelago platform and Euronext's platform for its four exchanges) and three derivatives systems into a "single global cash and a single global derivatives platform."

In addition, 10 data centers will be reduced to four, with in the United States and two in Europe, and four networks will be reduced to one. The combined company will create $375 million in cost savings, the announcement said.

The deal comes after the NYSE Group finished its first meeting as a public company, warding off questions from shareholders about why the recent $1.7 billion secondary offering had traded down and why the company did not pay dividends.

During that meeting, Mr. Thain confirmed that he would stay for at least two more years if the Euronext transaction went through. When he took the job in January 2004, he said he expected to stay for three to five years.

"There's no way I could be here less than the five-year period if this transaction goes through," Mr. Thain said.
17 2006-06-01 It is an offer that may seem too good to be true, but in Russia, considered to be a hotbed of digital piracy and theft of intellectual property, courts have so far allowed the site to operate, despite efforts by the record labels Warner, Universal and EMI to aid prosecutors there.

Music industry officials say AllofMP3, which first came to their attention in 2004, is a large-scale commercial piracy site, and they dismiss its claims of legality. "It is totally unprecedented to have a pirate site operating so openly for so long," said Neil Turkewitz, executive vice president of the Recording Industry Association of America, who is based in Washington.

People associated with AllofMP3, which lists no telephone contacts on its Web site, declined to comment for this article when tracked down by domain-name ownership records kept by Verisign. Those records show that Ivan Fedorov of Media Services in Moscow is the owner.

AllofMP3.com says on the site that it can legally sell to any user based in Russia and warns foreign users to verify the legality within their countries for themselves. The site features a wide selection of Russian music, but is written in English with prices listed in United States dollars.

AllofMP3 asserts its legality by citing a license issued by a collecting society, the Russian Multimedia and Internet Society.

In most countries, the collecting societies that receive royalty payments for the sale or use of artistic works need reciprocal agreements with overseas copyright holders, according to agencies that represent right holders.

According to Russia's 1993 copyright law, however, collecting societies are permitted to act on behalf of rights holders who have not authorized them to do so. Collecting societies have thus been set up to gather royalties for foreign copyright holders without their authorization. Infringement cases have also affected foreign-produced software, films and books.

The result is that numerous organizations in Russia receive royalties for the use of foreign artistic works, but never pass on that money to the artists or music companies, according to the International Confederation of Societies of Authors and Composers, the umbrella organization for collecting societies.

"These collecting agencies are thieves and frauds because they accept money while pretending to represent artists," said Eric Baptiste, director general of the confederation. "They play off a bizarre aspect of the Russian law that we are lobbying to change."

Consumers have been flocking to the site, particularly from Britain, where a survey in March ranked AllofMP3 second only to iTunes in popularity among self-described music enthusiasts surveyed by XTN Data.

Amazon.com's Web site rating service, Alexa, ranks AllofMP3 as having the 986th highest level of traffic of any site on the Web over the past three months.

Use in the United States reached 345,000 unique visitors in April, an increase of 57 percent over January, but a tiny fraction of the 19 million that used the iTunes software online, according to Comscore, a service that monitors the habits of Internet users.
18 2006-06-01 The mood was still not as heavy as the clay, which has been getting weather worthy of Wimbledon (in October) during the first week of this Grand Slam. Chilly temperatures have put a bit of a damper on events, true, with temperatures dropping near 10 degrees Celsius, or 50 degrees Fahrenheit, at times.

This morning was warmer than Wednesday evening, when Venus Williams rallied to beat Emma Laine of Finland, 7-6 (7-2), 6-2, in what felt suspiciously like darkness. But some of the players still opted for sweaters and, as the drizzle began in the early afternoon, took turns debating with chair umpires the merits of stopping play or continuing. By the time heavier rain had stopped all debate and play shortly after lunch, Dmitry Tursunov had once again beaten Tim Henman in a Grand Slam event, and an Argentine qualifier, Martin Vassallo Arguello, had finished off the 21st seeded Sébastien Grosjean of France in second-round matches carried over from Wednesday.

Tursunov, like Maria Sharapova, is Russian by birth and allegiance but American by longterm residence. He moved to the United States at age 12 with his family and, if not for a serious back injury in 2002, would have probably made a move into the game's higher reaches sooner with his power game and fine on-court temperament.

He has been getting more attention lately for his blogging than for his serving, after drawing more readers than any other player this year during his recent one-week shift of writing for the ATP Web site. He has a sense of humor and is fearless in using it on the Russian star Marat Safin, who might be more in need of compassion than ribbing after his first-round defeat.

But Tursunov's blogging may soon be very secondary to his tennis identity, particularly with the grass-court and hardcourt seasons ahead that should suit his game better than clay.

Henman, no longer in top 10 form, was the ideal draw. Tursunov had beaten the Englishman at last year's Wimbledon and this year's Australian Open — and now here, 6-3, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. In three Grand Slams on three different surfaces, it has been the same story, and it has been a sob story for Britain in Paris, with Henman losing early and the new hope, Andy Murray, losing in the first round to Gaël Monfils and hurting his back in the process.

At least there is still Novak Djokovic, the promising Serbian teenager whose mother has reportedly discussed the possibility of her son's switching allegiances to Britain to improve his training conditions and career possibilities.

Djokovic, a polyglot with maturity and perspective beyond his 19 years, has declined comment on the issue, but his tennis spoke loudly today as he upset the ninth-seeded, Fernando Gonzalez, 6-4, 6-1, 3-6, 4-6, 6-1.

Getting past the next round will be daunting for Tursunov, considering that he faces the No. 3 seed, David Nalbandian, the Argentine who is considered one of the only men besides defending champion Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer to have a reasonable chance of winning the title.

Federer's quest to win his first French Open leads him next to Nicolas Massu, the 2004 Olympic singles champion from Chile who is having a fine clay-court season.

Nadal's second-round match with the American lucky loser, Kevin Kim, was postponed to Friday because of the rain. With his swashbuckling style and 54-match winning streak on clay, Nadal is a fan favorite in many places including, apparently, the Kim household. Earlier this week, Kim said that his mother, Ann, had managed to get Nadal's autograph.

But not everybody in Nadal's section of the draw is quite so wide-eyed. If the Spaniard wins, he would face either the former world No. 1, Lleyton Hewitt, or the combative Slovak veteran, Dominik Hrbaty.

Hewitt, working himself into form despite a sore ankle and a two-month break from competition, managed to advance with a 7-5, 6-3, 6-3 victory over a French wild card, Mathieu Montcourt. Hrbaty overcame the huge serve of tennis's tallest man, the 2.08-meter, or 6-foot-10, Ivo Karlovic, to win in five sets, 4-6, 6-4, 6-7 (7-2), 7-5, 6-2.

In the women's draw, the No. 5 seed, Justine Henin-Hardenne, dodged some difficulty against Anastasiya Yakimova of Belarus, saving three set points on Yakimova's serve at 4-5 before recovering to reach the third round with a 6-2, 7-5 victory.

Anastasia Myskina, the 2004 champion, beat Melinda Czink of Hungary, 6-2, 6-4, to set up a third-round match with the 19th-seeded Ana Ivanovic, an elegant Serbian player and childhood friend of Djokovic's who reached the quarterfinals last year but has not had the same success since.

Baghdatis can relate to that. He has been unable to sustain the brilliance he showed in Melbourne: beating three top-five players — Andy Roddick, Ivan Ljubicic and Nalbandian — before losing to Federer in four sets in the final.

In six tournaments since then, he has yet to get past the quarterfinals and was even beaten by Roddick on clay in Rome, where he came down with a viral infection that cut into his preparation for Roland Garros.

"I had four or five days without playing; only 10 days to get ready here," Baghdatis said. "Physically, I was not at my top, but that's not the big problem. The problem is the clay. I think I'm allergic to it. It makes me doubt my game."

Baghdatis has certainly had plenty of experience on Paris clay. He left his family and home in Cyprus to train at a private academy here when he was 12. But though he slides with style and dives with style, too — taking two chest-first plunges after volleys today — he lacked the confidence to smack through the ball with the same sort of assurance he did in the year's first Grand Slam.

This time, Benneteau was the one thumping his chest in delight and pointing to his cheering section after a 3-6, 6-4, 6-3, 6-7 (7-1), 6-4 victory.

"Every match is different," Benneteau said. "Here, the conditions were the opposite of Australia."

So was the mood.
19 2006-06-01 The former chief executive of Gateway Inc., Jeffrey Weitzen, won the dismissal of a fraud lawsuit after a federal judge said the Securities and Exchange Commission had not provided evidence of intentional wrongdoing.

Federal District Judge Roger Benitez in San Diego, in a ruling filed yesterday, said that Mr. Weitzen had provided sufficient evidence that he acted in good faith and that he did not induce violations of securities laws.

The S.E.C. sued Mr. Weitzen, 50, as well as the former chief financial officer and the controller of Gateway in November of 2003, saying they manipulated earnings to meet analysts' estimates. Gateway, without admitting liability, agreed to refrain from violations of U.S. securities law.

"The S.E.C. has failed to present evidence upon which a reasonable finder of fact could determine that Weitzen acted with" intent to deceive, Judge Benitez said. "Knowledge of the transactions does not allow a reasonable fact-finder to draw an inference that Weitzen had knowledge of their impropriety."

The SEC had accused Mr. Weitzen and two others of making false statements and hiding information that Gateway's personal-computer sales were falling in the second and third quarters of 2000. The agency sought antifraud injunctions, civil penalties, the return of illegally received gains and a ban on the men from serving as officers or directors of public companies.
20 2006-06-01 The body of a woman who had been fatally stabbed and burned and left in an isolated wildlife preserve was identified yesterday as that of Desiree Cherry, 36, who had been missing for four days, the police said. The identification was made from dental X-rays, said Ellen S. Borakove, a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner's office. She said Ms. Cherry died of stab wounds to her chest and neck and had been burned after she died. Two bicyclists found the body on Saturday, several feet from a footpath in the Fresh Creek Preserve. She was last seen leaving her home on Schenectady Avenue at 10:30 p.m. on May 23 and was later reported missing by relatives, the police said. Friends said Ms. Cherry immigrated from St. Lucia nearly two decades ago and worked a few nights a week at a small go-go club in Plainfield, N.J., so she could be home days to raise her son, now 14. A cousin of Ms. Cherry's, Jecoliah Fortune-O'Brien, 22, said, "She was a beautiful lady, she enjoyed life, she was life herself."
21 2006-06-01 The annual attrition rate for child-protection specialists — the front-line caseworkers who investigate reports of neglect and abuse — has risen to 28 percent from the recent average of 22 percent, he said, and the agency is girding itself for the possibility that the rate could rise to 35 percent over the next year. Mr. Mattingly said his goal was to reduce the attrition rate to less than 20 percent.

A crucial statistic, the average caseload per worker, also has increased, to 19.6 from 15.2 one year ago, Mr. Mattingly said in an interview after the hearing. The caseload figure varied significantly across the boroughs. It was highest in Queens (25.4), followed by the Bronx (24), Manhattan and Staten Island (20.7 in each) and Brooklyn (15.2). The city's goal is no more than 12 cases per worker.

"Those cases are going to be coming down this summer, quite dramatically," Mr. Mattingly told Councilman Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn, the head of the General Welfare Committee. "They have to and they will. When we will get to 12, I cannot predict right now, but we will be in a much more reasonable range by the end of this summer and we will be back where we were by early next year. But we need to get to 12, and we're going to keep at it."

Mr. Mattingly said the agency was hiring social workers as quickly as it could without sacrificing the quality of applicants. It had 977 caseworkers yesterday, compared with fewer than 900 a year ago, he said. He added that he expected to have 1,100 caseworkers by July — meeting a goal of hiring 525 this fiscal year — and to hire an additional 400 over the next fiscal year. It was the revelation that some one-fourth of all cases were not being closed within the state-mandated deadline that most surprised some council members and children's advocates.

"Any delay in the timeliness of investigations is a cause for concern," said Gail B. Nayowith, executive director of Citizens' Committee for Children of New York, who sits on an advisory committee that meets regularly with Mr. Mattingly.

Mr. Mattingly told of several efforts to improve low morale among caseworkers. They include $2.4 million in additional city money each year for office supplies, cellphones, MetroCards and vehicle maintenance; a phone-based translation service that allows caseworkers to find an interpreter for any of 150 languages in less than five minutes; and an experiment in which workers are trying out 12 models of laptops and handheld computers to download and transmit information about cases more quickly.

He also described efforts to improve coordination with the Police and Education Departments and to develop a computerized system, ChildStat, that will allow better tracking of the agency's performance.
22 2006-06-01 The surge in violence has posed new difficulties for the British military, which has adopted more strenuous policing measures to contain it. In two operations on Sunday, the British detained a total of 10 people and reported a large find of bomb materials.

"In our view, we need to do more, and that's what we're doing," Brig. James Everard, the commander of forces in Iraq's four southeastern provinces, said in an interview.

In May, nine British soldiers were killed, the second-deadliest month for the British since the invasion, exceeded only in January 2005 when the crash of a British military plane killed 10 soldiers.

Mr. Maliki spoke directly to the increased violence, using blunt language and a firm and measured tone.

"What are these assassinations?" he asked. "What is this killing? What are the gangs that kill and kidnap? What is going on in this city, which sacrificed so much through history?"

To a large degree, the violence has resulted from a power grab by Shiite factions left practically on their own to run the region and impose their own version of democracy while American and Iraqi officials in Baghdad have fought insurgents elsewhere.

"Freedom of speech, freedom of expression: it just hasn't quite worked out the way it was planned," Brigadier Everard said. "They're not prepared to debate. They tend to do things at the end of a gun."

In a city that welcomed the American invasion, threats against Iraqis working for the American Embassy are now so widespread that they have not picked up its trash or pumped its sewers for three weeks.

One large prize is control of Basra's oil exports. The city is near the country's only seaport, and nearly all of Iraq's current exports flow through it. Political parties accuse one another of skimming from the flow and trying to control it.

"As long as we have parties, it's impossible to ensure security," said one of Basra's senior security officials. "If you print this," the official added nervously, explaining why he wanted his name withheld, "I'll be killed."

One of the ways the parties have wielded influence is through control of portions of this city's 15,000-man police force, which is about double it's the authorized size. Rival parties and gangs fight one another through their own police units. The police chief, Maj. Gen. Hassan Swadi al-Saad, has said he trusts only a small fraction of his forces.

Mr. Maliki used the trip, his first as prime minister, as a warning to local leaders who have used the months that Baghdad was busy assembling a government to build their own fiefs and profit from their positions. He specifically referred to the impotence of the police force, and directly rebuked political leaders for manipulating it.

"What worries us and hurts the heart of Iraq is that these apparatuses are practically helpless," he said. "It is impermissible to have a scared or disturbed military or police officer because of political interferences."

A plain model of Toyota, known by the people of Basra as Batta, Arabic for duck, has been used in so many assassinations that it has become synonymous with killing.

"Why can't we control this Batta?" said Wathib al-Amood, a member of the provincial council. "We are walking in the dark on a spiked floor."

At the heart of the struggle in Basra are political parties and a web of allegiances that is baffling to outsiders. The governor, Muhammad al-Waeli, belongs to the Fadhila Party, a religious Shiite party, which controls the most seats in the provincial council. A bloc led by the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, or Sciri, detests Mr. Waeli and wants to remove him, but has failed to garner the two-thirds majority needed to do so.

The struggle has raised questions about the balance of power between Baghdad and the provinces. A law drawn up under the former American administrator, L. Paul Bremer III, and that is still in effect gives the provinces full control over their police forces and their local governments, virtually cutting Baghdad out of the process — a fact that Mr. Waeli's supporters are quick to point out.

Aqil Taleb, a council member from the Fadhila Party, said that because of the law, removing Mr. Waeli would be difficult. "They can't get the votes they need," he said, adding, "Even Maliki can't change the governor without them."

The meeting with Mr. Maliki on Wednesday was attended by about 400 Basra citizens, including the governor, who arrived late, and the police chief, whom he has tried to fire.

The officials from Baghdad included Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi, a Sunni Arab; Khalid al-Atiya, the deputy speaker of Parliament; Bahaa al-Aaraji, a Parliament member close to the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr, whose influence and militia in Basra are strong; and Safa al-Safi, the minister of state for Parliament affairs.

Mr. Maliki's political acumen was tested immediately. An hour after the meeting began, the discussion descended into a shouting match, with tribal sheiks hurling insults at the chairman of the provincial council, Muhammed Sadoon al-Abadi.

Mr. Abadi, of Fadhila, said local leaders had done the best they could with few resources and blamed the news media for painting too ghoulish a security picture. "Don't put all the blame or all the mistakes or all the collapse on the local government here," he said.

Shortly after that, tribal sheiks began to shout from a few rows back.

"Liar!" one yelled. "None of this is true. You are a liar."

When organizers proposed that participants break for lunch, there was more shouting. "We don't want to eat, we want to talk!" someone said. "All the tribes are here and if we don't have a solution we will make a revolution."

Then, Mr. Maliki, dressed in a dark suit and tie, silenced them.

"My brothers, peace," he said, and led them in a quick prayer.

"The loudest voice is not usually the winner," he added.

While Mr. Maliki focused on security, Mr. Hashemi, the Sunni Arab vice president, took leaders to task on the oil industry and sectarian cleansing.

"I hoped to receive news from Basra that the Southern Oil Company exceeded its planned output," he said in a speech to the gathering. "I hoped that Basra ports would have attracted ships from the gulf."

"But unfortunately we have come to deal with a serious problem that has exhausted the poor people of Basra."
23 2006-06-01 Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, signed legislation cutting property taxes by almost $16 billion over the next two years and granting public school teachers a $2,000 raise. The legislation was passed in a special session to bring the Texas public school system into compliance with a State Supreme Court order. The one-third reduction in property tax revenue would be offset by a new, higher levy on business, a $1 per-pack increase in cigarette taxes and a portion of the state's $8 billion treasury surplus. The legislation also provides increased per-pupil aid to school districts and bonuses for teachers whose students demonstrate improvement.
24 2006-06-01 In the 2004 election, the groups spent money in a way that parties were no longer permitted to do, prompting watchdog groups to call them "shadow parties."

The 527 groups largely aided Democratic candidates through benefactors like the billionaire George Soros. But at the end of the campaign, the best-known group was probably the Swift Boat Vets for Truth organization that attacked Senator John Kerry.

Some advocates of changing campaign finance had pinned their hopes on the commission, recognizing that stiff Democratic opposition in the Senate had made the passage of measures to regulate 527 organizations difficult.

The decision this week grew out of a case brought by Representatives Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, and the Bush-Cheney '04 campaign.

In March, Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of Federal District Court gave the commission his two options to address the question.

"Case-by-case adjudication appears to be a total failure," Judge Sullivan wrote in March.

He later elaborated, saying, "Cases arising from the 2004 campaign have languished on the commission's enforcement docket for as long as 23 months, with no end in sight, even as the 2006 election campaign has begun."

Although it has acted on some questions related to 527 groups, the commission has not resolved several complaints by Democracy 21 and other campaign finance groups against some of the biggest organizations.

Fred Wertheimer, president and chief executive officer of Democracy 21 and a lawyer involved in the 527 suit, said the decision was not satisfactory.

"We expect the F.E.C. to act quickly," Mr. Wertheimer said, "and we also expect to be back in federal court to get this matter resolved and to stop the 527's from spending unlimited amounts of money."

Laurence E. Gold, associate general counsel for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said it would be disastrous for unions and nonprofit organizations if the commission decided to redefine the 527 groups as federal political action committees, because those fall under the umbrella of McCain-Feingold limits.

Mr. Toner said his agency's action raised the stakes on bills in Congress. A lobbying bill approved by the House includes restrictions on 527 groups, but it is unclear whether it will emerge from the conference committee. The Senate's lobbying package has no such component, and many Senate Democrats oppose such a measure.

"Absent Congressional action," Mr. Toner said, "no one should be surprised if 527 soft-money spending in '06 and '08 becomes one of the driving forces in determining which candidates are elected."
25 2006-06-01 Microsoft's chief executive has defended his decision to increase spending next year and has signaled he is unlikely to increase the company's share buyback plan.

The executive, Steven A. Ballmer, told investors yesterday at a Sanford C. Bernstein & Company conference in New York that Microsoft was making "big, bold bets" by spending on projects including the MSN Internet unit. He said Microsoft planned to hold onto its cash, which is now about $34.8 billion.

The chief executive of Google said yesterday that his company was not currently interested in creating a Web browser to rival Microsoft's Internet Explorer because "there are a number of fine browsers now."

"We would not build a browser for the fun of building a browser and creating another choice," Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, said in a conference call with financial analysts. "We would only see doing that if there was a real user benefit."

Mr. Ballmer is under pressure from investors who have publicly called for Microsoft to increase share buybacks to as much as $100 billion. He said yesterday that he would return cash to shareholders "in smart ways."
26 2006-06-01 Her comments came as the convention passed a resolution urging a troop withdrawal at the earliest practical date and as an antiwar activist, Jonathan Tasini, said he would seek the 15,000 signatures needed to enter a primary against Mrs. Clinton in September.

Heading into this election, Mrs. Clinton faces a divided Republican Party, whose delegates — holding their own convention Wednesday on Long Island — split their support between two candidates to challenge Mrs. Clinton, paving the way for a potentially bruising primary.

Mrs. Clinton's convention appearance, while predictable in political terms, held important symbolic meaning: Her advisers hope that a strong showing in New York, particularly in Republican upstate areas, will convince Democrats nationwide that she holds bipartisan appeal. In many ways her re-election campaign will be about beating expectations, or at least surpassing the 55 percent of the electorate she won in 2000.

That much was reflected in the biographical film that opened the event: Produced by the longtime Clinton media adviser Mandy Grunwald, it wove a narrative of Mrs. Clinton's short political life, starting with President Bush's prediction in July 2000 that her Republican opponent would win.

From there, it told of a larger-than-life senator (her husband, former President Bill Clinton, is among those interviewed) who has nonetheless paid attention to small, human tasks (like comforting an amazed Sept. 11 survivor in her hospital bed) and diligently worked across the aisle to get things done (another testimonial is from Maj. Gen. Thomas P. Maguire, the former adjutant general of New York and an ally of Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican).

Still, it was Mrs. Clinton's speech after the film that captured her current political thinking and was sure to be interpreted in the context of speculation that she will run for president in the next campaign.

Iraq has been a vexing issue for Mrs. Clinton and other Democrats who voted for what has become an increasingly unpopular war. In her speech, Mrs. Clinton attacked the Bush administration for its "wrongheaded, short-sighted foreign policies" and made a pointed comment on the president's handling of the war.

"Stand with me as we push the Bush administration to take responsibility for the mistakes and misjudgments that they have made around the world," she said. "And stand with me as we put pressure on both the administration and the new Iraqi government to get behind a real plan for the Iraqis to assume a growing responsibility for their own security and safety, so that we can begin to bring our troops home."

Mr. Tasini, a former union official who acknowledged that his real purpose at the convention was to spur a debate on Iraq rather than to defeat Mrs. Clinton, said he was unsatisfied by her remarks about the war. "I don't think that's dramatically different than the administration's position," he said.

At times, Mrs. Clinton sounded determined to distinguish her views more forcefully. She repeated "I believe" at least a half-dozen times. "I believe in the chance for every person to pursue his or her dreams," she said. "I believe in the dignity of work that is fairly compensated."

At another point, she said: "I believe in a government that makes decisions based on facts — and, sadly, that seems to be an unusual idea in Washington these days."

Later, she repeated "Stand with me," or "Stand against" or "Stand up for" over and over. It was a rhetorical device that seemed destined for the campaign trail and was, her aides said, reminiscent of language she used in 2000.

She drew strong, if not passionate, applause from a crowd that chanted "Hil-la-ry" when she arrived. Her husband sat up front, watching her with a smile. When she pointed him out, praising him as an inspiration and a mentor, a friend and a partner, the audience cheered and rose for a standing ovation. Mr. Clinton joined her onstage for an embrace at the end, before the obligatory balloon drop that signaled a campaign under way. (Their daughter, Chelsea, had hoped to attend but was kept away by work, a Clinton official said.)

Dressed in an electric-blue pants suit, Mrs. Clinton stood out against the backdrop of the other New York Democrats nominated during the convention, some of whom seemed aware they were in the shadow of her celebrity. Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi joked during his uncontested nomination that he was "one of the opening acts"; Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, alongside Mrs. Clinton as she was mobbed by supporters after a breakfast, eventually wandered away from the preoccupied crowd.

Only Mr. Clinton could keep up: Even after Mrs. Clinton had fled the hotel ballroom, he lingered in a throng of reporters to answer questions, mostly about his wife. When aides tried to end the session, he kept talking, until finally, perhaps realizing he was the only politician left in the room, he turned to go.
27 2006-06-01 WASHINGTON, May 31 — Although there is still a risk of dangerous foam debris, NASA officials cleared the space shuttle's external fuel tank on Wednesday for launching of the Discovery in July, after a year on the ground.

Shuttle program officials, meeting at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, said enough modifications had been made on the tank since the last shuttle flight to give them confidence that the foam risk was minor.

N. Wayne Hale Jr., manager of the shuttle program, said at a news conference that foam debris from different areas on the fuel tank would continue to come off and pose some risk of damaging a shuttle. But he called the risk "acceptable" and said, "We have eliminated the largest hazards."

Repeating a note often sounded by NASA officials and astronauts, Mr. Hale said the shuttle would always be risky to fly.

Michael D. Leinbach, the shuttle launching director at Kennedy, said the Discovery should be ready to launch within a window lasting from July 1 through July 19. In the approach to that window, managers will have unusually long contingency time, almost two weeks, to deal with problems that might arise.

Mr. Leinbach also said the shuttle Atlantis was on schedule to roll out to its launching pad on July 25 in anticipation of a mission beginning Aug. 28 or shortly thereafter.
28 2006-06-01 BRUSSELS, May 31 — The European Commission issued one of its largest fines against a cartel on Wednesday when it found five acrylic glass makers guilty of colluding and fixing prices.

Arkema of France, formerly known as Atofina; Imperial Chemical Industries and the Lucite International Group of Britain; and Quinn Barlo of Ireland were fined a total of 344.5 million euros ($443 million). Degussa of Germany also participated in the cartel but was not fined because it blew the whistle on the cartel, which ran for five years, and it cooperated in the regulators' investigation, the commission said.

Acrylic glass is sold under trade names like Perspex and Plexiglas and is used in lenses, electronic goods and showers.

Arkema was fined the most, reflecting its central role in coordinating the collusion and because it had previously been found guilty of cartel involvement, the commission said in a statement. The fines for Arkema and Imperial Chemical were increased by 50 percent because they were repeat offenders.

Degussa reported the cartel to the commission at the end of 2002 and admitted its role in the arrangement. The commission, which acts as the European Union's top antitrust authority, said it raided all the companies identified by Degussa and found evidence that the rivals met to fix prices in a hotel in Ireland in 1999, and met in a hotel in Germany the next year.

Imperial Chemical said it was considering appealing the ruling and the fine. It also said it would make a provision for the fine as a special item in its profit statement for the second quarter. The other companies were not immediately available to comment.
29 2006-06-01 Mr. Paulson provoked speculation about the dollar even before he left Mr. Bush's side at the announcement of his nomination on Tuesday morning.

Mr. Paulson called for "steps to maintain our competitive edge in the world," a bland remark that some investors nonetheless interpreted as code for using a weaker dollar to make American exports cheaper in other countries.

"These two captains are forced to navigate in some very choppy waters," said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research. "The message that the Fed is sending is that they don't have a clear grasp on the goings-on of the economy, and the same could be said of the Bush administration."

At first glance, the pairing of Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson looks like an attempt to recreate the celebrated collaboration between Alan Greenspan and Robert E. Rubin in the 1990's, when the economy and the stock market soared and the federal budget swung from deficits to surpluses.

Mr. Greenspan, who ran the Fed, was not an academic but shared Mr. Bernanke's penchant for poring over economic data and challenging conventional wisdom.

Mr. Rubin, Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, had, like Mr. Paulson, been a chairman of Goldman Sachs. He teamed up with Mr. Greenspan to champion tough restraints on government spending, employed his credibility on Wall Street to assure financial markets that Mr. Clinton was serious about dealing with the budget deficit and played an influential role in shaping foreign policy.

Mr. Paulson, whose nomination has been praised by Democrats as well as Republicans, is almost certain to win easy Senate approval and become a central player on Mr. Bush's team.

But analysts say both he and Mr. Bernanke need to establish their credibility in financial markets at a time when the economy is in a major transition.

For the first time in nearly two decades, inflation is on an upward rather than downward trend. Energy prices remain near historic highs, even though oil prices dropped on Wednesday as immediate fears of a confrontation with Iran eased. Long-term interest rates — the fuel that powers the housing market when they are low — are on the rise.

Meanwhile, the economy faces structural budget deficits that will not disappear without major changes in taxes and spending, and the Fed could find itself in a clash with the Bush administration if budget deficits remain high.

Perhaps most important, however, investors around the world have become more anxious about the United States' huge trade deficits and its ballooning foreign debt. That is pushing down the value of the dollar, a trend that would help reduce trade imbalances but has also elevated worries about a more painful crash for the American currency.

Much of the uncertainty stems from a shift at the Federal Reserve and other central banks. After propping up economic growth by keeping interest rates far below normal levels, the central banks are removing the cushion of cheap money.

"The marketplace over all is being forced to reabsorb risk that formerly had been underwritten by the big three central banks — the Fed, the Bank of Japan and the People's Bank of China," said Paul McCulley, managing director of Pimco Advisers, the giant bond management firm. "When you've got all three taking away the punch bowl, the partyers at the party are not going to be happy."

Mr. Bernanke arrived at the Fed when monetary policy was already at a tipping point. Having raised short-term interest rates under Mr. Greenspan's guidance for nearly two years by the time Mr. Bernanke took over, Fed officials knew they were nearing the point where they could stop. But because there is such a long lag time between changes in monetary policy and their impact, inflationary pressures were on the rise and economic growth was still torrid.

In late April, Mr. Bernanke confounded markets even as he struggled to explain that the Fed needed to keep its options open by basing decisions on incoming economic data rather than maintaining monetary policy on automatic pilot.

Testifying before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress on April 27, Mr. Bernanke set off a rally by announcing that the Fed might pause in its rate increases to assess the impact of its previous increases.

What startled bond investors was Mr. Bernanke's added twist: that the Fed might pause even if "the risks to its objectives are not entirely balanced" meaning that it might take its foot off the monetary brakes, at least temporarily, even if there were signs of slightly higher inflation risks.

Bond investors, suspecting that Mr. Bernanke might be soft on inflation at a time when energy prices were shooting up, began demanding higher yields on long-term Treasury bonds.

"In jest, I've been saying that Mr. Bernanke needs to regain his monetary manhood," Larry Kudlow, an economist and talk show host, recently told viewers on CNBC. "He was people-pleasing Wall Street. Now he has got to go back on message."

Barry Ritholtz, an economic consultant and operator of an economic blog, the Big Picture, went further and called Mr. Bernanke the "Neville Chamberlain of inflation fighters."

"I got the sense that Mr. Bernanke was appeasing the stock market," Mr. Ritholtz said in an interview. "It's not that he has to go out and prove his manhood and his street-fighting cred. It's just that he has to navigate at a particularly perilous moment in the economy, and he has to navigate absolutely flawlessly."

Two days after raising the prospect of a pause, Mr. Bernanke compounded the confusion by venting his frustration about being "misunderstood" during an off-camera conversation with Maria Bartiromo, a correspondent for CNBC.

Word of the comments set off another round of feverish trading on April 29. Last week, Mr. Bernanke told lawmakers at the Senate Banking committee that his remarks to Ms. Bartiromo had been a "lapse in judgment" and that in the future, he would communicate only through formal channels.

Despite the bumpy path, Mr. Bernanke's first few months have been far smoother than Mr. Greenspan's arrival in August 1987. Bond investors, convinced that Mr. Greenspan could not match the inflation-fighting prowess of his predecessor, Paul A. Volcker, quickly pushed up interest rates on long-term Treasury Bonds.

Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds shot up from 8.8 percent to more than 10 percent during Mr. Greenspan's first two months as Fed chairman. The stock market, plagued by a host of uncertainties, fell 22.6 percent on October 19, 1987.

By contrast, rates on 10-year Treasury bonds have climbed modestly since Mr. Bernanke took office, from about 4.5 percent to about 5 percent today. One crucial indicator of inflation expectations, the difference in price between regular Treasury bonds and special inflation-protected Treasury securities, are not much higher today than when Mr. Bernanke took over in February.

Edward McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs, said Mr. Bernanke's message had in fact been clear even if that left investors unsure about the Fed's next move.

"He is sending a fairly consistent message that says we're going to evaluate the data insofar as they affect the outlook," Mr. McKelvey said. "This is child's play compared to what Greenspan had in the first two or three months of his term."

Mr. Paulson may face his own trial by fire. As Treasury secretary, Mr. Paulson would have authority over the government's policy on exchange rates and the value of the dollar.

Mr. Paulson is likely to continue the policy of his predecessor, John W. Snow, in supporting a "strong dollar" but insisting that its value be determined by market forces. In practice, the administration has been content to let the dollar drift down in value for the last two years, a trend that makes American exports cheaper and imports more expensive.

Mr. Snow did not have to grapple with any major currency disruptions, but Mr. Paulson may not be so lucky.

"There are fewer certainties," said Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP. "He is walking into an environment where the dollar is widely perceived to be at risk."
30 2006-06-01 CHICAGO, May 31 (Reuters) — Midwestern business expanded in May at its fastest rate in seven months, surging at a time when many economists had been expecting slower growth, a report showed Wednesday.

The National Association of Purchasing Management in Chicago said its business barometer rose from 57.2 in April to 61.5 in May — the highest since October. Economists had predicted the index would fall to 56.0.

A reading above 50 indicates expansion, and the index has been above that level for more than three years.

The Chicago region is heavily industrial, so economists often view the data as a factory-sector index, even though service firms are also surveyed.

Machinery makers in the Midwest have been busy for several months replacing oil industry equipment damaged by hurricanes last year in the Gulf of Mexico.
31 2006-06-01 TOLEDO, Ohio, May 31 — A political fund-raiser at the center of an Ohio coin investment scandal pleaded guilty on Wednesday to other charges, involving violations of federal campaign finance laws.

The fund-raiser, Tom Noe, is still charged with embezzlement in a $50 million coin investment that he managed for the state workers' compensation fund. Mr. Noe has pleaded not guilty to a charge that he stole at least $1 million from the investment. A trial is scheduled for Aug. 29.

The investment scandal has embarrassed state Republicans and given Democrats hope of winning state elections this year, including the governor's office, which has been held by a Republican since 1991.

In the fund-raising case, Mr. Noe was charged with exceeding federal campaign contribution limits, using others to make the contributions and causing President Bush's presidential re-election campaign to submit a false financial statement.

Mr. Noe, 51, said Wednesday that he had pleaded guilty in the campaign finance case to "spare my family and many dear friends" the ordeal of a trial.
32 2006-06-01 But the committee decided that a quarter-point increase was enough because of the likelihood that "core inflation would stay close to levels experienced over the past year," the minutes said. "Given the risks to growth and inflation, committee members were uncertain about how much, if any, further tightening would be needed."

With the inflation rate running at the high end of what the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, considers a healthy range, there is some expectation of another increase when the committee meets again at the end of June. The minutes shed little direct light on what the Fed might do, but many economists read them to indicate that further increases are likely.

"The Fed minutes are a bit discouraging to those looking for a June pause," Ian Shepherdson, the chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a research note. "So a hike is not yet a done deal. But it certainly seems more likely."

On top of price concerns, tensions over Iran have also rattled the markets lately. But yesterday, in remarks that apparently soothed investor concern, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the United States would be willing to join multinational talks with Iran if it suspended all its nuclear activities. The announcement was a reversal in policy for the United States, which has not had full diplomatic ties with Iran since the 1979-81 hostage crisis.

The market's rebound coincided with the release of a survey by ADP Employer Services showing that private companies added jobs at a slower rate in May than in April.

The prospect of rising inflation and interest rates and a weakening of consumer confidence in the United States helped bring about a broad sell-off in Asia's jittery stock markets earlier in the day. Indian shares tumbled and Japanese stocks fell to a three-month low.

Although the downbeat consumer confidence figures reported Tuesday had been widely expected, investors in Asia took them as a harbinger of weaker demand for the consumer-goods exports that underpin most Asian economies.

Comments from a Federal Reserve official on Tuesday, hinting at another interest rate increase in June, were also taken as a negative omen. And while economic growth in Asia has shown no objective indication of slowing lately, some investors are reading continued high oil prices as a sign that the growth may not be sustainable.

Despite a series of corrections in recent weeks, investors are still sitting on large paper profits accrued during the increase in prices over the last year. In emerging markets like India, a fear that foreign investors are cashing their winnings can be a powerful incentive to sell.

"In an environment combining growth worries and inflation jitters, the instinct is to sell risky assets," said Tim Condon, the chief economist at ING Bank Singapore. "Are those jitters warranted? In truth, the forward-looking indicators are as high as they've ever been and do not point to any drop-off in activity."

The selling in Asia yesterday capped the worst month for Asian equities since September 2002. The Sensex index in India closed 3.6 percent lower, after falling 6.4 percent at one point in the trading day; Australia's markets slid 2 percent, Japanese shares fell 2.5 percent and Singapore stocks shed 2.4 percent. Markets in South Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong were closed for holidays.

In early trading today, stock markets in Japan, Singapore and Australia regained about half those losses as the prospect of a rate increase by the Fed drove up the dollar against local currencies. A stronger dollar helps sales of Asian exporters by making their products cheaper for American consumers. An hour after the open, Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index was trading up 150.41 points, or 1 percent, to 15,617.74.

"There's a sense that global growth may slow and liquidity will ebb," said William Belchere, chief Asia economist at Macquarie Securities in Hong Kong.

Yesterday in Japan, Asia's largest economy, the decline in American consumer confidence hit the share prices of major manufacturers like Sony, Toyota and Canon. Stocks have also weakened on fears that Japan's long stock rally could be losing steam, as the economy has appeared to enter a stretch of solid but unspectacular growth.

Major European stock markets, which finished trading before the release of the Fed committee's minutes, generally posted healthy gains.

Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills.
33 2006-06-01 Q. This just started about a week ago, but every time we start up we get a message saying, "This copy of Windows is not genuine" and "You may be a victim of software counterfeiting." What can I do? Is this a problem that needs to be corrected?

A. The messages are part of Microsoft's continuing efforts to combat the piracy of its software. Those messages, along with notification balloons and desktop banners, may appear on your screen if the company senses through Internet updates that you are not using a licensed copy of its Windows XP operating system.

These new messages are generated by the Windows Genuine Advantage Notification program, software that was included a few months ago in the Automatic Updates feature of Windows. The program, known as WGA Notification, can also be installed if you manually download it from the Windows Update site.

These alerts are set to keep popping up until you click the Get Genuine button on the message and go to Microsoft's site to purchase a license key ($99 for Windows XP Home or $149 for Windows XP Professional) or a full copy of Windows. If you unwittingly purchased a pirated edition of Windows and can prove it, you may qualify for a free replacement copy of the system. (You need to fill out a counterfeit report, provide a proof-of-purchase statement or receipt and send your bootlegged Windows discs back to Microsoft.)

More information is at www.microsoft.com/genuine.

The WGA Notification software was distributed to some Windows users in the United States, Britain, Australia, New Zealand and Malaysia. Microsoft's Web site states that the WGA Notification software is currently optional, but that the program may be made mandatory for all Windows XP users later this year.
34 2006-06-01 IN terms of red-carpet anomalies, the Cannes Film Festival can be counted on for its predictable exuberance in bad taste and, conversely, its embrace of some of the most highbrow fashion on the planet. Without fail, you will see the wife of a minor French celebrity in a lace bodysuit with a visible thong, a supermodel wearing a Swiss cheese dress and a former Playboy bunny whose cleavage appears to be in mortal combat with the will of Donatella Versace.

Cannes may be the last place where it is deemed safe to be unsafe, kind of like the Golden Globes before that event went into competition with the Academy Awards to become the most boring display of slip-dress conformity. This may be the reason some serious actors, ones who would not dare push the vanilla boundaries of awards-show fashion in Los Angeles, took unusual risks at the Cannes festival, which ended on Sunday.

Just a handful of daring examples: Cate Blanchett in a loose-fitting kimono dress trimmed with sporty black and white racing stripes from Alexander McQueen; Rosario Dawson, also covered with stripes, hers made of black silk chiffon eyelash lace on white satin like an Art Deco zebra; and Faye Dunaway, with her hair down and her white blouse undone, looking oddly like Mariah Carey. Because fashion is not the topic du jour at Cannes, the stars are less likely to be criticized for their appearances, but that is not to say the public is disinterested. An E! Online survey indicated that 36 percent of voters rated Ms. Blanchett's dress as worthy of five stars.

A screening of "Marie-Antoinette," a film that some critics faulted for extreme pretense, also offered an array of insider fashion with lofty ambitions. Kirsten Dunst gamely maneuvered a pearly gray Rochas gown accented with morbid ravens, and Sofia Coppola arrived in a pleated black lace gown by Givenchy's new creative director, Riccardo Tisci, echoing the prom-gone-to-hell theme.

"It felt like more of a fashion statement," said Mr. Tisci, who created a stir at a Cinema Against AIDS gala, where he arrived with the model Mariacarla Boscono in a design that featured a transparent lace bodice. "There were two ways to dress in Cannes. The red carpet was wild, but outside the red carpet, the scene in the street and at the parties was even wilder."

Even the men at Cannes were experimental, wearing white jackets in place of black tie, with varying degrees of success. Gaspard Ulliel, the young star of "Paris, Je T'aime," wore the same Dior Homme jacket three days in a row: to "The Da Vinci Code" on May 17 with a black tie; to a photo call on May 18 with a white T-shirt; and to Harvey Weinstein's party on May 19 with a black shirt. (Samuel L. Jackson could not pull off this look once, when he wore a slouchy white jacket and matching beret to the closing ceremonies.)
35 2006-06-01 On the first point, the economists calculate that each dollar spent on advertising agricultural products like eggs, milk, beef, prunes and almonds yields $3 to $6 of additional revenue to producers.

The "California Raisins" campaign was credited with increasing raisin sales 10 percent in the 1980's. According to the California Raisin Board, before the ad campaign, raisins were "at best dull and boring." After the campaign, people were no longer "ashamed to eat raisins." Well, maybe so.

In any event, there are now over 60 active commodity marketing programs in California alone, involving spending of about $1 billion a year.

But despite their success, the programs can be difficult to maintain. The problem lies in aligning incentives. The producer of a branded product pays all the costs and reaps all the benefits of its advertising spending, leading it to a carefully considered decision about how much to spend.

By contrast, the benefits and costs of commodity advertising are spread unequally among many producers, making it tough to reach a collective decision about marketing levels.

A California almond producer benefits from almond marketing efforts whether or not the producer contributes to them. So it is tempting to take a free ride on the payments of others.

Mandatory programs provide one solution to this problem. Growers vote about whether to start a marketing program and, if the vote succeeds, all growers are required to participate.

Not surprisingly, the growers who receive few benefits from the programs do not want to be forced to contribute.

In early 1980's one almond grower, Saulsbury Orchards and Almond Processing, consistently sold most of its crop to a breakfast cereal maker. As part of the deal, Saulsbury helped to finance advertising for the cereal company. When it asked for reimbursement for these marketing costs, the Almond Board refused to pay, arguing that almonds were only a small part of the good being advertised.

Saulsbury Orchards sued the almond marketing board and, in 1993, the case ended up in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which found that mandatory advertising violated Saulsbury's First Amendment rights of free speech and association.

After that decision, dozens of challenges to mandated marketing programs arose in the 1990's. Apples, peaches, plums, grapes, kiwi — a veritable cornucopia of producers challenged the programs, with several cases going to district courts and some reaching the Supreme Court.

In 2004, federal appeals courts ruled that three highly successful programs — for beef, pork and milk — were unconstitutional. But in 2005, the Supreme Court ruled 6-to-3 that beef marketing programs did not violate the First Amendment, as they were considered protected "government speech."

Despite this ruling, there are still over 70 cases being litigated; the outcomes will probably depend on specific details of the marketing programs. But it now seems likely that commodity marketing programs will continue to exist in some form or other.

Professor Kaiser, Kent D. Messer, and William D. Schulze, economists at Cornell, argue that this is a good thing since commodity marketing is often beneficial to consumers.

Consider the snack industry. From 1970 to 2001, per capita soda consumption more than doubled, while milk consumption fell by more than two-thirds. Surely, a few million dollars to promote milk consumption can not be bad, given the billions spent by the soft drink industry. Compare a soda and a candy bar with a carton of milk and a handful of raisins: which would you rather your child chose as a snack?

Or look at the pharmaceutical industry. Drug companies spend billions to advertise their branded products while virtually nothing is spent to market generic drugs. The health insurer Blue Cross and Blue Shield says that this is part of the reason brand drugs cost three times what equivalent generics do.

It can be tricky to structure commodity marketing programs so that they overcome the free rider problem. But if this can be done, such programs may offer substantial benefits to both producers and consumers.
36 2006-06-01 Executives of companies as varied as Halliburton, the military contractor and oil services concern; Assurant, an insurance company; and Big Lots, a discount retailer, all received bonuses and other pay outside the performance parameters set by the boards of those companies.

It is the equivalent of moving the goalposts to shorten the field, compensation experts say.

"Lowering the hurdles is especially disconcerting because very often the goals are not set all that high to begin with," said Lucian Bebchuk, professor at Harvard Law School and author with Jesse Fried of "Pay Without Performance." Mr. Bebchuk said shareholders should be especially alert to increases in bonuses because more companies were shifting away from stock options and into cash incentives.

Some employment agreements actually stipulate that they will provide bonuses even if company performance declines. The agreement struck in 2004 by Peter Chernin, president and chief operating officer of the News Corporation, entitles him to a bonus even if earnings per share fall at the company. If earnings rise by 15 percent in any given year, Mr. Chernin's bonus is $12.5 million. But if they fall 6.25 percent, Mr. Chernin's bonus is $4.5 million, and an earnings decline of 14 percent translates to a $3.52 million bonus.

Last year, Mr. Chernin received $8.3 million in salary and $18.9 million in bonus pay. A company spokesman declined to comment on the bonus structure. He confirmed that the company's chief executive, Rupert Murdoch, has a similar bonus arrangement. Company filings show that Mr. Murdoch received a bonus of $18.9 million last year.

While bonus and other incentive pay figures are included in company filings, shareholders hoping to calculate precisely what performance objectives executives must meet to receive such pay can be confounded.

Descriptions of bonus targets are typically vague and often include a laundry list of measures that the board may or may not consider. The board may factor in sales, earnings, stock price, capital expenditures, cash flow, even inventory levels. Company officials often explain the practice by saying that too-specific information on performance hurdles can give away corporate secrets or invite rival organizations to lure executives away by offering them contract terms that are easier to achieve.

Compensation experts counter that lists of vague hurdles may allow carefully chosen measurements to be met in both fair weather and foul.

Indeed, shareholders often find that the performance measures used by the company to determine pay can be very flexible. For example, Assurant, which is based in New York, says its compensation committee can adjust incentive payments for extraordinary events, "including, but not limited to, acquisitions or dispositions of businesses, litigation costs, tax or insurance recoveries or settlements, changes to accounting principles, asset impairment and restructuring."

For bonuses paid in 2004, Assurant adjusted the earnings performance measure to exclude losses related to hurricanes along the Atlantic coastline. This adjustment helped to increase the company's net operating income and therefore raised bonuses to the company's executives in 2004.

It is impossible to pinpoint precisely how much the hurricane exclusion bolstered the Assurant executives' bonuses in 2004. Company filings stated that without two exclusions, one of which was the hurricane impact, bonuses would have been equal to half of their target. Thanks to the adjustments, bonuses were paid at 1.72 times their target.

As James F. Reda, an independent compensation consultant in New York, pointed out, shareholders cannot adjust their results for things like hurricane losses, or losses on divestitures or discontinued operations, all of which deplete shareholder equity.

"What a lot of these plans are trying to look at is core business, and it is a decent argument," Mr. Reda said. "But sometimes people get lazy and put all sorts of stuff in the restructuring bucket that don't belong there — like operating expenses. Once you give management a little wiggle room, being smart people, they can figure out ways to take advantage of it."

Often, company officials include everyday expenses — like those relating to sales and administration — in restructuring costs, making the company appear to be far more profitable.

In some cases, performance measures appear to reflect basic operational tasks expected of an executive, not something worthy of extra pay. Last year, Assurant's compensation committee chose four elements to determine whether its executives deserved a bonus. Three were fairly typical financial measures: net operating income, revenue growth and return on equity at the company.

The fourth measure, though, was how well Assurant's executives complied with Sarbanes-Oxley, the law enacted in 2002 after Enron and WorldCom collapsed. According to company filings, one-quarter of an executive's bonus calculation related to his or her "compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act," a part of the law that relates to a company's internal financial controls.

Last year, J. Kerry Clayton, Assurant's chief executive; Robert B. Pollock, its president, and Lesley Silvester, an executive vice president, all received bonuses that were 1.62 times their targets.

The compensation committee of Assurant's board is headed by Beth L. Bronner, chief marketing officer of Jim Beam Brands, a division of Fortune Brands. She is joined on the committee by Charles John Koch, vice chairman of the board of the Citizens Financial Group; Michele Coleman Mayes, general counsel for Pitney Bowes, and John M. Palms, president emeritus of the University of South Carolina.

Melissa Kivett, head of investor relations at Assurant, said that the hurricane exclusions in 2004 were appropriate. Because of a substantial increase in Assurant's stock price, she said, "the compensation committee of our board felt that on this one occasion they needed to make an adjustment to net operating income to recognize and compensate management for this record performance."

As for the bonuses relating to Sarbanes-Oxley, Ms. Kivett said they were designed "to ensure that we had all the processes in place to meet compliance goals. The result was we did have a clean SOX opinion." She added that this year, the portion of the bonus related to Sarbanes-Oxley was smaller than it was in 2005.

But Paul Hodgson, senior research associate at the Corporate Library, an institutional research firm in Portland, Me., said paying a bonus for compliance with a law was unusual. "I can see making compliance a requirement," he said. "Because they were not a public company until 2004 they didn't have to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley before. But actually giving them a bonus for it is taking it a step further than my logic can let me go. Compliance with the law is part of your day-to-day work, not something you have to be incentivized for."

Another company that gave extra pay to executives for regular business activities was Halliburton. Its top executives received special bonuses last year for settling asbestos litigation in which the company was a defendant.

Halliburton's filings described the asbestos settlement as a "historical achievement" requiring a "tremendous amount of effort and sacrifices on the part of the employees who worked diligently over the last three years orchestrating and implementing this uniquely creative and complicated strategy."

In recognition of their performance, the company paid cash bonuses totaling $5.5 million to 36 employees. Among them were C. Christopher Gaut, Halliburton's chief financial officer; Albert O. Cornelison Jr., the company's general counsel, and Mark A. McCollum, the chief accounting officer. Mr. Gaut received $750,000, Mr. Cornelison received $1 million and Mr. McCollum received $50,000.

David J. Lesar, the company's chief executive, did not receive cash for his contribution to the asbestos settlement. He decided to take an option grant of 100,000 shares, worth $2.04 million at the time, as his extra pay for his settlement work.

Halliburton's compensation committee is made up of Robert L. Crandall, former chief executive of AMR, the parent of American Airlines; Kenneth T. Derr, the committee's chairman and a former chief executive of Chevron; W. R. Howell, a former chief executive of J. C. Penney; and Debra L. Reed, president of the San Diego Gas and Electric Company.

None of the directors returned phone calls seeking comment about the asbestos awards. Cathy Mann, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said: "This additional compensation was for the extraordinary amount of time and effort these individuals exerted, which was above and beyond what is normally expected of them in relation to their job responsibilities."

At least Halliburton and Assurant produced strong returns to shareholders last year before handing over more to executives.

Perhaps most exasperating to shareholders are bonuses to executives who fail to meet their basic performance targets. Consider what was paid to Dan W. Matthias, chief executive of Mothers Work, a maternity retailer, and his wife, Rebecca C. Matthias, the company's president.

According to the company's filings, Mr. and Mrs. Matthias were not entitled to either a cash bonus or an option grant during the year because the company failed to achieve the expected growth in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.

Each of the Matthiases, though, received a grant of 40,000 stock options in fiscal 2005, on top of half-million-dollar salaries. The company's compensation committee wanted to "recognize the progress made in the past year in both the development and launch of the company's strategic business initiatives, which included its Destination Maternity superstores and expansion of the company's relationship with Sears and a new tie with Kohl's, another retailer," its filing said.

"The compensation committee believes that the stock options grant is consistent with aligning the interests of these senior executives with the stockholders and will serve to reinforce the importance of improving stockholder value over the long term," the filing said.

Those stock options, if they have not been cashed in, are now worth $2.8 million.

The compensation committee of Mothers Work is overseen by Joseph A. Goldblum, a private investor; David Schlessinger, founder of Five Below, a discount retailer; and William A. Schwartz Jr., chief executive of U.S. Vision, an optical products retailer.

A spokeswoman for Mothers Work said neither the company nor its directors would comment on the option grant.

"What is often missing in these after-the-fact changings of the bonus rules of engagement is a sufficient — or any — quid pro quo," said Brian Foley, an independent compensation consultant in White Plains. Mr. Foley suggests that companies instead delay paying part of the bonus or stretch out the performance period to link the payout to an improvement in performance.

Like Mothers Work, Big Lots paid bonuses to executives last year even though performance was lagging. Big Lots, a discount retailer based in Columbus, Ohio, is going through a restructuring and last year hired a new chief executive, Steven S. Fishman. Performance criteria set by the compensation committee were not met, its proxy filing pointed out.

Still, four executives received one-time bonuses in 2005, on top of other pay. Brad A. Waite, executive vice president of Big Lots, received a bonus of $375,000; John C. Martin, also executive vice president, received $279,000; Lisa M. Bachmann, senior vice president, received $187,500, and Joe R. Cooper, chief financial officer, received $175,000.

As the Big Lots filing explained, without those one-time bonuses, the executives' cash compensation would have been below the market average. The committee determined that the pay additions would not be excessive.

Big Lots' shares started 2005 at $12.13 and ended the year at $12.01. Charles W. Haubiel, general counsel at Big Lots, said the bonuses were given to keep the company's talent intact during a time of uncertainty. "The compensation committee identified a core group of executives," he said, "and devised a retention program that said if you stay on during the year during the C.E.O. search process, you will receive a retention bonus equal to the target bonus you are typically eligible for."

The compensation committee of Big Lots is headed by David T. Kollat, president of 22 Inc., a research consulting firm, who is also on the board of Wolverine World Wide, a shoe manufacturer, and Select Comfort, a maker of air-bed mattresses. The committee's other members are Brenda J. Lauderback, a former president of the wholesale division of the Nine West Group, a shoe maker, who is also on the board of Wolverine Worldwide and Select Comfort; and Dennis P. Tishkoff, chief executive of the Drew Shoe Corporation.

These examples indicate that companies do not always practice what they preach about pay for performance. As a result, investors must read company proxies closely.

Back at the Las Vegas Sands, for example, the company's regulatory filings say that executive bonuses will be paid only when they are earned. Bonuses are generated, the company said, "only upon the attainment of the applicable performance goals during the applicable performance period." The compensation committee of the Las Vegas Sands' board establishes both the goals and the period during which they are measured, the filings state.

Last year's $2.8 million mistake proves otherwise, however. The mistaken payout was equal to almost 1 percent of the company's earnings.

The unearned bonuses are notable not only because they followed $62 million in bonuses paid to the five men in 2004 (to reflect the "significant value" they created for shareholders when they helped secure financing for a mall at the Palazzo Hotel and Casino, adjacent to the Venetian). They are also striking because they cannot be justified as performance-based under the tax code. The extra bonuses therefore were not deductible as a business expense, making them more costly for shareholders.

The error did prompt a meeting on March 1 of the four-man compensation committee of Las Vegas Sands' board, its filings stated. The committee considered what to do about the overpayments, and a majority concluded that the company's performance supported them. One member of the committee dissented, the filing said: James L. Purcell, who retired as a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in 1999.

The members who voted to allow the executives to keep the unearned bonuses were Irwin Chafetz, a former executive at the Interface Group, a vacation tour operator that is owned by Mr. Adelson, Las Vegas Sands' chief executive; Charles Forman, a former executive at the Interface Group who is chief executive officer of the Centric Events Group, a trade show and conference business; and Michael A. Leven, founder of U.S. Franchise Systems, franchisor of Microtel Inns and Suites. Even though Mr. Chafetz and Mr. Forman have extensive affiliations, either present or past, with Mr. Adelson's Interface Group, they are considered independent directors according to New York Stock Exchange standards.

A company spokesman said that neither Mr. Purcell nor the other members of the compensation committee of Las Vegas Sands' board would comment on the bonus overpayments. Las Vegas Sands officials who might be able to discuss the bonuses were traveling and unreachable, he said.

Mr. Foley, the independent compensation consultant, said he had never seen anything like the multimillion-dollar mistakes last year at Las Vegas Sands. "There's nothing like playing by the house rules," he said, "when you own the house, the chips, the rules and the croupiers."
37 2006-06-01 Photo of activists who claim United States is not doing enough to combat AIDS chained together in lobby of building housing United States Mission to United Nations...
38 2006-06-01 EXECUTIVE PAY Defenders of executive pay packages have contended that because most are tied to company performance, they are both earned and deserved. But as some examples show, investors often find that compensation exceeds the amounts allowed un...
39 2006-06-01 Pope Benedict XVI issued a condemnation of anti-Semitism after harsh criticism from Jewish leaders that he failed to do so at a visit to the Auschwitz and Birkenau death camp complex in Poland. ''Humanity must not give in to the temptation of raci...
40 2006-06-02 The widening federal investigation into possible backdating of stock options has everyone looking under rocks for the next company to be implicated. To that end, analysts at Citigroup have screened the technology companies they cover to assess the...
41 2006-06-02 The brokerage industry "has begun to look like a business in decline," The Economist writes in its latest issue. As a result, big investment banks are working to strengthen their ties to hedge funds, because for now, at least, that is where the mo...
42 2006-06-02 Deutsche Börse is not giving up yet. The German stock exchange, snubbed by Thursday's $10.2 billion agreement between the NYSE Group and Euronext, said in a statement Friday that it will continue to pursue a merger with Euronext. The announcement...
43 2006-06-02 Interest is running high for Pfizer's over-the-counter drug business, with the pharmaceuticals company GlaxoSmithKline prepared to offer more than $15 billion for the unit, according to reports. Citing unnamed sources, Reuters and The Financial Ti...
44 2006-06-02 A state judge has thrown out California's fraud lawsuit against the brokerage firm Edward Jones in another defeat for the attorney general, Bill Lockyer, who is trying to assert authority over mutual fund sales practices. Judge Loren McMaster of S...
45 2006-06-02 M-Systems Flash Disk Pioneers on Thursday joined a list of companies engulfed in a widening investigation over stock options grants and postponed a stock offering, sending its shares down as much as 15 percent. The Israel-based developer of memory...
46 2006-06-02 Rambus said on Thursday e-mails from Micron Technology and Hynix Semiconductor support its claims that the rival memory chip makers conspired to fix prices, sending its shares up 18.5 percent. E-mail correspondence among competitors in the memory ...
47 2006-06-02 Six months after it announced plans to sell ancillary businesses, Textron said Thursday that it has agreed to sell its fastening systems unit to Los Angeles private equity firm Platinum Equity for $630 million in cash and assumed debt. Troy, Mich....
48 2006-06-02 Luna Innovations, which develops molecular and sensing technologies, has cut the estimated price range for its pending initial public offering, reducing the deal's potential value by 27 percent to $32 million. The I.P.O. will now consist of 4 mill...
49 2006-06-02 CTC Media priced its initial public offering near the bottom of its reduced range for its stock market debut Thursday on the Nasdaq. CTC Media offered 24.7 million shares at $14 a share in a bid to raise $346 million. The only I.P.O. on the calend...
50 2006-06-02 Town Sports International, the third-largest fitness club operator in the United States, priced an initial public offering on Thursday worth about $99.5 million, according to an underwriter. The 7.65 million share offering sold for $13 per share, ...
51 2006-06-02 Wall Street has always been about taking risk. But never has the "R" word been such an obsession for the men and women who rule the nation's biggest investment banks. Never have they had to reconcile so many bets made on so many fronts. Ripe condi...
52 2006-06-02 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the nominee for Treasury secretary, has a big reason to support tax relief. Because of a little-known provision in the federal tax code, Mr. Paulson, the departing Goldman Sachs chief executive, could receive a tax break of a...
53 2006-06-02 After a whirlwind weekend, NYSE Group chief executive John Thain sealed a deal for his company to buy Euronext, the pan-European stock and derivatives exchange, for $10.2 billion. The agreement came after the NYSE, which runs the New York Stock Ex...
54 2006-06-02 The operator of the New York Stock Exchange cleared a major hurdle to its goal of becoming the first trans-Atlantic stock exchange with its $10.2 billion agreement to buy Euronext. The transaction is being billed as a merger of equals, but the ter...
55 2006-06-02 The World Cup is more than just the global championship of soccer - it's the quadrennial armageddon that pits Nike against Adidas for the ultimate prize: billions of dollars in soccer-gear sales. On Sunday, Faisal Islam wrote a fascinating busines...
56 2006-06-02 Terrorism and antiterrorism are growth industries in politics, in culture and in the streets. The dispatches from Iraq and elsewhere detailing the latest suicide bombings are now steadily matched by an outpouring of fiction and nonfiction books and films on terrorism, much of which seems designed to freak the rest of us out, either for the sake of information or entertainment. Everybody wants a piece of the action. Five years ago the French novelist Michel Houellebecq capped his novel "Platform" with a terrorist attack; next week John Updike, who has little use for Mr. Houellebecq, will publish "Terrorist," about a would-be suicide bomber from New Jersey.

Nonfiction, of course, is particularly rich terrain for the new terrorist-studies industry, with books like "Terror in the Name of God: Why Religious Militants Kill," "Dying to Win: The Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism" and "The Road to Martyrs' Square: A Journey Into the World of the Suicide Bomber." Conveniently, those with neither the time nor the inclination to thumb through hundreds of pages of text can turn to an easier-to-digest précis like "The Cult of the Suicide Bomber," an engrossing if intellectually thin documentary that purports to explain how suicide bombing — which its narrator, Robert Baer, likens to a "pathological virus" — evolved from a weapon of war into a weapon of terror and, finally in Iraq, a "weapon of chaos."

"The Cult of the Suicide Bomber" was made for Channel 4 in Britain, where it was broadcast in August 2005. Mr. Baer, a former operative for the Central Intelligence Agency and the inspiration for the character played by George Clooney in "Syriana," serves as the film's on- and off-camera center of gravitas, fluidly switching from English to Arabic and Persian; its directors are David Batty and Kevin Toolis. Mr. Baer wrote the film along with Mr. Toolis, who has contributed scores of articles to various British publications. In 2004 he wrote in The New Statesman: "In our baffling, violent world, the terrorism expert, discreetly hinting at access to cryptic intelligence material, is the high priest, able to discern within the entrails of atrocity a fingerprint and a culprit."

The high priests of "The Cult of the Suicide Bomber" begin their story in modern Iran, with a cleric speaking before hundreds of male worshippers who are enthusiastically repeating his calls for "death to America." From there we jump to the seventh century and Imam Hussein, the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad, whose martyrdom was strategically adopted by Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran's war with Iraq in the 1980's. Faced with Saddam Hussein's superior military strength, Iran "turned martyrdom into a state religion," Mr. Baer says, using children and the young for suicide missions. This war, he contends, employing the film's unfortunate Guinness records-style taxonomy, created the first suicide bomber. Sometime later Mr. Baer also introduces us to what he calls the first suicide car bomber and the first female suicide bomber.

Like so many political films of this type made for British television, this documentary contains more information than analysis, not to mention predictably spooky music. Despite its title, this is not a film about the cult of suicide bombings in general; rather, it is about a specific cult that has developed in the Middle East over the last few decades.

There is no mention of the Assassins, radical Shiite Muslims, who, in Persia and Syria in the 11th and 12th centuries, committed murder and ritual suicide in the name of faith; no inquiry into Japanese kamikaze pilots. More to the contemporary point, both the Tamil Tigers and Chechen terrorists, including the self-detonating black widows in Russia, are mentioned only in passing.

Despite Mr. Toolis's active editorializing in the British press (he has called President Bush a warmonger, among other names), the filmmakers do their best to appear neutral. That said, Mr. Baer does, somewhat provocatively, say of one Hezbollah bomber who drove a car onto an Israeli military base in 1982, "If he had dropped a bomb from a plane on the Israeli military headquarters, would we think of him any differently?" The filmmakers don't answer this question, maybe because they can't. The weight of all the historical and political analysis in the world may simply not be enough to explain the smiles and pacific mien of the men and women who appear in those pre-mission suicide videotapes with which we have all become so lamentably familiar.

Consider, in this respect, an article by Nasra Hassan, published in The New Yorker in November 2001, in which a member of Hamas who had tried and failed to blow up a bus filled with Israeli passengers described what he had felt before undertaking his mission. "We were in a constant state of worship," said the would-be martyr. "We told each other that if the Israelis only knew how joyful we were, they would whip us to death! Those were the happiest days of my life."
57 2006-06-02 By the time Blake finished off his finest victory at Roland Garros, two seeded women from Italy — No. 9, Francesca Schiavone, and No. 17, Flavia Pennetta — were already locked in baseline combat in the relative wilderness of Court 7. Pennetta looked like the winner when she had two match points deep in the third set at 7-6, but Schiavone, her baroque one-handed backhand in full swing, saved them both and went on to win, 4-6, 6-1, 9-7.

Not everyone has been working overtime. Because of the weather delays, the defending men's champion, Rafael Nadal, had a three-day break between his first round-match Monday against Robin Soderling of Sweden and his second-round match against the American lucky loser, Kevin Kim.

But after all the waiting, Nadal got to play for only a little under two hours as he won, 6-2, 6-1, 6-4, extending his record winning streak on clay to 55.

All he needs to do now is to win the next 71 matches in a row to break the overall record of 125 established by Chris Evert on clay. Nadal does not sound like a candidate to improve on Evert's mark or even on his own when it eventually ends.

"When you win 52 in a row, it would have been a shame not to break that record," Nadal said of Guillermo Vilas's previous men's mark of 53.

"But I don't think I'll break that record again."

"These are opportunities you get once in your lifetime; either you seize the opportunity or it passes you by," he added.

What interests Nadal now is a second straight French Open title, and Kim certainly likes his chances. That is not just because one of the other leading contenders, the No. 3 seed, David Nalbandian, had to recover from a two-set deficit to defeat the Russian-born Californian, Dmitry Tursunov, 2-6, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, 6-4.

Nadal might have won his match easily, but Kim won the rhetorical contest just as easily afterward as he tried to put into words the feeling of facing Nadal on Paris dirt.

"It felt like the Sahara, and you just see the hills, and there's no ending," he said.

What made that image all the more powerful was that Kim actually visualized it during the match — late in the first set to be precise.

"Every time, he gets in trouble, he either hits a nice passing shot or he puts up a nice high-percentage ball, so you got to start the point right over again," Kim said.

But Blake found a way to break down Almagro's defenses, controlling play with his forehand, keeping his errors to a relative minimum, overcoming a 2-4 deficit in the third set and hitting some big serves at big moments, including an ace at 30-30 in the final game.

"He ran over me like a freight train," Almagro said.

At the relatively advanced tennis age of 26, Blake is still improving on clay, and he is now the only American man in the third round, where he will face the 19-year-old Gaël Monfils of France.

"I don't really think about it on the court: that I'm the only American left or anything like that, but I have to prove Brad Gilbert right," Blake said of the former player who coached Andre Agassi and Andy Roddick. "He said there's going to be an American in the second week. I got to make sure he's not wrong for the first time ever."

Blake was not the only American to dodge the feet-of-clay syndrome.

Venus Williams continued to play convincingly, beating Karolina Sprem of Croatia, 7-5, 6-3, in a particularly hard-hitting encounter. But Williams will get her first big test and first big changes of rhythm in the fourth round, where she will play the No. 7 seed, Patty Schnyder of Switzerland.

Williams conceded that it was strange to be one of the only Americans left in the singles draw at a place where her sister Serena, Jennifer Capriati and Andre Agassi have all won in the decade she has been playing here. "When I do give a little thought to it, it's a little bit lonely," she said. "But I'm not complaining, I'm happy to be here and not injured."

Amélie Mauresmo, the No. 1 seed, has still not lost a set after defeating Jelena Jankovic of Serbia and Montenegro, 6-3, 6-3. Jankovic is more at home on hard courts but she put her sliding skills to use, ending up almost doing a splits in the opening set, and often being jerked off balance by Mauresmo's spins and angles.

Mauresmo will face the 17-year-old, Czech Nicole Vaidisova, in the fourth round. Vaidisova put an end to the run of another teenager, the French qualifier Aravane Rezai, in a mood-swinging match on Court Suzanne Lenglen.

Rezai, who is of Iranian descent, arrived here ranked 142d in the world and was denied a wild card into the main draw by the French Tennis Federation because of an ongoing conflict with her father, Arsalan, who is her coach. Still she managed to win five matches in a row and also managed to recover from a 2-5 deficit in the second set against Vaidisova to force a third.

The 6-foot Vaidisova, long considered the next big thing in tennis, smashed a racket during Rezai's comeback, earning a code violation from the chair umpire. But she pulled her game together quickly in the final set as Rezai ran out of resources and was treated for cramps in her right arm. Final score: 6-1, 6-7 (7-6), 6-0.

Martina Hingis, whose second-round match was delayed by rain Thursday, quickly worked her way through Zuzana Ondraskova of the Czech Republic and will face another inexperienced opponent in the next round in Ivana Lisjak of Croatia.

"It all is coming together again," said Hingis, who won the tournament in Rome last month. "I just hope it's going to continue like that. I don't know. I just want to save the best for last."

The No. 2 seed, Kim Clijsters, who won 6-0, 6-3 over Conchita Martínez Granados, will play another, tougher Spaniard, Anabel Medina Garrigues, in the third round.

Ferrero was not the only former French Open champion from Spain to lose today. Carlos Moya, who won in 1998, was beaten in remarkably straightforward fashion by the No. 6 seed, Nikolay Davydenko of Russia, 6-1, 7-5, 6-3. He will face Gaudio in the fourth round.

But the next generation of Spanish men, led by Nadal, is faring better, and Tommy Robredo, the No. 7 seed, defeated Lukas Dlouhy of the Czech Republic in straight sets. He will play Mario Ancic, one of the few true attacking players left in the tournament, who defeated Alberto Montañés of Spain, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4.
58 2006-06-02 However, Mohammad Saeedi, deputy head of Iran's Atomic Energy Organization, suggested today that Iran might enrich uranium to higher levels than previously announced.

Mr. Saeedi said Iran would not accept a limit on the levels of its uranium enrichment, according to the news agency ISNA.

"It is incorrect to put a 3.5, 5 or even a 10 percent cap on Iran's level of uranium enrichment," he was quoted as saying. "Fuel for light water reactors needs uranium enriched to even 19.9 percent. So, these remarks that Iran should accept a 10 percent cap on its enrichment cannot be correct." He did not elaborate.

Washington has offered to engage in direct talks with Iran — the first since cutting ties after the seizure of the American Embassy in 1979 — on the condition that it first suspend its enrichment program, but Iranian leaders have rejected those terms.

In Vienna on Friday, Condoleezza Rice, the American secretary of state, said she hoped that Iran would rethink its position, "but we also have an alternative path if Iran doesn't negotiate."

She did not elaborate, and a statement released on Thursday on behalf of the six countries warned only that "further steps" would be taken by the United Nations Security Council if Iran did not comply, avoiding any mention of sanctions or other specific punitive measures.

In an interview with international news agencies at his residence outside Moscow, Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia, said Russia opposed the use of military force against Iran "under any circumstances."

He also ruled out any immediate discussion of sanctions, leaving open the question of whether Russia would ever support punitive action if Iran persists in resisting demands to suspend its uranium enrichment program.

"As for sanctions, we think it is a bit too early to put those on the agenda, as well," Mr. Putin said, according to the Interfax news agency. "There needs to be a detailed discussion with the Iranian leadership."

Like Russia, China has argued that the best way to win concessions from Iran — at least at this point — is with engagement, not sanctions. That shared position effectively shelved any discussion of punitive action by the Security Council, where Russia and China both have veto power.

Asked if Russia would join in economic sanctions if Iran continued to resist international inspections and demands to suspend its enrichment programs, Mr. Putin said he would not discuss hypothetical questions.

"If a grandmother had certain gender characteristics," he said, "she would be a grandfather."
59 2006-06-02 "We just thought this up two weeks ago," said Mike Bevan, the owner of the Linthwaite inn, which will also offer guests non-Cup television fare: DVDs of "Bridget Jones's Diary" and "Pretty Woman," for instance.

"I've always noticed that the World Cup was a lull in business, but not everybody wants to get hit by football," Mr. Bevan said. "We just need to market it differently."

The Swiss Tourist Board has appealed even more aggressively to women with an "Alternative Ladies Program" that captured the imagination of non-fans of soccer even before television advertisements aired in France, Germany, and Switzerland.

An Internet clip, downloaded more than 100,000 times from the board's Web site (www.myswitzerland.com/en/movies/wm/), features muscular Swiss men, including Mr. Switzerland 2005 — a dairy farmer and part-time model who leans laconically against a cow. The message couldn't be more blunt: "Dear girls, why not escape this summer's World Cup to a country where men spend less time on football and more on you."

"We're really amazed at the reaction, since it was a low-cost production," said Edith Sweifel, a spokeswoman for the tourist board. She said the clip had been downloaded all over the world with mostly positive reactions — except for a few critics who complained that the ad was promoting more than mountain-hiking adventure.

"Our response was that it's a pity that someone who sees a man without a shirt can think we're talking about sex tourism," Ms. Sweifel said.

These public relations ploys have proved effective, but advertising media buyers and sports research groups say they overlook a rising trend: more women are watching major sporting events.

"When you look at women today, they may not play football, but they like to speak and talk about football stars as people," said Lucien Boyer, chief executive officer of Havas Sports, a sports communications agency based in Paris. "They like to consider the football players as part of their favorite stars, and a reference for fashion and lifestyle like British player, David Beckham."

Average female viewing levels in France grew from almost 33 percent during the national triumph of the 1998 World Cup to almost 40 percent in 2002, when the French team did not make it into the final, according to Mediamétrie, a Paris-based company that measures audiences for television and radio across Europe.

Yet even with an upward trend, there are still great disparities between the numbers of men and women watching football across Western Europe.

Generally, 60 percent of the sports audience is men and 40 percent women, "with tennis more evenly watched," said Nigel Geach, marketing director for Sports Marketing Surveys, which conducts audience research for the World Cup's governing authority, F.I.F.A.

"What's happening in all sports," he said, "is that there is more of a female buzz about it because of the lifestyle of these athletes, the female interest in what clothes they're wearing, their girlfriends."

The town of Wagen in the southern German region of Baden-Wurttemberg decided to capitalize on that interest with soccer camps for women. More than 200 women signed up for the crash course, including a group of female journalists, who were trained in theory, history, and practical play.

"Everybody speaks about the fascination of soccer and I thought that was a little exaggerated," said Gisela Mackensen, a reporter with the German newswire DPA, who participated in a day-long course. "When we practiced a little, it was really fun and all of the women wouldn't stop playing. It was raining. It was pouring. But nobody wanted to stop."

Kirsten Jensen, 27, a secretary from Rotterdam, remains unconvinced. "I'm part of a group of women who think that there's just too much about soccer on television and that we have to do something against it," she said.

Ms. Jensen and a group of five friends are behind two new Web sites in English and Dutch that promote the rebellious notion of football-free zones. On the sites, www.wegmethetwk.nl and www.stoptheworldcup.co.uk, they have published new rules of engagement.

Rule No. 1, "Stop the World Cup," is something they do not expect to achieve, Ms. Jensen admitted, though she is more hopeful about Rule No. 5:

"Each and every hour of televised football must be compensated with two hours of 'Sex and the City' or 'Desperate Housewives.' "

Her boyfriend, Ms. Jensen said, tolerates her protests, but is not pleased with her demand for remote-control dominance.

"I've tried to watch soccer with my boyfriend. The thing is I do like the team, but I have to take care of all the drinks and snacks," she said. "And also, he has to watch all 64 games, so I'm looking now at the option of going away for the World Cup with two other friends."

Naturally, Ms. Jensen said, she sampled the Swiss Tourist Board site to see what the nation had to offer. But despite the attractions of its men, she is looking in another direction.

With its team in the World Cup, she said, Switzerland cannot be a pure football-free zone. Instead, the United States beckons: "They don't like soccer."
60 2006-06-02 Mr. Putin made no public statement about the dismissal of Mr. Ustinov, which required a vote of the upper house of parliament. The vote was held without deliberation and was unanimous except for two abstentions.

Nor did Mr. Putin announce a permanent replacement; the Kremlin said Mr. Ustinov's deputy would serve as acting prosecutor general.

Along with speculation about Mr. Putin's motives, contradictory statements abounded among Mr. Putin's political allies.

The speaker of the upper house of parliament, Sergei M. Mironov, described the removal as a "technical step" requested by Mr. Ustinov himself. But the deputy prime minister and defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, hinted that there were "good reasons" for his departure.

Dmitri S. Peskov, a Kremlin spokesman, said in a telephone interview that the president's decision reflected his desire to appoint "some key people," and presumably dismiss others to make way for them, but he would not elaborate.

"The position is extremely important, especially if you take into account the fight against corruption, against terrorism and so on," Mr. Peskov said of the prosecutor general's office. "The one thing that is obvious is that there will be no time-out in that fight."

Political figures and analysts outside the government split over the meaning of Mr. Ustinov's departure. Some suggested that Mr. Ustinov did little to combat corruption seriously, while others said his blunt remarks about corruption might have been seen as doing too much.

Mr. Ustinov presided over the country's most prominent prosecutions, including that of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, once the chairman of Yukos Oil and the richest man in Russia. Mr. Khodorkovsky was sentenced to eight years in prison last year in a case that critics have called purely political.

Mr. Ustinov also oversaw controversial investigations into the country's worst accidents and terrorist attacks, including the accidental sinking of the nuclear submarine Kursk and hostage seizures at a Moscow theater in 2002 and a school in Beslan in 2004.

Olga V. Kryshtanovskaya, a sociologist who has written extensively about the Kremlin hierarchy, said that Mr. Ustinov was "practically stupid" to speak openly about the extent of criminality and corruption in Russia, though Mr. Putin himself has also denounced those aspects of his country in public statements.

"Putin had been doing everything he can to improve Russia's image," she said in a telephone interview. "He didn't want the image of a country where the mafia is in charge of everything."

She and others attributed Mr. Ustinov's departure to a struggle among Mr. Putin's cadre of advisors, one that waxes and wanes as speculation mounts over whom Mr. Putin will anoint as his successor. His second and, by law, final term as president ends in 2008.

Mr. Ustinov was widely regarded as a hawk among the Putin advisors from security and law-enforcement backgrounds, known as the siloviki; the faction is led by the deputy chief of the presidential administration, Igor I. Sechin.

Another faction is made up of aides who are viewed as comparatively liberal and who are aligned with a Putin protégé, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who is now both the first deputy prime minister and the chairman of Gazprom, the giant state-controlled energy company.

"The departure of Ustinov is an important victory for liberals in the government and president administration, in what appears to be an ongoing power struggle behind the scenes," Goldman Sachs said in a research note.

Vladimir A. Ryzhkov, one of the few independent critics of Mr. Putin in the lower house of parliament, dismissed Mr. Ustinov's departure as ultimately insignificant, saying the prosecutor general's office under Mr. Putin had lost any judicial or legal independence.

He predicted that Mr. Ustinov's replacement would do neither more nor less, and would pursue or ignore criminal cases based on the political considerations of Mr. Putin's inner circle, just as his predecessor did.

"Ustinov was a very loyal servant for all these years," Mr. Ryzhkov said in a telephone interview. "He served not the law, but the Kremlin."
61 2006-06-02 Three men have been charged with murder and robbery in the death of a 24-year-old Hoboken man who was found beaten on a Chelsea street corner early on May 21, the police said. Three others were charged with criminal possession of stolen property.

Investigators said that the victim, Thomas Whitney Jr., a financial analyst who had been with friends at a bar, died after an attack on 19th Street near Sixth Avenue shortly after 4 a.m.

Initially, the killing stymied detectives because the police were not immediately notified after the attack. Mr. Whitney was found on the ground without any identification and was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center by a passing ambulance. He died 12 hours later.

A breakthrough in the case came after the police publicized surveillance images that showed three men on a citywide shopping spree using Mr. Whitney's credit cards.

Tips to a police phone line helped investigators identify suspects and bring them in for questioning on Wednesday night.
62 2006-06-02 They liberated the bleachers from a nearby softball field. Just picked them up, dragged them across Van Cortlandt Park and set them near their "dugout," which, according to Manhattan College pitcher Chris Cody, consists of an aluminum bench protected from neither the elements nor the locals wandering through the park.

Until last weekend, it had been 49 years since Manhattan had qualified for the N.C.A.A. baseball tournament, and it could be argued that the Jaspers' home field, a very public diamond in a public park in the Bronx, might have had something to do with that drought. It is hard to fashion a strong recruiting pitch when that pitch involves a fair measure of do-it-yourself groundskeeping.

"At every school, the kids have to do some things to take care of the field," said the first-year coach Kevin Leighton, a 2001 graduate of Seton Hall, who took over at Manhattan when Steve Trimper left for the University of Maine. "But we go above and beyond."

Despite these impediments, the Jaspers (32-21) managed to win the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference tournament championship Saturday, defeating Le Moyne, 7-3. This afternoon, they expect to play in front of nearly 10,000 fans against the University of Nebraska (the host, and seeded sixth in the tournament) in the first round of an N.C.A.A. tournament regional. And in between, they celebrated by dismantling a chain-link fence surrounding their field to prepare it for off-season storage.

"There are times when we have to kick other teams off so we can practice," said Cody, who was named the MAAC pitcher of the year after going 11-2 with a 1.45 earned run average. "It's interesting to see the looks on the other teams' faces when they see the fire engines going by, and the local people walking past their bench to get from one place to another."
63 2006-06-02 Euronext, which was formed from mergers of the Paris, Amsterdam and Brussels stock exchanges, as well as the London derivatives exchange Liffe, will become part of NYSE Euronext, the American holding company that will be created. Regulators from each country where stocks trade will continue to oversee that activity.

The acquisition is subject to approval by regulators and shareholders. If approved, the merger would take about six months to complete.

The head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Christopher Cox, said: "We are working with our counterparts in Paris and Amsterdam to establish a cooperative approach to the type of combination being proposed. We have every expectation that a transaction can take place that will benefit investors in all of the affected countries."

Mr. Thain said the acquisition would diversify the exchange's earnings, which are currently concentrated on stock market trading, and extend its global reach.

The announcement could also set off a flurry of deals among the remaining major players, including Nasdaq, Deutsche Börse and the London Stock Exchange. Various bidders, including Nasdaq and the Deutsche Börse have tried and failed to buy the London Exchange. Nasdaq has since built a 25.1 percent stake in the exchange.

Yesterday's agreement is a significant victory for Mr. Thain, who joined the exchange in 2004 at a time when its reputation was in tatters over a pay scandal related to the former chairman, Richard A. Grasso, and a regulatory investigation that went to the heart of the exchange's floor-based trading system.

In two and a half years, Mr. Thain has overseen the transformation of the exchange from a member-owned club to a $10 billion publicly traded company. Soon after the exchange announced the acquisition of Archipelago Holdings, the all-electronic exchange, in April 2005, Mr. Thain made clear that he intended to create a multiproduct, global market.

He will become chief executive of the new company, and the head of Euronext, Jean-François Théodore, will be deputy chief executive. The board will be made up of 11 NYSE executives and 9 from Euronext.

The deal values Euronext at 72.08 euros ($92.29) a share — a 4.6 percent premium over the exchange's closing price of 68.90 euros. Euronext shareholders will get 0.98 share of the new company and 21.32 euros in cash. NYSE Group shareholders will get one share of the new company for each of their shares.

Mr. Thain and his team flew to Paris over the weekend to hammer out the final details of the deal, including its regulatory structure. According to the announcement, Atos Euronext Market Solutions, the entity that manages Euronext's technology, will supervise the integration of NYSE Euronext's three cash trading systems and three derivatives systems into a "single global cash and a single global derivatives platform."

In addition, 10 data centers will be reduced to 4 — 2 in the United States and 2 in Europe — and 4 networks will be reduced to one. Combining the companies will result in $375 million in savings, the announcement said.

During yesterday's meeting Mr. Thain confirmed that he would stay for at least two more years.
64 2006-06-02 It has been over two centuries since securities traders began meeting informally under a buttonwood tree on Wall Street. The New York Stock Exchange's columned neo-Classical building is as instantly recognizable as the ceremonial ringing of the opening and closing bells, its floor brokers the embodiment of the frenzied pace of the market. The exchange remains a potent symbol of this city's and this country's financial pre-eminence.

Despite the tradition, things have changed. Investment is no longer contained by national boundaries, and operations are regularly executed electronically. Into the crowded fray come new and more complicated financial instruments.

If the exchange's corporate parent, the NYSE Group, is going to keep up, it will have to embrace change. Last year the company announced its acquisition of the electronic trading network Archipelago. Now it has reached a deal for the cross-border European exchange company Euronext.

If approved by regulators and shareholders, it would be the first trans-Atlantic market, though the rival Nasdaq has already bought up a 25 percent stake in the London Stock Exchange. Rather than leading the way, the exchanges are catching up to the reality of internationalized investing.

The combination would create "the world's most liquid and truly global financial marketplace," according to John Thain, chief executive of the NYSE Group. It would certainly be a goliath, with a combined market capitalization at the time of the offer of roughly $21 billion and listed companies worth a total of $27 trillion. Most important to investors in the exchange companies themselves is the $375 million in potential savings that NYSE Group predicts for a combined entity.

If a combined company can pass the fruits of those savings on to the average investor — not to mention added ease in buying shares of foreign companies — we're all for it. An era of global trading could benefit from international exchanges. Regulators on both sides of the Atlantic should take a cue and speed up the process of bringing their respective rules into harmony. There's no time to lose. The financial markets never sleep.
65 2006-06-02 DALLAS, June 1 — The National Basketball Association suspended a backup center for the Dallas Mavericks but took no action against their owner, Mark Cuban, for an incident in the stands during Tuesday night's game in Phoenix.

The center, D. J. Mbenga, was suspended for six games without pay, starting with Thursday's playoff game against the Suns. Mbenga is on the inactive list and has not played during the Western Conference finals. But the suspension of the 7-foot Mbenga could hurt the Mavericks if they advance to the N.B.A. finals and have to contend with Miami's Shaquille O'Neal.

Mbenga and Cuban went to the aid of Cassandra Johnson, the wife of Dallas Coach Avery Johnson, when she got in a dispute with Suns fans. The N.B.A. has taken a hard line against players' entering the stands, even to aid a family member. The league suspended Antonio Davis, then with the Knicks, for five games this season after he went to the aid of his wife during a fan dispute in Chicago.

The league's concern is that a player's presence may escalate a dispute, as it did when the Indiana Pacers brawled with Detroit Pistons fans in December 2004.

In a statement, the league announced it would not penalize Cuban because "his actions did not violate N.B.A. rules and were not otherwise inappropriate."

Stu Jackson, the N.B.A's senior vice president for basketball operations, said: "In most cases, albeit except for Mark Cuban, most owners are already in the stands. Obviously, Mark is a very intelligent man, and according to our investigation, he handled it appropriately."
66 2006-06-02 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the nominee for Treasury secretary, has a big reason to support tax relief.

Because of a little-known provision in the federal tax code, Mr. Paulson, the departing Goldman Sachs chief executive, could receive a tax break of at least $48 million if he is confirmed.

The tax rule, Section 1043 of the Internal Revenue Code, allows individuals who are forced to sell stock to meet federal conflict-of-interest rules to defer paying capital gains tax, so long as the proceeds are reinvested in government bonds, diversified index funds and other similar instruments. The provision applies only to employees in the Executive Branch (Congressional lawmakers, Supreme Court justices or ordinary taxpayers need not apply) and is intended to "minimize the burden of government service" resulting from a forced divestiture.

If confirmed, Mr. Paulson is expected to give up control of at least $700 million, a fortune built largely from Goldman Sachs stock, by putting those assets in a blind trust. Then, it is likely that Mr. Paulson will be required to sell his Goldman Sachs shares to avoid any conflict of interest. The tax provision, accounting specialists said, represents an opportunity for Mr. Paulson to use the sale to diversify his holdings without paying capital gains tax on the bulk of those Goldman shares, which have almost tripled in value since the investment bank's initial offering in May 1999.

"If you do that, the gain you diverted from the Goldman sale will never be taxed," said Robert Willens, an accounting expert at Lehman Brothers. "This has got to be part of the inducement that allows them to take these positions."

Mr. Paulson's 3.23 million shares of Goldman stock are worth more than $495 million, based on the most recent regulatory filings and yesterday's closing price of $153.55 a share. (This does not include the value of his restricted stock units and options, which are generally taxed as ordinary income, not capital gains.)

Assuming conservatively that the most of those shares have a cost basis at or below the initial offering price of $53, he would have roughly $325 million in capital gains, said Brian Foley, an independent compensation consultant in White Plains. Deferring the 15 percent federal tax results in the $48 million break.
67 2006-06-02 Both men have been open about their part-time jobs, which are noted in their biographies on the Campaign Finance Board's Web site and were also disclosed in financial statements they filed with the city's Conflicts of Interest Board.

In interviews, both men said yesterday that they had not been aware of the restrictions, but added that they did not believe they violated the spirit of the law.

On Wednesday, in a letter to Nicole A. Gordon, the board's executive director, Mr. Schwarz wrote, "I have never been a lobbyist, have never participated in any Brennan Center lobbying and have a written recusal agreement with the center with respect to any work on city Campaign Finance Board issues."

The Brennan Center said yesterday that to clear up the matter, it had suspended its lobbying work in the city and that it would soon transfer that work to a new entity, the Brennan Center Strategic Fund, in which Mr. Schwarz will have no role. Mr. Schwarz said the board's general counsel, Sue Ellen Dodell, told him that the new arrangement "would obviate any potential questions" about a conflict of interest.

Rabbi Potasnik said he did not believe the term "employees" in the statute should be interpreted to include his role as chaplain, which began in 1998. He said his background was reviewed by city lawyers when he was first nominated, in 1999.

"It wasn't seen as a conflict and I don't see it as a conflict," he said of his position as chaplain. "When one looks at law, one looks at spirit of the law and letter of the law. In Jewish traditions, we're well aware of those two worlds."

Of Rabbi Potasnik's case, Mr. Loeser said the Bloomberg administration is "looking into whether a part-time religious chaplain fit the definition of a city employee as contemplated by the City Charter when Rabbi Potasnik was first appointed to the Campaign Finance Board in 1999."

Two of the Campaign Finance Board's five members are appointed by the mayor and two by the City Council speaker, and a chairman is selected by the mayor after consulting the speaker. No more than three members can be from the same political party. The members are unsalaried, but receive $100 for each day they perform board duties.

Several legal experts said the prohibition on lobbyists and city employees was perhaps too broadly worded.

"From my knowledge of the relationship Fritz Schwarz has with the Brennan Center and Joe Potasnik has with the Fire Department, from my point of view, any conflict would only be technical," said the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, a former president of Fordham University, who was chairman of the Campaign Finance Board from 1988 to 2003. "There is a technical inconsistency, which I hope is resolved."

Robert C. Newman, a member of the government ethics committee of the New York City Bar, said, "These facts, based on a narrow reading of the statute, do raise a legitimate question and concern." He added that he was "not ethically troubled" by either board member's situation.

Mr. Newman said the law should "distinguish between lobbying that is minimal and lobbying that is a substantial part of a person's work." He added that minor city employment that "raises no practical possibility of a conflict of interest" should not disqualify Rabbi Potasnik from serving. Mr. Newman, who works at the Legal Aid Society, said he was speaking only for himself.

Rabbi Potasnik, 59, is executive vice president of the New York Board of Rabbis and is senior rabbi at Congregation Mount Sinai, a Conservative synagogue in Brooklyn. He is also a lawyer. He was reappointed in 2002.

Mr. Schwarz, who is 71 and is known as Fritz, was corporation counsel from 1982 to 1986 under Mayor Edward I. Koch, and a longtime partner at the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, where he is now senior counsel. He is chairman of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group.

The Brennan Center has done only modest lobbying in the city, spending $18,354 in 2004 and $17,272 last year to support issues like voting rights, minimum-wage legislation and broader access to health care, according to filings at the city clerk's office. The center's executive director, Michael Waldman, said the lobbying consumed "less than a third of one-percent of our budget" of about $7 million.
68 2006-06-02 Brown faces an ongoing internal struggle (and one with his producer) to choose what not to analyze. There is only so much for viewers to absorb.

The Hubie Effect can be enriching and numbing — a balance between "Tell me more" and "Stop before you give us Flip Saunders's 18th option!"

Early in Game 4 of the Detroit-Miami Eastern Conference finals, Brown said, over a replay: "Here they are in the 3-2 zone there right now. See them playing the area of the floor. It's a flat 3-2. Now they go high-low. Beautiful." Breen interjected that Miami's Udonis Haslem missed a shot and Brown continued, "See, they put Haslem up on the foul-line area, and moved Shaq right in front of the rim so they negate the zone and force you to play the man." There might have been an easier way to say that. Brown's work is filled with mouthfuls as long as 60 seconds, which lead him to speak through one, two or even three possessions, leaving the savvy, respectful Breen silent. The attitude is: Hubie is Yoda, just let him talk, and people will be amazed by his wisdom. Sometimes he is wise, sometimes he is windy. Even Yoda might have told Hubert that among Jedi analysts, less is more, and the little guy would have counseled Charles Barkley similarly.

Brown has never seemed to be a showoff, but he is as intensely focused on analyzing a game as he was on coaching one. His penchant for talking well into plays is commonplace and part of the looseness in basketball broadcasts. Doug Collins and Steve Kerr ramble on routinely on TNT but much less so than Brown. At TNT, Marv Albert is the dominant voice.

Hubie is the Basketball Encyclopedia Brown, a man in the multivolume business. Yet as educational as he can be, he can still make you beg for mercy from the massive weight of his analytic load. How about an anecdote, say about Micheal Ray Richardson?

One moment that called for an intensity timeout occurred in Game 5 of the Miami-Detroit series on Wednesday when Brown said: "Now keep an eye on Rip Hamilton on the baseline at the top of the screen. Now we're going to see his defender cheat. He's going to double-space, going over the top. Now when McDyess goes down to set the baseline, watch him come back and set a screen right there. Now just keep an eye on this now. ..."

That was not the end of it.

Brown's style of analysis begs for him to be hard-wired to a TeleStrator that would best illustrate the rapid-fire, ack-ack quality of his descriptions, some of which go off in multiple directions. But that essential graphic tool, so essential to understanding the Tao of Hubie, has rarely been deployed.

In Game 5, a prime HubieStrated replay came with 1 minute 33 seconds left in the fourth quarter. Miami's Antoine Walker missed a 3-point shot, and Brown said: "Now the Pistons had good recovery that time. When we say closeout, when the ball goes into the lane and then it's kicked out behind the 3, when you close out, you don't want to jump and go past the shooter, and they closed out and forced Walker to put it down."

But there was neither a replay nor a TeleStrator.

One tool that should be devised for Brown is a continuing glossary of Hubieisms that would run on the bottom of the screen and would define a "closeout," a "double space" or a "flat 3-2 zone" soon after he utters them.

ESPN's coverage of Game 5 of the Heat-Pistons series generated a 5.5 rating, the highest for a basketball game on the network.
69 2006-06-02 In many ways, reactions to Washington's proposal to break 27 years of silence toward Iran mirrors the American reaction to the letter that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad sent to President Bush.

While the letter, which among other things declared liberal democracy a failure, was summarily dismissed, even mocked, its very existence was perceived by many in Washington and Tehran as an effort to reach out and begin a dialogue.

In an interview, Javad Vaeidi, the Iranian Supreme Security Council's deputy head for international affairs, agreed that the United States overture was, in itself, a positive step similar to Mr. Ahmadinejad's letter.

But he flatly rejected not only the content but also the tone of the proposal. As Mr. Vaeidi defined the conflict, it is as much about earning respect for Iran as about developing nuclear power. It would be humiliating to give up enrichment, he said.

"The wording unfortunately shows that still the Bush administration does not want to convince us that they are ready to consider our rights and interests," Mr. Vaeidi said during a two-hour interview in the Supreme Security Council offices in central Tehran. "The content, I think, is based on domestic affairs of the United States."

For two years under the previous president, Mohammad Khatami, Iran suspended its nuclear enrichment activities as part of a strategy based on so-called confidence building. But the Iranian leadership eventually concluded that it would never achieve its goal by acceding to the West's demands, Mr. Vaeidi said.

With Mr. Ahmadinejad's election as president in June, Tehran did not change its goal, Mr. Vaeidi said.

But it did change its tactics, adopting an aggressive and uncompromising approach. And while there is a degree of anxiety over the prospect of punitive action by the United Nations Security Council, Iranian officials and analysts here say the new strategy has succeeded by allowing Iran to set the agenda.

"We are not after adventure," Mr. Vaeidi said. "We do not want trouble; we do not want confrontation. We just want our rights."

Until now, Washington and Tehran have chiefly used surrogates in a battle of wits and recrimination that dates to the Islamic Revolution of 1979 and the ensuing hostage crisis in the United States Embassy here. Even on the nuclear issue there has been no direct back and forth between Tehran and Washington.

Mr. Ahmadinejad's letter and Washington's offer seem to have moved the ball. But it is not at all clear what comes next, as each side holds tightly to its basic demands regarding enrichment.

"The Bush administration thinks the Iranian people are willing to lose their rights just to create a dialogue with the West," Mr. Vaeidi said.

European diplomats in Iran said that for some time their capitals had been pressing Washington to directly engage Tehran, saying any package of incentives to induce Iran to give up its nuclear program would be meaningless without a security guarantee from the United States.

But Iranian officials have also set seemingly impossible conditions for face-to-face talks, like an absolute American guarantee of their government's security, even while saying they would welcome such talks.

At the same time, conservative Iranian officials are not all that eager to improve relations with the United States, because they fear that doing so might prop up the opposition parties that talk about democracy, said a political scientist who insisted on anonymity because of his close ties to the government.

Iran's insistence on defining the conflict in broad, historical terms also complicates any effort to find a diplomatic solution. Mr. Vaeidi said that ever since the revolution the United States had pursued a policy toward Iran of "denial and containment" — denying the legitimacy of the government and containing Iran's influence in the region. He said he saw Washington's effort to suppress Iran's nuclear program as an extension of that policy.

"In my opinion," Mr. Vaeidi said, "the main issue is not Iran's nuclear activities. The main issue is actually the Iranian people's position in the future of the region and in international affairs."

The threshold for substantive talks with the Americans, he said, "is when they accept our rights, our interests, our security."

Mr. Vaeidi took the early lead in negotiating with the Russians and has headed Iran's delegation to meetings of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. To listen to Mr. Vaeidi is to hear a historical overview of Iran's victimization at the hands of foreign powers, including France, Russia, Britain and the United States. It is to hear a worldview set by outside meddling in Iranian affairs and international opposition to what is now hailed as a breakthrough moment for the nation: the nationalization of its oil reserves.

If there is one element of American foreign policy that seems to baffle Mr. Vaeidi, it is the United States support for Israel. While he did not repeat President Ahmadinejad's call for wiping Israel off the map, he did say he viewed Israel as an illegitimate state. And he said he believed that the United States would one day realize that it was not in its best interests to continue to support Israel.

But if there was one recurring theme that ran throughout the interview with Mr. Vaeidi, it was respect. Iran, he said, expects to be treated as any other nation that has signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and not to be singled out as different and less trustworthy.

"We are not an exception," he said. "Why do we have to accept this point?"
70 2006-06-02 The announcement came just a day after the two candidates agreed to hold several debates, including one that will be conducted on the Internet by the nonpartisan Hall Institute of Public Policy in Trenton. Beginning next month and continuing every two weeks until the November election, the candidates are expected to post their responses to questions submitted to a Web site.

Calling himself an "agent of change," Mr. Menendez — considered the most powerful Democrat in Hudson County — suggested that his opposition to the war in Iraq while in Congress and his recent campaign to stop the sale of domestic port operations to Dubai were signs that he has the will to oppose the president.

"New Jersey cannot afford to send to Washington a senator who will blindly follow the president as he marches our country further and further down the road to dangerous insolvency at home and reckless entanglements abroad," Mr. Menendez said.

The senator also alluded to other contentious issues, including soaring gasoline prices, tax breaks for the wealthy, cuts in aid to higher education and the slow response to Hurricane Katrina.

Mr. Menendez, 52, who served in the House for 14 years before being appointed to the Senate in December by Gov. Jon S. Corzine, who had held the seat, received his most sustained applause when he said that he believed the military should have focused on finding Osama bin Laden rather than invading Iraq.

"Today, over 2,400 lives of Americans later, $300 billion and $6 billion a month more with no strategy for success, I know standing up to George Bush on Iraq was the right decision," he said, shortly after suggesting that Mr. Kean "longs to be part of the status quo."

While Mr. Menendez tried to make the campaign about Mr. Bush, Mr. Kean on Thursday portrayed Mr. Menendez as a product of northern New Jersey's political machine. At a campaign event in Jersey City, Mr. Kean, who is being challenged in the primary by John Ginty, also questioned $200,000 worth of contracts that a former staff aide to Mr. Menendez received from Menendez supporters.

"The people of New Jersey can no longer afford party bosses who put politics first and people second," Mr. Kean said. "We need to elect a United States senator who will bring a true moral compass to office."
71 2006-06-02 FORT MEADE, Md., June 1 (AP) — A military jury on Thursday convicted an Army dog handler of using his animal to torment a prisoner at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq.

The handler, Sgt. Santos A. Cardona, is the 11th soldier convicted of crimes stemming from the abuse of inmates at the prison in late 2003 and early 2004.

Sergeant Cardona, 32, of Fullerton, Calif., was convicted of dereliction of duty and aggravated assault for allowing his dog to bark within inches of a prisoner's face.

But the panel of four officers and three enlisted soldiers acquitted Sergeant Cardona of some of the most serious charges he faced, including unlawfully having his dog bite an inmate and conspiring with another dog handler to frighten prisoners into soiling themselves.

Sergeant Cardona, a 12-year veteran, stood at attention in his green dress uniform as the verdict was read. He faces a penalty of up to three and a half years in prison.
72 2006-06-02 The man with the attaché case is back.

The lifelike, life-sized bronze businessman preparing anxiously on a park bench for his next meeting was a fondly regarded figure and a symbol of Lower Manhattan's survival after 9/11. Cleaned up and dusted off, he returned to his seat yesterday cater-corner from the World Trade Center site.

Construction barriers came down before dawn around what was formerly known as Liberty Park, a privately owned public space of slightly more than half an acre. Its 10-month, $8.2 million renovation was financed by Brookfield Properties, the owners of 1 Liberty Plaza, a 54-story skyscraper across Liberty Street whose original developers were permitted in 1968 to build 500,000 extra square feet of office space in return for providing the park.

Almost nothing about the park — renamed for John E. Zuccotti, the chairman of Brookfield in the United States — resembles the place that existed before Sept. 11, 2001. It had been little more than a barren expanse in the years after the attack and had been closed off since the renovation started last year.

J. Seward Johnson's "Double Check," as the man in bronze is called, is now hunched on a granite bench under a London plane tree at one corner of the park. Visitors rubbed his harder-than-Brylcreemed hair yesterday and added their own impromptu touches: An eighth grader from Houston, Mark Lupton, briefly accessorized the businessman with his sunglasses and baseball cap.

In redesigning the park, Cooper Robertson & Partners sought to soften the abrupt 13-foot grade change across the site by inclining the entire park, almost imperceptibly, at 2 degrees. They planted 54 honey locusts and one plane tree.
73 2006-06-02 By The Associated Press

Stocks rose sharply yesterday as investors brushed aside mixed signals on inflation a day after Federal Reserve meeting minutes showed concern over rising prices.

The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 91.97 points, or 0.82 percent, to 11,260.28. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 15.62 points, or 1.23 percent, to 1,285.71. The technology-weighted Nasdaq composite index surged 40.98 points, or 1.88 percent, to 2,219.86. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks gained 15.49 points, or 2.15 percent, to 736.50.

The market's rise, the second in two days, followed a pronounced pullback during the month of May.

Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange outpaced decliners by a margin of 7 to 2. Volume was 1.69 billion shares, compared with 1.99 billion shares on Wednesday.

While manufacturing activity slowed in May, high energy and materials costs fueled fears that the Fed would continue lifting interest rates to contain inflation. But a downward revision in first-quarter wage costs from the Labor Department suggested that prices were more subdued.

Strong May sales lifted retail stocks, and oil prices fell on reports of increased domestic reserves.
74 2006-06-02 "My assessment of the situation is that the government that has been elected under the new constitution needs to appoint a defense minister and a minister of interior and get about the task of governing the country," Mr. Rumsfeld said.

Mr. Maliki said this week that he intended to present candidates for the two positions to the next session of parliament on Sunday.

Mr. Rumsfeld arrived in Singapore today on the first leg of a swing through Asia. He is schedule to deliver a speech on Saturday to at an annual conference of defense officials and will also travel to Vietnam and Indonesia. He will return to the United States after a stop in Brussels to meet with NATO defense ministers.

But it was Iraq that was the focus of his brief meeting today with reporters. Mr. Maliki's assertions that American troops habitually infringed on the rights of Iraqi civilians and often did them harm were an indication of the pressure his coalition is under from Sunni Arabs who are upset about reports that United States Marines killed civilians in Haditha. But they also reflect anger on the part of the Iraqi public about the deaths of Iraqi civilians at the hands of Americans, either by accident or in the course of raids against insurgents. Mr. Maliki's predecessor, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, had presented similar complaints to the American military.

The charge was all the more striking since the Iraqi government depends on American forces for its security. Just this week, the American command ordered 1,500 American soldiers who had been kept in reserve in Kuwait to deploy to the Anbar province in western Iraq, where Marines have been doing battle with fighters controlled by Musab al-Zarqawi and a resilient insurgency.

Mr. Rumsfeld, however, focused on steps he wanted the Iraqi government to take, including picking officials to run its defense and interior ministries. Mr. Rumsfeld said that it was not surprising that Mr. Maliki's government would take some time to select officials to oversee such critical ministries. The Iraqi prime minister, he said, understood that the ministries needed to be run by competent centrists and was taking his responsibilities seriously. Still, he said, the delays were undermining efforts to improve security in Iraq.

"They have never done this and the period is long," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "The problem is that people are getting killed during this period — coalition forces and Iraqis, innocent Iraqis are getting killed.. And that's unfortunate, and therefore, there is a, needless to say, a sense of urgency on my part and I know on the part of the people involved."

Mr. Rumsfeld also said that Mr. Maliki's government needed to move ahead with a process of reconciliation to bring Sunnis opposed to the coalition into the government and, thus, take some of steam out of the insurgency.

"If we are worried right now about the final appointment of the last two ministers — which we are, we would like it done — the next big step we are going to be looking towards is a reconciliation process that will, we believe, contribute to a more peaceful Iraq," Mr.Rumsfeld said.

The American military is conducting several investigations into allegations that about two dozen Iraqi civilians were killed in Haditha. While the investigations proceed, senior American commanders in Iraq have ordered that all 150,000 coalition troops receive mandatory refresher training on the "legal, moral and ethnical standards on the battlefield."

Mr. Rumsfeld said that such measures were useful as a reminder. But he insisted that American forces that leave for Iraq already have a sound grounding in the laws of war and the discriminate use of force against an enemy that hides among the civilian population. "I know they are trained," he said. "The services train them, the training commands train them, and their leaders are required to see that they're properly trained."
75 2006-06-02 PAULSON'S SUCCESSOR Goldman Sachs's board is expected to meet today to appoint Lloyd C. Blankfein as chief executive to succeed Henry M. Paulson Jr., the nominee for Treasury secretary. People close to the board say it is also expected to debate w...
76 2006-06-02 In a bid to stave off price controls in Europe, six mobile phone operators said they were voluntarily cutting in half the amount they charged each other to carry the phone calls of customers who cross borders, a move that would produce savings for...
77 2006-06-02 The National Basketball Association suspended a backup center for the Dallas Mavericks but took no action against their owner, Mark Cuban, for an incident in the stands during Tuesday night's game in Phoenix.     The center, D. J. Mbenga, was susp...
78 2006-06-03 Larry Ellison, chief executive of Oracle and one of the richest men in the world, can't unload his Japanese villa in Atherton, Calif., so he's knocked down the price. The San Jose Mercury News reports that the property that was originally listed f...
79 2006-06-03 Now the 53-year-old Mr. Faso is auditioning for the role of political giant-killer, hoping to win the Sept. 12 Republican primary over Mr. Weld, a well-known figure in the national party. Yet as self-confident as Mr. Faso is, he is still maturing as a candidate — one who is still told by aides to lighten up his numbers-heavy stump speech, for instance.

A growing number of Republicans believe Mr. Faso has the hunger and tenacity for the task at hand, but may lack the fund-raising prowess and donors to finish it. And despite Mr. Faso's expectations, some party leaders said yesterday that they were personally sticking with Mr. Weld in the primary fight even though the party has officially endorsed Mr. Faso, in part because they worry that his conservative views and opposition to abortion will alienate voters in a general election.

While aglow in victory, Mr. Faso acknowledges a stark challenge: raising money. Many major party donors do not know Mr. Faso, his advisers admit, and he is still such an unknown that emcees sometimes mispronounce his surname as FAH-zo. (It actually rhymes with lasso.)

In a primary race that is most likely to turn on television commercials and debates, Mr. Faso had only $933,000 in the bank in January, compared with Mr. Weld's $1.8 million. Mr. Weld's advisers estimate that they have more than $3 million on hand now, while Mr. Faso refused to reveal his amount.

"Raising money is essential," Mr. Faso said while riding from Queens to an interview with WNBC, Channel 4. "I have to translate that convention victory into real momentum. When Republicans figure out who I am and what I'm campaigning on, I'm going to get 'em."

Mr. Faso is wasting no time. During a congratulatory phone call from one Republican yesterday, Mr. Faso mentioned that he was "working hard to win support and raise money" and then passed on the name of his finance director, Christina Sofia-Comer. She is one of about a dozen consultants and aides now working for Mr. Faso's relatively small campaign operation.

He also moved quickly to try to capitalize on his strong showing on Thursday at the state convention. In the interview, he said he now expected political support from two prominent Weld supporters — the state party chairman, Stephen J. Minarik III, and a former party chairman, Alexander Treadwell, known as Sandy, who is New York's Republican national committeeman. Mr. Faso also said he would soon go over strategy with Governor Pataki about the race against the probable Democratic nominee, Eliot Spitzer.

"Candidly, I'm now the party's official candidate, and I certainly expect the support of Steve, Sandy, and other party leaders," Mr. Faso said. Describing a congratulatory call on Thursday from Governor Pataki, Mr. Faso added, "The governor noted that I had an emphatic victory at the convention."

Mr. Minarik said that under state election law he would remain neutral in a primary, and that his personal endorsement of Mr. Weld was aimed at the convention. He said he expected that he and the party's executive director, Ryan Moses, would keep their jobs even though they supported Mr. Weld over Mr. Faso.

Asked if Mr. Weld should drop out in the name of party unity, Mr. Minarik said: "Maybe we should take a couple days to let the dust settle and then take a look at that. Though I think we'll be hard-pressed to tell anyone to get out of it."

Defying Mr. Faso's wishes, Mr. Treadwell said in a statement yesterday that he would continue supporting Mr. Weld.

David Catalfamo, a Pataki spokesman, signaled that Mr. Pataki did not plan to intervene between the two men. "The party has designated two candidates and as such the campaign is now moving to a primary," he said.

Mr. Weld vowed yesterday to remain in the race and said that no Republican leaders had asked him to drop out. He said yesterday that as an Albany outsider who is a fiscal conservative and a moderate on social issues like abortion, he stands a far better chance with the state's 3.1 million Republicans than with the 450 convention delegates — many of whom were conservatives with ties to Mr. Faso.

On substance, Mr. Faso and Mr. Weld support many of the same goals: tax cuts, spending cuts, debt reduction and worker's compensation reform. Where they particularly differ is style. Mr. Weld grew up on a rambling lakefront spread on Long Island, and his patrician manner — he loves to talk about his multiple homes across the state — can strike New Yorkers as a little rich.

Mr. Faso grew up in a working-class home in Seaford, on Long Island, and is both earthy and polished — but stolid as well.

The contrast was clear at the taping yesterday of WNBC's Sunday news program. On the air, Mr. Weld was asked why Achilles was a hero of his. He said he may share the Greek warrior's "martial temperament" and liked his panache, but not his doomed fate. The exchange was a bit over the top, even if Mr. Weld was a Greek and Latin major at Harvard. The whole thing cracked up Mr. Faso, who watched from another room, stomping his foot on the floor in laughter.

When Mr. Weld finished, a reporter asked Mr. Faso how his rival comes off.

"I have a word; I'll tell you later," he said.

An hour afterward, he did. "The word is detached," Mr. Faso said. "I just think he's detached from what's happening in the lives of everyday New Yorkers."
80 2006-06-03 "Being a Muslim staffer on the Hill is unique," said Ms. Haq, 24. "In our offices, there's such a desire for knowledge about Islam. And there's the broader lack of understanding between our government and others. It's almost a responsibility to speak up and not be silent as a progressive Muslim."

The group is overwhelmingly Democratic, with just one Republican staff member whose presence permits the association to call itself nonpartisan. Its mix of African-Americans, whites, South Asians and Arab-Americans reflects the broader Muslim population in the United States. Some Muslims who work in Congress are not members, and non-Muslims are welcome to join, Ms. Haq said, though none have. There are slightly more men than women.

In April, the association held a lunchtime seminar about the life of Muhammad and what he means to Muslims, after the violence touched off by caricatures of him in a Danish newspaper. The event drew more than 50 people, besides the association's members. Since then, representatives of the association have been invited by the Brookings Institution to take part in a panel on the European Union and Muslims.

The group hopes to have another lunch at which the topic will be how the American government's repetition of certain words that terrorist groups use inadvertently legitimizes narrow, and often misleading, definitions of those words.

For example, American officials often use the word "jihad" to refer to Al Qaeda's terrorist activities, although the word carries the much broader meaning of an inner spiritual struggle. Ms. Haq said that the group hoped to get the authors of a paper on the subject to meet with Congressional staff members who work on military and foreign policy issues.

Like Muslims around the country, those on Capitol Hill have been compelled by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 to take their rather private understanding of faith and explain and defend it in public.

Umair Khan, 25, an aide to Representative Bob Filner, Democrat of California, was a junior at Cornell University at the time of the attacks, and he began to write in the university newspaper and speak at meetings of high school students after death threats were made against Muslim students in a high school in Ithaca, N.Y.

Assad Akhter, 25, who works for Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, talked of how the religiously motivated killing of a Muslim family friend in Dallas had helped lead to his activism in the staff members' association.

"This may be the greatest country in the world, and things may be better than elsewhere," Mr. Akhter said, "but we're not seen as full Americans like everyone else."

The president of the association, Jameel Aalim-Johnson, who is chief of staff for Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Democrat of New York, said he relished the chance to teach people about Islam.

The lack of knowledge about even the most basic aspects of Islam is widespread on Capitol Hill, Muslim staff members said. Many people do not know, for example, that Islam is an Abrahamic religion that shares roots with Christianity and Judaism.

"People say, 'So you worship a different God?' " Mr. Aalim-Johnson said. "And I tell them, 'Well, it's a lot like the difference between Judaism and Christianity. Christians give to Jesus more than we do. We say he is a messiah, but we don't give him divinity, but you do. That's where we part ways.' "

If members of Congress and their aides had a fuller understanding of Islam, Mr. Aalim-Johnson said, then perhaps the furor over the Dubai ports deal might not have occurred. But others like Mr. Khan and Mr. Akhter concede that it is politically expedient these days to vilify Muslims, and that educating members of Congress about Islam would do little to end that.

Muslims on Capitol Hill draw some hope instead from other ethnic and religious groups that faced discrimination a generation or two ago, most notably Jews and Japanese-Americans, and who have since become more accepted by American society.

"There are a lot of moments when it feels very dark," Mr. Akhter said. "You aim high but have realistic expectations of what will happen. It's a whole world unto itself here in Congress, and people are very mobile. You plant a seed here and hope they take it with them where they go."
81 2006-06-03 Mr. Paulson is not expected to face significant opposition at his confirmation hearings.

RINGING REGISTERS Retailers posted robust sales in May, led by midmarket chains like J. C. Penney, where sales at stores open at least a year rose 11.1 percent over May 2005.

Some specialty retailers also posted big gains — Ann Taylor said its sales rose 12 percent — but others fell short of Wall Street forecasts. Gap, for example, said sales fell 6 percent.

Wal-Mart, the nation's biggest retailer, said sales rose 2.3 percent in the month, less than the 2.9 percent analysts had predicted.

The worst sales news came from domestic carmakers. General Motors was hit particularly hard: its sales tumbled 15.7 percent over last May. The Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler said its sales dropped 14 percent. Ford said its sales slipped 1.9 percent.

To cope with flagging sales, G.M. said it would cut vehicle production in North America by 8.4 percent in the third quarter.

BUT WAIT ... Even as consumers filled stores and malls last month, they were increasingly pessimistic about the economy, which may cause them to scale back buying later in the year, economists said.

The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index fell in May, after two months of gains. A survey sent to 5,000 homes found shoppers only slightly less optimistic about the economy now, but it noted a sharper decline in expectations about the economy over the next six months.

Uncertainty about job security and concern about energy prices are the primary reasons for the pessimism, economists said. That analysis was supported by employment numbers, which showed anemic job creation last month.

An AP-Ipsos telephone poll of 1,000 adults, meanwhile, found that 70 percent of Americans expect high gasoline prices to cause financial hardship over the next six months. A year ago, only 51 percent of those surveyed said that.

The Institute for Supply Management released a survey saying that manufacturing output declined in May, extending a four-month slide that reflects weaker orders. At the same time, one survey of factory prices posted its largest rise in eight months, reflecting rising costs for oil and other raw materials. Residential construction also slumped in May.

Conflicting data is clouding forecasts of whether Federal Reserve policy makers will raise interest rates again at their next two-day meeting, which begins June 28.

ENERGY FRENZY Forecasts are clear and upbeat in one area: energy mergers. That was affirmed when a group of investors offered to buy Kinder Morgan, a pipeline company, for $22 billion.

Kinder Morgan operates about 43,000 miles of pipelines of natural gas, oil, petroleum products and carbon dioxide. It also runs gasoline terminals and distributes natural gas to more than 1.1 million customers. The investors group is led by Richard D. Kinder, who founded the company after leaving Enron in 1996; he already owns 20 percent of its stock. Mr. Kinder said he wanted to take the company private.

Among all energy-services companies, pipeline operators are particularly attractive because they generate predictable cash flows and are less exposed to unexpected declines in oil or gas prices.

Kinder Morgan's stock price has already climbed above the buyout offer of $100 a share, suggesting that investors believe a higher bid will come soon.

FRENZY, PART 2 The day after investors offered to buy Kinder Morgan, an electrical power company in Georgia started an unsolicited takeover of its own, offering $7.8 billion for a generator based in

The target company, NRG Energy, rejected the hostile offer from the Mirant Corporation, based in Atlanta, as it had turned aside Mirant's earlier proposal for a friendly merger. Combining the companies would create the country's largest independent power company, with plants mainly in California, Texas, the Middle Atlantic states and the Northeast.

Mirant's offer follows a string of other utility mergers as companies have been teaming up to offset climbing costs for coal, natural gas and other fuels, and to take advantage of rising electricity prices.

While NRG dismissed Mirant's offer as inadequate, it did not rule out considering higher offers from Mirant or others.

MOST POPULAR Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from May 27 through June 2:

1. Where's the Petite Department? Going the Way of the Petticoat

2. Timing the Electronics Market for the Best Deal on a New PC

3. 2 Industry Leaders Bet on Coal but Split on Cleaner Approach

4. PC's That Are a Lot Smaller Than a Breadbox

5. Big Bonuses Still Flow, Even if Bosses Miss Goals
82 2006-06-03 Interest in the national spelling bee, which has been broadcast on ESPN the past 13 years, has grown in recent years, with two movies, a novel and a Broadway musical all focused on the country's longest-running educational contest. And with the popularity of reality television, organizers believe it only made sense that this competition was ready for prime time — two hours to be exact, on ABC.

"We always felt we had a great dramatic event with a great story to tell," said Paige P. Kimble, the director of the bee.

Despite the lack of flashing neon lights, 800 numbers, or celebrity tears, this year's spelling bee was not without its dramatic moments — like when Saryn Hooks of North Carolina was disqualified and reinstated moments later when the judges realized it was they who had misspelled the word "hechsher." She ultimately finished third.

But little of the drama emanated from Kerry, whom friends and family described as a cool character. With a slight smile and little hesitation, she rattled off word after word, ultimately beating Finola Hackett of Tofield, Alberta, who slipped up in the 19th round on the word "weltschmerz."

When Kerry heard the announcement of her final word — ursprache, a hypothetical parent language — she could tell she was golden.

"I knew I was going to win because I had studied the word, so I was really ecstatic," said Kerry, who modestly attributed her victory to chance as well. "I was lucky to get the words I was able to spell. It all depends on what words you studied."

Kerry was the first girl to win the competition in seven years, and the first winner to come from New Jersey. She will get $42,500 in cash and prizes.

At the H. W. Mountz School in the well-to-do shore town of Spring Lake, Kerry's classmates shouted their support Friday when she called in to a group gathered in the library.

Claire Ochse, Kerry's best friend, had watched her compete four previous years and said she could tell this year was different. "I thought she was going to win," Claire said. "She was very confident this year. She's so calm, cool and collected. She never gets overly excited."

Kerry's mother, Paula Close, said one difference this year — the last time Kerry was eligible to compete — might have been the way her daughter prepared for the bee. In the past, she had memorized nearly all the 23,000 words in the master list provided by E. W. Scripps, the bee's sponsor. But even at that, Kerry tied for seventh place in the 2005 competition.

"In previous years, she got stopped by words not on the consolidated word list," her mother said. "She figured the only way to crack this was to go through the dictionary itself."

So that is what Kerry said she did, spending an hour or two a day scanning the dictionary for unfamiliar words, which she wrote down, typed into her computer, then printed out, creating her own dictionary of obscure words.

"For Kerry, it's like a hobby," her mother said. "She always had it in perspective, and never let it take over her life."

Despite her dedication to the national bee, spelling is by no means Kerry's only interest. She sails competitively and is a starting forward on her school's varsity soccer team. Her language arts teacher, Linda Krebs, described Kerry as one of the best writers in the school, noting that "there's always at least one word in all her papers that makes me scratch my head."

Next year she will attend a magnet high school focusing on high technology, although Kerry says she wants to be a newspaper journalist someday.

"She's a go-getter," her mother said. "She seems quiet and shy and unassuming, but when she wants to do something, she works for it."
83 2006-06-03 Ruben F. Mettler, a former chief executive of the aerospace company TRW and a leader in the development of America's ballistic missile program, died at his home in Los Angeles on May 23. He was 82.

Mr. Mettler had been in declining health since suffering a stroke in 2004, Dan McClain, a spokesman for the family, said.

Mr. Mettler was associated with the development of many missile and guided rocket programs for the Air Force and NASA. He provided technical assistance for the Thor, Atlas, Titan and Minuteman rocket programs, among others.

After World War II, he was part of a Navy team that witnessed at close range the atom bomb tests at Bikini atoll in the Pacific. In 1955, Mr. Mettler joined the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation, which eventually merged with Thompson Products to form TRW. He served as TRW's president and chief operating officer from 1969 to 1977 and became its chairman and chief executive in 1977, holding those positions until his retirement in 1988. A TRW director for 30 years, he remained on the company's board until 1994.

He also served on the boards of Bank of America, Merck, Goodyear, Bechtel and Sola International and was chairman of the Business Roundtable from 1982-1984.
84 2006-06-03 "He was not a contractor exchanging goods or services with the agency," said Mr. Safavian, who later left the General Services Administration to join the White House budget office, where he oversaw federal procurement policies. "And that's what I think of as doing business with the agency."

Federal prosecutors have scoffed at Mr. Safavian's limited definition of the word "business" and have suggested that he lied about Mr. Abramoff, a former lobbying partner, because he was desperate to join the golfing trip.

The trip included five days of golf at the fabled course at St. Andrews with Mr. Abramoff and another guest, Representative Bob Ney, an Ohio Republican who has since also become caught up in the criminal investigations centered on Mr. Abramoff. Mr. Ney is also under scrutiny by the House ethics committee.

The chartered Gulfstream jet remained on the ground at St. Andrews throughout the golfing excursion and then ferried Mr. Abramoff and his guests to London, where they stayed at a $500-a-night hotel bordering Hyde Park before returning to Washington.

Prosecutors have charged that Mr. Safavian also lied to government investigators — most recently, those from a Senate committee investigating whether Mr. Abramoff had defrauded Indian tribe clients — when he claimed that a $3,100 check he wrote to the lobbyist covered his costs on the Scotland trip.

The Justice Department has said that its calculations show that the trip for nine passengers cost more than $130,000, meaning that Mr. Safavian's share would have been much more than $3,100.

Mr. Safavian, 38, described Mr. Abramoff as a "friend and, dare I say, mentor" and said he trusted the lobbyist when Mr. Abramoff gave him the $3,100 cost estimate shortly before they left for Scotland.

"He had no reason to low-ball me," said Mr. Safavian, who said that $3,100 seemed to him to be a "substantial cost" for a one-week vacation, even to a luxurious golfing resort.

He said he had insisted on writing a check to Mr. Abramoff at the time because "I was very concerned about what the image would look like of going on an international golfing trip paid for by a lobbyist."

Mr. Safavian's wife, Jennifer, also testified on Friday, saying she had agreed only reluctantly to spend the $3,100 for the trip, describing it as "a lot of money for a vacation for just one of us." She recalled that when government investigators later questioned the circumstances of the trip, she told her husband, "It's a good thing you paid for it."
85 2006-06-03 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission must consider the risk of terrorist attack when it evaluates the environmental effect of new projects, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, ruled. The commission had said that a nuclear reactor in California, Diablo Canyon, could build fuel storage casks without any significant environmental impact, and that the possibility of a terrorist attack was "speculative and simply too far removed from the natural or expected consequences of agency action to require a study." But the court, ruling in a suit brought by the group San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace and others, rejected that reasoning.
86 2006-06-03 Airbus, which has been engaged in a dispute over trade subsidies with its rival Boeing, filed suit in a United States court yesterday, asking that a law firm representing Boeing be excluded from the case because of a conflict of interest.

In a filing in Superior Court of the District of Columbia, Airbus contended that Boeing's legal counsel, Marco C. E. J. Bronckers, a partner in the Brussels office of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr, had inside information on Airbus because Mr. Bronckers previously represented the company in commercial aviation trade cases.

The Airbus suit says that Boeing's representation by Mr. Bronckers and by Wilmer Hale violates rules of professional ethics and asks that Mr. Bronckers as well as the firm, which has represented Boeing for over two years, withdraw from the case.

Continued representation by Wilmer Hale and Mr. Bronckers puts "highly sensitive business information at risk" and would cause "irreparable harm to Airbus," according to the filing.

Airbus's action comes as the World Trade Organization is sorting out competing complaints by Airbus and Boeing over the government aid each company receives as it develops new commercial aircraft.
87 2006-06-03 If there was a contest for openness during this week's New York political conventions, the Republicans won hands down. The party, which usually prefers candidates presented to the voters in a tidy political package of one per office, authorized primaries for the state's top two races. As one Republican operative explained after the convention in Hempstead, Long Island: "Primaries this year will probably be good for the party. Shake the cobwebs out."

In many ways the Republicans can only gain by presenting real choices for governor and U.S. senator in September. Their candidates will almost certainly be long shots in the general election. After 12 years with Gov. George Pataki running the Republican Party in a deeply Democratic state, these primaries can give Republicans a chance to rethink who they really are.

To run against Attorney General Eliot Spitzer for governor, the convention decided to give voters a choice between William Weld, the former Massachusetts governor, who is a relative moderate in the Pataki mold, and John Faso, the former Assembly minority leader, who is a popular conservative. Similarly, to run against Hillary Clinton for the Senate, Republican leaders put both John Spencer, the former Yonkers mayor and a vigorous conservative, and K. T. McFarland, one of the top women in the Reagan administration, on the primary ballot.

The Democratic convention was very different, attempting to shut out all competition for Mr. Spitzer and Andrew Cuomo, the party's choice for attorney general. Thomas Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, who is Mr. Spitzer's only real Democratic competitor, got a cold shoulder. In the race for attorney general, the Democrats shut out four credible candidates to steamroller Mr. Cuomo onto their ticket.

Political parties think of primaries as trouble, like watching a lot of money spent on an ugly public divorce. But giving the voters choices is almost always the best option. That's true for the Republicans, who are now struggling to find an identity. But Mr. Spitzer could use a challenger who makes him clarify his own thinking about how to fix Albany, and there's absolutely no reason why Democratic voters who could choose among several attractive candidates for attorney general should wind up having one crammed down their throats.

Any of the Democratic hopefuls who want to buck the party choice will have to get on the ballot by getting registered voters to sign their petitions. That might not be too onerous in any state but New York, where court challenges to petition signatures are a way of political life. In the past, Democrats have been known to allow delegates to shift around so that every viable candidate had automatic entry to the primary ballot. Too bad they did not honor that tradition this week in Buffalo.
88 2006-06-03 Do the themes of teaching deals arise in tournaments? Students miss what card-play technique more often than any other?

Themes of teaching deals do occur at the table. In a class, though, if the subject is card play, the students are already primed for the example deals. And if the topic is bidding, the play theme will be as clear-cut as possible. At the table there is no preamble, and the theme might not be easy to spot.

Loser-on-loser tops the missed-techniques list — and the diagramed deal, which arose during the qualifying rounds of the Goldman Pairs in New York last week, is a tough example of it.

If East passes over two hearts, South's three-diamond rebid is called a help-suit game-try. He is saying that he is too strong to pass out two hearts but not strong enough to jump to four hearts. He is asking North to look primarily at his diamond holding.

With at most one loser there (a void, a singleton, ace-doubleton or king-doubleton), North jumps to four hearts, even with only six or seven high-card points. With three diamond losers, he signs off in three hearts, even with eight or nine points. With two losers, he signs off with a minimum or — as here — jumps to game with a maximum.
89 2006-06-03 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission must consider the risk of terrorist attack when it evaluates the environmental effect of new projects, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, ruled. The commission had said tha...
90 2006-06-03 Sally Porter and her brother, Bill Navran, had two choices. They could either hire home care aides to live with their 79-year-old mother in her condo in Kansas City, Mo., or put her in an assisted living center. The choice could have been straight...
91 2006-06-03 When the Internet telephone provider Vonage went public last week, it was meant to be a coming-out party for a technology that many see as the future of voice communications. It was also a chance at redemption for Jeffrey A. Citron, a brash and ca...
92 2006-06-03 CONSUMERS were willing to open their wallets last month, but seem reluctant to do so in the near future. Energy companies, meanwhile, are eager to spend money and are likely to spend a lot more soon. These developments have something in common: en...
93 2006-06-03 OVED-WEISS--Or, 23, beloved son of Inbal Oved and Mark and Cathy Weiss, died suddenly and tragically in Bangkok, Thailand. Or was a loving and adored son, a worshipped caring brother and an inspiration to all who knew him. He served with distincti...
94 2006-06-04 Mauresmo, who won her first major title at the Australian Open in January, has yet to make the semifinals at Roland Garros in 12 appearances.

"I wasn't able to keep up my end of the bargain," Mauresmo said.

On the men's side, the lone remaining American was eliminated when No. 8-seeded James Blake lost to No. 25 Gael Monfils 6-2, 6-7 (2), 7-6 (1), 5-7, 6-4. The third-round match had been suspended after two sets Saturday because of darkness.

Venus Williams advanced to the quarterfinals when she won the final four games to beat No. 7-seeded Patty Schnyder 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. Seeded 11th, Williams is the last American in the women's draw.

"Lone flag waving gently in the wind," Williams said.

She committed 19 unforced errors in the first set, then totaled 16 in the last two. The reigning Wimbledon champion, making her 10th try at a French Open title, plays Vaidisova on Tuesday.

Top-ranked Roger Federer, seeking his fourth consecutive major title, advanced to the quarterfinals by beating No. 20 Tomas Berdych 6-3, 6-2, 6-3. Croatians Ivan Ljubicic and Mario Ancic also won, as did two-time runner-up Kim Clijsters on the women's side.

No. 13 Anna-Lena Groenefeld became the third first-time Grand Slam quarterfinalist on the women's side when she beat No. 32 Gisela Dulko 6-3, 6-4.

No. 10 Gaston Gaudio, the 2004 champion, was eliminated by No. 6 Nikolay Davydenko, 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3.

Sharapova, seeded fourth, said rustiness following a recent injury layoff contributed to her unraveling.

"You're thinking left and right, and you don't know what you're doing," Sharapova said. "You go into a different world, and you make dumb decisions."

She failed to convert two set points in the opening set, then rallied but couldn't close out the victory. She was twice broken serving for the match, hitting errant forehands on three consecutive points to lose serve for 5-all.

The 5-foot-11.5 Safina controlled the rallies in the final two games, keeping her Russian compatriot on the move and on her heels.

"I took everything in my hands," said Safina, seeded 14th. "Before, she was dictating and I had always to run from corner to corner. I said, 'OK, now I'll try to make her run.' I started to be more aggressive."

When Safina sealed the upset with a backhand crosscourt winner, she threw her arms aloft, then swung her racket one last time with glee.

The tournament was the first since April 1 for Sharapova, who withdrew from two events leading to Roland Garros because of a right ankle injury.

"I haven't played a lot of matches in the past weeks and don't feel like I'm match-tough enough," she said. "Of course I'm disappointed, but I didn't think I would be playing my best tennis here."

Safina will next play another Russian, former U.S. Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova. The No. 8-seeded Kuznetsova lost her serve seven times but rallied past No. 9 Francesca Schiavone 1-6, 6-4, 6-4.

Blake blew an easy volley to lose serve in the next-to-last game against Frenchman Monfils, who then closed out the victory to the delight of a partisan crowd on Court 1. Annoyed by the fans during the match, Blake complained to the chair umpire.

"A couple of times the fans said things during a point or during my service motion," Blake said. "I didn't feel like he did anything about it. He didn't feel like I had a valid point. We disagreed a bit."

When a line call was disputed, Blake invited a spectator out of the stands to check the mark. The fan did, and the call by the umpire went in Blake's favor.

"That was fabulous," Monfils said. "It was quite funny."

Monfils, the 2004 Roland Garros junior champion, has won five-setters in each of the first three rounds.

The No. 4-seeded Ljubicic needed only two games to close a victory over Juan Monaco, 4-6, 5-7, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2. Their match was suspended Saturday with Ljubicic leading 4-2 in the final set. The Croat overcame a two-set deficit for the third time in his career and improved to 6-12 in five-set matches.

Federer will next play the No. 12-seeded Ancic, who reached the Roland Garros quarterfinals for the first time by beating No. 7 Tommy Robredo 6-4, 4-6, 2-6, 6-4, 7-5. Ancic vomited in the fifth set and interrupted a game to receive treatment from a trainer for cramps.

"What a match he played," Federer said. "A lot of drama."
95 2006-06-04 Mangled bicycles were sprawled on the sidewalk after the blast, and shards of metal, broken glass and discarded shoes were scattered across the road. The teahouse's windows were blown out and equipment in the front was smashed.

A carpenter, Amanullah, 29, stood in a vest and burned trousers, taking a pull on a cigarette. "I was here working," he said, gesturing to the planks and sheets of wood on the sidewalk. "A coalition convoy went by and there was a car driving fast and I thought maybe he will crash and explode and then he did. He was a young man, without a hat. He was on his own," Amanullah said, his hair and eyelashes singed from the heat of the blast.

Amanullah, who like many Afghans uses only one name, said he was looking for his friend, Abdul Rahman, who is also a carpenter.

It turned out that Mr. Rahman was in the city hospital, badly burned and his head heavily bandaged, but alive. Three others, an elderly government worker, a 16-year-old boy who was crossing the road and a farmer who had been sitting in the teahouse, were heavily sedated with head wounds. An old man, his whole body burned, writhed in agony, the sedation still not working.

The Kandahar governor, Asadullah Khaled, said later that his bodyguards had spotted the speeding car and tried to block it from overtaking them. Apparently, it had been lying in wait down an alley and emerged as the convoy passed, a coalition statement said. Two vehicles in the convoy were slightly damaged, the statement said, but no coalition soldiers or government personnel were injured.

Survivors and relatives blamed the Taliban for the attack, but also criticized the government for failing to protect them and the coalition for driving through the center of town, inviting attacks in populated areas.

"The Taliban are trying to do jihad, but they are not doing that. They are just killing innocent people," said Abdul Nafi Agha, 30, a customer at the teahouse who escaped injury, his hand shaking as he spoke. "We don't want this government if they cannot bring security."

The commander of the Canadian battle group in Kandahar Province, Lt. Col. Ian Hope, said in an interview on Sunday that he did not expect suicide bombings to stop anytime soon, and that they might even increase in the coming months as insurgents find it harder to operate against coalition and Afghan forces in rural areas.
96 2006-06-04 The plan calls for both sides to met a series of obligations. In the first phase, Israel is to freeze settlement activity in the West Bank and the Palestinians are to disarm militant factions.

Mr. Olmert did not give a date for a possible meeting, although his aides have been saying that any meeting is not likely to happen for at least a couple of weeks.

Mr. Abbas, from the long-ruling Fatah faction, was a senior negotiator during the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks throughout the 1990's and won a landslide election for the presidency last year. But his position has been weakened since the elections in January, which gave Hamas control of the government. The Israeli government and the Hamas-led government have refused to deal with each other.

At the news conference, Mr. Mubarak described Mr. Olmert as a "man of peace, vision and integrity."

"The main goal is to bring the parties to the negotiating table," Mr. Mubarak said.

The Bush administration has also been urging Mr. Olmert to pursue diplomacy with Mr. Abbas. Mr. Olmert says he will give the talks a chance. But if the discussions do not lead to progress, he said, he is ready to act unilaterally on his plan to remove some Jewish settlers from the West Bank and to set Israel's borders by 2010.

The Palestinian factions, including Hamas and Fatah, have been meeting for more than a week, with no signs of moving toward a unified political position. Mr. Abbas says that unless they can reach agreement, he will call a national referendum on a political plan that is generally in line with Fatah's positions.

The central tenet, drawn up by Palestinian prisoners in Israel, calls for a Palestinian state along the boundaries that existed before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.

Hamas leaders have expressed numerous reservations if not outright opposition to the plan, with some calling it an effort by Mr. Abbas to undermine the government.

The Palestinian prime minister, Ismail Haniya, who is from Hamas, said today that the plan deserved "serious study," but he questioned the legality of holding a referendum. "The dialogue is continuing because the matters being discussing are strategic and need time to be resolved," Mr. Haniya said in Gaza City.

Azzam al-Ahmed, the leader of the Fatah delegation in Parliament, said Hamas had until Tuesday to support the document. Otherwise, Mr. Abbas was prepared to move ahead with a referendum, Mr. Ahmed said.

Also today, the Bank of Palestine opened its automated teller machines, allowing some Palestinian Authority workers to begin withdrawing salaries that were three months overdue.

The Palestinian government says workers who make $330 a month or less — about a quarter of the 165,000 employees — will receive one month's pay. The government has not said when higher-paid workers will begin receiving their salaries, which were last paid at the end of February.

After Hamas came to power, Western governments and Israel cut off money that was going to the Palestinian Authority. The Palestinian government says it has raised some money internally.
97 2006-06-04 Under drizzly skies, about 40 demonstrators holding up signs that included "Illegal Aliens: I Want You Out of My Country" and "Honk If You're Against Amnesty" gathered yesterday in front of the Mexican Consulate in Midtown Manhattan.

The protest followed large rallies in New York and other cities in recent weeks calling for citizenship for illegal immigrants, and prompted a smaller but just as loud counterdemonstration across the street.

As neighbors in elegant town houses on East 39th Street looked down, the demonstrators, standing in front of a large American flag, sang "America the Beautiful," while a counterdemonstrator played "The Star-Spangled Banner" on a polished trumpet. Demonstrators chanted various versions of "Go home," as the counterdemonstrators shouted, "Who you calling immigrant, pilgrim?"

The confrontations never escalated beyond jaw-jutting shouting matches, but one participant was still fuming minutes later.

Cursing, Dan Hahulski, 26, of Woodhaven, Queens, said he was not a racist but simply opposed to illegal immigration. "If you woke up one morning and I was camped out on your backyard, what would you do? You'd kick me out," said Mr. Hahulski, a construction worker.
98 2006-06-04 LONDON, June 3 (Reuters) — British antiterrorist officers are hunting for a chemical bomb after a police raid failed to uncover the device, a police official said Saturday.

More than 250 officers, some wearing suits to protect against chemical, biological and radioactive hazards, made a raid at dawn Friday, shooting a man and arresting another at a house in the Forest Gate neighborhood of East London.

"What we are looking for is some form of viable chemical device," a police official said, "a device that would have a fatal effect on someone standing nearby both from the explosion and from the chemical it contained." The source said that what the police sought was a conventional bomb surrounded by toxic material.

The police have said nothing suspicious was found in an initial search of the house. They also reassured people in the area that there was nothing to suggest they were at risk.

The operation was prompted by suspicions the house could have been used for making bombs or chemical weapons.
99 2006-06-04 KABUL, Afghanistan, June 3 (Reuters) — President Hamid Karzai has dismissed dozens of senior police officials, government officials said Saturday.

Kabul's police chief, Gen. Jamil Junbish has been replaced by Gen. Amanullah Gozar, an Interior Ministry official said.

The president's office told Agence France-Presse that the reshuffle was part of a long-planned reform of the police service that was underway before the riots in Kabul on Monday, which began after a United States military truck crashed into Afghan vehicles, killing at least five people.

"It was done under the Interior Ministry reform program which has been under way for months," said Khaleeq Ahmad, a spokesman for Mr. Karzai.

But an Interior Ministry official said some changes were expedited after the riots and others were prompted by them. "It was an old program. But the riots speeded it up," the official told Agence France-Presse.

On Friday, coalition and Afghan troops recaptured a district of Oruzgan Province that had fallen under Taliban control earlier in the week.

"Fifteen bodies of the enemies of Afghanistan lie in the battlefield and up to 20 of them have been killed," the Defense Ministry said.
100 2006-06-04 Sometimes that frustration can manifest not in sheer brutality, but in the troops operating on a hair trigger, as seemed to happen last week in Kabul. American soldiers reportedly fired shots into an angry crowd and killed four people after an American military vehicle crashed into civilian cars, prompting protests.

In counterinsurgency warfare, a failure to distinguish civilians from the enemy has bedeviled most powerful armies fighting a shadow enemy in an unfamiliar country.

But more than three years into the Iraq war, and more than four years into the Afghanistan conflict, the American military is still struggling to relearn a messy, frustrating and painfully slow form of warfare it had tried hard to forget after it emerged from the jungles of Vietnam.

"After Vietnam, the U.S. Army reacted to the threat of irregular warfare chiefly by saying 'never again,' " wrote a group of counterinsurgency experts in a recent edition of Military Review, a journal published at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.

The teaching of counterinsurgency warfare "was leached from the various military college curricula, and the hard-won experience of a generation of officers was deliberately ignored," the authors wrote.

Compared with campaigns like the French war in Algeria and the Russian operation in Chechnya, the American-led war in Iraq has been one of the least brutal counterinsurgency campaigns in recent memory.

Yet the longer a guerrilla campaign drags on, military experts say, the more a war's brutality tends to increase. That is exactly what commanders in Iraq are concerned about now.

One of the authors of the Military Review article, Lt. Col. Conrad Crane, a retired Army officer, is leading a Pentagon effort to fashion a new counterinsurgency doctrine that will guide Army and Marine Corps training for future wars.

The doctrine, set to be completed this summer, comes years after the Pentagon began conducting a trial-and-error counterinsurgency campaign in Iraq that some argue has done more to alienate the Iraqi population and bolster the insurgency's ranks than it has to dry up the insurgency's base of support.

Immediately after the fall of Baghdad, the military's primary goal was to hunt down the top officials in Saddam Hussein's government — the faces on the infamous deck of cards.

But the capture of senior government officials, including Mr. Hussein himself, failed to stop the attacks on American troops and Iraqi civilians, and American commanders adopted a more belligerent strategy in central Iraq. Entire villages were encircled with barbed wire, and commanders ordered extensive bombing raids on suspected insurgent hide-outs in Baghdad.

Convinced that this get-tough approach had backfired, Maj. Gen. James N. Mattis of the Marines began developing a new approach for his First Marine Division troops who were heading to Anbar Province in 2004. What came to be called the "velvet glove" strategy emphasized patrolling hostile towns like Falluja and Ramadi by foot and sending Marine platoons to live in Iraqi villages for extended periods to help American troops get better intelligence about insurgents.

General Mattis planned to do away with aerial bombing and artillery barrages.

Shortly after the Marines arrived in Anbar Province, however, four American contractors were savagely killed in Falluja. That prompted the first major American offensive in the city and signaled the end of General Mattis's counterinsurgency strategy for the region.

Pentagon officials and military experts generally agree that it was not until the middle of last year that the American civilian and military leadership in Iraq developed a coherent counterinsurgency plan. The strategy — "clear, hold, build" — uses American troops to rid towns and villages of insurgents and leaves Iraqi troops behind to keep the insurgents from returning.

Every Army and Marine unit deploying to Iraq and Afghanistan now goes through similar training before their combat tours, using mock villages in the desert to replicate Iraqi and Afghan towns to prepare troops for the rigors of fighting a hostile insurgency.

Yet military experts and sociologists say that in extreme combat environments, even battle-tested troops can forget their training in the heat of battle.

Charles Moskos, a sociologist at Northwestern University and a frequent Pentagon consultant, said "temporary insanity" sometimes set in for soldiers and marines who daily watched their close friends die in battle.

The frustration and sense of powerlessness, Mr. Moskos said, often leads combat troops to direct their venom at innocent civilians they assume are aiding the insurgents — and sometimes even at young children.

"If they feel that a local town is covertly involved in the killing of G.I.'s.," he said, "that's when people lose their sense of right and wrong."
101 2006-06-04 Maine elected its first openly French-American congressman, Michael H. Michaud, in 2002. And Gov. John E. Baldacci has steadily increased commerce with French-speaking countries and led a trade delegation to France last fall, one of the first since tension with France began after the Sept. 11 attacks. In an interview, the governor, who is of Lebanese-Italian descent and studied Russian in high school, added, "I've been working on my French."

The Franco-American Heritage Center, opened in Lewiston a few years ago, fines guests at its luncheons up to a dollar if they lapse into English — jovial retaliation for the schools that once gave students movie tickets or no homework if they squealed on French speakers.

"Reacquisition classes" and conversation groups have sprung up at places like the South Portland Public Library, giving people a chance to relearn their mothballed French. Census figures show Maine has a greater proportion of people speaking French at home than any other state — about 5.3 percent.

And in South Freeport, there is L'École Française du Maine, a French-immersion program that began as a preschool in 2001 and proved so popular it has added a grade each year. Many students have French-American parents who were estranged from the language, and some commute long distances to the school.

"My dad grew up speaking only French and went to school and got teased by other kids, and he wanted to spare his kids that experience, so both my wife and I are kind of a generation that got skipped," said Bob Michaud, whose son, Alexandre, attends second grade at L'École Française, 45 minutes from home. "I'm doing it because I want Alex to learn more about our heritage and background."

The school has made Anna Bilodeau, 8, and her brother Markus, 7, so fluent that they routinely speak French with their grandmother Arlene Bilodeau, 68, who regrets that she did not ensure her own children were well versed in French.

"It made me feel sad — this was our language," Ms. Bilodeau said. "When I hear Anna and Markus speaking, I just admire what they're doing."

People of French descent poured into Maine and other New England states from Canada beginning in the 1870's and became the backbone of textile mills and shoe factories. But resistance developed, and people began stereotyping the newcomers as rednecks, dolts or inadequate patriots. In 1919, Maine passed a law requiring schools to teach in English.

French-Americans had a saying: "Qui perd sa langue, perd sa foi" ("Who loses his language, loses his faith"). But many assimilated or limited their children's exposure to French to avoid discrimination or because of a now-outmoded belief that erasing French would make learning English easier.

"There was just a stigma that maybe you weren't as bright as anybody else, that you didn't speak English as well," said Linda Wagner, 53, of Lewiston, who takes classes to reclaim language lost as a child.

Suzanne Bourassa Woodward, 46, of South Portland, who recently joined a conversation group and enrolled her 10-year-old daughter in French classes, said "my French went underground" in fourth grade because "I was ridiculed, the dumb Frenchman jokes came out."

"After that," she said, "my parents would always speak to me in French, but I always responded in English."

As recently as the early 1990's, a character named Frenchie, who caricatured French-Americans, was a fixture on a Maine radio show until protests drove him off the air.

The stigma was compounded by the French-American dialect, which can differ from French spoken in France in idiom, pronunciation, vocabulary — like British and American English.

French-American French, derived from people who left France for Canada centuries ago, resembles the French of Louis XIV more than the modern Parisian variety, said Yvon Labbé, director of the French-American Center at the University of Southern Maine.

French-Americans may say "chassis" instead of "fenêtre" for window, "char" instead of "voiture" for car. Mr. Labbé said many French-Americans pronounced "moi" as Molière did: "moé." A saying illustrated French-Americans' inferiority complex about their language: "On est né pour être petit pain; on ne peut pas s'attendre à la boulangerie" ("We are born to be little breads; we cannot expect the bakery").

"We were always told that we spoke bad French, that we were worthless as people because we spoke neither French nor English," said Ms. Ouelette, 69.

Indeed, when Jim Bishop, son of Fred Bishop (né Frederick Levesque), took high school and college classes to recapture French "it was just a nightmare," he said. "At times I would say words and they would turn out not to be real words."

Maine's French renaissance is partly due to the collapse of the mills and factories, which put French-Americans into the mainstream. It was aided by a group of legislators who in 2002 began holding weekly meetings in French.

The revival includes both French-American patois and culture, celebrated at places like the Lewiston center, and Parisian language and curriculum, taught at L'École Française. The government of France is also involved, seeing "very big potential" to "develop trade relations, tourism," said Alexis Berthier, a spokesman for the French consulate in Boston, which is promoting programs and events in Maine and working to establish sister cities.

Most Maine schools, like those elsewhere, teach considerably more Spanish than French. But for those like Norman Marquis of Old Orchard Beach, who takes reacquisition classes, the resurgence of his lost language is profound.

"It's almost like I found religion," said Mr. Marquis, 68, suddenly choking with emotion. "My religion, No. 1, was French. I have a personal movement in my heart for it."
102 2006-06-04 Paul Casey, Rory Sabbatini and Geoff Ogilvy are exempt through the world ranking and various money lists on their tours.

Carl Pettersson slipped out of the top 50 by a fraction of a point and will have to qualify tomorrow unless he wins the Memorial. Pettersson won in Tampa Bay last year, and the United States Open exempts anyone with two PGA Tour victories through this week.

Lee Westwood of England, who had been No. 52, missed the cut at the BMW Championship at Wentworth and slipped to No. 55. He had said he would not go through the United States Open qualifier because he was playing the Memorial, although his status became unclear when he withdrew from the Memorial.

JACK AND TIGER Jack Nicklaus recalled walking off the ninth green at Augusta National last year in what was his final appearance in the Masters, turning to his son Jackie and saying, "Don't think it hasn't been charming."

He nearly got choked up telling that story last Tuesday because of what the words meant.

Some 35 years earlier, when his father was dying of cancer and was being wheeled into an operating room, Charlie Nicklaus waved at his family and said the same words.

Nicklaus spent some 10 minutes talking about the relationship he had with his father, who died in 1970 during his longest drought in the majors in the prime of his career. It was relevant because Tiger Woods is skipping the Memorial for the first time in his career, still coping with the death of his father on May 3.

"Everybody reacts differently to different things," Nicklaus said. "It would be a pure guess on my part what his reaction would be."

Nicklaus said he tried to reach Woods, who was not taking calls. He talked to Woods's wife and left a message that "if you want to call me, fine; if you do not, it is fine. You know what my thoughts are."

Nicklaus had gone 10 majors without winning when his father died Feb. 19, 1970. He said he had been playing sloppy golf, not putting in enough practice or getting the most out of his ability. He said the death of his father caused him to rededicate himself to dominance.

"He lived for what I did," Nicklaus said. "I think that was his greatest thrill and pleasure. And I think I let him down. He would have kicked me in the rear end."

Then he paused and smiled as he considered Woods.

"You can't say he needs to be kicked in the rear end," Nicklaus said.

NAME CHANGE Arnold Palmer is taking over his golf course design, changing the name to Arnold Palmer Design Company and moving the headquarters in Florida from Ponte Vedra Beach to Orlando.

The move will allow Palmer to be more active in his roles as president and chairman of a company that has been around 35 years and has nearly 300 courses either open or being built in 38 states and 23 countries. Among his courses is the K Club in Ireland, which will play host to the Ryder Cup in September.
103 2006-06-04 Shopping for clothes can take on the character of a hunting expedition. Just when the prey has been tracked down, the color and style exactly what the shopper had in mind, success proves elusive in the fitting room. Sleeves may fall and keep falling, not just covering arms, but hands for good measure. Pants might expose several less-than-appealing inches of sock, unwilling to get a little cozy with the shoes below.

Imagine the even greater frustration many feel because the stores never stocked their size in the first place. For many people with bodies outside the cookie-cutter norm, popular clothing stores become destinations of disappointment, places to lust after the latest style before slinking off to specialty stores, catalogs or online shopping.

Michael Barbaro reported in The Times recently that three large and influential stores — Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bloomingdale's — have decided to discontinue or drastically scale back their clothing departments for petite women. The tall, the hefty, the gawky and the plain old disproportionate can welcome the littler ladies back to the fold of the underserved and downright ignored.

The decision to focus on the most common sizes is driven by the old profit motive. The retailers have limited space and want to display what moves off the shelves and to the cash registers most rapidly. The Internet was meant to fix this kind of problem by broadening choices, but people who already have trouble finding clothes that fit just right are understandably gun-shy about purchasing things they have not had a chance to try on.

The suggestion that custom clothiers or extensive alterations provide the solution smacks of "Let them eat cake." While that may be an option for a wealthy few — Upper East Side dowagers and professional basketball players unite! — most could never hope to afford bespoke threads.

An ancient nemesis seems to be making a comeback as well. Retailers remember: One size still does not fit all. Sometimes it fits most, more often it covers many partially, but a lot of consumers are invariably left out in the cold. Huddled at the windows, their wallets stay firmly in purses and pockets.
104 2006-06-04 My patients taught me about courage, about bravery, about organizing for a cause, about dying for one. They left me with an abiding conviction that has not faded, the armor to shrug off the slings and arrows of pettiness and malice that we all encounter: there are bigger things at stake in life than just your happiness or mine.

We became zealots for the cause of our patients, even if zeal was all we had to give. We had no cure to offer, and so we began to leave the thresholds of our medical-industrial complexes and visit our patients in their homes, at their deathbeds. Paradoxically we discovered that our presence, our promise not to desert our patients, our continued care brought about a sort of healing, by which I mean helping the patients come to terms with their illness, with their deaths, and meanwhile diminishing for them the sense of spiritual violation that any serious disease brings, none more than this one.

I went at great personal cost to the international AIDS conferences; I watched with awe as politics eclipsed science and as gay activists rattled the cages of stodgy government entities like the Food and Drug Administration, and got results. I took my young sons to so many memorial services, for Jim, James and Jose — men who were my patients, but who were also volunteers in our clinics, who were fellow soldiers in this battle and who were my dearest friends.

These men all died, and though they never lost hope, I did, as one drug after another failed to live up to its promise. I became a therapeutic nihilist. I did not think I would live to see the day when we had something that could really control the disease and extend life. When that moment came in America, with the drug cocktails in the mid-90's, I cried for all the patients I had known in four cities who would never have the Lazarus-like resurrections I could now bring about.

H.I.V. clinics changed. From being poignant settings full of brave laughter in the face of great tragedy, clinics were now all business, all about side effects and drug resistance. Don't get me wrong — I would not want to go back to the old days. But once treatment was available, the challenge seemed to be elsewhere.

Today I see so many of us who came of age at the same time now have one foot in Africa or Asia, as if we need the the kind of challenge we once faced here. It is as if we have carried the lessons of the AIDS protest group Act Up abroad, to prove that one can make a difference even in a poor country, one can find ways to pay for and distribute drugs, one can make an impact on transmission from mother to child.

I refuse to dwell on the numbers, the dire predictions and the pessimism about a vaccine, though I am sure there is some truth to all of that. On my desk I keep a picture sent to me by a friend, Rick Hodes, a doctor who has spent his professional years in Ethiopia. It shows a beautiful, chubby-cheeked Ethiopian child, wearing colorful local dress, and holding in his hand a photograph of a scrawny skeleton in rags. The photograph is of his former self, taken a few months before he got the H.I.V. medications that Rick scrounged money to buy. Victories are now to be won in that fashion, one child at a time.

I wonder now what I would have done if I had known in 1981 that AIDS would be as huge as it turned out to be. I am ashamed to admit that I might have gone into another field — say cardiology or gastroenterology. Which is why I have such optimism for the future, because I meet so many students and residents now who, knowing the magnitude of the problem, are still going into infectious diseases. They want to do something about global health, and have put their money where their mouth is by volunteering abroad before medical school.

I think perhaps that is the legacy of my patients, the legacy of the nurses and physicians' assistants and social workers who taught me so much, the legacy of people from all walks of life who toiled against AIDS when there was no hope. My students seem to know what we had to so painfully learn: the secret in the care of the patient is caring for the patient.
105 2006-06-04 THE ups and downs in stock prices may be followed especially closely this week. Volatility has picked up markedly in the last month, rising to its highest level in two years, and concern about the market's future has risen with it.

The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX — a measure of expected volatility in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index derived from the pricing of stock options — was dormant for months, bumping along the bottom of its five-year range of 10 to 45. It rose to 18 from 12 last month but has eased a bit, closing on Friday at 14.32.

Market swings may be rooted in concerns about economic and corporate conditions, but sometimes volatility itself can feed investors' anxiety. When the magnitude of price movements rises, so do the potential losses in an investor's portfolio.

Richard Berner, a strategist at Morgan Stanley, attributes the uncertainty to a reality check on Federal Reserve policy.

"Fear that the Fed may have been lax on inflation and will now have to trample on the economy to crush accelerating prices has unleashed a significant risk-reduction trade in global financial markets," Mr. Berner said in a note to the bank's clients.

"Until recently, many investors were hoping for the Goldilocks scenario of just enough growth to sustain earnings, credit quality and brisk demand for commodities," he said, "but not enough to stir inflation and more Fed tightening."
106 2006-06-04 JEFFREY CHODOROW is the Jerry Bruckheimer of restaurants. He does high concept restaurants that play like action films. His credits include five China Grills and four Asia de Cubas. His latest $12 million production is Social Hollywood.

Fade in on a Saturday night: The Art Deco lobby, done in classic white and black, featured a marble tiger sculpture on a pedestal and a cast of smiling greeters, seven in all, at a Lucite stand.

In the bar area, patrons lounged on couches and round red leather chairs. The lighting was dim. A surreal movie was projected on a glass wall and showed a wolf baying at a full moon.

Two beautiful blondes, seated at the carved mahogany bar, howled too.

"We love that crazy wolf and the bar manager, who is so gorgeous," said Jodie Fisher, who works for an asset management company.

Her pal hooted like an owl, which had replaced the wolf on the screen, and said, "I feel sexy."

Exit the bar and pan to the dining room, whose Moroccan lighting mimicked Rick's Cafe in "Casablanca." Vaulted ceilings revealed frescoes discovered in the renovation. Social Hollywood used to be the Hollywood Athletic Club, which opened 83 years ago.
107 2006-06-04 Two daughters of Martha Hamilton Morris and I. Wistar Morris III of Villanova, Pa., were married yesterday in a Quaker double ceremony at the Haverford Friends Meeting in Haverford, Pa. Melissa Hamilton Morris became the bride of Miguel Ángel Pérez Pérez, and Lydia Pew Morris married Michael Austin Flood.

Melissa Morris (top, right) is 32 and a doctoral candidate at the University of California, Davis, studying the ecology of fungi on oak trees in California and Mexico. She graduated from Duke and received a master's degree in conservation biology from the University of Michigan.

Mr. Pérez, 34, is a biologist at the Botanical Garden of the National Autonomous University of Mexico in Morelia. He graduated from the National Autonomous University in Mexico City and received a master's degree in natural resource conservation and management from the University of Michoacán of San Nicolás de Hidalgo, also in Morelia. He is a son of Carolina Pérez Perales and Manuel Pérez Morales of Mexico City.

Lydia Morris (above, left) is 28 and a grants management specialist in the finance department of Save the Children, the international development and relief agency. She reviews grant proposals and agreements at its headquarters in Westport, Conn. She graduated cum laude from Harvard and received a master's degree in social work from Boston University.

Mr. Flood, 30, works in Waterbury, Conn., as a regional planner at the Council of Governments of the Central Naugatuck Valley. He graduated from Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., and received a master's degree in geography from Boston University. He is the son of Louise DiFiore Flood and Ronald William Flood of East Hampton, Conn.
108 2006-06-04 Walking around with the architect, it was tempting to try to second-guess her. The centerpiece, the thing that must be kept at all costs, is the terrace, right?

Wrong, Ms. Joseph said: "The terrace presents an opportunity, yes, but we may end up using it as a way to get some real southern light into the lower floor of the duplex. It's nice to look out and see northern light, but it can make the apartment seem dark."

She also looked askance at the Sheetrocked closets, one above the other, running through the center of the apartment like a big milk carton.

"There must be a better way to provide storage space," she said. "And is there a better way to connect the terrace with the inside? We know we want to bring the outside in. Then, could we incorporate the furniture to create some kind of elements, some kind of floating built-ins?"

Ms. Joseph, who was wearing a chic black knit dress (Ralph Rucci, she said), next headed to the back of the lower floor of the duplex and its single bathroom, a relatively small space with a canted window. "Why couldn't this be enlarged to become a bedroom?" she said. "In a way, the kitchen is really the nicest room in the apartment, but it's too big for the space. Maybe the kitchen doesn't have to be in the center."

All this was intriguing. She had clearly been thinking about this before she arrived with the model. It was a puzzle: what would she do?

One week later, she produced her plans, which, if carried out, would turn the duplex into grist for a shelter magazine. But it wouldn't be cheap: this makeover could easily run from $600,000 to $1 million, as much as the apartment itself or even more.

In her design, Ms. Joseph cast away all thoughts of furniture and flowers and dug deep into the space. In a bold stroke, she pretty much did away with the upper-floor terrace (and the geraniums). Now the terrace is studded with big, irregularly shaped skylights, which make the dark north-facing lower-floor living room into a light well.

The "stunt furniture" has been replaced by bold settees — sculptures of strong mesh that hang from the sides of the skylights. The narrow staircase that had been stuck in like an afterthought has been replaced by a new staircase cut through to the living room. It provides another source of light and serves as an anchor for a sculptural table.

In the new design, the terrace becomes the platform for yet another staircase, which leads to — guess what? — a third-level terrace built on top of what had been a second-floor bedroom. This third level is planted entirely in grass, a party oasis that has a lovely view of a nearby church.

"The existing terrace was nice enough," Ms. Joseph said, "but it had a high parapet, which obscured much of the view. This terrace has even better views."

"A lot of people think of spaces as being about materials — granite counters and mirrored walls and 1930's furniture — but it's really not about that at all," Ms. Joseph said. "I spent far too much time in the I. M. Pei office to think that way. Instead, we think about volumes, light and the basics of architectural design. For this project, we did a lot of sketches."

The best solution, she said, incorporated the most light. Besides the skylights cut into the terrace, plans now call for a huge glass wall between the upstairs bedroom and the existing terrace — after all, there will be no one out there to see inside. Downstairs, the wall between the side room/study/bedroom and the living room has been removed — and the kitchen has been moved there.

"The apartment is set up now for exactly the kind of tenant who owned it: a single guy," Ms. Joseph said. "But with the new design, it could be used by one or two adults, even with a child or some other scenario. It's not only more marketable but more desirable as a retreat.

"This could not only be used as a primary residence but as a pied-à-terre. If you wanted to, you could even use the small first-floor bedroom just to sleep in and use the upper bedroom as part of your party space. Your whole second — and now third — floors could be devoted to having fun."
109 2006-06-04 Property taxes in Connecticut affect everything. Local taxes are at the root of the eminent domain struggle plaguing New London and myriad controversies over development in eastern Connecticut.

Hope lies in the wisdom of our voters. Many towns enjoy home rule and the town meeting form of government with direct democracy and referendums on local taxes. If Connecticut towns get spending under control, everything will improve.

With 169 towns and municipalities, our state is really a delineated group of communities, each with its own character and nature, often more homogenous than diverse. So it is not a racial or class issue — yet. It is an issue about how local community decisions hurt or help the local economies. Elderly, disabled and vulnerable young and middle-aged people risk losing their homes to property tax burdens.

The real wealth of the three levels of government (local, state and federal) remains in the local level in Connecticut. The 169 local budgets amount to more than state and federal block grants combined. What happens locally really matters.

Property taxes are rising faster than inflation rates; in fact, they trigger inflation. Colchester initially sought as much as a 12 percent spending increase this year for education despite leveling enrollment. The budget was shot down at referendum May 9 and a 7.9 percent spending increase was nixed again May 30.

Even after sound defeat by the people, members of the Board of Finance and the Board of Education agreed only to cut just $500,000 of a $46.5 million budget with $3 million in "new spending" over last year. If federal taxes increased at this rate, we would see a national tax revolt.
110 2006-06-04 The Wii controller has been consciously designed to resemble a television remote control, and the kinetic, tactile entertainment experience it produces is unlike anything on a current game machine. "My mother is never going to play a PlayStation 3 or Xbox 360 game because she simply cannot comprehend the controller," Dan Hsu, editor in chief of Electronic Gaming Monthly, a top game magazine, said in an interview. "But Nintendo wants to appeal to those people. Wii does feel very friendly and easy to use, and it's very intuitive because all you have to do is point the controller at the screen and just move it around. And most games only need one or two buttons."

Most North American game insiders got their first chance to use the Wii at the E3 game convention in Los Angeles last month, and it quickly became clear that the Wii was more than just a novelty. (A test version of the machine was demonstrated at the Tokyo Game Show last fall.)

With its sleek vertical design and unobtrusive white controller, the Wii is made to fit into a middle-class living room without looking like an alien invader from Planet Video Game. (By contrast the original Xbox's hulking black exterior turned off a lot of traditional nongamers. In response Microsoft made the Xbox 360 curved and off-white.)

More important than the unit's look, however, have been the almost entirely positive reviews from people who have played it. Tennis feels remarkably like tennis, employing a nearly full range of upper-body motion. With Excite Truck, the user holds the controller between two hands like a steering wheel and merely tilts it left and right to steer. You can also wield the Wii as a pen, a fishing rod and, of course, a weapon.

"We wanted to change the image that people have when you think of someone playing a video game," Shigeru Miyamoto, Nintendo's creative director (and the creator of the famed Donkey Kong, Mario and Zelda franchises) said during an interview at E3. "There is always this image where you think of a young person holding a controller in two hands kind of in a darkened room with the light of the TV shining on his face, and it's not a very positive image. We really wanted to break that by creating this interface that would allow people to be much more active."

But even as the company reaches for the mainstream, it knows it cannot afford to lose the millions of seasoned Nintendo fans. For them there are more complex games like new Wii installments of Zelda and Metroid Prime on the way. But the overall focus is on using the controller to make the gaming experience as simple and intuitive as possible.

It's the sort of approach that appeals to Nintendo fans like Floyd Hayes, 34, an advertising creative director who lives in Brooklyn.

"Nintendo has really the best track record in terms of innovation," he said, "and what they're trying, in dropping the barriers to game play by lowering the barriers presented by the controller, is fantastic. I'd love to be able to stop memorizing different button combinations for every game. It's like having to learn to walk all over again in every game, isn't it?"

Nintendo's innovation seemed to captivate attendees at E3. "Wii was extremely popular," said Mr. Hsu, who was there. "As usual Nintendo has the longest lines because they really draw in the hard core, but I noticed a lot of people who weren't the typical Nintendo fanboys were waiting in long lines to play Wii. That's because you have all these other games for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on the show floor, but they're pretty much what we've seen before, just with prettier graphics. But Wii is a totally new experience."

The company started its mission to expand the gaming audience with more user-friendly products in 2004 with the Nintendo DS handheld. While Sony has garnered more headlines with its sleek black PlayStation Portable, Nintendo has had at least as much success with the less expensive DS, which employs an entirely different approach. While many PSP games are for hardcore players, the top DS games were made to appeal to a wider audience. Nintendogs, for instance, which allows users to take care of a virtual dog, is a nonconventional game that has proved highly successful among women and girls who are not generally gamers. Another example is Brain Age, a series of mind-training games that have been hugely popular among middle-aged and older people in Japan and have recently been released in the United States.

"People often call this another next-generation game competition or war," said Nintendo's president, Satoru Iwata, who was also at the E3 convention, but "Nintendo is not trying to compete with merely the next generation. Instead we want to provide completely different experiences. What we want to provide you is not something that is simply a linear extension of current high-end gaming. But rather we will provide you with something brand new, something unprecedented."

It's no easy feat to make extremely complex technology feel as basic and straightforward as picking up a tennis racket or golf club. And it may be just as hard to excite a die-hard audience accustomed to the loudest bells and whistles. But it may be hardest of all to convince nongamers that they won't feel like geeks if they pick up a game controller. For Nintendo, however, the dream is that there is a huge untapped audience sitting out there that is ready to stop watching and start playing.
111 2006-06-04 For all his embarrassed, yearning relationship with Judaism, it is the Americanness of his ballets that stands out — especially the Broadway-flavored ones, like "Fancy Free," but also, more subtly, the later masterpieces. It has been argued — by City Ballet's balletmaster in chief, Peter Martins, among others — that today's dancers are not the same as Balanchine's so his dances must be adjusted to suit them. Robbins's ballets seem to encounter no such problems; however great past protagonists were, their successors fit easily into his idiom.

In some ways that's surprising, since Robbins himself fretted (of course, he fretted about everything) that crucial details, and thus the very spirit, of his choreography would be lost after his death. Perhaps they have been, but the underlying style suits American dancers of today — maybe any dancers of today, given Robbins's continued popularity abroad.

Those who disdained him in years past often did so in the belief that his musicals and his dances for them were fresh in a way that his ballets — hollow, overreaching for high-art status — were not. Perhaps the blend of ballet and modern dancers in his late-1950's touring company, Ballets: U.S.A., more exactly reflected his choreographic sensibility. When City Ballet finally got around to incorporating "N.Y. Export: Opus Jazz," created for Ballets: U.S.A., into its repertory last year, it looked a little balletic.

But at his best, at least, Robbins managed to bend classical dancers and steps to his purposes. However uneven his ballets may have been — and Balanchine had some clunkers too — there are those of us who remain deeply moved by Robbins's greatest late ballets: those made after he had rejoined the City Ballet fold in 1969, the prodigal son, and was working in a largely classical idiom with Balanchine-trained dancers.

Robbins ballets like "Dances at a Gathering," "The Goldberg Variations" (triumphantly revived by City Ballet last year), "Mother Goose," "Other Dances" (seen at the American Ballet Theater's season-opening gala on May 22), "In Memory of ..." (to be performed this week) and "Ives, Songs," to name just a few, affirm the success with which he could adapt Balanchine's company to his own artistic aspirations.

The parallels between Robbins and Bernstein, throughout their lives, were many. Aside from their backgrounds and sexual orientations, they were part of what must have been a thrilling group of young people in the 1940's, boldly oblivious to any snobbish separation of high and low art, caught up in social idealism, convinced they were making great work, which they were.

The two continued to collaborate but in increasingly neurotic ways after "West Side Story." Each blamed the other for their blowups. And both were scorned, or subtly denigrated, for their later, more "serious" works. Most of Bernstein's later classical compositions ring just a little false, for all their pained sincerity. By comparison, Robbins holds up very well.

One reason may have been Robbins's more comfortable adaptation to the mores and experimentation in the arts of the 1960's. Bernstein tried, especially in "Mass," but his emulations of vernacular music always looked and sounded generationally estranged.

Robbins played with mind-expanding drugs. He attended experimental theater and happenings. His extraordinary private workshop, the American Theater Laboratory, sponsored by the National Endowment for the Arts from 1966 to 1968, allowed him to play with world theater (Noh especially) and European vanguard theater. He was a friend and collaborator of the young Robert Wilson, appearing as the title character in Mr. Wilson's "Life and Times of Sigmund Freud" in 1970. He made dances to music of Philip Glass and Steve Reich.

For those devoted to older ballet traditions — and even to Balanchine, fresh and original as he was — these innovations seemed eccentric, trendy and pretentious. Their high point was Robbins's ballet "Watermill," in 1972. Named for the Hamptons village of Water Mill, where artists cavorted and where Mr. Wilson now has his Watermill Center, this was an hourlong, dreamy, minimalist meditation on life's passing.

It included no ballet steps; traditionalists complained that Edward Villella was wasted as the central figure. It drove some people, some dancers included, nuts. It struck others, like the composer Virgil Thomson, as enormously moving. One hopes it will be part of City Ballet's 2008 Robbins festival.

But trippy quests were not the only impact of the 60's on Robbins's ballet choreography. More and more, it seemed, he eased his dancers into ballet steps with natural movement, a favorite of the Judson Church group. Robbins's ballet dancers walked and stood about as if pondering their next move. Sometimes you didn't even notice the transition between repose and dance. As Ms. Jowitt put it in discussing "Ives, Songs," "People stroll their way into dancing."

Uneventful? Ritualistic? Comforting? Inspirational? Maybe all four, and an infusion of the natural into the traditionally artful of a sort that Bernstein never came close to managing. Robbins achieved what Lincoln Kirstein, the co-founder of City Ballet with Balanchine, called "the artificed use of the apparently accidental."

Then there was Robbins's sensitivity to music — all kinds of music. Balanchine was profoundly musical, like all great choreographers; so, certainly, was Robbins, and with music that was increasingly divergent from Balanchine's taste. To observe, for instance, the flowing, crisscrossing lines of bodies in Robbins's "Glass Pieces," with their eddying quirks, is to see notes mirrored in movement.

Robbins's insecurities and neuroses — what Ms. Jowitt calls his "impostor complex" — no doubt detracted from his potential achievement. But they also enriched that achievement. His fear of being ostracized, which he blamed for his too-ready capitulation to the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1953, made him yearn for a group of fellow artists, a home. City Ballet was that home, which helps explain his loyalty to the company in the last 30 years of his life, in the face of the temptations of Broadway and beyond. In his later years he labored on an unrealized theater project called "The Poppa Piece," in which he struggled to come to terms with his father and his heritage. Is it much of a stretch to posit Balanchine, 14 years his senior but older than that in reputation, as a father figure?

Be that as it may, Robbins found solace in the company of dancers, and his greatest ballets reflect an image of community that a ballet company can provide. In the space carved out for him by Balanchine and Kirstein, both of whom suffered from Robbins's personality with his genius as their reward, he could create his own world, unfettered by the neuroses of collaborators and the demands of nervous Broadway producers.

Do the cheerful buddies of "Fancy Free," the gracefully intertwining couples of "Dances at a Gathering," the seekers in "Watermill," the lounging ballet dancers of "Mother Goose," the remembered community of "Ives, Songs" all give us an image of togetherness in which Robbins wished desperately to be at home? Or was he always the outsider, peering lovingly into an idealized world of which he could never be fully a part?

Maybe more the outsider. But we may respond to his yearning and his loving idealism all the more because we know that it was won through such hard struggle.
112 2006-06-04 For a year the show had been motoring along with Mr. Butz as the reprobate Freddy Benson and John Lithgow as the refined Lawrence Jameson. Then last winter Mr. Lithgow left the production, putting an end to a year of honed comic timing.

"I lost sleep for many nights when I found out that John Lithgow was leaving," Mr. Butz said, adding that he was particularly worried the replacement would be a film celebrity who would not understand the physical comedy the role demanded.

As it turned out Mr. Pryce, an accomplished British stage actor, was selected. Still, there was no instantaneous magic. "When Lithgow and I started working together and hammering out these bits, slowly working the rapport, it got funny," Mr. Butz said. "Then Pryce comes in, and it's not funny all over again."

Mr. Pryce insisted on four weeks of practice, several hours a day, and he wanted Mr. Butz to be there for most of it, even though Mr. Butz was still performing eight times a week with Mr. Lithgow. Also, Mr. Pryce wanted to do the jokes his own way, intentionally avoiding Mr. Lithgow's interpretation, even where it worked.

Mr. Lithgow was a straight man, the Dean Martin to Mr. Butz's Jerry Lewis, keeping his cool observing when Benson exploded all over the stage, pretending to be Ruprecht, the feral man-child who scares away a marriage-minded woman whom Jameson has seduced.

"Pryce comes in there," Mr. Butz recalled, "and says: 'You know what? Maybe we're both Jerry Lewises in this scene.' "

The two men turned the Ruprecht scene into such a display of vulgar, who-can-outperform-whom abandon, that Mr. O'Brien said he had to allay the offended taste of other people involved in the production. "I just love it," he said.

For a month the actors rehearsed the jokes and smoothed the rapport. The result, Ben Brantley wrote in The New York Times, was that "now a giddy, genuine complicity infuses Lawrence and Freddy's relationship as both collaborators and competitors." Jacques Le Sourd in The Journal News proclaimed that "the cocktail's chemistry is perfect."

Few would be surprised to hear that comedic chemistry arises from labor, not magic. It's not a disappointment to know that a volley of Neil Simon one-liners isn't made up on the spot, or that a comic duo is a pair of duds in real life.

Recalling the British comedy duo Jimmy Jewel and Ben Warriss, Mr. Pryce said, "When I grew up watching them on TV, I thought they were the funniest things imaginable. Later I met them and worked with them. They hated each other."

Romantic chemistry, on the other hand, needs to appear authentic; no one, after all, would praise Bogart and Bacall's well-honed romantic timing. The more convincing the heat generated by the actors, the more likely the audiences (not to mention gossip columnists) will refuse to accept that they are acting.

Reviews for "The Pajama Game" have variously described Mr. Connick and Ms. O'Hara as generating "sizzle," "heat," "the va-voom factor" and "a sense of carnal expectation."

For the record Mr. Connick is married with three daughters, and Ms. O'Hara has a fiancé. But try to keep that in mind as Mr. Connick's Sid Sorokin, the unyielding pajama factory foreman, and Ms. O'Hara's Babe Williams, his nemesis in the union, appear to be about 20 seconds away from getting the Roundabout Theater fined for public indecency.

"These are two passionate but sort of guarded characters that finally let their guard down," said Kathleen Marshall, the show's choreographer and director, "and this current of emotion and feeling comes spilling out."

The guardedness was not entirely fabricated: Mr. Connick, famous for his singing and his occasional television and film appearances, was acting in his first Broadway musical opposite an experienced stage performer. Ms. O'Hara, meanwhile, found herself opposite a marquee-name star. At first neither quite knew what to make of the other.

"I knew no one could sing better," Ms. O'Hara said, but "I didn't know what he would bring to the table as far as his character goes."

Their initial lack of familiarity may have helped their connection in the end. Sometimes two people getting to know each other may be able to create a certain kind of sexual chemistry that even the most durable acting pairs cannot replicate.

Of course chemistry onstage does not necessarily, or even frequently, reflect offstage life. That hasn't stopped speculation about Mr. Connick and Ms. O'Hara from gossips and acquaintances who have suggested their onstage chemistry must be spilling over into their real life. In fact the opposite is true, Ms. O'Hara said. "If there was something going on, we wouldn't have chemistry onstage. There's a sense of attraction, of flirtation, you have with a person, and if you give in to that attraction, it's gone onstage.

"The talk only fuels our fire."

For Mr. Connick no complicated analysis is needed: "We hear that term chemistry 48 times a day. I just don't see what the great mystery is."

In "Sweeney Todd" the bloodthirsty barber of the title and Mrs. Lovett, who whips up meat pies from his victims, are about as far from a fairy tale couple as one could get. Mrs. Lovett, played by Ms. LuPone, loves Sweeney and deceives him because of that love. Sweeney, played by Mr. Cerveris, is mostly indifferent to her advances, directing his vengeful passion instead toward his enemies. So in this production the two actors orchestrate their complicated dynamic by spending much of the show not looking each other in the eye; one is upstage while the other is in shadows, and when Mrs. Lovett sings to Sweeney, he is often glaring out into the audience.

Sitting together for an interview, the two actors tried to explain the difficulties of this kind of stagework.

"It's designed from the beginning, this show," Mr. Cerveris said, "to get through a lot of actor — "

Ego, in other words. While some pairings catch fire because the actors are just getting to know each other, Ms. LuPone and Mr. Cerveris said "Sweeney Todd" would have been much trickier for actors who had not already worked together. John Doyle, the show's director, did not know when he cast the two actors that they had performed a concert performance of Stephen Sondheim's "Passion" at the 2003 Ravinia Festival. For that show in Highland Park, Ill., they had 10 days from their first meeting to rehearse; then they had to go onstage as two people who fall intensely in love.

That performance prepared them for "Sweeney Todd," in which they play characters who are both intimate and disconnected from each other.

"Ours has intensified through John Doyle," Mr. Cerveris said of his and Ms. LuPone's chemistry, "but we had it because of necessity."

Unlike Mr. Connick and Ms. O'Hara, who have since recorded albums together and have met each other's families, Mr. Cerveris and Ms. LuPone do not spend much time together offstage. What they have in common is a kind of mutual drive and competitiveness that pushes each other to strive harder. "When runners train together, they want to have a runner that's a little faster than them, for motivation," Mr. Cerveris said.

This was a common theme among all the actors: that good chemistry may require a lot of hard work offstage, but it ultimately makes the onstage performance flow much more easily.

With a couple of exceptions, all the actors recalled with barely concealed agony past productions where there was no connection, where every interaction was a struggle, in the words of Mr. Pryce, and whatever success they had on stage emerged from "a sense of self-preservation."

But all of these performances, easy or strained, are common in one respect: No matter how fiery the chemistry is one night, the actors have to make it happen again the next.

"It's the forgotten kick of life in theater," Mr. O'Brien said. "You're watching and thinking, 'Those sons of bitches are doing it, aren't they?' That's the astonishment."
113 2006-06-04 In magazines, there's something known as a deep caption, a wisp of copy that's substituted for a story when the photo is more important. There's now such a thing as a deep caption in literature, too, at least in the hands of Plum Sykes, the author of the best-selling advertorial "Bergdorf Blondes," who drops even more luxury brand names as a means to provide plot, characterization and even feelings in her second It-Girl-lit effort, "The Debutante Divorcée." Built around a slender framework of descriptions of outfits, glamorous parties, hotel suites and other Black Card pornography, it's Vogue with a narrative arc: Girl wants custom jewelry from husband; another very sexy rich girl with fabulous shoes gets said jewelry; adorable husband gives girl custom jewelry after all. Cue the 150-foot yacht.

Poor Sylvie Mortimer. After two days on her honeymoon in Mexico, her husband is called away for a vague business meeting — not what she had in mind. "Secretly, I'd always hoped that matrimony would be like the Eternity ad: a very gorgeous you, a hot him, and oodles of vanilla-colored cashmere sweaters. If possible my whole marriage would take place on a beach in East Hampton, preferably in a flattering black-and-white palette." She meets Lauren Blount, the impossibly chic debutante divorcée of the title, who counsels her that divorce is much more of the moment.

Back in New York, the business meetings continue, and Sylvie is left alone to her fashion job, as well as to the spiraling paranoia instilled by Lauren and "young, social, newly unwed girls." Through a series of amusing vignettes involving a power christening, a divorce shower, a Moscow polo match, a socialite baby-store opening and a see-and-be-seen funeral, Sylvie skims the depths of disappointment ("It's amazing what a $600 Portuguese linen, lace-trimmed, hand-sewn pillowcase can't do to cheer you up sometimes") before she finds happiness — the kind that can come only from wearing an emerald green Allegra Hicks caftan thrown over a hot pink bikini while eating freshly baked ginger cake in St. Bart's as your husband tells you that you look "cuter fatter."

Even pastries are considered cultural currency in this book, in which the name-drops arrive at about the rate of two per page ("her skin was the color of an overpriced Fauchon praline," "it was better than being in a Ralph Lauren Ski ad"), making the brand-name litanies of Bret Easton Ellis's "American Psycho" seem positively quaint. Given her taste for the sweet life — and one must give her credit for name-checking the city's best croissants, at the decidedly dumpy Patisserie Claude in the West Village — it's fitting that Sykes has written such a bonbon, a soufflé, the trifle of the summer. And yet . . . with her sharp eye for just the right detail, one can't help wishing that she had written a mille-feuille of a novel, a crisply layered poke at the world that she has assessed as a fashion and society writer for Vogue. But that would require more devil, less Prada (or, this minute, Rochas).

Unlike the recent spate of revenge "novels" written by outsiders who were refused admittance, this book was written by someone who got sucked in and she can't get up. Sykes is a bright young thing (her Oxford education is in the first sentence of her biographical note), but there are too few winks to help us forgive the relentless lack of substance. One Chekhov joke isn't enough, especially when followed, a few pages later, by a line like "You know what they say. You can take the girl out of Bridgehampton, but you can't take the Bridgehampton polo out of the girl." Taken at random rather than as part of the soul-deadening whole, some passages are pitch-perfect takes on the top percentile of New York society: "Professional Friends are the newest kind of acquaintance to have in New York — subconsciously, that is. . . . Interior designers, art consultants, financial advisers, gyrotonics masters or party decorators, Professional Friends lurk invisibly on the payroll of the Manhattan heiress, spending her money, skimming off their 15 percent commission and being the ultimate best buddy." (Only once does she stray, referring to Rupert Murdoch's — instead of Herb Allen's — "Sun Valley summits.") Her ear for dialogue ranges from hilarious ("Don't you love the off-vanilla of the ski jacket? . . . Isn't the down filling so . . . mmm . . . goodgey.") to the forehead-smacking ("Everyone thinks I'm crazy when I drink these in the tea area at the Carlyle at noon," one character says, as she downs a shot of tequila in full Chanel).

Sykes also nails fashion-speak, a way of describing a look or mood by using an obscure film or style reference, usually preceded by "very": "very Ali MacGraw in Colorado"; "It's all very 'Lost in Translation' "; "Lee Radziwill on holiday in Capri in the 60's." But while followers of the sport will recognize the characters composed from the current crop of "socials," no one will be offended. "It's not an exposé!" Sykes told a reporter when "Bergdorf Blondes" was published. "What was I supposed to expose, that society girls are adorable and funny?" (This from the woman who claimed she would never write another book "as acute and fluffy as 'Blondes' again," and said, "I worked really hard at the fluffiness.")
114 2006-06-04 The Boston fans were dazzled to see Ruth's shots sailing over the center-field wall, and in 1918 he led the Red Sox to the World Series for what would be the last time in, well . . . most of us, Yankees and Sox fans especially, know that number by heart. But Dec. 26, 1919, is a day that is still remembered with horror by Boston's baseball fans. The team's owner, Harry Frazee, who moonlighted as a Broadway producer, sealed a deal that sent Ruth to the loathsome New York Yankees for a sum that would eventually finance his new show, "No, No Nanette," triggering the famous Curse of the Bambino.

Of course, Babe Ruth and New York were made for each other. The city's 18 newspapers covered him like a character in a lurid soap opera and indeed, his escapades became bigger, flashier, noisier under the news media glare. Appropriate nicknames were coined to exploit his new currency, among them Bambino, the Big Bam, the Sultan of Swat and, courtesy of The Times, the Caliph of Crash. New York even built a new arena to showcase Ruth's prowess, and when Yankee Stadium opened on April 18, 1923 — against the sorry Red Sox, of all teams — he christened it with a rocket shot over the right-field bleachers, prompting yet another nickname, the House That Ruth Built, which has stuck to this day.

Ruth's seasons in New York were his wonder years. His sidekicks, the famed Murderers' Row (Lou Gehrig, Tony Lazzeri et al.), provided the kind of supporting cast that allowed the Babe Ruth story to reach legendary heights. The city was a world stage for Ruth, and he knew exactly what to do when the spotlight was on him. Montville devotes the second half of his book to those stellar Yankees years, when perhaps the greatest baseball in history was being played. A former writer for Sports Illustrated and the author of a biography of Ted Williams, Montville colors the team's remarkable feats — and foibles — with gripping detail.

"The Big Bam" provides a picture of a ballplayer with immense physical talent and an enormous appreciation for the game. But Ruth's best records, Montville says, "weren't recorded in books, they were kept in individual memories of an astounding sight witnessed on a warm afternoon."

What's missing here, however, is any exploration of Ruth's inner conflicts and demons. Time and again, Montville sidesteps critical issues with a device he calls "the fog." Often, when some aspect of the Babe Ruth legend falls outside his research, the fog rolls in. This is especially frustrating with respect to Ruth's family history, as well as his mounting medical problems. His first wife, Helen Woodford, also remains shrouded in myth.

Instead, we are offered a series of questions and hypotheses, and as a result, Montville's portrait of Ruth is mired in caricature. He gives us a rudderless man-child, "a bombastic sloppy hero," whose tendencies toward excess overshadowed and ultimately eclipsed his genius on the field.

Ruth died at the age of 53, only two months after his uniform was retired at Yankee Stadium, his once fierce and fearsome body riddled with cancer. Sadly, this "patron saint" of baseball, a man who in his prime, as one sportswriter put it, "was bigger than the president," exited life with barely a whimper.

Yet even today, as Ruth's incredible home run total is about to be broken once again, we are reminded of the days when real heroes trod the base paths, heroes who played hard, lived hard and gave us everything they had on and off the field — the days when "60 was the new number on the wall," as Montville writes, "the record of records." The names of the players who eventually broke that record have come and gone, so much of their achievement still open to debate. Babe Ruth remains the gold standard. "No man has ever lived who hit a baseball as hard as Ruth," Damon Runyon wrote in 1920. For all we know, that still holds true.
115 2006-06-04 Many of them do so for short periods, of course, but a number of academic studies have generally found that such market-beating funds rarely stay at the top of the rankings for long. For the most part, researchers have concluded that the best-performing hedge funds of one period were rarely the best performers over any significant stretch that followed. That's a dead giveaway that a hedge fund that happens to beat the market over a given time owes its performance more to luck than to genuine investment ability.

But a new study has reached the opposite conclusion. It has found that many hedge funds can outperform their benchmarks consistently. The study, issued by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a nonprofit and nonpartisan research organization based in Cambridge, Mass., has been accepted for presentation this month at the annual meeting of the Western Finance Association, a scholarly organization. It was written by Ravi Jagannathan, a finance professor at Northwestern University; Alexey Malakhov, an assistant professor of finance at the University of Arkansas; and Dmitry Novikov, an associate in the office of equity derivatives strategy at Goldman Sachs in New York. A copy is at nber.org/papers/w12015.

The researchers argue that most previous studies of hedge fund performance were flawed because they failed to correct fully for statistical problems in databases of hedge fund returns. Perhaps the most significant problem, according to Professor Jagannathan, is the one caused by the disappearance of hedge funds from those databases — a problem that he and his co-authors call the "self-selection bias."

Funds vanish from the databases for two primary reasons. Some funds that are particularly poor performers close down and liquidate. And others, particularly good performers, close their doors to new investors and stop reporting their performance to the databases.

Correcting for this problem, of course, is not easy. But by analyzing such funds' performance until they disappeared from the performance databases, the researchers could make educated guesses about what those funds' returns would have been had they not vanished. In general, they found that the funds that closed to new investors because of good performance were more likely to be above-average performers in the period after they closed.
116 2006-06-04 Barcelona's Ronaldinho, the Brazilian wizard and the world player of the year, failed to score on the resulting free kick. But Arsenal had to play the rest of the match with 10 men instead of 11, and lost, 2-1.

Did Lehmann make the right decision from a statistical perspective? For Geert Ridder of the University of Southern California and his co-authors in research, the answer is yes. They analyzed Dutch professional soccer from 1989 to 1992, using the assumption that the defending player's objective was to minimize the probability of losing the match — a decent model for the Champions League final, and for the knockout rounds of the World Cup.

The researchers found that with two evenly matched teams — a tournament's two finalists often are — a player should foul to avert a certain goal anytime after the 16th minute. Lehmann acted prudently, with a minute to spare.

But what about games in the World Cup's group stage? Michael Wright, a senior lecturer in management science at Lancaster University in Britain, and Nobuyoshi Hirotsu, one of his former doctoral students, used data from the 1999-2000 English Premier League to see what would happen if a defender instead tried to maximize the number of points his team took from the match. In the English leagues (and others around the world), as in the World Cup's group stage, teams receive 3 points for a victory, 1 for a draw and 0 for a loss.

The Lancaster twosome — again looking at evenly matched teams — found that the defender should always foul to avert a certain goal if his team is losing by one or two goals, and should never foul if his team is leading by two goals or more. If his team is winning by one goal or the game is tied, the gains by fouling begin from 7 to 13 minutes through the first 45-minute half, depending on whether the team is playing at home or away.

Wright and Hirotsu also discovered that committing the foul increased the chances of winning much more for the team that is already leading. The gains for the losing team are not as large. But in a few situations, such as when one team is leading by a goal between minutes 28 and 41, a red card against that team actually improves both clubs' chances of winning — only the probability of a draw is reduced.

The question was recently asked in a different way by Marco Caliendo, a senior research associate at the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin, and Dubravko Radic, an assistant professor of retailing and service management at the University of Wuppertal: How much does it matter that a red-carded player's team is reduced to 10 men for the rest of the match?

They used records of the World Cup tournaments from 1930 through 2002 to measure the effect of red cards. To hone their results as finely as possible, they considered only red cards awarded when a game was tied and neither team had a home advantage.

Caliendo and Radic found that a red card did not give either team an advantage in scoring after roughly the 60th minute of a 90-minute match. Absorbing the card and the expulsion was clearly preferable to allowing a goal as the match drew to a close. Earlier in the match, however, red cards actually raised both teams' chances of scoring, but the 11-man team gained a strong advantage.

So if Germany's Michael Ballack is steaming through the Costa Rican defense on Friday in the World Cup's opening match, will the men at the back glance up at the clock before deciding whether to take him down? There is usually not time to think in such situations. But if it happens late in the second half, they shouldn't think once — let alone twice.
117 2006-06-04 To the Editor:     Property taxes in Connecticut affect everything. Local taxes are at the root of the eminent domain struggle plaguing New London and myriad controversies over development in eastern Connecticut....
118 2006-06-04 OVED-WEISS--Or, 23, beloved son of Inbal Oved and Mark and Cathy Weiss, died suddenly and tragically in Bangkok, Thailand. Or was a loving and adored son, a worshipped caring brother and an inspiration to all who knew him. He served with distincti...
119 2006-06-04 I must agree with Richard Tuttle: ''the whole architecture profession is ego gone wild.'' Here in Denver, Daniel Libeskind has given us a new art museum that looks, God forbid, like a collapsed skyscraper, jagged and inverted. Our football stadium...
120 2006-06-04 WEISS--Or Oved, 23, The members of the Aspatuck Tennis Club offer our heart felt condolences to our fellow member Mark Weiss and his family on the loss of a son and a brother....
121 2006-06-04 I read Michael Kimmelman's article (''The Architect, His Client, Her Husband and a House Named Turbulence,'' May 21) on the dream home/nightmare house designed by Steven Holl with some interest. I lived in a small Richard Meier house in Pittsburgh...
122 2006-06-04 Not only did you publish an article about a building that (according to the owner) is uninhabitable half the year, does not exhibit fine workmanship and yet cost twice the budget, but you also put it on your cover.This kind of attention only goes ...
123 2006-06-04 Steven Holl's Turbulence House looks like a failed effort to salvage some utility from a damaged water tank.    David Tomlin     New York...
124 2006-06-05 I've spent the past month or so in a haze. I've reached a state where I've become so numb with it all I am metamorphosing into a plant, spending most of my time pretending to read for an ever-looming final exam but actually either watching TV half...
125 2006-06-05 Intel has put several communications businesses on the block, according to the San Jose Mercury News, which cited anonymous sources who said they have seen documents describing the businesses that are up for sale. The report, published over the we...
126 2006-06-05 Even the business cards of the executives at Masterfoods USA who are responsible for the Cesar brand are being redesigned to reflect the approach of the campaign.

The campaign, by the BBDO West unit of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, has its genesis in efforts by the agency and Masterfoods USA that date back a year. The decision to focus the Cesar brand identity on the devotion shown by owners of small dogs was based on extensive research among consumers, mostly women.

In that regard, the campaign is emblematic of the increasing importance of research in developing advertising, particularly for products in competitive categories like pet foods. The work BBDO West did included ethnographic research among small-dog owners, which involved interviewing them, videotaping them and observing them as they interacted with their pets.

The research found that “people see dogs as members of the family more than they ever did,” says Rob Leibowitz, vice president for marketing at the Masterfoods USA pet-care division in Los Angeles, “and the group that sees the dog beyond that, as a baby or a child, has grown.”

The relationship that people have with small dogs, and in particular the smallest dogs, is different,” he adds. “They can’t do enough to show their adoration for their small dogs. It’s about going on vacation and bringing their small dogs, about letting their small dogs sleep on the bed, about buying small dogs clothes.”

For some years, Cesar had been aimed at owners of small dogs, Mr. Leibowitz says, with campaigns that promoted the brand as “gourmet,” providing “sophisticated foods for sophisticated dogs.”

But there was little consistency from one ad to another. Some featured celebrities and their small dogs. The most recent commercial was a humorous spot about a guest at a party who mistakenly eats a Cesar meal intended for the host’s small dog.

“I don’t think we’ve done as conscious a job of tying it all together,” Mr. Leibowitz says, an omission the new campaign seeks to rectify.

The campaign is getting under way with a commercial and print ads in which small dogs are given voice to make promises to their owners – provided, of course, that the owners feed them dog food bearing the Cesar brand.

“I promise to go where you go, to be happy to see you, to be woman’s best friend,” several small dogs promise in the TV spot. The announcer proclaims, “Love them back with Cesar,” mentions the line’s “15 gourmet flavors” and closes with, “Cesar. It’s canine cuisine.”

The print ads offer variations and elaborations on the vows. In one, for instance, a dachshund declares: “I promise to shop ’til we drop, to be your dinner date, to be woman’s best friend.”

In a second print ad, a French bulldog asserts: “I vow to lick the moisturizer off your face, to model your latest fashions, to clean my plate as long as it’s filled with filet mignon.”

The campaign reflects “this complex, multifaceted relationship between small dogs and their owners” as uncovered by the research, says Jim Lesser, executive creative director at BBDO West, who divides his time between offices in Los Angeles and San Francisco.

One insight was that owners of small dogs “want to give their dog the very best because the dog is giving them its very best,” Mr. Lesser says, adding: “There was one amazing line from this woman who said, ‘For once in my life, I’m perfect, in the eyes of my dog.’ ”

The campaign features the bold, bright colors from the single-serve packages of the 15 Cesar flavor varieties, Mr. Lesser says, like turquoise, pink and lavender, and uses fashionable props like the cashmere blanket and ottoman on which the French bulldog is perched.

“Each shot of every dog has an upscale, gourmet feel,” he adds, “so it doesn’t look like dog-food advertising.”

The commercial is appearing on shows like “CSI,” “Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,” “Grey’s Anatomy,” “Lost” and “The View.” The print ads started running in People and US Weekly magazines and will be expanded to titles like Food & Wine, Glamour, Martha Stewart Living, O: The Oprah Magazine, Vanity Fair and Vogue.

The revamp of the Cesar Web site is scheduled for June 20, and it will offer consumers the chance to contribute to the campaign content that they create themselves, Mr. Lesser says. BBDO West is working on the Web site in collaboration with Ryan Interactive in Westport, Conn. The promotional elements of the campaign are being handled by Catapult, an agency in Los Angeles.

And in a nod to what Mr. Leibowitz describes as the role small dogs are playing in popular culture – think Paris Hilton toting around her Chihuahua, Tinkerbell, wherever she went — a special version of the print ads is appearing in the entertainment trade publication Daily Variety.

“Your agent says he loves you,” the Daily Variety ad reads. “Your publicist says she loves you. The studio says they love you. Your dog really does.”

“Show the most loyal member of your entourage just how much he means to you,” the special ad concludes, and offers readers of Daily Variety “a complimentary Cesar doggy gift bag.”

Why is it the people who do not need the freebies are the ones who are always offered the goody bags? They sure don’t lead a dog’s life – unless the dog is one being targeted by the Cesar campaign, in which case the dog’s existence sure is sweet, dude.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that appears Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times newspaper.
127 2006-06-05 Last year, a British judge called UBS proprietary trader Jon Wood "unreliable," "evasive" and a "very hard and calculating man." Still, investors seem to be quite willing to put money into Mr. Wood's next project: a $6 billion hedge fund. If he hi...
128 2006-06-05 American Medical Systems Holdings has agreed to buy Laserscope for $715 million to expand in the urology products market, the companies said on Monday. Go to Article from Reuters via Yahoo » Go to News Release from American Medical via Yahoo »...
129 2006-06-05 A New York hedge fund is demanding to see certain books and records of Houston Exploration, saying the company's board of directors has demonstrated "repeated and potentially actionable disregard" for its duties to shareholders. Jana Partners, whi...
130 2006-06-05 Europe's central bank said that hedge funds are a major risk to the stability of financial markets, and demanded greater transparency for the massive industry, according to a report Friday. In its financial stability review, the European Central B...
131 2006-06-05 A well-known Japanese fund manager was arrested Monday after acknowledging he had engaged in insider trading in an unfolding case that is drawing intense attention in this nation, where aggressive investment funds are still relatively rare. The fu...
132 2006-06-05 Airbus, which has been engaged in a dispute over trade subsidies with its rival Boeing, filed suit in a United States court on Friday, asking that a law firm representing Boeing be excluded from the case because of a conflict of interest. In a fil...
133 2006-06-05 Goldman Sachs Capital Partners has agreed to acquire iHealth Technologies, which helps insurance companies process medical claims, from the company's founder, Doug Williams, said LBO Wire, citing an unidentified source. Financial details of the de...
134 2006-06-05 Bloomberg columnist Matthew Lynn thinks that Goldman Sachs's growing political clout is not such a hot prospect. Forget "The Da Vinci Code." If you want to get to grips with a real conspiracy, take a look at all the Goldman Sachs Group staffers ta...
135 2006-06-05 Montreal-based cable operator Cogeco Cable said Friday it is buying Portugal's Cabovisao-Televisao por Cabo from its insolvent Canadian parent, Cable Satisfaction International, for 656 million Canadian dollars ($595.9 million). Cabovisao is an in...
136 2006-06-05 the memory chip maker Micron Technology raised its bid for Lexar Media by about 5 percent Friday to quell shareholder opposition, but the new terms were rejected by the billionaire investor Carl Icahn, and shares of both firms fell. "I still think...
137 2006-06-05 No sooner did Euronext agree to be acquired by the parent of the New York Stock Exchange on Friday for 7.8 billion euros ($10 billion) to create the world's biggest stock exchange operator than the duo moved to further consolidate the European mar...
138 2006-06-05 How many beaded hedge fund executives can fit in a Volkswagen van? Attendees of this week's Hedgestock festival may well find out. On Wednesday and Thursday, thousands of people from the hedge fund industry, better known for fast trades and big re...
139 2006-06-05 The match was easy on the eyes, full of bursts of speed and phenomenal defense. Blake voiced displeasure late in the third set and early in the fourth when fans shouted while he was attempting to volley and serve. But Blake defused the tension at 2-1 in the fourth when he suggested that a spectator who questioned a line call look for himself. The fan climbed over the barrier, took a peek and agreed, then hustled back to his front-row seat before a security guard could intervene.

The crowd was more respectful after that, but Blake still had a lengthy chat with the chair umpire, Carlos Ramos, after his defeat.

As the French Open heads into its final week, there are no American men left in the singles tournament for the third consecutive year. The only American left is Venus Williams, who rallied to defeat the Swiss left-hander Patty Schnyder in the fourth round, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.

As usual, Williams struggled with her consistency from the baseline, but she stayed positive and aggressive, pushing forward and knocking off volleys with frequent success. It was a far cry from her first major of the season, when she was bounced out of the Australian Open in the first round.

"I wasn't really fit in Australia," Williams said. "My arm was hurting; I don't know why I played. I just thought maybe I'd try. So I got smart, and I got off tour until I was better."

If all had gone according to the seeding chart, Williams would be about to face the top-seeded Mauresmo in the quarterfinals. But Roland Garros has yet to go according to plan for Mauresmo, and she was upset — if hardly shocked — on center court by Nicole Vaidisova, a 17-year-old Czech, 6-7 (5), 6-1, 6-2.

Though Mauresmo insisted that she was more relaxed this year after winning in Australia, her first Grand Slam singles title, she could not translate that feeling into success at home. In 12 French Open appearances, she has yet to advance past the quarterfinals, and though she tried to hit through her troubles in the final two sets against Vaidisova and attack when possible, Vaidisova rolled over her, generating superior depth and pace from inside and outside the baseline and serving convincingly.

"Every match lost, especially here at Roland Garros, it's never easy," Mauresmo said. Mauresmo had won their two previous matches, both on hardcourts, and routed Vaidisova in the same round at the Australian Open. But Vaidisova, seeded 16th here, is learning to harness the power and potential in her all-court game.

A telegenic blonde who stands 6 feet, Vaidisova has won six minor tour titles. She is backed by the same marketing machine, the International Management Group, that Sharapova had behind her when she broke through to win Wimbledon in 2004.

Sharapova took a 5-1 lead in the third set of her match against her Russian compatriot Dinara Safina and then imploded. She dropped the next six games as Safina — the 20-year-old sister of the men's star Marat Safin — gradually realized that she did indeed have a second chance.

"Unexpectable," Safina, in her delightfully imperfect English, said after her 7-5, 2-6, 7-5 victory. "I started to look for the lines, and I started to be more aggressive from every point. It finished my way today."

Sharapova had three match points against Serena Williams in the semifinals of the 2005 Australian Open and failed to slam the door. But she has never melted down like this at a major, and after reaching one quarterfinal and four semifinals in her previous five Grand Slam tournaments, she could not make it past the fourth round.

Clay remains her least favorite surface, and a bone bruise on her right ankle forced her to miss nearly two months of action and kept her from playing a single warm-up event before arriving in Paris.

But that did not keep her from getting to 5-1 in the third. Even after Safina held serve to 5-2, Sharapova was still two points from the match at 30-all on her own serve. But she made a backhand unforced error and then a double fault. Before long, Safina was smacking confident ground strokes, defending well in the corners and eventually leaping high and pointing with appreciation and delight to her new coach, Glen Schaap.

After a surprise run to the final in Rome, Safina is now in her first quarterfinal at a major. As her brother's game is fading — he has fallen out of the top 50 — hers is rising.

Of her defeat, Sharapova said: "I really think it has to do with the fact I haven't had those kind of tough matches in the past few weeks. It's in your hands, and you've got to finish it off. All of a sudden, you start thinking. That's what happened today."

The 14th-seeded Safina will face the former United States Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova in the quarterfinals. In the bottom half of the draw, the defending champion, Justine Henin-Hardenne, will face Anna-Lena Grönefeld, another first-time quarterfinalist at this level. Kim Clijsters, seeded second, will face Hingis or Peer, who split sets Sunday and whose fourth-round match was the only one that could not be completed.

In the men's fourth round, Roger Federer handled the big-hitting but erratic Tomas Berdych, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3. The top-seeded Federer is three victories from holding all four Grand Slam singles titles. In the quarterfinals, he will face Mario Ancic, a Croatian net rusher who prevailed in a five-set test against Tommy Robredo, a Spaniard who was one of the best clay-court players in Federer's half of the draw.

Third-seeded David Nalbandian and No. 6 Nikolay Davydenko will face off in the other quarterfinal in that draw.
140 2006-06-05 Three construction workers were killed this morning when two oil storage tanks exploded in an oil field near Raleigh, Miss., according to a state official who was at the scene.

The workers were welding an adjacent tank when the two tanks exploded. A fourth member of their work crew was injured.

The blast ripped through the tops of both tanks, tearing away huge discs of metal that landed hundreds of feet away, said John R. Parker, a member of the Mississippi Oil and Gas Board who was helping searchers recover debris at the scene.

"It was like tearing the top off a can of peanuts," Mr. Parker said. "Only these were huge pieces of metal, maybe 12 to 14 foot in diameter. One landed 300 feet away."

The three men who were killed were standing on top of one of the 400-barrel tanks when it exploded. Kody Scarbrough, 20, and Nicholas W. Pounds, 24, both of Foxworth, Miss., died at the scene. George B. Jefferson, 54, of Columbia, Miss., died at a local hospital.
141 2006-06-05 Names like Habbo Hotel of Finland, Netvibes of France, Babylon of Israel, FON of Italy, MySQL of Sweden and MusicStrands of Spain are among the Internet and software companies featuring the latest wave of innovations.

While European entrepreneurs say they are still hobbled by a more restrictive market environment, the venture investors have reasons to believe that Europe this time around will compete more evenly with Silicon Valley, which has been the locus for Internet and computer creativity since the 1990's.

"The world has flattened," Mr. Sheehan said. "In a flat world, the rules are different. A lot of things that made it easier to see leaders emerge in America don't exist anymore."

For one, companies expect and plan to have an international presence from the moment of inception, knowing that they can count on a more mature Internet as a global distribution and communications tool.

In addition, the market for initial public offerings of technology stocks, a steamy advantage for American companies in the 1990's, has cooled to a chill.

And Europe has a head start in several technologies that are especially hot, according to Danny Rimer, a managing partner with Index Ventures in Geneva.

One, Mr. Rimer said, is the use of open-source software, which encourages developers to exchange and improve programming code freely over the Internet. Linux, the open-source computer operating system, was created by Linus Torvalds in Finland. Last month, Trolltech, a Norwegian company that markets its software on the open-source model, said it was taking its shares public. "Open source had to be fostered in Europe." Mr. Rimer said. "The whole notion that you contribute what you can and get to benefit from the whole is completely European." Another particularly European niche is peer-to-peer computing, in which much of the work of conveying information on a network is handled by many small computers rather than one central server.

The Kazaa network, over which copyrighted song files are exchanged freely, began in Sweden. After that success, its founders turned around and started Skype Technologies, the Internet phone company that eBay bought last year for2.6 billion euros, or $3.4 billion.

"Taking multimedia content and effectively, cheaply providing it on the Internet is definitely a European phenomenon," said Mr. Rimer, whose company was an early investor in Skype. "The reason for that is cost. Broadband is a lot more expensive in Europe than it is in the U.S."

One of the investments Microsoft is expected to announce on Tuesday also concerns a peer-to-peer technology. Under the deal, Microsoft is taking a 10 percent equity stake and a seat on the board of directors at Skinkers, a British company that uses peer-to-peer networking to deliver information and messages to employees' desktop computers.

While the bulk of the exchange with Skinkers is based on sharing knowledge, not equity — the company will receive technology from Microsoft's research lab in Cambridge, England, as well as sales and marketing expertise — executives say that is just as valuable.

"They really are like a venture capital company for us," said Matteo Berlucci, chief executive of Skinkers. "Getting pretty much ready-made technology is like getting cash."

Vimio, a developer of mobile media distribution software, is the other company with which Microsoft plans an alliance. The two are the first European agreements for Microsoft's IP Ventures program, which aims to place research from its labs with companies that can license and develop the intellectual property.

A third European specialty is community-building networks, like Lunarstorm of Sweden or Habbo Hotel, which is likely to reach 60 million euros, or $77 million, in revenue this year, Mr. Rimer said.

The managing director of the Microsoft research lab in Cambridge, Andrew Herbert, noted that "Bouncing Back" was the title of its most recent internal report. "Innovation is still very active," Mr. Herbert said. "People still have great ideas."

Mr. Rimer conceded that Europe's traditional entrepreneurial shackles, which he said were largely government-induced, were not going away.

"Venture capital, the notion of finding lightning in a bottle and making it into a very important success story, is not really what Europe is known for," Mr. Rimer said. But relative to the last few years, European technology is beckoning, he added.

Venture capital fund-raising in the United States far outstrips that of Europe, with about $22 billion in America last year, according to VentureOne. Europe funds are more typically driven by buyouts.

But European venture funds raised 12.6 billion euros last year, a 44 percent increase from 2004 and nearly the level of 2001, according to figures compiled for the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association. The amount of money raised for high-tech companies in particular doubled last year to 5.59 billion euros from 2.47 billion euros.

Yet Mr. Sheehan of 3i Investments also cautioned against exuberance. "There's a danger in saying the environment is better than it ever was, because it can be seen as self-serving or just naive and optimistic," he said. "There's an equal danger that it can make governments of the European Union feel relaxed."

Even though "it's spring," Mr. Sheehan said, "the shoots are coming up and you still have to keep watering."
142 2006-06-05 Mr. Murakami said at the news conference that at first, he had denied breaking the law, because he did not buy the Nippon Broadcasting shares at Livedoor's urging.

But he said prosecutors persuaded him that once he had heard from a Livedoor executive, Ryoji Miyauchi, what the company intended, his own later trading was legally questionable.

"I concluded that I made a mistake," Mr. Murakami told reporters, bowing deeply in a traditional show of remorse. "As a pro among pros, I apologize for the violation."

The maximum penalty he faces is a $30,000 fine and three years in prison.

Mr. Murakami said he was stepping down as head of MAC Asset Management, the largest in the family of activist funds that he founded seven years ago. MAC Asset, popularly known in Japan as the Murakami Fund, manages about $3.6 billion in assets.

Mr. Murakami won both applause and derision here for importing to Japan the sharp-elbowed tactics of Wall Street corporate raiders, buying large blocs of stock in cash-rich companies and then pressing management to pay out more to shareholders. In 2000, Mr. Murakami attempted one of Japan's first hostile takeovers, and he became a national figure last year when he tried to take over the railroad-and-retailing conglomerate that owns the Hanshin Tigers, a leading baseball team.

"Even if I have been called various names, my mission has been to make this stock market a respectable place," Mr. Murakami said Monday, speaking of Japanese securities markets generally. "I decided to withdraw from this world today because it is wrong for me to continue to be in this world after such a violation."

Mr. Murakami's offices, which were searched this morning by prosecutors, are in Roppongi Hills, a luxury high-rise complex in central Tokyo that has become a symbol of the nation's new rich. Some market analysts interpreted the arrests of Mr. Murakami and Mr. Horrie as a pointed warning by the old guard of the Japanese political and financial establishment against the new breed of aggressive investors they represent.

"If this means markets will become fairer for everyone, then it's a plus," said Toru Nagasawa, a Tokyo-based lawyer specializing in corporate governance, speaking of the insider trading investigations. "But if it just means that the nail that gets up will get hammered down, then it is a minus. If this is a denial of shareholders speaking out, then it is a definite minus."

Rumors that Mr. Murakami was being investigated have circulated in Japan for weeks. Perhaps anticipating legal problems, he moved most of his investment operations to Singapore last month. When he returned to Japan last week, he arrived unshaven and wearing a baseball cap and sunglasses, apparently hoping to go unrecognized (to little avail).

Mr. Murakami, a former trade ministry official who left government in 1999 to start his own fund, has been one of the most controversial figures of Japan's recent bull stock market, often compared to Carl Icahn or T. Boone Pickens.

Unlike the flamboyant Mr. Horie, who reveled in tweaking the establishment with his spiked hair, T-shirts and biting comments, Mr. Murakami stuck to the dark suits and modest ties of Japan's salarymen, was circumspect in public remarks and avoided talking to reporters.

But both men became symbols of a gloves-off style of capitalism that began to take hold in Japan in recent years, as deregulation and fresh approaches to economic policy shook the stock market from a long period of stagnation.

The changes helped make Tokyo one of the world's best-performing stock markets in recent years, and both men rode the bull market to great wealth. But in the view of many here, the changes also made the market fertile ground for the kinds of trading abuses and frauds that plagued Wall Street in the 1980's.

Prosecutors have been signaling for months that they intended to crack down. Their statements echoed a distrust and distaste in the Japanese business community for Wall Street-style financial buccaneering; making money through takeovers, proxy fights and even aggressive stock trading is widely seen as vaguely immoral, the product of scheming rather than real work.

In a statement posted on the Tokyo Prosecutor's Office web site last year, the chief of the office's investigations department, Motonari Otsuro, said officials should not allow financiers to take advantage of "people who sweat from their labor. or who want to work but can't because of restructuring." He noted, "When people see news reports of these things, they get angry."

Still, Mr. Murakami was seen as someone who had carefully cultivated connections with politicians and policymakers, and was reported to be friendly with the governor of the central bank and several prominent lawmakers, making his arrest a surprise to some.

Mr. Murakami showed a flash of public-relations acumen by holding his news conference and making public his side of the story today before he was arrested. While Mr. Horie was in custody earlier this year, a constant stream of leaked information appeared in the Japanese press painting him as guilty, and he had no opportunity to respond. Once he was released last month, he denied wrongdoing.
143 2006-06-05 Today, Ms. Elibox said she learned that her son had been located when Mr. Aponte phoned her shortly after 2 a.m. with the news, which he had gotten from the police.

"They found him in Brooklyn somewhere," she said, gazing fondly at the boy as he rode his bicycle up and down the sidewalk.

Ms. Elibox said that after the call, she went to the 46th Precinct along with Mr. Aponte and some relatives and friends. They then traveled by van to St. Barnabas Hospital, where Brandon was examined and was pronounced unharmed.

"I took him straight from the cops," said Ms. Elibox. "I called him, he looked at me, he hugged me, and we were both crying. I was just so happy to see him."

Ms. Elibox said that Brandon has not yet described what he experienced after he was taken from the tattoo parlor.

Mr. Aponte's brother Zeus Aponte, who owns the parlor, said Sunday in an interview outside his shop that Tatiana had taken the boy once before, although with permission that time. Two weeks earlier, Tatiana and Brandon left the shop for a snack, and returned a short time later, Zeus Aponte said, adding that the boy's father assumed at first that this time she would do the same. When two hours passed and they did not return, Zeus Aponte said, his brother called 911.

On Sunday, outside the 46th Precinct station house on Ryer Avenue, a man who did not give his name said he had told the authorities that he saw the two that afternoon, sitting in a black Ford Taurus with three other passengers, two men and another child.

Zeus Aponte said the man had told him that Tatiana, her hair newly teased out, had been asking passers-by at 163rd Street and Southern Boulevard if they could direct her to a wig shop when the man confronted her.

She became agitated, and the car sped off, when she realized that she had been recognized, Zeus Aponte said the man had told him.

Zeus Aponte added that the man had told him that Brandon was sitting in the back seat, his hair no longer in a ponytail, in what he surmised was an attempt to mask his identity.

Investigators also interviewed friends of Tatiana, a troubled teenager who had recently run away from the home on the Grand Concourse that she shared with her mother and a cousin. According to police officials, she had been in the custody of the Administration for Children's Services and was living in a group home. The agency reported her missing on May 16, the police said.

The cousin, Eli Prado, 17, said Tatiana had been a straight-A student at Intermediate School 166, but recently began veering from the straight and narrow after she met an older man who he said he believed was named Carmello.

Once happy-go-lucky, Tatiana turned moody and rebellious and began staying out past her curfew, he said. When her mother put her foot down, Tatiana stopped coming home and then dropped out of school, Eli said. The relationship with Carmello ended, but not before Tatiana had his name tattooed onto her upper left arm in black cursive script.

Zeus Aponte said Tatiana sometimes stopped by his tattoo parlor to hang out. He said he once overheard her telling Brandon, "I'm your mommy."

A girl named Sabrina, who said she was Tatiana's best friend and who would not give her last name, said Tatiana had gone to the parlor several times to get her lower lip, tongue and navel pierced. She dismissed the idea that Tatiana would abduct someone else's child.

"That's not the Tatiana I know," she said outside the station house yesterday after being questioned by the police. "Most every young teen wants a child now, most of them. But I don't think kidnapping is a good way to get a child."

The employees of Zeus Tattoos and Fatima Salon, next door to the tattoo parlor, said yesterday that they regretted not having done more to keep Brandon out of harm's way.

Shamel Pearcy, 44, who cuts hair at Fatima Salon, recalled how he saw Tatiana feeding Brandon peanut M&M's on Saturday, and then watched with mild alarm as she walked him down the stairs. He said he called out the boy's name and followed them to the street, but turned back because a client was waiting.

The last he saw of them was Tatiana carrying the boy toward the Gyro King on Fordham Road, he said. "She pulled the wool over my eyes," he said. "I should have told her to bring him back. That's what's killing me."
144 2006-06-05 By contrast, at the Pentagon, workers not wearing proper protective gear were escorted off the site.

"Employers are responsible for providing a safe workplace," said David Worby, the lawyer whose firm represents the workers. "But the majority of workers at ground zero were given nothing, or had masks that didn't work."

The allegations are based on the lawyers' review of more than 400,000 pages of official documents and the testimony of 30 government witnesses.

The city, which is the principal government defendant, has moved to have the lawsuit dismissed. It argues that it and the private contractors it hired to help in the cleanup did their best to provide adequate equipment and to get workers to use it, but many workers ignored the warnings. Many workers cited reasons for not keeping the masks on, like the stifling heat and the difficulty of communicating while wearing them.

Even if the response to an unprecedented emergency was flawed, the city's lawyers argue, a firmly established legal immunity under the State Defense Emergency Act and other laws protects New York from legal liability.

Kenneth A. Becker, head of the city's World Trade Center litigation unit, declined to comment on the charges in the complaint, saying it was "inappropriate to comment on pending litigation," beyond what is contained in documents already filed with the court. In those papers, the city argued that its "concern for the health and safety of all workers and volunteers at the W.T.C. site began immediately after the September 11 attacks and continued until the end of the rescue, recovery and debris removal operations."

Oral argument on the city's motion to dismiss the case is scheduled for June 22 before Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein of United States District Court in Manhattan.

Ground zero was about the most dangerous workplace imaginable: a smoking heap of nearly two million tons of tangled steel and concrete that contained a brew of toxins, including asbestos, benzene, PCB's, and more than 400 chemicals. Indeed, recent health studies have found that many people who worked on the pile have since developed a rash of serious ailments, including gastrointestinal and respiratory problems.

In the chaos of the first 48 hours after the twin towers collapsed, only the city's firefighters had any personal protective equipment suitable for such an environment. But even that equipment was not sufficient.

Each firefighter is issued a full-face mask that is part of a Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus, also known as a Scott pack, which functions like scuba gear, supplying air while sealing out hazards.

But the tanks contain no more than 18 minutes of oxygen. The system works well if a firefighter is dashing into a burning building to rescue a baby. For a nine-month recovery operation, it was useless.

Once their Scott packs were exhausted, the first firefighters on the scene had no backup gear. That is why Firefighter Palmer Doyle and the crew from Engine Company 254 in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, stopped at a hardware store on the way into Manhattan on Sept. 11 to buy every paper dust mask in stock.

When he returned to ground zero with 50 other firefighters on a bus a few days later, Firefighter Doyle looked for respirators. He was told there was just one left for the entire crew. It was given to the youngest among them.

Firefighter Doyle, now 51 and retired with mild asthma, a recurring cough and other work-related problems, said that the firefighters never thought for a second of refusing to work without respirators, but they did wonder when they were going to be available. Records produced in the lawsuit indicate that the Fire Department put in an order with the city for 5,000 P100 Organic Vapor/Acid Gas half-face masks, which cost less than $50 each, and 10,000 replacement filter cartridges on Sept. 28. But the order was not processed for almost two months.

Such delays remain a sore point. "Firefighters worked during the 9/11 rescue operation with little or no respiratory protection, and anyone who claims differently is lying," said Stephen J. Cassidy, president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association. "The department further failed to supply anything but particle masks to its workers until much later."

In the first few days after Sept. 11, the only types of breathing protection generally available to people at ground zero were surgical masks and paper dust masks, often distributed by volunteers. Even Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Deputy Mayor Rudy Washington, who has qualified for workers' compensation for Sept. 11-related ailments, wore paper masks at that time, although industrial safety officers say they were practically useless.

When private construction crews first arrived to help with debris removal, they had no air-filtering equipment with them because they do not usually work in such hazardous conditions.

"For the average Joe, there was nothing," said Robert Gray, a crane operator who is co-author of a new book about the cleanup called "Nine Months at Ground Zero" (Scribner, 2006). Mr. Gray said that after several days, the International Union of Operating Engineers, to which he belongs, brought in a trailer to provide half-face masks and testing to make sure they fit and functioned properly.

Outside the pile, most workers in the early days of the cleanup had only paper masks, and many of the laborers hired by cleaning contractors to vacuum the asbestos from buildings downtown had nothing at all. The New York Committee on Occupation Safety and Health, a union labor organization, provided checkups and respirators to more than 400 of these laborers, many of them illegal immigrants.

David M. Newman, an industrial hygienist with the labor committee, said that when federal environmental officials announced that it was safe for people to return to Lower Manhattan so that Wall Street could reopen a week after the towers collapsed, employers suddenly "had a green light to say, 'We don't need to use respirators because the E.P.A. says the air is OK.' "

He was referring to a statement made on Sept. 18, 2001, by Christie Whitman, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, that air sampling done by her agency showed that the air was safe to breathe. The agency's inspector general concluded in 2003 that Ms. Whitman's statement was far too broad and could not be scientifically supported at the time she made it.

According to the inspector general's exhaustive recounting of the environmental consequences of Sept. 11, a federal emergency response team prepared a report on the day of the attacks recommending that respirators be used at ground zero.

But the report was never issued because it was decided that New York City, and not the federal government, should handle worker protection issues.

As the magnitude of the recovery operation grew clearer, attempts were made to bring order to the operation. On Sept. 20 the city issued its first safety plan, and it asked the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to take charge of distributing respirators. In what would become a controversial move, OSHA used its discretionary powers to decide not to enforce workplace safety regulations but to act in a supportive role that would not slow down operations.

"Given that the site was operating under emergency conditions, it was normal that we should suspend our enforcement action and assume the roles of consultation and technical assistance," Patricia Clark, OSHA regional administrator for New York, said in a 2003 OSHA publication.

OSHA placed emergency orders for tens of thousands of P100 half-face masks with replaceable filters. They cost from $25 to $50 at the time, and were certified to be effective protection against asbestos and most of the dust on the site.

But Mr. Worby, whose White Plains-based law firm, Worby Groner Edelman Napoli Bern, is handling the workers' joint action suit, said that even these masks were not adequate protection against the chemicals released by the collapsed buildings. He, and others, believe that ground zero should have been declared a toxic waste site, with workers required to wear hazardous-material suits.

Records produced in the lawsuit indicate that the city did receive 75,000 Tyvek suits, white protective overalls often used at hazardous waste sites, but never distributed them at ground zero.

Ms. Clark, the OSHA administrator, testified before Congress in October 2003 that the agency distributed 131,000 half-face respirators before the cleanup ended in June 2002, more than three times the number of workers on the site. In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency provided 22,000 respirators and the operating engineers' union distributed 11,000.

There has been no clear accounting of where they all went. But based on witness accounts and reports by safety officers at the site, it appears that most were used improperly and then discarded. OSHA's own regulations require that masks be tested for fit on each individual wearer, and that men with facial hair must shave for the masks to fit properly.

The lawsuit against the city claims that most of the masks were simply handed out, without instructions or testing for fit. "Respirator fit testing done around the World Trade Center was illusory at best," the lawsuit says.

A separate lawsuit filed on behalf of downtown residents and schoolchildren exposed to ground zero contamination is pending in federal district court in Manhattan.

Several health studies have shown that the closer people came to the debris pile in the early days and weeks after the twin towers collapsed, the more serious are the ailments they develop. A city registry of 71,000 people — including responders and residents — exposed to the dust showed that people who live downtown have developed respiratory and mental health problems. But they generally have not been as serious as those reported by people who worked directly on the pile.

OSHA refused to answer questions about its handling of the respirators. John M. Chavez, a spokesman, said lawyers from the Department of Justice's environmental torts branch, which is handling trade center litigation, advised against talking to reporters about respirators because "the question goes to the heart of the issue of the litigation."

After the masks arrived at ground zero, it soon became apparent that distributing them was easier than getting workers to wear them. At that time of passion and heroism, putting on any kind of respirator or mask was an expression of concern about personal safety — and for many that seemed selfish and unpatriotic in the midst of unimaginable disaster.

By contrast, more than 90 percent of the workers at the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island, which was overseen by the Army Corps of Engineers, wore respirators.

There were other reasons for not wearing the respirators. Scorching temperatures on the pile made working in the masks unbearable. It was nearly impossible for the workers to communicate with each other with masks on, so they pulled them down and many later kept them off. The filters clogged easily in the thick, powdery dust, and replacements were not always readily available.

But perhaps the greatest impediments to compliance were the confusing guidelines and spotty enforcement efforts. Overseeing the work, and worker safety, was a horde of government entities that, at its peak, exceeded 30 city, state and federal agencies with overlapping jurisdictions and, at times, contradictory policies.

Statements from the E.P.A. about the air being safe contradicted respirator requirements. OSHA eventually established a green line, which it actually painted around the pile, and ordered respirators to be worn inside the green line. But in November 2001 the various government agencies and private contractors entered into a partnership: OSHA agreed not to issue fines or citations, and the contractors vowed to follow regulations.

The city, in its legal defense, says it issued advisories, distributed pamphlets and put up signs telling workers to wear respirators. But observers from unions and labor safety organizations, some using binoculars, found no more than half of the workers ever used their respirators. At times, no more than one in five workers were in compliance.

The compliance problem at ground zero was regularly brought up at daily safety committee hearings held by the city with other agencies and private contractors. But without strict enforcement, the situation never improved. Frustrated contractors doubted that anything short of "having workers' mother on site to admonish them to comply would be effective," according to records of one of the meetings cited in the legal documents.

Mr. Worby, the lawyer, says attempts to blame the workers for not wearing respirators go against the spirit of New York labor laws, which oblige employers to provide safe working environments. He argued that even if doing so was impractical in the first chaotic days after the attacks, rigorous standards could have been imposed in the many months that followed.

Lawyers for the injured workers are looking to recoup monetary damages for their pain, suffering, lost days and troubled nights.

The city and the 190 private companies named in the lawsuit, which was filed last year, say they did the best they could to balance safety with expediency. They point out that in nine months at ground zero, there was not one fatality.

But several recent health studies have shown that exposure to ground zero dust has caused serious respiratory and gastrointestinal problems in hundreds of people who worked at the site. Doctors have also started to notice an unusual number of lung-scarring diseases, especially among firefighters. So far there has been only one death officially linked to dust exposure, that of Detective James Zadroga, whose death early this year was attributed to lung scarring caused by the work he did at ground zero.

Both sides in the suit cast an uneasy eye on the future. The city clearly worries that if there is another attack it will not be able to hire contractors and respond to the emergency without fear of becoming entangled in legal liabilities, which could hamper its ability to restore order and protect the city.

In the same vein, the workers' representatives ask, if they are again called in to help, will the environmental and labor laws intended to protect them be enforced?
145 2006-06-05 "We feel at this point we've done a lot of solid research, but the American public still is not informed," said Michael Berger, press director for 911Truth.org, which sponsored the event. "We had to come up with a disciplined approach to get it out."

Mr. Berger, 40, is typical of 9/11 Truthers — a group that, in its rank and file, includes professors, chain-saw operators, mothers, engineers, activists, used-book sellers, pizza deliverymen, college students, a former fringe candidate for United States Senate and a long-haired fellow named hummux (pronounced who-mook) who, on and off, lived in a cave for 15 years.

The former owner of a recycling plant outside St. Louis, Mr. Berger joined the movement when he grew skeptical of why the 9/11 Commission had failed, to his sense of sufficiency, to answer how the building at 7 World Trade Center collapsed like a ton of bricks. It was his "9/11 trigger," the incident that drew him in, he said. For others, it might be the fact that the air-defense network did not prevent the attacks that day, or the appearance of thousands of "puts" — or short-sell bids — on the nation's airline stocks. (The 9/11 Commission found the sales innocuous.)

Such "red flags," as they are sometimes called, were the meat and potatoes of the keynote speech on Friday night by Alex Jones, who is the William Jennings Bryan of the 9/11 band. Mr. Jones, a syndicated radio host, is known for his larynx-tearing screeds against corruption — fiery, almost preacherly, addresses in which he sweats, balls his fists and often swerves from quoting Roman history to using foul language in a single breath.

At the lectern Friday night, beside a digital projection reading "History of Government Sponsored Terrorism," Mr. Jones set forth the central tenets of 9/11 Truth: that the military command that monitors aircraft "stood down" on the day of the attacks; that President Bush addressed children in a Florida classroom instead of being whisked off to the White House; that the hijackers, despite what the authorities say, were trained at American military bases; and that the towers did not collapse because of burning fuel and weakened steel but because of a "controlled demolition" caused by pre-set bombs.

According to the group's Web site, the motive for faking a terrorist attack was to allow the administration "to instantly implement policies its members have long supported, but which were otherwise infeasible."

The controlled-demolition theory is the sine qua non of the 9/11 movement — its basic claim and, in some sense, the one upon which all others rest. It is, of course, directly contradicted by the 10,000-page investigation by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which held that jet-fuel fires distressed the towers' structure, which eventually collapsed.

The movement's answer to that report was written by Steven E. Jones, a professor of physics at Brigham Young University and the movement's expert in the matter of collapse. Dr. Jones, unlike Alex Jones, is a soft-spoken man who lets his writing do the talking. He composed an account of the destruction of the towers (www.physics.byu.edu/research/energy/htm7.html) that holds that "pre-positioned cutter-charges" brought the buildings down.

Like a prior generation of skeptics — those who doubted, say, the Warren Commission or the government's account of the Gulf of Tonkin attack — the 9/11 Truthers are dogged, at home and in the office, by friends and family who suspect that they may, in fact, be completely nuts.

"Elvis and Area 51 — we're sort of lumped together," said Harlan Dietrich, a recent college graduate from Austin, Tex. "It's attack the messenger, not the message every time."

To get the message out, the movement has gone beyond bumper stickers and "Kumbaya" into political action.

There is a plan, Mr. Berger said, to create a fund to support candidates on a 9/11 platform. There is a plan to create a network of college campus groups. There is a plan by the British delegation (such as it is, so far) to get members of Parliament to watch "Loose Change," the seminal movement DVD.

It would even seem the Truthers are not alone in believing the whole truth has not come out. A poll released last month by Zogby International found that 42 percent of all Americans believe the 9/11 Commission "concealed or refused to investigate critical evidence" in the attacks. This is in addition to the Zogby poll two years ago that found that 49 percent of New York City residents agreed with the idea that some leaders "knew in advance" that the attacks were planned and failed to act.

Beneath the weekend's screenings and symposiums on geopolitics and mass-hypnotic trance lies a tradition of questioning concentrated power, both in public and in private hands, said Mark Fenster, a law professor at the University of Florida and author of "Conspiracy Theories: Secrecy and Power in American Culture."

As for the 9/11 Truthers, they were confident enough that their theories made sense that on Friday, as a kickoff to the conference, they met in Daley Plaza for a rally (though some called it Dealey Plaza). They marched up Kinzle Street to the local affiliate of NBC where, at the plate glass windows, they chanted, "Talking heads tell lies," as the news was being read.

"I hope you don't end up dead somewhere," a companion said to a participant, hours earlier as he dropped him at the Loop. "Don't worry," the participant said. "There's too many of us for that."
146 2006-06-05 Her trail blazing has inspired supporters and doubters alike, but, most of all, it has garnered interest, including from some of the biggest names in the sport.

"I always felt if anybody had golf clubs and was able to qualify and eligible to play in a golf tournament, they can certainly tee it up," Jack Nicklaus said last week during a news conference at the Memorial in Dublin, Ohio. "I don't care if that's a man, woman or child. Let them come play.

"If Michelle Wie, if that's her desire to come play, and she has the ability to qualify for the U.S. Open, fantastic. I think it's wonderful for the game of golf."

Johnny Miller said he was a huge fan of Wie's.

"If I had a kid 13 or 14 years old doing this, I'd be doing cartwheels," Miller said in a telephone interview.

"This is a total icon at this age. She is like another Tiger Woods.

"She is so far ahead of where she should be," Miller added. "Nobody as a teenager, man or woman, has had all the shots she has. Tiger didn't even have those."

PETTERSSON CAPTURES MEMORIAL Handy with the wedge and hot with the putter, Carl Pettersson picked up a prestigious trophy and a welcome break from United States Open qualifying by winning the Memorial yesterday.

Pettersson turned a potential bogey into a birdie by chipping in on the par-5 11th, and got up and down on three consecutive holes to eliminate any suspense at Muirfield Village, closing with a one-under-par 71 for a two-shot victory over Brett Wetterich and Zach Johnson.

It was the second PGA Tour victory for Pettersson, a 28-year-old Swede. Pettersson, who led the whole way, was No. 51 in the world rankings, one-hundredth of a point short of making the top 50 and earning an exemption into the United States Open. He had planned to go through a 36-hole qualifier today, but his second victory in 12 months was enough to get him to Winged Foot.

Pettersson, who finished at 12-under 276, saved par seven of the nine times he found himself in the furrowed bunkers that caused so much angst all week. Whenever anyone tried to nudge closer to his lead, he answered with a long birdie putt or a clutch chip to set up birdie or save par.

Wetterich (67) and Johnson (70) tied for second and picked up valuable Ryder Cup points, moving them to sixth and seventh in the United States standings.

Phil Mickelson took himself out of the hunt with bogeys on his first two holes, but he kept the gallery entertained through the final round with seven birdies.(AP)

L.P.G.A. ROOKIE WINS Seon Hwa Lee, a 20-year-old L.P.G.A. Tour rookie, closed with an eight-under-par 63 yesterday to win the ShopRite L.P.G.A. Classic in Galloway Township, N.J. Her 16-under 197 total matched the tournament record held by Annika Sorenstam.

On a day when six players had or shared the lead, it was Lee who was left standing — dripping in beer and champagne on the 18th green. It was her first victory after finishing second three times.

Sorenstam (67), Jeong Jang (64) and Sherri Steinhauer (66) tied for second, three strokes behind.(AP)

THIS TIME, MORGAN RALLIES Gil Morgan rallied from two strokes down on the final two holes to win the Allianz Championship by one shot yesterday. A week ago, he lost a final-round lead in the Senior P.G.A. Championship.

Loren Roberts led by as many as three shots on the back nine of the Champions Tour event at Glen Oaks Country Club in West Des Moines, Iowa.

But he hooked his second shot on No. 17 into the water. Morgan grabbed a share of the lead by sinking a 34-foot birdie putt, and Roberts fell back into second by missing a 5-foot bogey putt.

Morgan closed with a four-under-par 67 to finish at 16-under 197, breaking the tournament record by two strokes. Roberts also shot 67.(AP)
147 2006-06-05 "Did I think so?" Jeter said. "No. I don't see any reason why he would."

Manager Joe Torre said: "I hope not. Let's put it that way."

Jeter, who is batting .344, is uncertain for Monday's game. Torre said Jeter would put ice on the hand, which was hit on the knuckle of the thumb.

Jeter is in good company. Left fielder Hideki Matsui and right fielder Gary Sheffield are out with serious wrist injuries. Closer Mariano Rivera missed his fourth consecutive game with lower back spasms, but he is expected to return Monday. First baseman and designated hitter Jason Giambi missed his second consecutive game with a stomach virus.

Torre said Giambi was on the mend. "I know it because he was sitting up," Torre said. "He was lying down yesterday."

Third baseman Alex Rodriguez returned Sunday after missing two games with the same illness and went 0 for 4 as a designated hitter.

But Rodriguez looked pale and thinner than normal. "Hopefully, I'm in the fourth quarter of the symptoms," Rodriguez said. "I'm just real lethargic. In hindsight, I probably should have taken one more day."

Rodriguez said he may have acquired the bug in Detroit last week. Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat also had it, said Rodriguez, who stayed in the same hotel as the Heat.

Catcher Jorge Posada is playing with a sore left leg that limits his ability to run, and it was bandaged after Sunday's game. Starter Shawn Chacon is recovering from a bruise to his left leg.

His replacement, Aaron Small (0-3), gave up nine hits and seven earned runs in two and two-thirds innings Sunday. Small surrendered two home runs to Javy López — the first a solo shot and the next a three-run shot — and a three-run blast to Millar.

"I was terrible," Small said. "I stunk. My game is all location. The ball's getting up in the zone. There's no excuse for it. They came out swinging. They got the results they wanted. I'm just not getting the job done."

When Millar batted in the fifth, he was hit by Erickson. When Jeter batted in the sixth, a fastball from López came up and in. Jeter has been hit nine times this season, most on the team. He stands close to the plate when he bats.

There was more tension later when Corey Patterson stole second and third with Baltimore leading by 10-4 in the seventh. Someone from the Yankees' dugout yelled at Patterson before and after he scored on a base hit, and he looked back.

Torre, asked about this incident, answered obliquely without naming Baltimore Manager Sam Perlozzo or who yelled from his bench. "It's up to the manager to figure out how much runs is enough," Torre said. "Today's baseball is a little different."

Also among the Yankees' injured are outfielder Bubba Crosby and pitchers Octavio Dotel, Carl Pavano, Tanyon Sturtze and Darrell Rasner. "Nobody's feeling sorry for us," Jeter said, "so we can't sit around feeling sorry for ourselves."

There are reasons for optimism. The Yankees went 5-2 on their trip and have won 9 of 12 games. They recorded 10 hits Sunday, the 11th consecutive game they have had at least that many.

Good things continued for their junior varsity. Kevin Thompson, the pinch-runner for Jeter, batted once and had a three-run double in his second major league game.

Andy Phillips, playing first base in place of Giambi, had two more hits to raise his average to .291 and extend his hitting streak to six games. Matt Smith, a rookie left-hander called up Saturday from Columbus, faced five hitters and gave up only a walk.

After Jeter was hurt, the Yankees moved Cairo from third base to shortstop, Phillips from first to third and Posada from catcher to first. Kelly Stinnett replaced Posada behind the plate and took Jeter's spot in the batting order.

As Torre said Saturday, after the Yankees' second consecutive 6-5 victory over the Orioles, their games in Baltimore felt a little like spring training except that they counted. The next four may feel more like postseason games.

The Yankees trail the first-place Red Sox by half a game and are 3-4 against them this season. They are scheduled to meet in what will probably be a packed Yankee Stadium filled with tension and excitement. "It's still going to be a nuthouse," Torre said, "but it's our nuthouse."
148 2006-06-05 The package of incentives to induce Iran to halt its nuclear program and possible penalties if it refuses has not yet been formally delivered to the government in Tehran by a European delegation, and Ms. Rice urged patience. She advocated not responding officially until Iranian leaders had assessed the proposal.

"I don't think we're going to react to everything that's said until they have a chance to see the proposal and until they understand the two paths," she said.

Ms. Rice again acknowledged Iran's right to use nuclear power for civilian needs. She noted that the demand for Iran to freeze enrichment and enrichment-related activities to avert Security Council action had not been dictated by the United States alone, but represented conditions set by the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. "No one is questioning that it has a right to civil nuclear power," she said. "But many countries have the right to that that don't enrich and reprocess on their territory. And given Iran's history, it must not have the technologies that could lead to a nuclear weapon." On "Fox News Sunday," she said Iran's own dependence on oil undercut its threat to halt energy supplies to the world. "I think something like 80 percent of Iran's budget comes from oil revenue, and so obviously it would be a very serious problem for Iran if oil were disrupted on the market," she said.

Ms. Rice indicated that Iran had weeks, but not months, to respond to the initiatives, repeating language from negotiations last week in Vienna among Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States that produced the package of inducements and penalties.

"I don't believe in setting timelines and deadlines, but the only point here is that this can't be endless," she said on the CNN program "Late Edition."

The six-nation proposal, just like the Bush administration's offer on Wednesday to shift longstanding United States policy and sit down at negotiations with Iran as part of multilateral talks, requires Iran to freeze its nuclear enrichment and enrichment-related efforts.

Iran has said it will accept no preconditions.

"The claim that there is international consensus against Iran is a lie," the official IRNA news agency quoted Ayatollah Khamenei as saying on Sunday, adding that members of the Nonaligned Movement "have supported Iran's access to nuclear technology."

President Bush has declined to rule out the use of force against Iran, but the Senate's senior Democrat on foreign policy issues said Sunday that military action "should be the absolute last resort" because Iran posed no immediate threat.

Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press": "There is a looming threat. There is a threat of a capacity to be able to demonstrate a real threat to the United States and our allies down the road, but there's nothing imminent at this point." He advocated continued pressure on Iran, from within and from the outside, but he cautioned that any American military action would harden domestic support for Iran's leaders.
149 2006-06-05 The Reisinger Knockout Teams began on Memorial Day and ended two days ago at the Manhattan Club, 250 West 57th Street in Manhattan.

Nine teams entered. This awkward number was divided into three groups of three, with two from each trio qualifying. Those six teams played another set of three-way matches to produce four semifinalists.

The final was between Glenn Milgrim, Jesus Arias, Aaron Silverstein, Richard Schwartz and Chris Willenken of New York and Jeff Aker of Briarcliff Manor, N.J.; and Janet and Mel Colchamiro of Merrick, N.Y., and David Rosenberg, Allen Kahn and Jeffrey Rothstein of New York.

The match was decided by two international match points, and the winners gained 10 imps on the diagramed deal.

In both rooms, South was in three no-trump. (In this auction, one club was strong and artificial, promising at least 16 high-card points. At the other table, after a natural one-club opening, East overcalled one spade, South passed, West jumped pre-emptively to three spades, North made a takeout double, and South converted to three no-trump.) When West led a low spade, East could have defeated the contract by inserting his jack. This follows the reliable no-trump principle that if declarer has a stopper in the suit you are trying to establish, make him use it as quickly as possible. Here, though, East and West might be running the whole spade suit, South having only three spades to the queen.
150 2006-06-05 Olivia may not be the most fascinating character in Daniel Roberts's drama "The Gold Standard," but she's certainly odd. A downscale girl from upscale Connecticut (Mom worked at a movie theater there), Olivia (Sabine Singh) is a genuine beauty who spends Act I in an update of the revealing white sleeveless dress that Marilyn Monroe wore in "The Seven-Year Itch" while imitating Michelle Pfeiffer's sinuous lounge singer from "The Fabulous Baker Boys."

Although she's the kind of stunning blonde who practically stops traffic, Olivia just seems foolish when the director, Alex Lippard, has her posing and slithering like a movie vamp. Which is much of the time.

She is the trophy girlfriend of the protagonist, John (Antony Hagopian), who has returned to the Gold Standard, a revered bar at his prestigious Philadelphia alma mater, basically to reassure himself that he has become a success. The characters coyly refer to the school, the University of Pennsylvania, only as "this school" or "here."

He encounters his idol, an eccentric, hard-drinking Korean professor and author named Krego (Yasu Suzuki). As they drink sea breezes, Krego, who has a faraway Korean wife but a thing for blondes, sets out to steal John's girlfriend. When John mentions hoping to buy a Chagall painting for Olivia someday, Krego turns to her and seductively suggests, "Rather than own expensive, floating people, why not learn to float yourself?"

Mr. Roberts's autobiographical script has a certain amount of originality and, at times, the dialogue indicates an ear for the interactivity of conversation. But the characters and the plot development need fleshing out.

Malcolm (Jordan Charney), the head barman, is unaccountably grumpy and antagonistic and often breaks into song — the Johnny Cash hit "Big Bad John." As Nomi, his apprentice and a decidedly minor character, Alie Carey does a first-rate job, coming across as a full-fledged, believable human being.
151 2006-06-05 Each is presented as a plastic surgery victim possessed of a heroic survival story. And that is what the filmmakers boil it down to: superficial survival tales, devoid of the most basic biographical details, including the patients' last names, locations, ages and professions.

Physically, the most horribly scarred is Mona, who had been an avid bowler. After seeing television advertisements for a local cosmetic surgery center, she underwent liposuction. But her intestines were perforated during the procedure, she says, and she was hospitalized with a massive infection in her abdomen.

That was just the start of her troubles. After operations to repair her intestines, she developed bedsores — most likely because she is a diabetic with poor blood circulation — that left her with huge scars. Then veins in one foot collapsed and gangrene set in. Doctors amputated one of her legs above the knee, then the other.

The camera follows Mona as she adjusts to life as an amputee, hoisting herself in and out of her bathtub, reaching for groceries located on tall shelves and maneuvering herself from car seat to wheelchair. (According to the film, she settled a malpractice suit against the center where she had surgery.)

"I was told that this was such a simple procedure. No downtime," Mona says. "I never recovered and never will."

Lucille, another of the documentary's victims, says she believes her facelifts have made breathing and swallowing difficult, and offers a similar sentiment.

"I never wanted cosmetic surgery," she says. "In hindsight, it was the biggest mistake I ever made in my life."

And that is the documentary's real theme, that cosmetic surgery is bad — an anti-vanity message straight out of the Old Testament, or at least rooted in the fable of Narcissus.

It is a simplistic, anti-betterment view told through maudlin tales of malpractice, with little medical context for balance. But there is no gotcha here. No doctor is ambushed leaving a medical complex, or forced to dodge microphones and cameras. In fact, the documentary never interviews or even really describes the doctors who are the real villains of these tales.

Viewers will be left wondering why these events occurred. Why would surgeons risk operations on a diabetic like Mona or on an emotionally overwrought character like Lucille, who clearly has body issues? Were these patients originally operated on by experienced plastic surgeons, inexperienced gynecologists or emergency room physicians? Were they physicians in good standing, or were they doctors with long malpractice records who had been disciplined by their state medical boards? The filmmakers don't tell us.

The medical omissions are particularly frustrating in the case of Mona Alley (we discover her last name because the camera momentarily pans across one of her bowling trophies). According to interviews she gave to The Boca Raton News and U.S. News & World Report, Ms. Alley had liposuction at the Florida Center for Cosmetic Surgery in Fort Lauderdale. At least two patients died soon after having surgery there; the clinic settled 18 lawsuits with patients who claimed their operations were botched, according to The South Florida Sun-Sentinel.

The center could have provided the filmmakers with a perfect case study on how the facility, abetted by lax state oversight, developed such a controversial reputation. But the film never asks why the Florida Department of Health and its Board of Medicine were slow to discipline some of the doctors from the center. Not one state or federal health official or representative from a medical association appears in the film.

"Plastic Disasters" concludes with a caution that reads: "Over 9,000,000 cosmetic surgeries are performed each year in the United States. The total number of complications is not a matter of public record."

But according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, an association of about 5,000 board-certified doctors, Americans had about 1.8 million cosmetic surgical procedures last year. And while it is true that no single national agency collects statistics on every problem caused by plastic surgery, researchers do publish data on complications. The filmmakers could easily have found a provocative number, for example, in a recent article in "Clinics of Plastic Surgery," which put the death rate from liposuction at one in 5,000 procedures.

Still, the documentary is as gripping as any horror movie, and it offers a powerful counter to the sensational reality-television world of augmented physiques. "Plastic Disasters" makes clear that cosmetic surgery can change lives. But not always in the way that viewers of "The Swan" might expect.
152 2006-06-05 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
153 2006-06-05 Re "Pentagon Seeks Nonnuclear Tip for Sub Missiles" (front page, May 29): We were the authors, with Bruce Bueno de Mesquita of New York University, of "The Case for Submarine Launched Non-Nuclear Ballistic Missiles," published by the Baker Institute in January 2002, that made such a proposal. Our paper noted:

"The deployment of heavy conventional submarine-launched missiles has four major advantages.

"First, it gives the United States a means of delivering large warheads rapidly without requiring the consent of other nations either for overflight rights or for basing.

"Second, it permits the deployment of a counter weapon early, while the ABM system is being perfected.

"Third, after the ABM system is deployed, it complements such a system.

"Finally, it creates a credible deterrent to the political use of ICBM's against the United States."

We also noted that this new missile could be used to destroy the Qaeda leadership or a terrorist plot to strike the United States.

Finally, such a new missile would not be confused with a nuclear-tipped missile given its different trajectory.

Dagobert L. Brito

 Michael D. Intriligator

Los Angeles, May 29, 2006

The writers are, respectively, a political economy professor at Rice University and a professor of economics, political science and public policy at U.C.L.A.
154 2006-06-05 To the Editor:     Re ''Pentagon Seeks Nonnuclear Tip for Sub Missiles'' (front page, May 29): We were the authors, with Bruce Bueno de Mesquita of New York University, of ''The Case for Submarine Launched Non-Nuclear Ballistic Missiles,'' publish...
155 2006-06-05 NEW INTEREST IN CANCER DRUGS -- Big Pharma has discovered cancer. For several years biotechnology companies like Genentech and ImClone have generated most of the buzz at the nation's largest cancer meeting with new so-called targeted drugs that we...
156 2006-06-05 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:    Diana Shipping, seven million shares. Bear Stearns and Wachovia.  Geo Group, three million shares. Lehman Brothers.  Level 3 Communications, 125 million shares. Merrill...
157 2006-06-05 The Y&R Advertising unit of Young & Rubicam Brands has ended a lengthy search for a chief executive by hiring from within.     Hamish McLennan, 40, chairman and chief executive for the Australian and New Zealand operations of Y.& R. Brands, will b...
158 2006-06-05 APPLEMAN--Mark. Wishing we could together walk in yesterday's footsteps. Love you forever. Marguerite...
159 2006-06-06 James H.M. Sprayregen, who has helped steer some of the largest U.S. companies through bankruptcy and out the other side, is leaving his post as head of restructuring at law firm Kirkland & Ellis to take an investment banking job at Goldman Sachs....
160 2006-06-06 Once the dust finally settles from today's political earthquake, the candidates for governor may actually start talking more about those pressing issues facing the state. So here's one: The seemingly never-ending case of the Campaign for Fiscal Eq...
161 2006-06-06 Today The Sun, like several English papers, features this photograph of star stiker Wayne Rooney demonstrating his apparent return to health by executing a spectacular "scissor-kick" during a closed training session yesterday in England, before fl...
162 2006-06-06 Pfizer will collect offers Tuesday afternoon - and possibly some stragglers into the evening - for its over-the-counter drugs business, a unit that includes such well-known brands as Listerine mouthwash and Sudafed decongestant. Notably absent fro...
163 2006-06-06 Axa SA, Europe's second-largest insurer, said it had agreed to sell its Axa Re reinsurance unit to a group of investors led by a buyout firm, Stone Point Capital. Go to Article from Bloomberg News »...
164 2006-06-06 Small hedge funds in Europe are suffering from the recent market volatility - and, in some cases, expiring, according to investors interviewed by FTadviser, a service of The Financial Times. The article does not name any specific funds that have i...
165 2006-06-06 The war on terror won't end with a signing on a battleship, as President Bush repeatedly says, so is it possible that V-T Day already happened and we missed it? John D. Judis, a senior editor at The New Republic, argues in a TNR Online article tha...
166 2006-06-06 A biotechnology company, Gilead Sciences, said on Teusday it had agreed to buy a Canadian unit of the German specialty chemicals company Degussa. Go to Article from Reuters via Yahoo » Go to News Release from Gilead via Yahoo »...
167 2006-06-06 the Escala Group received a formal order of investigation from the Securities and Exchange Commission. The New York-based collectables company said it would cooperate in the investigation, which it believes is related to Escala Group's transaction...
168 2006-06-06 Merchants suing Visa International and MasterCard International in an antitrust suit may ask a federal judge in New York to undo MasterCard's $2.39 billion initial public offering last month, a lawyer said. The merchants plan to challenge the publ...
169 2006-06-06 As regulators weigh the many elements of AT&T's proposed $89 billion acquisition of BellSouth, they are being asked to consider one more: allegations that the two phone giants turned over call records to the National Security Agency. On Monday, th...
170 2006-06-06 PARIS, June 6 — The struggle for control over continental stock exchanges took a political turn today, as President Jacques Chirac of France said he preferred an all-European alliance of exchanges over a proposed acquisition of Euronext by the New York Stock Exchange. But he backed away from the overt protectionism that has characterized French economic policy in recent months.

The New York Stock Exchange reached an agreement last week to buy Euronext, a four-country exchange with roots in Paris, for about $10.2 billion. The deal would turn Paris into the headquarters for N.Y.S.E./Euronext share trading in Europe, and close out a rival suitor, Deutsche Börse of Germany.

Speaking in Germany alongside the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Mr. Chirac said that he preferred a European merger and would "regret if this solution is not adopted in the end."

But he made clear that his priority was to preserve jobs in Paris, even if it meant tying the knot with the Americans rather than Deutsche Börse, based in Frankfurt.

The president also acknowledged that he had only "very limited ways to intervene" in the deal.

Ms. Merkel was even more circumspect, saying that governments like those in France and Germany could not exert influence over merging companies, even if she were "of the opinion that it is good to build up strong economic units within Europe."
171 2006-06-06 His efforts, however, have not always been easy.

On Monday, Mr. Putin gave an address to the World Association of Newspapers, emphasizing his commitment to press freedoms. He made his comments just moments after the newspaper association's president sharply questioned his openness to the idea that a vibrant press is part of a healthy society, given the consolidation and control of much of Russia's news media into pro-Kremlin hands.

Demonstrators crashed his speech, shouting "Putin is the executioner of freedom!" and similar sentiments.

Last weekend, Mr. Putin also hosted six foreign journalists at a meal and question-and-answer session, in which he displayed his usual command of details and said that on balance the Kremlin's relationship with Washington is positive.

But at this appearance he flashed an angry side too, mocking as speculative a question about what steps should be taken if Iran continues to enrich uranium, according to The Associated Press, which was present at the meal.

"What if my grandmother had certain sexual attributes?" Mr. Putin snapped, the wire service reported. "Then she would be my grandfather."

His increased public presence has come after a surge of criticism this year over the Kremlin's increasingly autocratic and emboldened steps.

These moves have included consolidation of oil and gas resources under Russia's control; controversial arms sales to Venezuela, Syria and Iran; support for the authoritarian regimes in Uzbekistan and Belarus; and the restrictions of its gas flows or access to Russian consumer markets against Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, three former Soviet satellites who have turned Westward in recent years.

The most direct criticism came last month, when Vice President Dick Cheney accused Russia of rolling back democracy and blackmailing its oil and gas customers through supply manipulation or control of the means of transport.

Mr. Putin has since lashed back — occasionally. But the most pointed retorts have come from less prominent Russian officials, while the president has sprinkled among his comments areas of mutual collaboration and interest.

He did so again today, as he appeared with Mr. Kissinger — who, like Mr. Cheney, has roots reaching to the Nixon administration, but has often advocated engagement with the Kremlin.

"Of course there are nuances but the real content of our relations is changing for the better," Mr. Putin said.

The event was well choreographed for public relations, and played repeatedly on state-controlled television: the image of one of the best known Republican figures from the cold war amiably praising a reclining Mr. Putin at his country residence here.

Mr. Kissinger, who answered few questions from journalists after his private meeting with the Russian president, evaded a direct answer to a question about Mr. Cheney's remarks.

"First of all let me say that I am leaving Russia with a very positive feeling," he said.

"One has to look at the evolution of countries," Mr. Kissinger added, later. "And I have confidence in the Russian evolution."
172 2006-06-06 Stocks slid further today in after a big sell-off on Monday, as investors continued to be nervous about remarks by the Federal Reserve's chairman indicating that interest rates might keep climbing to keep inflation in check.

The Dow Jones industrial average traded below 11,000 for much of the day for the first time since early March, although it closed barely above that mark.

Investors also remained worried by increasing evidence that economic growth is slowing, said Stuart Freeman, chief equity strategist for A. G. Edwards & Sons.

"We have seen in the week specific data that show that the economy is slowing," he said, citing lower numbers for construction, housing prices and mortgage applications. The housing and construction industries are considered to be particularly sensitive to interest rates.

Asian and European stock markets followed Monday's fall on Wall Street by dropping sharply today. In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 index fell 1.8 percent, and most other indexes in Asian and Pacific countries lost ground, especially those in Australia and India. Major European markets fell 1.6 percent or more, and the CAC 40 index in
173 2006-06-06 A federal judge has dismissed an 11-year-old lawsuit over conditions in New York State prisons, state officials said. The lawsuit, first filed in 1995, claimed that the state's policy of assigning two inmates to cells originally designed for one person violated the prisoners' constitutional rights. In a decision dated May 26, Judge Gerard Lynch of Federal District Court in Manhattan said the policy was not unconstitutional. The state's prison population, which peaked at 71,472 inmates in 1999, has declined during the past several years. There are now 63,000 inmates in the state's 69 prisons.
174 2006-06-06 NEW LONDON, Conn., June 5 — Defying Gov. M. Jodi Rell, the City of New London voted on Monday to begin the process of evicting the remaining residents of its Fort Trumbull neighborhood. The vote, 5-2, signaled that a long battle over eminent domain is near a resolution.

"It's the end of a long road for the City of New London," said the mayor, Elizabeth Sabilia.

The vote directs the city's attorney to start the process of making the remaining two property owners leave, and collecting back taxes and rent. City officials were not sure how long this would take.

"Each one of them should be ashamed," said Michael Cristofaro, one of the remaining homeowners, referring to the councilors who had voted to make them leave.

Scott Bullock, the lawyer who represented the Fort Trumbull residents, said that his clients still had a few options. He said he plans to ask the state, which has provided millions in financing for the redevelopment project, to intervene. He said they would challenge the rent and back taxes, and review other legal avenues. He did not rule out civil disobedience as a last resort.

The vote came after nearly two hours of public comment, in which speakers invoked the Bible and the Constitution and compared the councilors to Communists.
175 2006-06-06 The puck trickled just off the right-wing post. Brind'Amour flew past the confused-looking pair of Conklin and Smith and jammed the puck into the unguarded net with his backhand, much to the delight of a raucous RBC Center crowd.

"I think I just held on to the puck too long," said the 30-year-old Conklin, who was thrust into the playoff spotlight when Roloson blew out his right knee after his own defenseman Marc-André Bergeron checked Carolina right wing Andrew Ladd into him.

"It looks like a car wreck," Edmonton General Manager Kevin Lowe said of Roloson's knee, which crashed into the left-wing post after Ladd collided with him.

Brind'Amour's league-leading 11th goal of the playoffs capped a furious comeback from a 3-0 second-period deficit.

"I think they had a little mix-up," Brind'Amour said, referring to Conklin and Smith. "It was just a matter of flipping it into the net. You don't get too many of those, but I'll definitely take them."

Brind'Amour's first goal, at 17:17 of the second period, enabled the Hurricanes to enter the second intermission down by two goals instead of three.

Carolina Coach Peter Laviolette knows his team plays its best in the third period. The Hurricanes became just the sixth team in finals history — and first since Pittsburgh rallied for a 5-4 victory over Chicago on May 26, 1992 — to rally from a three-goal deficit for a victory.

With Carolina trailing by 3-1 entering the third period, Hurricanes left wing Ray Whitney scored twice — at 1:40 and again on the power play at 5:09 — to even the score at 3-3. And when Carolina right wing Justin Williams beat Roloson on a short-handed breakaway at 10:02 of the third, the Hurricanes snatched a 4-3 lead.

Edmonton right wing Ales Hemsky tied the score, 4-4, on the power play at 13:31. But Roloson, who came into the finals as one of a handful of candidates to win the Conn Smythe Trophy, which is awarded annually to the most valuable player of the playoffs, crumpled to the ice at 14:06. On came Conklin, who soon chose the most inauspicious of times to vacate his crease.

"I didn't make the play quickly," Conklin said. "It's not a mistake that I think I would normally make."

Not that the Carolina rally was unprecedented. During the regular season, the Hurricanes led the 30-team league by coming back from two-or-more-goal deficits 10 times to win. During the playoffs, Carolina has come from behind in 8 of its 13 victories.

But playing from behind is one thing. Falling behind by 3-0 with less than four minutes remaining in the second period is quite another predicament — even under the N.H.L.'s new rules.

The Hurricanes never seemed nonplused. Not after Fernando Pisani scored his 10th goal of the playoffs to open the scoring at 8:18 of the first period. Not after Pronger, who had never been awarded a playoff shot in his 12 seasons, became the first player to score on a penalty shot in Stanley Cup finals history at 10:36 of the second period. Not even after Edmonton left wing Ethan Moreau gave the Oilers a seemingly insurmountable 3-0 lead at 16:23 of the second.
176 2006-06-06 New Jersey's top two lawmakers plan to urge Gov. Jon S. Corzine today to convene a special meeting of the Legislature this summer to address the state's most vexing problem: property taxes that are the highest in the nation.

The proposal will be unveiled by Senate President Richard J. Codey and Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr., two Democrats who have often clashed on budget issues.

This time, the two have agreed to work together, according to three State House officials who have been briefed on the proposals but were not authorized to speak publicly about them.

In particular, the two legislative leaders support the formation of four special joint committees to work through the summer, starting after the budget for the 2006-7 fiscal year is hammered out by July 1.

Those committees would then come up with changes to the state's formula for financing schools and to health and pension benefits for public employees, along with recommendations for consolidating government services.

The full Legislature could dedicate a few days sometime in the fall to talk only about property taxes. But it would be imperative, the State House officials said, to pass some legislation on certain time-sensitive measures, like school financing, by the end of the year, in time for the unveiling of the budget for the next fiscal year.

Property taxes have long been a source of frustration for New Jersey residents and were a major issue in last year's race for governor. During that campaign, both Mr. Corzine, a Democrat, and his Republican opponent, Douglas R. Forrester, promised to slash property taxes by 10 percent per year. And with both legislative chambers facing election next fall, many State House officials say that they are as determined as ever to make a dent.
177 2006-06-06 "I felt like I was playing great," Wie said after more than 12 hours at Canoe Brook. "A couple of shots here and there just didn't go where I wanted to."

Brett Quigley, a PGA Tour veteran, earned medalist honors, finishing at 11-under-par 131. Mark Brooks, the 1996 P.G.A. champion, was also among the 18 players to advance to the United States Open, which begins June 15 in Mamaroneck, N.Y.

For much of the day, Wie straddled the line between earning a spot and falling short, and the throng of fans shouted and moaned with her every make and miss.

Although other women have tried to qualify for the United States Open — including Carmen Bandea of Atlanta, who came up short in the local qualifier that Wie won last month — only Wie has advanced to the sectional qualifier.

Beneath thick clouds, the gallery tried to will her past the final, most difficult step.

When Wie hit her opening tee shot at 8:51 a.m. on the South course, some 1,500 fans lined the fairways.

By 11, officials of the Metropolitan Golf Association closed the entrance to the club as the crowd swelled to nearly 4,000.

"We didn't let new spectators in unless people left," said Jay Mottola, the executive director of the Metropolitan Golf Association.

Wie stood two shots out of the eventual playoff when she missed a 4-foot par putt on the 362-yard par-4 No. 4 — her 31st hole of the day — and a 2-foot par putt on the 173-yard par-3 No. 5.

"It's not like I hit bad shots or bad putts," she said. "The two missed putts weren't mis-hits."

A pulled tee shot on the 442-yard par-4 No. 6, though, barreled into the rough and led to her last bogey of the qualifier.

Most of the crowd stayed glued to Wie, who was partnered with Rick Hartmann, a 47-year-old club professional, and David Gossett, a winner on the PGA Tour. "Jesper called me to say don't worry if she outdrives you," Hartmann said as he walked down the first fairway, referring to Jesper Parnevik, a PGA Tour professional.

Wie occasionally outdrove her playing partners, but her most deft play Monday was an escape from a difficult lie from the greenside rough on the last hole of her opening round.

"I was looking at my lie and there were mushrooms all around," Wie said. "You know you are in trouble when there are mushrooms around your ball. I was thinking, 'Just get your bogey and get out of here.' "

Wie sent her club through the blades of grass, and the ball landed on the green, sped toward the hole and dropped in for a birdie.

Wie gave a high-five to her caddie, Greg Johnston, and waved to the crowd.

After signing her scorecard in front of hundreds of onlookers who tried to squeeze beneath a small tent, Wie hopped into a golf cart and disappeared down a tunnel. Through 18 holes, she was tied for eighth in relation to total score and was four shots ahead of Hartmann and Gossett.

"She handles herself extremely well, and she's a tribute to the game," Gossett said. "She's very competitive, but she also still has that shyness of a 16-year-old. I respect her for what's she's trying to do."

Hartmann added: "It would have been fantastic if she had made it. After the front nine, it looked close. How great would that have been for golf?"

The qualifier drew die-hard golf fans but many novices as well.

"They did a good job doing the best they could," Hartmann said of the tournament officials. "It was challenging and enjoyable."

Gossett said of playing in front of a loud, visible crowd, "It's good practice for me."

Wie moved easily among the fans. After holing one of her putts, Wie handed her ball to a young girl, one of several in the crowd. Wie said that this would not be her last foray to try to qualify for the United States Open.

"You know, I'm not really here to prove that women can actually play," Wie said. "But, hopefully, this just shows or motivates people to do what they want to do and not just do the normal thing."
178 2006-06-06 "What happened today is a catastrophe, something unnatural," said one of the relatives on the Iraqi evening news here.

Security in the capital has deteriorated precipitously in recent months. Increasingly brazen assassinations torment neighborhoods and no longer seem to follow any obvious patterns. In May, the Baghdad morgue recorded the highest number of bodies received since the beginning of the war: 1,375, approximately double the toll of May 2005.

The surge in killings comes as Iraqi political leaders remained deadlocked for a seventh week over the most important positions in the Iraqi cabinet, the ministers of defense and interior. The stalemate has left Iraq rudderless when it most needs a full government.

"It's a real problem," said Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser, who said a new security plan for Baghdad cannot begin until the ministers are in place.

The trial in Ms. Hassan's killing, which was completed in only two and a half hours, went virtually unnoticed by Iraqi television outlets, and raised more questions than it answered. The testimony connected Ms. Hassan's kidnapping to a mosque in Jadriya, a leafy neighborhood of university professors in central Baghdad, and the sheik who presided there, identified by defendants as Hussein Ahmed Salman al-Zobai.

The sheik had given Mr. Jibouri, a resident of Madaen, an angry Sunni Arab town south of Baghdad, Ms. Hassan's purse and identification cards in a plastic bag for safekeeping, according to Shawkat al-Samarrai, an Iraqi lawyer who watched the trial.

Mr. Jibouri, who denied he played a part in the kidnapping, said he looked inside the purse two months later and discovered it belonged to Ms. Hassan. The sheik, who had moved to Jamiya in western Baghdad, an area dominated by insurgents, said he would come to collect it, but never did, Mr. Samarrai said.

Two other men, Mohsin Ahmed and Qasim Muhammad, identified by The Associated Press as a guard and a worshiper from the mosque that figured in the case, were acquitted. It was not clear from the testimony what happened to the sheik, but some participants in the trial said that he had fled, according to Mr. Samarrai. Court officials were not available for comment on Monday afternoon.

In a frustrating tale of missed opportunities and painful waiting, Ms. Hassan's husband, Tahseen Hassan, took the stand on Monday. In a calm voice, he spoke of the ordeal of losing his wife, beginning from the morning of her disappearance on Oct. 19, 2004.

She left the house at 7:30 a.m., he said, according to Mr. Samarrai, riding with her driver and bodyguard in her Toyota Camry to her office in Quthat, a neighborhood on the edge of Jadriya. Two hours later, her secretary called Mr. Hassan and told him his wife was missing. The driver, an Iraqi, and the guard, an Egyptian, had been badly beaten.

In the days after his wife was abducted, Mr. Hassan received several telephone calls — her relatives said on Monday that four were made from her cellphone — from people he did not know, asking for the numbers of the British Embassy in Baghdad, and of Ms. Hassan's office.

Shortly after that, a caller who identified himself as Abu Mustafa reassured him that his wife was doing well, and proposed a meeting in the Shiite neighborhood of Kadhimiya. Mr. Hassan said he went there with the Iraqi police, but that the caller never showed up. Abu Mustafa later called back, according to Mr. Samarrai, and asked Mr. Hassan why he had come with the police.

In a statement released in England on Sunday, Ms. Hassan's family accused the British government of contributing to her death by refusing to negotiate with her kidnappers.

"The hostage-takers demanded to speak to a member of the British Embassy, but Tahseen had been told by the British that they would not speak to the kidnappers," said Ms. Hassan's siblings — Deirdre, Geraldine, Kathryn and Michael Fitzsimmons. "We believe that the refusal by the British government to open a dialogue with the kidnappers cost our sister her life."

In an interview with the BBC on Monday, Deirdre Fitzsimmons said that the last phone calls were made on Nov. 7, and that Mr. Hassan was essentially left on his own by an unhelpful British government.

"I don't think he knew what to do," she said. "He did the best he could. After all, this was a man in a house on his own, his wife had been taken hostage, he had seen terrible videos of her. He was really left on his own with this advice."

A spokeswoman for the British Embassy in Baghdad said: "Our thoughts are with her family."

Typical of the breakdown in the capital, confusion prevailed late into the evening in Salheya, where the 24 people were taken Monday. The head of the commandos said his forces had not been in the area, but an official in the Interior Ministry said that a special police unit, possibly from the Ministry of Transportation, might have conducted the raid.

One witness, who runs the Tiger Bus Company, said the armed men blindfolded the people they were leading away and fastened their hands with plastic ties.

"I knew that if they will take me, that means I am dead," said the man who asked that his name not be used out of safety concerns. "We knew this was the end. We ran out the back."

In other violence, Iraqi television reported that one Italian soldier had been killed and three others wounded by a bomb in southern Iraq. Two students were killed in the southern neighborhood of Dawra, part of a spate of recent killings of students, an Interior Ministry official said. Reuters reported that 11 students had been killed.

"There is no logic," said a young woman who works as a secretary in a government office. "It is killing just for killing now."
179 2006-06-06 The American Civil Liberties Union asked the Federal Communications Commission yesterday to withhold approval of AT&T's acquisition of BellSouth until it reviews allegations that the companies gave customer records to the government without warrants.

In its filing, the A.C.L.U. cited a provision in the Telecommunications Act that says that in considering a merger, the commission must "weigh the public-interest harms of the proposed transaction against the potential public-interest benefits."

The group said the F.C.C. should determine if AT&T and BellSouth handed over phone records to the National Security Agency's surveillance program and, if so, whether that violated any privacy laws.

The A.C.L.U. action comes after USA Today reported last month that AT&T, BellSouth and Verizon provided the agency with call records on millions of Americans in surveillance done after the Sept. 11 attacks.

"The F.C.C. is in a position to determine whether the USA Today story is true and can bring the companies to the table and figure out whether they are providing customer information to the N.S.A. and what is the lawful authority for doing so," said Barry Steinhardt, director of the technology and liberty project at the A.C.L.U.
180 2006-06-06 NEWARK, June 5 — A dean at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey who was dismissed last week used his position unethically and tried to have his daughter admitted to one of the university's medical schools, according to a report issued on Monday by a federal monitor.

The dean, Warren S. Wallace, oversaw admissions as the senior associate dean in charge of academic and student affairs at the School of Osteopathic Medicine at the state university's Stratford campus. Last month, as part of a widening inquiry, F.B.I. agents raided Mr. Wallace's office after receiving reports that documents were being shredded there.

The federal monitor, Herbert J. Stern, a former United States attorney for New Jersey, took control of the university's finances and management in January. The university agreed to the oversight by Mr. Stern in order to avoid criminal charges of overbilling Medicaid by at least $4.9 million. Since then, he has been investigating allegations of corruption and patronage.

In his report, Mr. Stern called Mr. Wallace's activities "unethical at a minimum."

He said that Mr. Wallace had arranged for a friend to receive a catering contract outside the required bidding process. He also ordered some of his employees to report about $2,500 of his expenses as theirs then reimburse him later, according to the report, which said that doing so allowed him to approve his own expenses and make them look smaller than they were.

The report also criticized Mr. Wallace for conducting business related to his positions as a Gloucester County freeholder and the chairman of the Delaware River and Bay Authority while working at the university. Mr. Wallace was fired on Thursday, said Anna Farneski, a spokeswoman for the university, which is one of the nation's largest health care universities.
181 2006-06-06 The commencement booklet yesterday had the logo of John Jay College of Criminal Justice embossed in cheery gold and blue. Its 32 pages listed the usual optimistic material: honorary degrees, Latin terms and long, formal titles.

But the very last words in the program were a somber reminder of a brutal crime in February that shook New York City.

"Posthumous," it read, after the list of 2,400 receiving degrees. "Imette Carmella Saint Guillen."

The lines were slipped in at the end of the program as if to give them a respectful distance from the cheerier proceedings for the class of 2006.

Few of those at the commencement, held at Madison Square Garden, needed a reminder that one of their classmates, Ms. St. Guillen, 24, was abducted and murdered on Feb. 25 after drinking alone at the Falls, a bar in SoHo. Few were not aware that her naked body, wrapped in a quilted comforter and tied with clear packing tape, was found dumped in a desolate section of Brooklyn. Prosecutors have charged Darryl Littlejohn, 41, a bouncer with a long criminal record who worked at the bar.

Ms. St. Guillen, who had come to New York to pursue a career in criminal justice, was an honor student three months away from graduating.
182 2006-06-06 NEW HAVEN — CHOW is one of the few bars where "You're a dog" is less a rebuke than a mere statement of fact.

That's because of Yappy Hour, held each Wednesday evening in the warmer months, when dogs are invited to frolic, sniff and loll on the terrace at this alley-tucked downtown restaurant off Chapel Street while their owners sip sangria and swap veterinary and chew-toy stories.

"I love him," said Ali Parmelee, a graphic designer whose husband sat across the courtyard from her, nibbling on a dumpling. Ms. Parmelee was actually referring to Simon, a boxer-pit bull mix who was straining at his leash. "He's my little baby. I bring him everywhere just to help socialize him."

But the dogs socialize their owners, too — bringing your dog out for dinner or a drink provides an instant ice breaker or, depending on your need, a cuddly diversion from an unwanted suitor.

Anna Drejer-Teel, a Yale graduate student in genetics, brought along Lucy, a placid 4-month-old English cocker spaniel, because she can't bear to be apart from her.

"She also goes to Puppy Social in North Haven," Ms. Drejer-Teel told Gabriela Tejada, who owns a miniature pinscher named Chiquita. "It's where you let your puppies off leash and they can learn how to get along. We pretty much look for places we can bring the dog."
183 2006-06-06 Verizon Communications will pay $48.9 million to settle charges that its predecessor companies Nynex and Bell Atlantic discriminated against employees who were pregnant or on maternity leave, regulators said yesterday.

The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said it submitted a final report to Federal District Court in Manhattan yesterday that indicated a total of $25.3 million in compensation had already been paid under the settlement. The agency said it expected another $23.6 million would be paid in future pension benefits under the settlement.

Verizon entered into a consent decree in 2002 that resolved employment-discrimination lawsuits filed by the agency in 1997 and 1999 against Bell Atlantic and Nynex.

A spokesman said Verizon denied the allegations but had decided that settling the case was in the "best interest of the company."
184 2006-06-06 Three construction workers were killed and one was injured yesterday at an oil field in Raleigh, Miss., when two tanks exploded, a state official said.

The blast ripped through the tops of the tanks, sending huge metal discs hundreds of feet, said the official, John R. Parker of the Mississippi Oil and Gas Board.

"It was like tearing the top off a can of peanuts," he said. "Only these were huge pieces of metal, maybe 12 to 14 foot in diameter and about 500 pounds each. One landed 300 feet away."

The men who were killed were standing on a catwalk over the 400-barrel tanks when they ignited.

Mr. Parker said that the cause was under investigation but that fumes may have built up in the tanks, which had contained small amounts of oil. Sparks from a welding torch being used on a third tank may have ignited the fumes, he added.

Kody Scarbrough, 20, and Nicholas W. Pounds, 23, both of Foxworth, Miss., died at the scene. George B. Jefferson, 53, of Columbia, Miss., died at a hospital. Huey Duncan, 71, also of Columbia, who was hanging from a safety harness and welding on the side of a tank, survived.

The men worked for Stringer's Oil Field Service in Columbia.
185 2006-06-06 Of the two dozen Russian companies that planned to go public, "There are going to be some bad apples in the barrel," Richard Ogdon, executive director of UralSib bank, said in an interview, reflecting a general jitteriness among investors.

Russia's stumbling contrasts with its emerging market rival, China. On the same day of CTC Media's trading debut, the Bank of China raised $9.7 billion in the world's biggest share offering in six years.

The shortfalls suggest that Russian companies are going public too early, for the wrong reasons, or are valuing their shares too high, critics say. Investors have also raised questions about the lack of transparency in accounting at some Russian companies and the shortfalls in corporate governance standards.

This winter, for example, RosUkrEnergo, an offshore energy trader handling Gazprom's deals with Turkmenistan and Ukraine, improbably said that it would go public — though it is so secretive it has no listed telephone number.

Then, last month, an article in Forbes magazine quoted the chairman of the board of Kuzbassrazrezugol, a Siberian coal company with a stated goal of going public, explaining his management practices. They included threatening employees with death.

In the case of Rosneft, the Russian state oil company that was a beneficiary of property taken from Yukos in a politically tinged tax dispute in 2004, the threat of lawsuits by Yukos shareholders has reduced enthusiasm, though the oil operator controls nearly as much reserves as Exxon Mobil.

By the end of this year, 25 Russian companies will probably have held public offerings, up from 13 last year and 6 in 2004, according to a study by Ilya V. Sherbovich, director of investment banking at Deutsche Bank in Moscow.

In the entire preceding decade after the breakup of the Soviet Union, only 13 Russian companies held initial public offerings.

The other Russian companies that trade issued shares in the privatization of the early 1990's, a chaotic, often corrupt affair in which the government created vouchers to sell state property that wound up concentrated among a small class of rich owners.

Of the Russian companies that have gone public with stock offerings rather than privatizations, 70 percent underperformed the Russian stock market index, though only a few lost value, according to the Deutsche Bank study, released in April.

One that did was Amtel-Vredestein, a tire manufacturer that had hyped its potential market and overpriced its shares during the offering, Mr. Sherbovich said. It is one reason behind some of the concerns of investors now.

Among emerging market economies, Russia was in eighth place last year in number of initial stock offerings, behind Israel and Poland. But measured by the value of stock issued, Russia, with $5.2 billion, was in second place behind China, with $19.4 billion, according to the report.

This year, Russian offerings are expected to yield $17.5 billion, closing in on China, though much depends on what happens with Rosneft's offering.

"I.P.O. activity increased dramatically this year," said Harvey Sawikin, a co-manager at Firebird Management in New York, which manages investment in publicly traded Russian equities. "We haven't participated in any but we are glad people have the opportunity to."

Mr. Sawikin said he was concerned "about the full valuations that companies are demanding taking advantage of high liquidity" in Russian stocks.

Eric Kraus, an analyst at Nikitsky Russia Fund, spoke more bluntly. "Company owners suddenly find themselves with liquid assets and are seeking to cash out a share of their gains," he said.

"The I.P.O.'s are being driven by a certain measure of greed," he said, and that is not an inviting quality for investors looking to buy into a company.
186 2006-06-06 Alex Toth, an influential comic book artist best known for his work on "Zorro" and for his animation on children's television shows like "Jonny Quest," died on May 27 at his home in Burbank, Calif. He was 77.

The cause was heart failure, said his son, Eric Toth, who said that his father was at his drawing board when he died.

Gary Groth, editor of The Comics Journal, said Mr. Toth was "among the greatest comic book artists ever," though he was not famous for any particular character.

"He was an artist's artist, just because of his mastery of the form," Mr. Groth said. His style was not particularly popular among general comic book readers, Mr. Groth said, "but every cartoonist who cared deeply about his craft learned something by looking at his work."

Alexander Toth was born in Manhattan on June 25, 1928, the son of a house painter. He graduated from the High School of Industrial Arts. While in high school, he was taken under the wing of Milton Caniff, the creator of "Terry and the Pirates."

In 1947, Mr. Toth was hired by Sheldon Mayer, an editor at DC Comics, to work on "Green Lantern" and "Dr. Mid-Nite." Over the next two decades, he developed a sparse style, employing sharp contrasts. He moved to California in the late 1950's.
187 2006-06-06 BAA, the owner and operator of major airports in Britain, indicated for the first time that it might agree to a takeover by Grupo Ferrovial of Spain or a team led by the Goldman Sachs Group for at least £9.7 billion ($18.2 billion). "BAA confirms it is holding discussions with the Ferrovial consortium and is also currently in talks with another party," said the company, which owns Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted Airports, serving London. BAA has rejected two bids from Ferrovial, a Spanish construction company, and also turned down a bid from a group led by Goldman Sachs. BAA says it is worth at least £10.2 billion ($19.5 billion), or 940 pence a share. Spokesmen for the Goldman-led bidding group and for Ferrovial declined to comment.

The Russian oil company Yukos released details of a plan to pay down nearly $30 billion in debt as it heads into bankruptcy hearings. Among the steps proposed for discussion at a June 16 creditors' meeting were a Yukos plan to offer 12.5 percent of its shares to its former core production unit, Yuganskneftegaz, which was acquired by the state-owned oil company Rosneft after a disputed auction in 2004. A spokesman for Rosneft declined to comment on the offer. According to the proposal, Yukos said it would also seek to raise cash by selling noncore assets including a $4.2 billion stake in the oil company Sibneft as well as "other assets Yukos might receive, not related to its core operation, which it can readily dispose of." The company valued its core assets at more than $20 billion and said that it generated annual revenue of $3 billion to $3.5 billion. (AP)

The Japanese government sold 418.4 billion yen ($3.74 billion) of shares in the banking company Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, wrapping up a seven-year-old bailout. The Deposit Insurance Corporation, which held securities that the government received when it propped up was then UFJ Holdings in 1999, sold 277,245 shares in the bank at 1.509 million yen apiece, a 2 percent discount to the most recent closing price, the bank said in a statement. The sale of shares, 80 percent to domestic individual investors, removes government control over Mitsubishi UFJ and allows the lender to chart a more independent path. Japan has spent a combined 12.4 trillion yen ($111 billion) to strengthen the capital of Japanese banks weighed down with bad loans. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Unitab, Australia's second-largest gambling company, rejected an unsolicited bid of 1.9 billion Australian dollars ($1.4 billion) from its larger rival, Tabcorp, saying that it favored a lower offer from Tattersall's, an Australian lottery operator. Tabcorp's bid is "inadequate," Unitab said. Unitab prefers the cash-and-stock offer of 1.7 billion Australian dollars from Tatersall's, which would give shareholders of Unitab a larger stake in the combined company than they would get under Tabcorp's proposal. Unitab shares are trading above both offers on anticipation of a bidding war as the two companies vie for a monopoly license over off-track betting on horses and sports in the state of Victoria. Tabcorp, which holds the license, is seeking to remove a rival; buying Unitab would give Tattersall's a wagering unit to bid for the license when it expires in 2012. Tattersall's bid of 4.33 shares for one Unitab share values Unitab stock at 12.82 Australian dollars apiece, based on the closing prices Monday. Tabcorp has offered 14.25 Australian dollars in cash and stock. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
188 2006-06-06 There were plenty of tubas but no oompah in Anthony Braxton's "Composition No. 19 for 100 Tubas," the biggest spectacle at this year's Bang on a Can Marathon of new music on Sunday at the World Financial Center. Carrying a drum major's baton, Mr. Braxton mustered his "100Tubatet" — playing tubas, sousaphones, Wagner tubas and double-belled euphoniums — on the center's plaza. It played glacially slow, sustained melodies, creating a low growl that was uncannily similar to the tone of airplanes and helicopters flying overhead. So close to ground zero, the sound was unmistakably ominous.

Over the next hour Mr. Braxton and three other conductors led groups of tubas to parts of the plaza, following an inscrutable choreography. Sometimes two groups would be near each other, but there was no way to hear the entire ensemble. The slow melodies continued; every so often, one of the groups would huff a few sharply accented notes or make jokey noises. Yet over all, the piece was somber: an arbitrary ceremony, luxuriating in tuba tone, somewhere between elegy and exorcism.

It was an atypical piece for the rhythm-loving Bang on a Can, the composer-directed organization that started with a marathon concert in 1987 and now produces concerts, commissions music, sustains an ensemble (the Bang on a Can All-Stars) and runs a record label (Cantaloupe Music). While Bang on a Can is determinedly eclectic, it has some obvious preferences: the patterns of Minimalism, the drive of rock (and world music and jazz), zesty instrumental combinations (electronics included), a touch of noise and an underlying urban energy.

That open-ended recipe generally leads to peppy, novel music that can reach beyond the standard classical audience. The free marathon drew a full house to the Winter Garden for much of its nine hours of music indoors.

The familiar Minimalist repetitions and permutations still generate extraordinarily varied music. Michael Nyman's score for a silent film based on the Walt Whitman poem "Manhatta" bustled along with new kinetic motifs for every scene. David Lang's "World to Come," written and performed by the cellist Maya Baiser with recordings of her voice and additional cello parts, unfurled yearning, folk-song-like melodies amid the counterpoint. Amiina, from Iceland, played tinkling, sweetly consonant pieces — for vibraphone, desk bells, musical saw, water glasses and strings — that suggested Minimalism conceived in a dollhouse.

The Dutch composer Mayke Nas's "Belle Chocolatière," played by the Manhattan School of Music's ensemble Tactus, was a piquant, scurrying, almost Impressionist daydream. Anna Clyne's "Rapture" was darkly apocalyptic, with its solo clarinet (played by Eileen Mack) almost swallowed in foreboding electronics.
189 2006-06-06 Women who gain weight, even within the limits of normal, may increase their risk of gastroesophageal reflux disease, a new study suggests.

Gastroesophageal reflux is a disorder characterized by heartburn and acid regurgitation, and, rarely, it can be a precursor of esophageal cancer.

The study was published in the June 1 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine.

Researchers studied more than 10,000 women participating in the long-term Nurses' Health Study, using questionnaires to determine the frequency, duration and severity of the reflux disease.

Compared with women who had body mass indexes of 20 to 22.4, the researchers found, those with B.M.I. readings of 22.5 to 24.9 were about 40 percent more likely to have the disease, while those with B.M.I.'s of 25 to 27.4 were 2.2 times as likely to suffer.

The women in the 27.5 to 29.9 range had a risk about two and a half times as great as that of the base line group, and in those women with readings above 30, the risk almost tripled.
190 2006-06-06 To the Editor:     Re '' 'A Little Sting' Can Become a Debilitating Injury'' (Cases, May 30): I read with interest the writer's account of her phlebotomy. As with much of medicine, and life, there is no free ride. We constantly weigh the benefits ...
191 2006-06-06 FED CHAIRMAN'S WARNING -- Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned that recent inflation trends were ''unwelcome developments,'' indicating that he was far less worried about signs of weaker economic growth than about the danger of...
192 2006-06-07 Last night, the NYSE Group announced it had added Société Générale as an adviser on its bid to buy Euronext, the pan-European stock and derivative exchange which represents the Brussels, Lisbon, Amsterdam and - you guessed it - French stock ex...
193 2006-06-07 Some former seatholders at the New York Stock Exchange are complaining that they are not able to cash in before the exchange's parent company, NYSE Group, goes through with its proposed acquisition of Euronext, according to TheStreet.com. The issu...
194 2006-06-07 May was rumored to be a rough month for hedge funds, and some recent figures suggest that the rumors were right - although suggestions of a "May Meltdown" may have been overblown. The average single-manager fund posted a negative return of 0.9 per...
195 2006-06-07 Here are several billion reasons why the recent string of big real-estate buyouts is probably not over. Reuters, citing unnamed sources, reported Wednesday that the private equity firm Blackstone Group, which has been one of the most active in tha...
196 2006-06-07 United States financial regulators on Tuesday sued a hedge fund manager for allegedly siphoning off $11.5 million of his clients' money and sending out fake statements showing that investors earned double-digit returns. The Securities and Exchange...
197 2006-06-07 Hynix Semiconductor, the world's second-largest maker of memory chips, and its creditors will sell shares and bonds valued at as much as $2.7 billion this month after the stock jumped sevenfold in the past three years. Hynix's lenders, led by Kore...
198 2006-06-07 A bank known to high-net-worth individuals around the world, Credit Suisse is taking its brand of private client services Down Under. The bank will launch a private banking business in Australia later this year following the appointment of Cedric ...
199 2006-06-07 The pharmaceutical company Pfizer received bids worth more than $14 billion for its consumer products unit, which includes household names like Listerine and Sudafed, The New York Times reported. The offers came from some of the company's big riva...
200 2006-06-07 Intel is in talks with several private investment firms and rival chipmakers to sell all or part of its struggling communication-chip businesses in a single sale or series of deals that could fetch as much as $1 billion, MarketWatch said. Intel Ca...
201 2006-06-07 The struggle for control over stock exchanges took a political turn on Tuesday as President Jacques Chirac of France said that he preferred an all-European deal but backed away from the overt protectionism that has characterized French economic po...
202 2006-06-07 Edward Lampert's sits on 5.8 acres with a deepwater dock. Steven Cohen's comes with a full-size indoor basketball court and an outdoor ice-skating rink. The one belonging to Paul Tudor Jones II looks like "a cross between Tara and a national monum...
203 2006-06-07 Among the endless delights of the Henri Rousseau retrospective on view at the Grand Palais in Paris is a life-sized diorama of a lion sinking its teeth into an antelope. On loan from the Museum of Natural History in Paris, this display was the inspiration for one of Rousseau's jungle masterpieces, and features two of many such creatures that are preternaturally posed in the museum's famous Gallery of Zoology.

Born of science and sensationalism, fascination and fear, these sad, compelling objects haunted the Parisian imagination until the mid-1960's, when the gallery closed because of damage suffered as far back as World War II. From 1991 to 1994, the museum and its contents underwent an extensive renovation, and the documentary filmmaker Nicolas Philibert ("To Be and to Have") was there to record it.

"Animals and More Animals" studies a thousand acts of taxidermic restoration and installation: touching up an elephant's skin; riffling through a drawer of plastic eyes; the application of a single dislodged feather; the placement of butterflies in vitrines; the arrangement of large African mammals in procession, posed and primped like models on a catwalk.

As is his custom, Mr. Philibert forgoes all commentary, presenting his subject with an air of benign detachment. Resurrected for an afterlife in climate-controlled limbo, the animals look variously puzzled, stricken, confrontational and melancholy, even as they're attended to by a scrupulous staff of artisans and animal lovers. What emerges is less the celebration of an institution than a picture of man's relationship to nature that is every bit as beguiling as a Rousseau.

Opening today at Film Forum, the hourlong documentary shares a bill with Vivian Ostrovsky's "Ice/Sea." Mixing original and archival materials, this slight but agreeable short is a montage of people and pets frolicking at the ocean.

Directed by Nicolas Philibert; in French, with English subtitles; directors of photography, Frédéric Labourasse and Mr. Philibert; edited by Guy Lecorne; music by Philippe Hersant; released by Films Distribution. Running time: 59 minutes. Playing with a 32-minute short film, Vivian Ostrovsky's "Ice/Sea" at the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village. These films are not rated.
204 2006-06-07 An American citizen who once lived and attended college in New York City was indicted today on charges of conspiring to send money and military gear to al Qaeda associates who lived in Pakistan, the United States attorney's office in Manhattan said.

The defendant, Syed Hashmi, 26, was arrested in London's Heathrow Airport on Tuesday night, as he was trying to board a flight to Pakistan, prosecutors said.

Law enforcement officials said the arrest of Mr. Hashmi reinforced their belief that New York was a nexus in a web of worldwide terrorist activity. Mr. Hashmi had an address in Flushing, Queens, until about three years ago, and graduated from Brooklyn College with a degree in political science, officials said.

Officials said Mr. Hashmi was a member of al Muhajiroun, a London-based group that is active in New York. Investigators have characterized al Muhajiroun as a religious group largely made up of devout Muslims. A small number of them have been involved in terrorist activity. The group has been connected to the Finsbury Park Mosque in London.

Between January 2004 and May 2006, Mr. Hashmi and at least one other man who has previously been arrested in New York conspired to provide "material support or resources" to members of al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden's terrorist organization, according to the federal grand jury.
205 2006-06-07 European markets, which fell sharply on Tuesday, ended the day moderately higher.

Adding to Wall Street's worries about interest rates, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Jack Guynn, said today that the central bank would watch inflation "very, very carefully" and must be prepared to keep prices under control. The Fed has said that further interest rate increases might be needed to keep inflation in check.

Analysts warned that the current stock slump may not have run its course. "We're not convinced that we're fully through this correction as the market adjusts to a downdraft in U.S. growth," said Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment officer of Fiduciary Global Advisors. "We have more to go."

Oil prices fell today, with crude oil for July delivery falling $1.68, or 2.3 percent, to $70.82 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, as traders responded to news that the outlook for discussions with Iran over its nuclear program had improved. On Tuesday, Iran responded in a guarded but generally positive way to a package of proposals from the United States and several European nations, saying the package included "positive steps."

Still, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator stressed that differences remain between the two sides. And despite today's drop in prices, oil prices are still up almost 32 percent since a year ago.

Analysts said they expected the energy markets to remain volatile. "I think we're going to see some knee-jerk reaction to headlines in the next few weeks, as we have in the last few weeks," said Antoine Halff, vice president for energy research at the securities firm Fimat. "Any headline that suggests the situation is improving and we'll see a price drop. And vice versa."

Falling oil prices helped push stocks higher early in the day, but they ultimately did not distract investors from concerns about higher interest rates.

Unease about higher interest rates sent stock markets down around the world on Monday and Tuesday after Mr. Bernanke indicated that he was more concerned about inflation than about an apparent slowdown in economic growth.

Mr. Bernanke's remarks at a banking conference on Monday seemed to quell widespread speculation that the Fed might "pause" in its campaign to increase short-term interest rates, prompting investors to bid down stocks. The selling continued into Wednesday, with Exxon, 3M and Caterpillar among the Dow's biggest decliners.

"That was their mistake, dangling that pause," Mr. Larson of Voyageur Asset Management said.

The Dow fell nearly 200 on points on Monday and more than 46 points on Tuesday, leaving it barely two points above the 11,000 benchmark before today.

Oil stocks have risen recently on concerns about a possible disruption to the nation's oil supply. Over the weekend, Iran's supreme religious leader warned that the United States could see its flow of oil flow the Persian Gulf region interrupted if it made a "wrong move" in the dispute over Tehran's nuclear activities.

Traders took the remarks as one more factor aggravating an already vulnerable supply chain. "There's a perception of political risk to supply which has increased dramatically in the last few months," Mr. Halff said. "You also have a trend toward lower production in countries such as Venezuela, Iran and Russia."

Testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today, Mr. Bernanke's predecessor, Alan Greenspan, said that while the American economy had weathered the recent run-up in oil prices with little major harm so far, the country remains vulnerable to high oil prices and the global balance of supply and demand for oil remains precarious.
206 2006-06-07 RUSSIA'S HARBORS OF CORRUPTION: At a session of the government's Sea Board in St. Petersburg Tuesday, chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Sergei B. Ivanov, it emerged that nearly all of Russia's 62 seaports, through which pass some 40 percent of the nation's external trade, are officially illegal entities. Mr. Ivanov learned at the meeting that the port in St. Petersburg had no "legal name" or registration, and therefore no defined territory or legal accountability. All but one of Russia's seaports are located in this legal no-man's-land, the paper reported. Security checkpoints in ports, furthermore, are generally run by local owners, a system Mr. Ivanov labeled "run-of-the-mill corruption.. The ministers and other members of the Sea Board discussed plans for creating a new federal agency to monitor all export activity at all land and sea borders.

RUSSIA HARDENS ISOLATIONIST ENERGY STANCE: In what the paper calls a "massive artillery preparation" for the G8 summit, various Russian officials have spoken out against European desires to liberalize the gas-export market. The Chairman of state-controlled monopoly Gazprom, Alexei Miller, gave a speech Tuesday "rejecting European principles of liberalizing the energy market"; Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin told foreign journalists that Russia plans to reconsider, or revise, the European Union Energy Charter, which calls for transit systems to be open to all exporters; and two members of the Duma, or Parliament, introduced a bill to write into law a monopoly on gas exports from or through Russia. The two parliamentarians who have introduced the bill "do not disguise" their intention to use it as a negotiating tool in the G8 summit. The newspaper suggests that Mr. Putin would veto the bill "if Moscow managed to achieve a climb-down from the Europeans."

CAMPAIGNING BEGINS TO KEEP PUTIN IN KREMLIN: An exclusive story in Kommersant Tuesday says that a social organization in North Ossetia, a republic in southern Russia, will start campaigning for a referendum to remove clause 81.3 from the Russian Constitution, which limits a President's tenure to two consecutive terms. The campaign, by the "Concord and Stability" group, will buy advertising space in federal media, and has "a series of very wealthy" supporters, its director is quoted as saying. The organization, while independent, is closely connected to the republic's government: its leader is a former prime minister and the present transport minister, the paper writes.

GOVERNMENT HUSHES TALK OF STABILIZATION FUND: On the advice of their lawyers — Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton LLP (CGS&H) — the government has forbidden civil servants from public comment about the Stabilization Fund, a vast state-owned account that collects windfall oil profits to insure against quivers in the economy. The law firm recommended these measures, the paper writes, to protect the fund from any suits filed by creditors against the Russian Federation. Creditors of YUKOS, the company bankrupted by charges of tax evasion and a punitive seizure of its largest production asset, filed four suits in 2005 for more than $40 billion dollars.

ABRAMOVICH MAY BUY KOMMERSANT: Roman Abramovich, Russia's richest man, is in talks to purchase the Kommersant newspaper, "one of the last strongholds of independent media in Russia," the paper writes. Mr. Abramovich, who is also the appointed Governor of the Chukotka region, is seen as a Kremlin loyalist. The newspaper was partly owned by Boris Berezovsky, the Russian billionaire living in political exile in London, but he transferred his stake earlier this year to his business partner, Badri Patarkatsishvili, in what Mr. Berezovsky called "an effort to shield it from Kremlin pressure," the paper added.

RUSSIANS WANT A STRONGER MILITARY: A poll of more than 2000 Russians in 101 conurbations across the country suggests that 60 percent of Russians believe increasing the army's combat effectiveness is the key task facing the state. One quarter of respondents could think of more important responsibilities for the government.
207 2006-06-07 The pharmaceutical company Pfizer received bids worth more than $14 billion for its consumer products unit, which includes household names like Listerine and Sudafed, people involved in the auction said yesterday.

The offers, these people said, came from some of the company's big rivals like GlaxoSmithKline and Johnson & Johnson, as well as a British household cleaning products maker, Reckitt Benckiser.

Pfizer announced in February that it would try to sell its consumer products unit in an effort to refocus its efforts on its most profitable business line, prescription drugs.

The consumer unit had $3.9 billion in sales last year, a 10 percent increase from 2004, and an operating profit of $670 million, Pfizer said.

The auction set off a scramble among drug makers and consumer products manufacturers, as well as private equity investors seeking Pfizer's assets.
208 2006-06-07 The plan unveiled by Mr. Codey and Mr. Roberts is ambitious in that the two men, both Democrats, said that they hope by the end of the year New Jersey residents can begin to feel relief from what are commonly regarded as the highest property taxes in the nation.

Mr. Roberts compared the spiraling property taxes — they have gone up by 25 to 30 percent in the last five years — to water torture, and Mr. Codey said that it was time to reverse the trend.

"It's time that we not only hold the line, but push them back," Mr. Codey said.

The plan by the two legislative leaders calls for the discussion on taxes to begin with Gov. Jon S. Corzine addressing a joint session of the Legislature next month after the budget is passed.

After the address, four bipartisan committees made up of four Democrats and two Republicans from both chambers will closely examine four crucial areas that have been pushing up property tax rates: spending on schools, sharing of such public services as police and fire departments, state employee benefits and pensions, and the possibility of a constitutional convention on taxes.

"I like the idea that there is initiative to address these issues," Governor Corzine said after voting in the Democratic primary in Hoboken, N.J., in the morning, adding that he had not yet seen details of the plan. "It needs some challenging to make sure that it is effective; it's not just going through the motions."

Soon after details of the summer-long effort were made public, Republicans wasted no time in challenging the proposal. Although they pledged to cooperate with Democrats, they complained that even if everything went according to plan and a constitutional convention on taxes was held, it would not provide relief for another three years.

It will take that long, Republicans contended, under the plan, with the convention not put before the voters until 2007. If that happened and it was approved, a convention would be held the following year, and any new laws would not be enacted until 2009.

"People want and need tax relief now, not in 2009," said Tom Wilson, chairman of the state Republican Party, who chided Democrats for their plan to increase taxes under Mr. Corzine's proposed budget. "If Democrats really believed the script they read today, they'd pass a budget with no tax increases."

State Senator Leonard Lance of Hunterdon County, the Republican minority leader, called for immediate consideration of a constitutional convention and an equal number of Republicans and Democrats on the planned committees.

"I would like equal representation, but time will tell if that will happen," Mr. Lance said.

Legislative Democrats praised the proposals but wondered aloud how their constituents might respond to something that might ultimately require tough choices about how to recoup revenue lost by lowering property taxes.

By one estimate, if New Jersey's average per capita property tax bill, about $1,872, were brought in line with the national average, about $971, then the state would lose about $6 billion in revenue. That money would have to be generated from another source, most likely new sales or income taxes.

Assemblyman John F. McKeon, a Democrat from Essex County, said that after a full discussion this summer, voters would grasp the stakes.

"The electorate is sometimes underestimated when there's a public discussion about this problem," said Mr. McKeon, who is also the mayor of West Orange. "There are no easy solutions. They'll understand."

David P. Rebovich, managing director of the Rider University Institute for New Jersey Politics, wondered if Democrats might be too optimistic about the public's comprehension of the forces at play.

"On an intellectual level most New Jerseyans understand that, but I don't think that on an emotional level they do," Mr. Rebovich said. "People might say, 'Oh, goodness, you've reduced my property taxes by one third, but I find my income tax going up by almost the same amount.' "
209 2006-06-07 Clearly both sides were on their best behavior and determined to nudge each other back to the negotiating table. "Neither side wanted to push the other to the brink today," said one senior Iranian official. "There was no real change in the position of either side, but both sides stressed their points of commonality and not their points of contention."

Mr. Solana, who was accompanied by the political directors of the foreign ministries of France, Britain, Germany and Russia, was also cautiously upbeat after he emerged from the glittery headquarters of Iran's Supreme National Security Council. "The proposal is on the table now," he said before flying to Germany. He added, "We hope that Iranian officials will examine all the aspects carefully, avoid hasty reaction, and reflect on their opinion afterwards."

The package, agreed on in Vienna on Friday, includes specific rewards to Iran like new commercial planes and light-water nuclear reactors if it suspends enrichment and reprocessing activities while talks over the deal are continuing, the officials said. But it does not say just how long the suspension would last, they added.

The United States gave crucial heft to the package by offering to remove certain economic sanctions against Iran that date from more than two decades ago, and to talk directly with Iran if the country agrees to an enrichment freeze.

In Laredo, Tex., President Bush was also upbeat, saying that remarks by Iranian officials sound "like a positive response to me." He repeated his new offer for the United States to "sit down at the table" with the Iranians, but only if "they are willing to suspend their enrichment in a verifiable way."

Several weeks ago, the administration rejected entreaties by the other powers to give Iran explicit security guarantees that the United States would not intervene politically or militarily in Iran's internal affairs, senior officials involved in the negotiations said. The United States has not ruled out military action against Iran.

Instead, it has committed itself in the incentives package only to support the creation of a vague regional forum to discuss issues of mutual concern, officials said.

The Iranian foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, also welcomed the initiative and said after a separate meeting with Mr. Solana that the talks had "ushered in a new prospect," according to Iran's official IRNA news agency.

But he characterized Iran's enrichment program as solely designed for "research," suggesting that it must be allowed. "What is important in giving the incentives is supporting Iran's rights on research in technology," he said. "This issue should be very clear and without any ambiguity in the negotiations."

Iran is still continuing to enrich uranium at its vast site at Natanz, and Mr. Solana told the Iranians they had only "weeks" to decide whether to accept the offer, officials said.

However, he has not ruled out another meeting or even another trip to Iran, the officials added.

Mr. Larijani indicated that the Iranian side was in no rush to decide, saying, "We hope, after we study the proposal in detail, we will have another round of talks and negotiations to reach a balanced and logical conclusion."

Still, it was striking that both sides characterized the talks in positive terms. And in his brief but temperate public response, Mr. Larijani did not repeat Iran's longstanding position that it would never relinquish what it considers its sovereign right to nuclear energy, nor did he automatically reject any demand for a freeze on its enrichment-related activities.

The crisis over Iran's nuclear program, which Iran insists is for peaceful purposes, reached new urgency in April after Iran announced it had enriched uranium to the low levels needed to fuel a nuclear reactor. But Iran has run into technical difficulties and has made little progress since then, which may make it more willing to slow its program.

France, Germany and Britain announced after the collapse of their 2004 agreement with Iran to freeze its nuclear-related activities that they would be willing to engage in new talks only if Iran returned to a complete freeze of uranium enrichment at Natanz.

The United States is demanding that all enrichment-related activities be suspended before any negotiations start.

So it is unclear what exactly would constitute "negotiations" and whether the Iranians will use talks with Mr. Solana as a way to continue their enrichment activities while seeking even more concessions.

Iran has offered to freeze plans for large-scale enrichment of uranium, which it probably is not technically capable of carrying out. It has tried repeatedly during the negotiations that started in 2003 to continue what it has called "research" involving a limited number of fast-spinning centrifuge machines.

"The trick is to get into a dialogue," said one senior European diplomat involved in the discussions. "Both sides have preconditions for talks and we have to find a way out. We have been asking for suspension of all enrichment-related activities as a precondition for negotiations and that is exactly what they said they cannot do."
210 2006-06-07 If there was ever a sign of a ruling party in trouble, it is a game plan that calls for trying to win by discouraging voting.

The latest sign that Republicans have an election-year strategy to shut down voter registration drives comes from Ohio. As the state gears up for a very competitive election season this fall, its secretary of state, J. Kenneth Blackwell, has put in place "emergency" regulations that could hit voter registration workers with criminal penalties for perfectly legitimate registration practices. The rules are so draconian they could shut down registration drives in Ohio.

Mr. Blackwell, who also happens to be the Republican candidate for governor this year, has a history of this sort of behavior. In 2004, he instructed county boards of elections to reject any registrations on paper of less than 80-pound stock — about the thickness of a postcard. His order was almost certainly illegal, and he retracted it after he came under intense criticism. It was, however, in place long enough to get some registrations tossed out.

This year, Mr. Blackwell's office has issued rules and materials that appear to require that paid registration workers, and perhaps even volunteers, personally take the forms they collect to an election office. Organizations that run registration drives generally have the people who register voters bring the forms back to supervisors, who can then review them for errors. Under Mr. Blackwell's edict, everyone involved could be committing a crime. Mr. Blackwell's rules also appear to prohibit people who register voters from sending the forms in by mail. That rule itself may violate federal elections law.

Mr. Blackwell's rules are interpretations of a law the Republican-controlled Ohio Legislature passed recently. Another of the nation's most famous swing states, Florida, has been the scene of similar consternation and confusion since it recently enacted a law that is so harsh that the Florida League of Women Voters announced that it was stopping all voter registration efforts for the first time in 67 years.

Florida's Legislature, like Ohio's, is controlled by Republicans. Throughout American history both parties have shown a willingness to try to use election law to get results they might otherwise not win at the polls. But right now it is clearly the Republicans who believe they have an interest in keeping the voter base small. Mr. Blackwell and other politicians who insist on making it harder to vote never say, of course, that they are worried that get-out-the-vote drives will bring too many poor and minority voters into the system. They say that they want to reduce fraud. However, there is virtually no evidence that registration drives are leading to fraud at the polls.
211 2006-06-07 "Her game is on a very high level," Hingis said. "You have to be ready to be pushing her. Otherwise, if you let her dictate, she's too good."

It is tougher to predict who will take dictation in Thursday's semifinals, where Clijsters will face Justine Henin-Hardenne, her Belgian compatriot and longtime rival. Henin-Hardenne also fought through some strong first-set resistance, against Anna-Lena Grönefeld, before winning, 7-5, 6-2.

The 13th-seeded Grönefeld, a German who is based in Arizona, stayed busy on changeovers, reading notes to herself bearing advice like, "Pump fist before each point." But the best-laid plans have a way of unraveling on Paris clay against Henin-Hardenne, the defending champion, who also won in 2003 by routing Clijsters in the final.

"Justine, for me, is the best clay-court player that we have at the moment," Clijsters said. "There's 10 things you can name that I have to do well. Your game just has to be there. Everything has to be there if you want to beat her."

The other women's semifinal — between No. 8 Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia and Vaidisova — would have been much harder to predict before the tournament.

Kuznetsova, who beat Dinara Safina, 7-6 (5), 6-0, is an established contender who often trains on clay in Barcelona, Spain. She has recovered her form this year after struggling in the wake of her victory in the 2004 United States Open.

The tall, occasionally temperamental Vaidisova had never reached the quarterfinals in a major before arriving in Paris. But she has been a ruthless closer in the last two rounds. In the fourth round, she roared back to beat the No. 1-seeded Amélie Mauresmo in three sets, and on Tuesday, she did the same to Williams, another former No. 1, with her big serve and ground strokes doing consistent damage.

Williams often put herself into position to win the vital points in the third set, but she missed several volleys that mattered, along with her usual ration of forehands. Though she served well, putting in 70 percent of her first serves in the match and 78 percent in the final set, she was rarely able to keep Vaidisova from smacking the ball back into play.

"I would say I definitely faced the same game as last year," said Williams, who beat Vaidisova in straight sets on clay in the 2005 Istanbul Cup final. "She's just a lot more consistent."

Though there are no Americans left in the singles here, Vaidisova does have American connections. Coached by her stepfather, Alex Kodat, she has been splitting her time between Prague and the Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Florida, owned by her management company, IMG, for several years.

"I see her as a top-three, -four, -five player," the coach Nick Bollettieri said in a telephone interview.

There have been no seismic shifts in the men's draw. Federer, seeded No. 1, has dropped only one set in his first five matches, handling the pressure and a diverse cast of opponents and styles with practiced grace.

But if Federer is to become the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to hold all four Grand Slam singles titles, it appears he is going to have to do it against the best.

His semifinal opponent will be the third-seeded David Nalbandian, one of the few players to hold a career edge on Federer. Nalbandian has won 6 of his 11 matches against Federer.

On Tuesday, Nalbandian smashed his racket to the red dirt on one occasion in the fourth set, but he was ultimately too complete for No. 6 Nikolay Davydenko of Russia, winning, 6-3, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3.

"I'd like to be thinking of Nadal already, but it's not possible," Federer said of the much-anticipated final with Rafael Nadal, the defending champion.

Nadal faces the Serbian teenager Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals on Wednesday in the other half of the draw.

Federer should be fresh for his labors to come after he dispatched Ancic, 6-4, 6-3, 6-4. Ancic threatened to extend their match on several occasions with an attacking style that often left Federer lunging as he tried to deal with Ancic's deep, crisp volleys. But Ancic, the tall Croat who remains the last man to beat Federer at Wimbledon (way back in 2002), could never find safe passage into the fortress on this surface. He was also treated on the court for a sore shoulder in the second set and for dizziness in the third.

Hingis made it clear that she could have used some more rest before facing Clijsters. Because of rain delays last week, she had to play matches, or parts of matches, on three consecutive days. Though she and her partner, Mahesh Bhupathi, withdrew from the mixed doubles tournament to conserve her energy, she said she still felt flat down the stretch on Tuesday.

"Just didn't have enough time to recuperate," said Hingis, who added that she did not plan to play doubles in the coming Grand Slam events.

Williams will be defending her title in London. Her sister Serena has already withdrawn from Wimbledon, citing her chronic knee problems, and has been training at the Bollettieri Academy with an eye on a possible return for the summer hardcourt season.

Asked whether there was truth in a report in the British newspaper The Independent that he would now help coach Serena Williams, Bollettieri took an uncharacteristically long time to respond.

"Well, I think I take the fifth on that one," he said finally. "Let me say that if that does come true, it would be a fantastic thing for all of us. I love her, man. Tennis very much needs Serena."
212 2006-06-07 But not for long. In the last 18 months, two of South Africa's biggest real-estate firms have moved into major townships, and it is not hard to see why.

"Take Beacon Hill," said Agenor Lureman, a principal in the Pam Golding Properties office in Mitchell's Plain. "A year ago, you could sell a house there for 80,000 or 90,000 rand. Today you can sell the same house for 140,000 rand." Beacon Hill is in Mitchell's Plain, a sprawling township thrown up 30 years ago south of Cape Town to isolate mixed-race South Africans who had been forcibly removed from their homes in the city.

When Pam Golding Properties, known mostly for selling luxury homes and estates, opened its office here 17 months ago, it hoped to do 2.8 million rand of business each month. This past March, the office sold 4.7 million rand worth of properties, or $700,000. This month it is opening a branch in neighboring Khayelitsha, by far the area's biggest township.

As with most sure things, a cautionary note is in order. Home prices are rising around cities like Cape Town, Durban and Johannesburg, where jobs are more plentiful and governments have invested huge sums in utilities and other basics.

But in rural townships, where jobs and paved roads are nonexistent and the water comes from a community standpipe, rising home prices are a distant dream.

Problems abound even in big-city townships like Soweto and Mitchell's Plain. Demand for new housing is brisk, and banks are sinking serious money into what Americans might call starter-home subdivisions. But in townships, where unemployment can reach into the middle double-digits, poor residents often find they cannot earn nearly enough selling their old homes to make the jump to the next real-estate bracket.

One result is a dire shortage of homes affordable to the working poor.

"The secondary market — the resale market in townships — is dysfunctional," said Kecia Rust, an expert on housing for the FinMark Trust, an organization financed by the British government to help the poor gain access to financial services. That said, Ms. Rust has been besieged by investors looking into the township real-estate market, partly, perhaps, because South Africa's upper-crust market, where prices have risen as much as 35 percent a year since 2000, has begun to tail off.

That boom was fueled by South Africa's dazzling beauty, stable economy and fire-sale prices. Now that those prices are reaching their potential, investors are seeking the next bargain. Some find it at the other end of the income spectrum.

That may not be a bad bet. Spurred by government pressure — and the profit motive — South Africa's four big banks are entering the low-income market in earnest, offering home-loan packages for poor households and financing malls and other retail ventures in long-ignored areas.

The national government has also weighed in. After building thousands of free one- and two-room corrugated-roof homes for the homeless, it has arranged to free up billions in low-cost home loans to the three citizens in four who earn less than about $500 a month.

Finally, big-city townships are no longer the trackless slums of the 1970's. Homes in some neighborhoods are bathroom-size shacks, with endemic crime and roads that turn to mud when it rains. But in many others, gravel paths have become broad avenues, mass-market retailers have taken root and homeowners have built with the enthusiasm of any suburbanites.

In Mitchell's Plain, Rafeeq Khan, 50, a truck dispatcher, beamed as he led potential buyers through his handsome home, bulked up over 10 years with three bedrooms, a new bathroom, an enclosed patio, a garage, blond-birch closets and other amenities. "One small house here is selling for 300,000 — a small house, nothing done to it. And another for 320,000, nothing done to it," he said, citing two homes in the $45,000 range. "We're asking 480,000," or about $72,000.

"He'll get it," said Basil Simon, the Pam Golding agent. "It's a gold mine, Mitchell's Plain, a gold mine. You've got more buyers than stock."

The Tafelsig neighborhood, home to the house at 21 Jonkerhoek St., is by comparison a bit dumpy: stark and grassless, it is distinguished mostly by ill-clad toddlers on plastic tricycles and a shantytown nearby. Gangs with names like $exy Boys rule some streets.

But its tattered state aside, Jonkerhoek is a quiet lane. Crime is low. "You can't leave the property vacant, because you get these naughty guys who move in, take over," Mr. Renquest, the agent for Jonkerhoek, said disapprovingly. "But you'll have more people who want to buy in an area like this, because prices are better."

In fact, up to 96 percent of township homes sell at their asking prices, the survey by FNB Bank concluded, compared with 60 percent on average. And while the average home sold in eight weeks, township houses sold in half the time.

Urban townships have something else in their favor: among the nation's rising black middle class, they are becoming preferred places to live, especially as shopping and other services take root. In short, they are becoming hip.

In 1994, after South Africa shed apartheid rule, "the main goal was to get out of the townships," Ms. Rust said, "and the people who managed to do that found themselves in neighborhoods that functioned quite differently, and socially were difficult. So they moved back. That could be what's happening here."
213 2006-06-07 PARIS, June 6 — The struggle for control over stock exchanges took a political turn on Tuesday as President Jacques Chirac of France said that he preferred an all-European deal but backed away from the overt protectionism that has characterized French economic policy.

Last week, the NYSE Group, owners of the New York Stock Exchange, reached an agreement to buy Euronext, a four-country exchange with origins in Paris, for about 7.9 billion euros, or about $10.2 billion. The deal would put Euronext under American control but would also serve to exclude a rival suitor, Deutsche Börse of Germany, and turn Paris into the headquarters for NYSE-Euronext share trading in Europe.

But an all-Europe deal could pose a conundrum for Mr. Chirac: He may favor the creation of a single stock market in Europe, but under the latest offer by Deutsche Börse, Paris would play second fiddle to Frankfurt. Speaking in Germany alongside the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Mr. Chirac said he would regret an all-European market not being the solution that was "adopted in the end." But he made clear that his priority was to keep jobs in Paris, even if it meant tying the knot with the Americans. And he acknowledged that he had only "very limited ways to intervene" in the deal.

Mrs. Merkel was even more circumspect, explaining that governments like those in France and Germany could not exert influence over merging companies, even if she were "of the opinion that it is good to build up strong economic units within Europe."

Deutsche Börse had no immediate comment on Mr. Chirac's remarks. Officials at the German exchange are trying to persuade Euronext shareholders — who ultimately must vote to approve any deal — that their offer, spurned by Euronext's management, should nevertheless prevail.
214 2006-06-07 Alabama strong safety Chris Keys was dismissed from the team for violating team rules, Coach Mike Shula said yesterday. Shula also said cornerback Travis Robinson had decided to leave the university. Both players are sophomores.

Keys was suspended from the Cotton Bowl for violating team rules, but Shula did not say whether that was related to his dismissal. Keys was once rated as one of the nation's top prospects.
215 2006-06-07 MOSCOW, June 6 — Russia's finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, answered critics of his country's energy policies on Tuesday, saying the government was considering opening the pipelines of the state-owned Gazprom to competition and would encourage greater investment in oil production.

Mr. Kudrin made the statement as Russia prepared to play host at a meeting of leaders of the Group of 8 industrial nations in July. The issue is an important one to the Europeans because a choice of Russian suppliers would break Gazprom's monopoly and could lower prices in Europe.

But on Saturday, a Gazprom spokesman, Sergei V. Kupriyanov, said the company was not considering opening its export pipelines. "This isn't a question being discussed by us for now," he said.

Mr. Kudrin stressed that the government was not considering access for third countries to transport fuel through Russia, but rather access for independent producers inside the country. "Now this question of access for independent producers to the pipe is being discussed by the appropriate agencies," he said.

This is the first time that Russia will be host at a Group of 8 meeting; the other members are the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.
216 2006-06-07 The result is a vast movie meritocracy that gives a film a second or third life simply because — get this — it's good. Last year, "The Conversation" (average rating: four stars) was the 13th-most-watched movie from the early 1970's on Netflix.

Its return from oblivion is a nice illustration of a brainteaser I have been giving my friends since I visited Netflix in Silicon Valley last month. Out of the 60,000 titles in Netflix's inventory, I ask, how many do you think are rented at least once on a typical day?

The most common answers have been around 1,000, which sounds reasonable enough. Americans tend to flock to the same small group of movies, just as they flock to the same candy bars and cars, right?

Well, the actual answer is 35,000 to 40,000. That's right: every day, almost two of every three movies ever put onto DVD are rented by a Netflix customer. "Americans' tastes are really broad," says Reed Hastings, Netflix's chief executive. So, while the studios spend their energy promoting bland blockbusters aimed at everyone, Netflix has been catering to what people really want — and helping to keep Hollywood profitable in the process.

Five million families now have Netflix accounts, and the company has basically reinvented the concept of a quick-turnaround mail-order business. It is, in short, one of the most impressive companies around. So why do so many people think it's doomed?

MR. HASTINGS, a friendly, goateed 45-year-old who fits the image of a California entrepreneur, founded Netflix in 1997 after running up late fees on a video rental. He figured there had to be a business in helping people avoid those fees, so his new company allowed customers to keep a fixed number of movies, usually three at a time, for as long as they wanted. When they sent one back, they got another.

Today, Netflix sends and receives 700 million little packages a year, a logistical operation that has few peers outside of FedEx, U.P.S. or the post office itself. The company's new head of operations, in fact, used to be the postmaster general.

In the San Francisco area, Netflix trucks pick up returned DVD's from post offices by 4 a.m. each weekday morning and bring them to a warehouse in a leafy Sunnyvale office park. There, workers — mainly Asian and Latino immigrants — arrive on the brightly lighted warehouse floor at 5 a.m. to begin tearing open the red envelopes and putting the discs in mechanized sorters. By 10 a.m., the workers are stuffing new envelopes to be sent out again and the discs are back at the post office the same afternoon.

Netflix has 39 of these warehouses around the country, one in each major metropolitan area. Because first-class mail service takes only a day within a 50-mile radius, most customers get a new movie two days after dropping one in a mailbox.

From the beginning, though, the company's doubters have argued that this isn't fast enough. Blockbuster's chief executive used to say Netflix would never be more than a niche business, and even now the stock trades for about $27, down about $12 from its 2004 high. One fifth of its shares are on loan to short sellers betting it will fall further.

You can understand the doubts, too. At a time when cable and phone companies are running fat data pipes into homes, Netflix can seem a lot like the Sears catalog of the early 21st century. Surely, home movies will soon look more like iTunes than Netflix. Downloading, not envelope stuffing, is the future — or so people have been saying for years.

As it happens, the movie studios have already set up their own attempt at iTunes. It's called Movielink. For $1 to $5, you can download a movie to your computer and watch it at any point in the next month. At some point, presumably, you will be able to download it to your television, too.

But here's the rub. Movielink has a library of only 1,500 movies, fewer than a good video store. Likewise, Comcast, the cable company making a push into video-on-demand, offers just 800 movies. This may not surprise you if you have ever scrolled through the pay-per-view options and found nothing to watch.

The problem is that the studios have sold the exclusive digital rights for most movies (which don't apply to physical DVD's) to a television channel, like HBO. The agreements last for years and, since they bring in millions of dollars, the studios aren't about to stop signing them.

So what's saving Netflix — allowing it to thrive when the technology to obliterate it already exists — is yet another attempt by Hollywood to hold onto a fading business model. Remember, this is the industry that filed lawsuits in the 1970's to prevent people from watching movies at home.

Even Mr. Hastings admits that the convenience of downloading will eventually make the exclusive rights deals disappear and give Netflix some real competition.

The company has been hiring engineers to build its own download site, which, with a familiar brand name and all that information about what people like to watch, may be formidable.

But it could be years — 5? 20? — before downloading approaches the size of the DVD business. Sometimes, inertia can outlast technology long enough for somebody to build a very big business. And once a business gets big, it doesn't easily go away.

"At the heart of any good investment, I tell investors, is a contrarian thesis that they and the company believe very deeply," Mr. Hastings said, "and that the rest of the world thinks is crazy."
217 2006-06-07 President Bush, the G.O.P. and Christian conservatives are going to use the same-sex marriage issue as a diversion, a campaign tool and a wedge issue during midterm elections to invigorate their base.

Mr. Bush calls for a ban on same-sex marriage, even though he knows that the amendment is doomed from the start.

Partisan politics rears its ugly head in the sanctity of marriage.
218 2006-06-07 It started as a concert tie-in with a new book, "The House That Trane Built," by Ashley Kahn, a historical survey of the Impulse! jazz-record label. But Monday night's show at the Blue Note became a slightly more expansive, decentralized and spontaneous McCoy Tyner concert.

The idea was to use the Impulse! albums of the 1960's as repertory, with Mr. Tyner leading a band that expanded and contracted between a trio and a septet. It helped that the most famous of those Impulse! albums are by John Coltrane, including compositions that are part of every jazz musician's memory.

It also helped that those albums are partly defined by the sound of Mr. Tyner's playing on them, a sonic bedrock, with his ringing left-hand fourth chords setting a kind of drone. Many of those tunes are part of Mr. Tyner's current repertory, in his regular trio with the bassist Charnette Moffett and the drummer Eric Kamau Gravatt.

So considering that the band was a bit of a construct, made in a record company's image, and that this was the septet's second show (its first in New York), the set still had a charge, and the players worked hard. The horn players, onstage for half of the set in front of Mr. Tyner's trio, were the saxophonists Dave Liebman and Donald Harrison, the trumpeter Wallace Roney and the trombonist Steve Turre. For their tunes — Coltrane's "Tunji" and "Impressions" and a version of "Caravan" adapted from an old Freddie Hubbard album — they followed simple arrangements organized for the evening by Bob Belden.

Impulse! recorded many different musicians in many different styles, including Gil Evans, Art Blakey and Ahmad Jamal. But it was the sound of Coltrane that you heard for most of the set, and the musicians didn't take the easy route in suggesting it.

"Tunji" was done in the Coltrane quartet's slow-groove style and "Impressions" at a fast tempo; in both, Mr. Liebman and Mr. Harrison showed that they had internalized Coltrane's language, but they brought it within their own sense of rhythm and didn't recycle his licks.

They each delivered extraordinary solos over the rhythm-section vamps, full of textural oddities — overtones, honks, squeals — delivered rapidly. Mr. Turre also plays conch shells, and he produced five for his solo, changing between them to play in different keys.
219 2006-06-07 Adapted from "Spice: Flavors of the Eastern Mediterranean,'' by Ana Sortun (Regan Books)

 Time: 45 minutes

1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts 

3 red bell peppers, 1 minced, 2 roasted, peeled, seeded and cut into strips

1 small onion, minced

3 scallions, minced

2 teaspoons sumac, more for garnish (see note)

2 teaspoons Aleppo pepper or ¼ teaspoon cayenne

1 teaspoon za'atar, more for garnish (see note)

1 teaspoon salt more to taste

1 egg

 1/3 cup heavy cream

1 cup lightly toasted, finely ground pistachio nuts

4 large rectangles of lavash (see note) or 6 large flour tortillas 

Pepper to taste

1 cup thick yogurt.

1. Cut chicken into 2-inch chunks and place in a food processor. Process into a smooth paste until it forms a ball, about 1 minute. Add minced red pepper, onion, scallions, sumac, Aleppo pepper, za'atar, salt, egg, cream and pistachios and pulse together just until incorporated, about 6 pulses.

2. Preheat oven to 375 degrees; heat a pizza stone if you have one. Cut lavash into large rectangles, about 5 by 6 inches; cut tortillas into quarters. Cover each piece with about 1/3 cup chicken mixture, spreading to edges.

3. Place on a heavy baking sheet or pizza stone and bake 12 to 15 minutes, until crisp and chicken is cooked through. While still hot, sprinkle with additional sumac and za'atar. Serve warm with a dollop of yogurt and 2 strips of roasted pepper on each.
220 2006-06-07 To the Editor:     Re ''House at Stake, Midterm Election Gets Early Start'' (front page, June 6):     President Bush, the G.O.P. and Christian conservatives are going to use the same-sex marriage issue as a diversion, a campaign tool and a wedge i...
221 2006-06-07 SOKOL--Margaret McCor mack. 90, Sunday, June 4, 2006 in NYC after a short illness. Services private....
222 2006-06-07 GUIDANT DOCUMENTS -- Newly released records show that Guidant was considering sending a letter to doctors disclosing problems about two of its defibrillators and saying that it had pulled back all units not yet implanted into patients. That letter...
223 2006-06-08 New shows in New York include "Dead City" and "Waiting for Godot."...
224 2006-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
225 2006-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
226 2006-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
227 2006-06-08 Cravey Green & Whalen has retained Robert W. Baird to explore a sale of TruckPro, an aftermarket distributor of truck parts, less than two years after buying the company, LBO Wire reported. The move comes after the Atlanta-based buyout shop saw th...
228 2006-06-08 Christopher Cox, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has urged six major options exchanges to begin quoting a limited number of options in pennies. Options are now quoted in increments of nickels and dimes. "Quoting in penny increm...
229 2006-06-08 Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment bank, is to start raising billions of dollars for a new private equity fund within weeks, despite the recent furor over conflicts of interest between the bank's private equity division and its corporate cl...
230 2006-06-08 The newspaper publisher McClatchy said Wednesday it would sell five more newspapers it acquired from by Knight Ridder for about $450 million. The announcement brings Knight Ridder, the second-largest U.S. newspaper company, one step closer to diss...
231 2006-06-08 Dealers speculated that Vincent Bollore has once again increased his stake in Aegis as volumes in the advertising group swelled to more than four times the daily average. Shares in the company, which has been resisting the French corporate raider'...
232 2006-06-08 Italy's finance minister, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, said Wednesday that he favored an alliance of Euronext, Deutsche Börse and Borsa Italiana, making him the second European leader in two days to call for a regional deal since Euronext agreed to be...
233 2006-06-08 Not everyone who wins millions in a lottery can run out and buy a new Mercedes-Benz. One ticketholder may be 17, and 10 months short of eligibility. Another may have a shadowy past that makes it dangerous to collect under his own name. And there is always a chance that a winner's nasty, estranged husband may hear the news and refuse to sign the divorce papers.

There is no such thing as a free windfall.

"Windfall," a new NBC drama that has its premiere tonight, is "Lost" without the supernatural or the Mensa brainteaser clues. And that is a compliment. As good as "Lost," ABC's hit show about air crash survivors on a spooky island, is, it can strain your patience. "Windfall" takes a film-noir approach to the fate of 20 people thrown together by a $386 million lotto prize, but it doesn't take itself too seriously. It's an enjoyable, intriguing look at what can happen to a group of ordinary, cash-strapped people who wake up one day as multimillionaires. Or, as one of the winners puts it, "It's like we are our own species now."

Luke Perry ("Beverly Hills, 90210") plays Peter, the host of the jackpot party. (Guests put a dollar in a communal pot to buy tickets, and after they win, everyone shares the pot.) He is a sweet, devoted husband and father whose first big splurge is to buy a fanciful surprise for his two children. His wife, Nina (Lana Parrilla), loves him but also has a lingering attraction to her old boyfriend, Cameron (Jason Gedrick), and Cameron wants to rekindle their romance even though he is married to Beth (Sarah Wynter). They are an attractive, 30-something-ish foursome, but money changes things.

So does Paris. When Nina and Beth go there on a getaway weekend of shopping and sightseeing, even Beth is tempted to stray. (They were never in any danger of running into Carmela Soprano and her friend Rosalie, however. The Paris scenes in that episode of "The Sopranos" were filmed on location; those on "Windfall" were shot, not very convincingly, on a set.)

A handsome loner, Sean (D. J. Cotrona), does not fit in with the brunch crowd and was invited to the lotto party only because he works as a delivery boy in the same flower shop as Beth. Sean has some kind of criminal record, and something in his past hinders his ability to cash in. He seeks help from a beautiful lawyer, but her assistance only complicates his cause.
234 2006-06-08 The match today was hardly the finest example. Though Henin-Hardenne played well, Clijsters certainly did not test the outer reaches of her fellow Belgian's talent. It was one of the most lopsided and disappointing matches in their long rivalry, and though it is now tied at 10 victories apiece, Henin-Hardenne holds a 5-1 edge on clay.

"I think what the difference is between her and any other player is that she just moves so well," Clijsters said later. "It's not that she hits the ball harder than any of us. She just moves so well."

Henin-Hardenne will be a solid favorite again Saturday against the eighth-seeded Kuznetsova, who is having a fine season after slumping in the wake of her first Grand Slam title at the 2004 United States Open.

Kuznetsova won the prestigious Nasdaq-100 tournament on hard courts in Key Biscayne, Florida. Though she had never reached the quarterfinals here until this year, she held a match point against Anastasia Myskina in the fourth round in 2004, when Myskina went on to win the title. And she held two match points against Henin-Hardenne in the same round last year, when the Belgian won the title.

"It's amazing, no?" Kuznetsova said. "Two years, fourth round, every time losing match points; Justine, Anastasia, every time. Now it means a lot to me to be in the final here, because I didn't put my hands down."

Then she added in her idiomatic English: "I just been working. I been through low year last year, and I been still working hard. I never was thinking even to stop doing something, to stop working. I just had a little bit of doubts if it's going to come the way I want to, if I going to make it through."

She could have had a few more doubts today with Vaidisova serving for the match at 5-4 in the second set. Until that stage, the tall, telegenic Czech had been getting the better of the baseline exchanges with her relatively flat groundstrokes that, in theory, are better suited to faster surfaces. She had also been placing her strong serve well, keeping Kuznetsova guessing and lunging.

But at 5-4, Vaidisova, making her debut as a Grand Slam semifinalist, conceded that she suddenly began to think ahead. She proceeded to make three unforced errors with her feast-or-famine forehand and then double faulted at 15-40 to lose the game.

"Of course, at that point, you kind of figure, 'If I win this game, I'm in the finals,' " Vaidisova said. "But I don't think I have gone crazy nervous, or I just started shaking or anything. I really didn't.

"But if I would have to take it back, I would definitely love to serve a little bit better and get some more first serves," Vaidisova added. "But she also played that game pretty tough and, you know, I can't do much about it now."

She could have done something at 5-5 in the ensuing tiebreaker, when she was just two points from victory, but she again missed a straightforward, midcourt forehand and then lost the set with another unforced error.

After a long, eight-minute break, Kuznetsova kept the momentum, breaking Vaidisova's serve twice and holding her own twice to take a 4-0 lead. The rest was epilogue.

But Vaidisova's story is clearly just beginning, and she could easily make a huge impact again on the grass at Wimbledon from the look of her serve-forehand combination, her deft touch at the net and her ability to hit both a flat, two-handed backhand and a fine, one-handed slice.

"I'm not going to set my goals and say, 'I want to do as well as I did in the French,' or 'I'll try to do even better than the French,' " Vaidisova said. "It's a different Grand Slam, different tournament.

"Just as I went to this Grand Slam, I'll take it round by round, focus on each round 100 percent, give it all my all," she added. "That worked out for me. I didn't set a goal here, so I'm not going to do it, you know, the next Grand Slam."

Though Vaidisova was born in Nuremberg and is Czech by nationality, she speaks English with only the slightest of accents, and has most of the verbal tics of a Florida teenager — no surprise considering that she has trained at the Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Bradenton for much of her childhood.

And, in a sense, her match with Kuznetsova was not merely a match between a young Czech and young Russian but a match between two finishing schools of tennis: the American model and the Spanish model.

Kuznetsova, now 20, left Russia at 13 to train in Barcelona at the tennis academy run by the former Spanish stars and doubles partners, Emilio Sanchez and Sergio Casal.

Through that connection, she has had the opportunity to travel, train and talk extensively with Sanchez's younger sister, Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, a three-time French Open champion and former world No. 1.

"When you have that kind of model around to work with and learn from, of course it's going to help," Emilio Sanchez said.

Kuznetsova still speaks Spanish with a Russian accent and searches for her words on occasion. But, like Vaidisova and Maria Sharapova, her story and her hybrid game are a product of geopolitical changes as well as her own efforts.

Though Henin-Hardenne has also trained in Florida on occasion and is now based in tax-friendly Monaco, she remains thoroughly Belgian. This tournament is as close as she can come to playing a Grand Slam at home, considering that French is the lingua franca and Belgian fans and flags are now fixtures in the stands.

There were concerns this year that the French in the crowd might turn against her after her decision to retire in the middle of the Australian Open final with an illness this year, depriving Amélie Mauresmo of the adrenaline rush of a match point as she won her first Grand Slam title. But the crowd has shown no animosity, and now she is on the verge of a third trophy at Roland Garros.

"I hope this Grand Slam final will help me make up a bit for what happened at the beginning of the year," Henin-Hardenne said.
235 2006-06-08 Oil prices fell today and the dollar gained, touched off by reports that a major terrorist figure in Iraq had been killed. The benchmark contract for crude oil to be delivered next month fell 47 cents today to $70.35 a barrel; tensions over Iran's nuclear program drove the price up to $72.60 a barrel as recently as Monday.

Investors around the world appear to be preoccupied with the prospect of rising interest rates and the threat of inflation at a time when economic growth is showing signs of slowing, especially in the United States, and for days they have seemed ready to seize on any bad news.

"These things are sort of feeding off each other, and at the moment they're not playing out in a favorable way," at least for stocks, said Mark Cliffe, global head of financial markets research at ING. "It's sort of taking on a bit of a dynamic of its own, which is sort of what makes it so dangerous."

Still, the yield on 10-year Treasuries fell slightly today to 4.996 percent.

Investors appear less willing to tolerate the high levels of risk that they have accepted in recent years.

"We're seeing a reversal of a multi-year trend of increasing risk in portfolios," said Markus Krygier, chief currency strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in London. "You have a lot of investors realizing that they have a lot of risk in their portfolios, and they're scaling back."

Central-bank hawkishness on inflation was the main reason for the global sell-off of the last few days. An unexpected interest-rate increase by the central bank in South Korea contributed to the Asian declines, while a quarter-point increase announced by the European Central Bank for its benchmark short-term interest rate, though widely expected, nonetheless pushed Continental markets lower. Denmark, South Africa and India also raised rates, though the Bank of England announced that it was leaving its rates unchanged.

Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 index fell 3.07 percent today to its lowest level in six months, and stocks also fell steeply in Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Bombay Stock Exchange fell almost 5 percent to its lowest level since January, and Australian stocks had their worst day in years.

Major stock indexes in France, Germany and Britain and smaller markets throughout Europe posted losses of 2.5 percent or more today; Swedish stocks fell more than 4 percent. Oil, electronics and utility stocks were among the big losers on those exchanges today.

Adding to the market jitters were a series of comments around the world in recent days by central bankers, signaling that they were not done tightening credit to squelch inflation.

Economists said that the European Central Bank's quarter-point increase today was a sign of more to come, a concern for many investors.

"Today's rate hike will not be the last," wrote Stuart G. Hoffman and Richard Moody of PNC Financial in a research note. "The E.C.B. is worried that excessive liquidity will ignite underlying inflationary pressures."

Stocks of companies that depend on American consumers for sales, like Toyota and Samsung, or that sell them raw materials, like the metal-mining conglomerate BHP Billiton, were hit especially hard. Commodity-market prices for goods like copper and tin have fallen in recent days in anticipation of weaker demand.

The dollar gained against other major currencies, especially the Swiss franc, a traditional safe haven in turbulent times, on news that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and the most wanted terrorist in Iraq, had been killed in an air strike north of Baghdad.

In Asia, recent market declines have more or less obliterated a potent spring rally, one fueled largely by foreign investors looking for fresh growth that could beat those available at home.

More often than not, the movement of such money takes no account of s Asia's longer-term growth prospects. But the wide scope of the latest market downdraft has some economists wondering whether the markets are signaling the start of something more ominous.

Australia's benchmark stock index suffered its biggest slide in almost five years, dropping 2.3 percent today. Hong Kong stocks fell 2.3 percent to their lowest level since March 10; South Korean shares fell 3.5 percent, returning to the levels of last November.

"Everybody's worried about the U.S. economy," said Chua Hak Bin, Director of Asia-Pacific economic and market analysis at Citigroup in Singapore. "The fear is that we could be headed for a slowdown that will affect Asia's exports. So what was just a market stress signal has turned into a hemorrhage."
236 2006-06-08 David Zabriskie won the time trial at the Dauphiné Libéré yesterday, leading an American sweep of the top four places. Zabriskie moved to second place over all behind Belgium's Philippe Gilbert, who took the lead Tuesday. Zabriskie, riding for Team CSC, clocked 52 minutes 48.65 seconds for the 26-mile third stage that began and ended in Bourg-de-Péage, France. Floyd Landis, winner of three races this year, including the Tour de Georgia in April, placed second, 53 seconds off Zabriskie's pace. Levi Leipheimer, riding for Gerolsteiner, was third, and Discovery Channel's George Hincapie was fourth.
237 2006-06-08 The Nets scheduled a workout June 17 for Jay Williams, whom the Chicago Bulls took with the second overall selection in the 2002 draft. Williams played a season with the Bulls but was severely injured in a motorcycle accident in 2003.
238 2006-06-08 Darrell Kestner, who missed the cut last year, yesterday won the rain-shortened Long Island Golf Association Open championship at the Bethpage State Park Red Course. Kestner parred the final hole for a 75 and a 36-hole total of 142. Ron Faria bogeyed the last hole for a 74 and fell into a three-way tie for second at 143 with Abbie Valentine (73) and Jim Hazen (70).
239 2006-06-08 Suzanne Esterman, a spokeswoman for the Department of Human Services, said state officials believed that nearly all of the disputed claims were legitimate, but that they were not documented because school districts were unable to locate records from more than five years ago.

Ms. Esterman said the private contractor that has run the program since 2004 was working with school officials to find the documents and had tracked down paperwork for "a substantial" number of the disputed claims.

"While we're concerned that the documentation wasn't provided to the auditors when they asked, we are hopeful that when we go in to search for the documentation that the claims will be reinstated and New Jersey won't be forced to repay the $50 million," she said.

Although Medicaid is intended primarily to provide health care to the poor, since the 1980's it has also helped local school districts cover the cost of special programs for disabled children, including psychological counseling and speech therapy. But in recent years federal auditors have accused some schools of abusing the program. Audits in 2004 and 2005 found that New York City schools had filed more than $1 billion in inappropriate claims; another recent audit challenged more than $100 million in claims filed by schools in Massachusetts.

The audit of New Jersey's $101 million in claims during the three-year period examined 150 applications and found that 109 of them should not have been reimbursed. Auditors said 48 of the claims had no referral from a physician, 43 could not prove that the provider was adequately qualified, and 37 had no proof that the services were ever rendered.

The auditors also found that the state had improperly billed for a psychological evaluation of a student who was already an inpatient at a state-run psychiatric hospital.

In a written response to the audit, New Jersey officials told federal auditors that the state had set up a more rigorous screening process for Medicaid claims in 2002.

Ann Clemency Kohler, director of the Department of Human Services' division of medical assistance and health services, wrote in the letter that the state had also updated its training manuals and hired an outside vendor in recent years to oversee the program and that it would intensify those efforts to ensure that the school districts complied with federal regulations.

As New Jersey does its own review, and goes over the federal audit, the Department of Human Services may enact tighter safeguards, Ms. Esterman said.

"We evaluate the programs every year, so hopefully we won't get caught in a situation where the federal government comes to us years later discounting the claims we've submitted," she said. "But if there are any potential deficiencies arising from this audit, and we hope they are few, we'll make whatever adjustments are necessary."
240 2006-06-08 The person with knowledge of the directors' thinking said the three directors believed that Tribune first needed a strategy to create value before it took on significant debt, which they worried could limit the company's options. He spoke on condition of anonymity because of concern about how the discussion might affect the company's future.

The decision of the dissenting directors to make their displeasure public has fueled speculation yesterday that other investors might take the opportunity to call for more drastic changes at Tribune, possibly including spinning off its television stations or even selling the company. If that is the case, there is no immediate indication they are succeeding.

"We continue to support the management and the board of directors of Tribune," said Charles K. Bobrinskoy, vice chairman of Ariel Capital Management, a Chicago-based money management firm and the company's sixth-largest investor, with 3.39 percent of the shares.

"We believe the stock repurchase program is in the best interest of Tribune and its shareholders, and we believe the stock repurchase program is only the first step in a process of creating value," he said.

The board of the Tribune Company — owner of newspapers including The Chicago Tribune, The Los Angeles Times and Newsday as well as 26 television stations — approved the repurchase of up to 25 percent of its stock. Tribune rose modestly yesterday, closing up 31 cents at $30.31.

The dissent exposed a fissure in the boardroom, but it was not clear what effect, if any, it would have on the company's course of action. The company could proceed with its plan anyway, since the Chandler family's stake is not big enough to stop them.

"My speculation is they wanted something bigger to happen," said one person representing a Tribune shareholder, of the Chandler Trusts. "They saw the repurchase as a half-step." And there may be concern, he said, that the debt caused by the stock buyback will make the company unattractive to potential buyers.

But Mr. Weitman, the Tribune spokesman, said he expected the company to follow through on the plan as approved by the board.

"The business strategy has been set and is moving forward and I wouldn't speculate about anything coming down the line," he said. Still, many analysts perceive the newspaper industry to be at a crossroads. And in the aftermath of the sale of Knight Ridder, which was under pressure from restive stockholders, they are watching the Tribune company closely.

"They are eating up a lot of financial flexibility by doing this repurchase, and that money could have been used for other investments and for figuring out how they modify their business in order to compete with a new media landscape," said Brendan Buckley, managing director of Fitch Ratings.

"Long term, it's hard to predict where any of these companies are going to wind up," he said.
241 2006-06-08 "The word is a complex word," he testified. "It has many meanings."

Professor Kennedy had just taken the stand in a packed courtroom and rattled off his impressive credentials — which include attending Princeton, Oxford and Yale, a clerkship for Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and his membership in the Bar of the Supreme Court.

He said the epithet was "a word that can be put to many different uses," ranging from a pejorative term to a friendly salutation.

Mr. Gaudelli asked Professor Kennedy, who is black, about his book on the subject.

"My second book is entitled, 'Nigger: The Strange Career of a Troublesome Word,' " the professor responded. Mr. Gaudelli handed him a copy of the book, and had it entered into the case as Exhibit W.

Professor Kennedy said that in modern parlance, the word could have many different meanings and was no longer restricted to use by or about black people. In fact, he said, many new immigrants use the word casually after learning it from movies, music videos and popular songs. In San Francisco, he said, the word is commonly used among young Asian immigrants.

"It is used by all sorts of people, black and white, and other groups as well," he said.

Later, outside the court, Professor Kennedy said it was the first time he had testified in a criminal trial about the use of the word. He said he had agreed to come to Queens to testify "to advance the aims of justice," but not to take Mr. Minucci's side.

"I do not feel I was championing somebody's cause," he said. "I was asked to speak as an expert witness about a particular issue. Somebody's liberties are at stake here."

Mr. Gaudelli said that when he phoned Professor Kennedy and asked him to testify, for no fee, the professor initially declined. But Mr. Gaudelli persisted.

"I said: 'Do you believe what you wrote? Are you willing to stand by it?' Do you want to deprive my client of a fair trial?' " Mr. Gaudelli recounted. "He said, 'I'll call you in the morning.' "

Asked how the testimony went, Mr. Gaudelli said: "I think I did good; I got a Rhodes scholar to testify for nothing and all I had to do is drive him to the airport."

Early on, Professor Kennedy said the epithet, which dates to the 17th century, derived its name from the Latin niger, meaning black. It "seeped into English" through Spanish and Portuguese, he said.

In the cross-examination, Mariela Herring, a Queens prosecutor, asked Mr. Kennedy, "Are you here to tell us the "n" word is no longer a derogatory term?" She then asked more directly, "Is it a derogatory term?" Professor Kennedy responded, "It can be."

She asked Professor Kennedy if he had chosen the title of his book, published in 2002, for "shock value," and she cited a newspaper interview in which he said the "catchy title" would grab attention.

Professor Kennedy said the meaning of the epithet depended on the context in which it was used. Ms. Herring asked him to assume that the context was a white man wielding a baseball bat, about to attack a black man. Justice Richard L. Buchter disallowed the question, saying Professor Kennedy could not conjecture as to what the attacker would be thinking.

Justice Buchter also denied Mr. Gaudelli's attempt to enter a chapter of Professor Kennedy's book — "The Use of the Word Today" — as evidence, for the jury to consult.

Mr. Gaudelli maintains that Mr. Minucci, growing up in Lindenwood, a racially diverse neighborhood adjacent to Howard Beach, grew up with many nonwhite friends and used the term as part of his regular vocabulary.

The lawyer insists that his client, encountering a black man carrying a bag of tools at 3 a.m. in a middle-class white neighborhood, decided that Mr. Moore was about to commit a robbery and decided to use "reasonable force" to stop him. Mr. Moore has admitted that he and his friends intended to steal a car that night.

During yesterday's proceedings, Mr. Minucci responded to a question from the judge by saying that he would not take the stand. Five of the 19 counts against Mr. Minucci were eliminated, to streamline and simplify the indictment.

Both sides are to give their closing arguments today, and the judge is expected to give the case to the jury in the afternoon.
242 2006-06-08 With that in mind, present and former Iranian security officials said they were counting on, even stoking, the sense of religious connection to Iraq as well as to fellow Shiites in places like India and Saudi Arabia, as part of a defensive strategy.

Iranians believe that despite philosophical differences with others of their faith, like Ayatollah Sistani, their country is the Shiite motherland and any kind of military attack on Iran would compel Shiites around the globe to respond.

"There are two things that all grand ayatollahs care about — preventing chaos and making sure the people are as secure as possible," said one of Iran's central security planners, who spoke on the condition he not be identified because of the nature of his work. "If the United States hits Iran, other players will come in."

Ayatollah Sistani's organization is already worried that the tensions between Iran and the United States will affect its work. It has two large computer servers based in California that are the hub of its technology center. If the United States ever cut off access to those servers, Ayatollah Sistani's information network would be knocked offline.

"Will they check, will they know this is for Ayatollah Sistani, or will they just shut down the servers?" asked Walid Salman, one of the technology managers working with the ayatollah's operation in Qum.

Ayatollah Sistani, who is Iranian, studied religion in Qum 56 years ago before moving to the Shiite religious city of Najaf in Iraq, said Mr. Shahrestani, who left Iraq for Qum 29 years ago, never once returning. He has built Ayatollah Sistani's operation here to include a network of services, from Web design training to health insurance, all for religious students. In Qum, he said, there are 45,000 students receiving aid of some sort, with another 20,000 in other Iranian cities.

"Because of the situation during Saddam's time, we decided to make Qum as the center," Mr. Shahrestani said as he sat in one of the many cultural centers his organization's operates here.

Just 75 miles from Tehran, Qum is a gritty town, with a huge shrine decorated in fiery blue tiles, a site of pilgrimage for Shiite Muslims. It is also the site of many Shiite religious schools, drawing students from around Iran and elsewhere, who study full time and receive financial support from political leaders.

Ayatollah Sistani does not have a religious school in Iran, but he has high-tech links to all the schools here. Eight years ago his son-in-law founded the Aalulbayt Global Information Center, in a small building on a traffic-clogged street in the center of Qum.

Inside is a staff of technicians who design and manage four Web sites, using the Internet to spread Ayatollah Sistani's ideas and his influence among Shiites all over the world.

Each month, for example, the center receives hundreds of requests for guidance, and each day the staff members send back answers under the name of the ayatollah. One woman from Australia asked if her father was right to oppose her decision to marry a non-Arab. The response was that she should get her father to change his mind. A person from the United Arab Emirates asked if it was O.K. to play the guitar, and the answer was no.

"Najaf was a very important and pivotal center for Shia studies but it was ruined by Saddam," said Sayed Ibrahim Larjvardi, who is the information center's chief administrator "Qum is the same now. The motherland of Shiism is here in Qum."

Across town, along dusty streets, Ayatollah Sistani's son-in-law was overseeing the construction of 320 apartments, each of which will be loaned to a religious student in Qum.

Muhammad Shariatmadri, 35, a theology student from Tehran living in one of the apartments, said, "The free housing has been a huge help."

His neighbor, Muhammad Abedi, 35, from southern India, lives with his wife and children in another one. Asked how Shiites in India and elsewhere would react if the nuclear issue reached a stage where the United States decided to take action against Iran, he said: "They will help Iran. Of course."
243 2006-06-08 WASHINGTON, June 7 — Hillary Rodham Clinton assailed the conservative commentator Ann Coulter on Wednesday for engaging in a "vicious, mean-spirited attack" on a group of 9/11 widows and in turn drew fire herself.

In a new book, "Godless: The Church of Liberalism," Ms. Coulter accuses the women — who pushed the Bush White House to create a commission to investigate the government's failures before the 9/11 attacks — of being "self-obsessed" and acting "as if the terrorist attacks happened only to them."

"I've never seen people enjoying their husbands' deaths so much," Ms. Coulter writes, according to The Associated Press.

"And by the way, how do we know their husbands weren't planning to divorce these harpies? Now that their shelf life is dwindling, they better hurry up and appear in Playboy," The Daily News quoted the book as saying.

In taking on Ms. Coulter, Mrs. Clinton joined a chorus of critics — including relatives of Sept. 11 victims and politicians from both parties — who expressed outrage over the remarks.
244 2006-06-08 New Jersey's commissioner of human services collapsed in a bathroom at the State House Annex yesterday afternoon, moments after he left a legislative budget hearing where he had been called to testify. The commissioner, Kevin M. Ryan, left, had had pneumonia recently and missed more than a week of work while being treated. The commissioner was able to walk to an ambulance and was treated at a Hamilton hospital and released. Mr. Ryan, 39, the state's former child advocate, became human services commissioner in January.
245 2006-06-08 Consider it no coincidence that Nadal, the 20-year-old Majorcan who has dominated the clay-court game for the last two years, is also considered the finest slider of this era.

"I would actually put him up there with the best of all time, mainly because he's so strong in his legs," said Mats Wilander, a three-time French Open champion.

Nadal did not have to slide for long on Wednesday, as he won his 58th consecutive clay-court match by beating Djokovic in the quarterfinals. There have been some grueling tests for Nadal here this year, but this was not one of them, as Djokovic retired in the first game of the third set with a sore lower back and Nadal leading, 6-4, 6-4.

Nadal, the defending champion, will now face the fourth-seeded Ljubicic in the semifinals. Ljubicic, who led Croatia to its first Davis Cup last year, put an end to the unlikely run of the 95th-ranked Benneteau of France by winning, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3.

For the first time in 21 years here, the four top-seeded players have advanced to the semifinals, with No. 1 Roger Federer playing No. 3 David Nalbandian on Friday in the other semifinal.

All of these men move very well on the clay, even the huge-serving Ljubicic, whose best results, until now, have come on hard courts and indoor courts but who says he played exclusively on clay until he was 15.

"When you grow up on something, you always feel comfortable on that," he said.

When you don't grow up on something, the comfort zone can seem as elusive as a Ljubicic ace.

"I feel off balance, like I'm scraping back and forth," Robby Ginepri said after his latest first-round defeat here last week.

Meanwhile, men like Nadal and Gastón Gaudio, a former French Open champion, are as at home on clay as a Tyrolean villager is on snow.

"I watch their 10-feet slides, and I slide, and I count 3 feet," said Ginepri, a 23-year-old from Georgia.

For American players, who usually grow up on the terra firma of hard courts, it is a common lament. "I'm the perfect example of the bad slider," said Brad Gilbert, a former top-10 player who later coached Andre Agassi and Andy Roddick.

"I was always nervous about it. The worst kind of sliding is when you slide after hitting the ball. Then you can't stop and turn. If I were commissioner of tennis, I'd make 90 percent of junior tennis be played on clay. You have to learn those moves. If you don't do it young, you're in trouble."

It is not just a matter of technique and balance. It is a matter of a player's physique adapting to the task.

"It's not that you can't learn to slide later; it is possible, but there is also a muscular element involved," said Carlos Rodriguez, the longtime coach of the defending women's champion and world-class slider Justine Henin-Hardenne. "There are muscles in your foot and your lower leg that are vital to the process. You see lots of hard-court players getting sprains on clay because of this. The feet work so differently on clay. On hard courts, you're in constant motion. But here, you have to stop completely and then restart the machine."

But to slide long and well, a players must also be fast. One of Nadal's 10-foot works of clay-court performance art is a tribute to his initial burst of speed, and the paradox is that although one might think a player is losing time by sliding into a ball (friction slows momentum, after all), players like Nadal or Federer or Henin-Hardenne are actually gaining time.

"It's all about recovery," Rodriguez said. "If you run to the ball on clay and then hit it, you're going to have to slide afterward to stop yourself and head back the other way. If you slide into the ball properly, you're already prepared to change direction as soon as the shot is gone, sometimes even before it's gone."

Still, it is possible to win the French Open while keeping the sliding to a minimum. Agassi proved it in 1999, as he scampered but so very rarely skidded around the terre battue to win the only Grand Slam title missing from his collection. Agassi was so uncomfortable on the slide that he sometimes wore knobby-bottomed, grass-court shoes at Roland Garros — the equivalent of cleats — to keep himself firmly planted. Such shoes have since been banned here, because they damage the courts.

Wilander used to rue playing Jimmy Connors on clay for a similar reason. "He never slid anywhere, so once he'd been on a side of the court, there'd be little cakes of clay everywhere, because he took only steps," Wilander said. "There would be bad bounces galore."

Ask coaches and players to pick the best sliders from memory and there is plenty of hesitation. Great forehands, two-handed backhands and serves spring more readily to mind.

For the women, the consensus pick in the modern era is Arantxa Sánchez-Vicario, the perpetual-motion machine from Spain who won three times here. For the men, those on most short lists include Wilander, his Swedish compatriot Bjorn Borg, who won six times here, Guillermo Vilas of Argentina and José Higueras and Sergi Bruguera of Spain.

But there are also a few surprises.

"Martin Jaite," Gilbert said of the Chilean who played in the 1980's and early 1990's. "This guy could lay tracks like you couldn't believe."

Martina Navratilova, still playing mixed doubles here at age 49, said: "Actually, the best slider of all time was Onny Parun. You heard of him? New Zealander. He'd slide on everything: on clay, on grass, on hard courts. You went out on a grass court, and you knew he'd been out there because there were slide marks everywhere."

Kim Clijsters is the most visible proponent in the women's game, as she uses her genetic inheritance — her mother was a champion gymnast in Belgium — to skid into a split for wide forehands on hard courts as well as clay.

Plenty of men, including Nadal, are also transferring their clay-court tricks to harder places, although it is hardly without injury risks. "It looks scary to me," Wilander said. "I'd only recommend it if you have thigh muscles the size of Rafa Nadal or Michael Chang or Kim Clijsters."
246 2006-06-08 Landlords of Beijing markets notorious for selling counterfeit goods signed a deal to evict tenants who repeatedly violate copyright law. "This is a protocol with teeth," said the European Union's trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, left, who attended the signing ceremony. Under the deal, representatives of luxury brands will monitor markets and report copyright violations to landlords, who must evict tenants after a second offense or face legal action themselves. A European Union statement said the deal was made possible by a series of civil judgments against the landlord of the well-known Silk Alley Market by a Beijing appeals court in response to the claims of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the Burberry Group, the Prada Group, the Gucci Group and Chanel. (AP)

Yahoo said it would acquire a stake of about 10 percent in a South Korean e-commerce company, GMarket, for $60 million. Yahoo said it would purchase the stake from a venture capital firm, Oak Investment Partners, which it said was the only significant outside institutional investor in Gmarket. "What we don't have in Korea is a leadership position in e-commerce auctions," a Yahoo spokeswoman, Helena Maus, said. "GMarket's leadership position in Korea would be valuable to us." (AP)

A British insurance specialist, Resolution, said it had acquired a portfolio of businesses from Banco Santander Central Hispano for £3.6 billion ($6.7 billion). The portfolio includes the British and offshore life insurance businesses of Abbey National, which Santander bought in 2004. The deal increases Resolution's life insurance assets by 72 percent, to £63 billion ($118 billion). Resolution operates and consolidates insurance businesses that are largely closed to new members, seeking to increase returns by cutting back-office costs. (AP)

BAE Systems, Europe's largest military contractor, said it would force the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company to purchase a 20 percent stake it holds in the aircraft maker Airbus after the two companies failed to agree on a price for the shares. BAE "has served upon EADS a formal notice of exercise of its put option," the company said in a statement. Under a 2001 agreement, an independent investment bank will arbitrate the value of the BAE holding if the two partners are unable to reach an accord. EADS currently owns 80 percent of Airbus, the world's largest aircraft maker. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Novartis, the European drug maker, said it had agreed to buy NeuTec Pharma, a British biotechnology concern, for £305 million ($569 million) in cash, to get new medicines for its product line. Novartis bid £10.50 a share for NeuTec, almost twice the price of its shares on Monday when talk of a bid surfaced. NeuTec specializes in medicines that fight drug-resistant infections, a growing problem for hospitals. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Société Générale, the French bank, agreed to buy as much as 20 percent of OAO Rosbank, a Russian bank based in Moscow, delaying an initial public stock offering by Rosbank. Société Générale will pay $317 million for 10 percent of Rosbank with an option to increase that to 20 percent, according to Interros, a holding company for the Russian billionaire Vladimir Potanin, who owns Rosbank. The public offering, scheduled for as early as this month, will be delayed by the sale, Interros said. The bank said it still planned an offering, without giving details of the timing. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
247 2006-06-08 A Rhode Island businessman who said he was illegally tipped off to the 2000 sale of U.S. Foodservice to the Dutch retailer Ahold pleaded guilty yesterday to insider trading and charges related to an accounting scheme.

The businessman, Brady Schofield, 39, who owns several seafood and produce companies that supplied U.S. Foodservice, pleaded guilty to a seven counts including charges of insider trading and conspiracy to falsify records.

Mr. Schofield also agreed to pay $728,232 to settle civil claims filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In February 2000, a former purchasing executive of U.S. Foodservice, Timothy J. Lee, told Mr. Schofield about Ahold's plans to acquire the company, according to the charging document.

Mr. Schofield then bought about 28,000 shares of U.S. Foodservice, a supplier to the catering industry based in Columbia, Md., for an average purchase price of $14.61. He sold the shares in March shortly after Ahold announced the deal to buy U.S. Foodservice for $26 a share, netting nearly $300,000 in illegal profits, prosecutors charged.

Mr. Lee pleaded guilty to securities fraud and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in July 2004.

In proceedings in Federal District Court in Manhattan, Mr. Schofield told Judge George B. Daniels that he regretted his actions and knew they were wrong.
248 2006-06-08 WASHINGTON, June 7 (Reuters) — Christopher Cox, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has urged six major options exchanges to begin quoting a limited number of options in pennies. Options are now quoted in increments of nickels and dimes.

"Quoting in penny increments will benefit investors by allowing options quotes and orders to be expressed at better prices, and has the potential to enhance further the already strong competition and innovation that exist in the options markets," Mr. Cox said in a statement yesterday.

Several options exchanges and their members have recently expressed interest in penny quoting, the S.E.C. said. Penny price points would bring options in line with how the underlying stocks have been traded since 2001 when stock markets made the switch to quoting in pennies from fractions.

Stocks went to penny quotes with the introduction of decimalization. But options quoting stayed at 5- and 10-cent increments, partly out of concern about the sharp rise in the amount of data that penny trading would generate. Options trading produces a vast amount of quotes, and computer systems have had to improve to keep up.

The S.E.C. said quoting options in pennies "will increase quote message traffic, which the systems of exchanges, market data vendors and securities firms must be able to manage."

For this reason, penny quoting would begin in a small number of options, possibly expanding later, the S.E.C. said. Mr. Cox's recommendation for a pilot penny program was sent in a letter to all six United States options exchanges.
249 2006-06-08 The World Bank asked the government to repay $7.6 million provided for road, land, water and sanitation projects after an investigation found corruption. It also suspended parts of $72 million in loans for the projects.
250 2006-06-08 The McClatchy Company, the newspaper chain that bought Knight Ridder's 32 daily newspapers in March, agreed to sell 5 of those papers yesterday for $450 million, leaving one publication left to be sold.

The five papers — The Akron Beacon Journal in Ohio, The Aberdeen American News in South Dakota, The Fort Wayne News-Sentinel in Indiana, The Duluth News Tribune in Minnesota and The Grand Forks Herald in North Dakota — were sold to several buyers, according to a statement issued yesterday by McClatchy, which is based in Sacramento.

The agreements leave The Times Leader of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., as the only paper to be sold. An agreement will be reached on that newspaper in the next few weeks, the chief executive of McClatchy, Gary B. Pruitt, said yesterday.

McClatchy has now found buyers for 11 of the 12 newspapers it planned to sell after agreeing to buy Knight Ridder for $4.5 billion. Total proceeds will be about $2 billion and will be used to reduce debt taken on from the Knight Ridder purchase, McClatchy said. McClatchy is selling papers that do not fit its target of operating in fast-growing markets.

"They're getting good prices," said John Morton, an independent newspaper analyst and consultant and president of Morton Research Inc. "This demonstrates that newspapers are desirable for different reasons."

In yesterday's sales, Black Press, a company based in Victoria, British Columbia, said it agreed to pay $165 million for The Akron Beacon Journal. The publication was purchased in 1903 by the founder of Knight Newspapers, Charles Knight.
251 2006-06-08 "This will mean major changes for people in some neighborhoods," she said. "But if you make bus transport more reliable and fast, you give people the option of getting out of their cars."

The idea has been around for years, and has had strong support from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who made it a feature of his 2001 campaign.

Why not, the mayor and some transportation planners say, emulate a type of express bus service already offered in other major cities around the world? Many of those buses whisk along in their own designated lanes, pass through intersections where signals are programmed to keep other traffic at bay, and stop only at widely separated, high-volume stations where passengers pay their fares before getting on board.

Those would be some of the elements incorporated into the plan. Although current bus stops would not be eliminated, the goal would be to provide another type of service that would stop much less frequently and would have priority on major thoroughfares.

Computer-controlled traffic lights that read electronic signals from approaching buses would remain green long enough for the buses to pass.

Still, because of the huge volume of traffic in the city, the innovations planned for bus rapid transit would have limited impact, officials said.

"We don't want to oversell this," said Theodore V. Orosz, director of bus service planning in Manhattan and the Bronx for New York City Transit, the arm of the transportation authority that operates the city's buses and subways. He said that 11 of the 15 corridors under consideration for bus rapid transit already had a form of bus service that skipped many local stops.

On those routes, he said, bus rapid transit would probably not speed up service by more than 10 percent. On local routes, the increase would be more dramatic, he said.

Mr. Orosz said the authority had set aside $20 million for the project in its five-year capital plan. But he said it was unclear how far the money would go, particularly if bus rapid transit routes were expanded beyond the first five.

Among the 15 routes under consideration are a corridor that includes First and Second Avenues in Manhattan, long the focus of rider complaints because it is far from subway service and clogged by traffic.

Others, spread across the five boroughs, present varying degrees of complexity for transportation planners. In the Bronx, where people attending a public hearing on Monday said their most pressing need was for better bus service traveling east and west, one option is for a bus lane on, or near, the congested Cross-Bronx Expressway, which could involve a service road, Mr. Orosz said.

Officials said the public hearings were intended to gauge whether the changes necessary for the new bus service would be too disruptive in some neighborhoods.

Designated bus lanes would probably be the ones closest to the curb, and parking spaces would be lost. The computer-controlled signals that speed buses on their way would slow down other vehicles at some intersections.

"There are clearly going to be trade-offs, and communities are going to have to give stuff up," Ms. Weinshall said. "But we think, in the end, there is a net benefit."
252 2006-06-08 Wayne Hage, a cattleman who won a significant legal case affirming the rights of ranchers to have their herds graze and drink water on federally owned land, died Monday at his ranch in Tonopah, Nev. He was 69.

The cause was cancer, said his son, also named Wayne Hage.

In 1991, Mr. Hage filed suit against the National Forest Service, arguing that it had illegally denied him access to the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest. The 7,000-acre Pine Creek Ranch, which Mr. Hage bought for about $2 million in 1978, is adjacent to the national forest.

Eleven years later, Judge Loren Smith of the United States Court of Claims in Washington ruled that Mr. Hage retained property rights to what are called federal grazing allotments. Under those allotments, the government owns the land but ranchers retain access to water and grazing if they can prove they or their predecessors had previously used the land, or built roads or wells on the property. Mr. Hage said the Forest Service had illegally taken his property when it fenced off several water sources and confiscated more than 100 head of his cattle.

Elwood Wayne Hage was born in Elko, Nev., on Dec. 21, 1936. He graduated from the University of Nevada, Reno, where he also earned a master's degree in animal husbandry.

Besides his son, Wayne, of Tonopah, Mr. Hage is survived by his second wife, former Representative Helen Chenoweth, Republican of Idaho, whom he married in 1999; his brother, Dave, of Tonopah; two sisters, Faye Tewell of Fallon, Nev., and Alice Hage of Woodburn, Ore.; four daughters, Ramona Morrison of Reno, Ruthe Agee of Elko, Margaret Byfield of Taylor, Tex., and Laura Perkins of Boise, Idaho; and 10 grandchildren. His first wife, Jean Nichols Hage, died in 1996.
253 2006-06-08 PARIS, June 7 — A Dutch businessman was sentenced Wednesday to eight years in prison for breaking a United Nations arms embargo and smuggling weapons for the former Liberian president, Charles Taylor, during the country's civil war.

Guus Kouwenhoven, 63, who was a business partner of Mr. Taylor's, sold Liberian timber on the world market and took back weapons and ammunition aboard his companies' ships from 2001 to 2003, judges at the district court in The Hague said.

The court said Mr. Kouwenhoven had knowingly broken international law and helped to destabilize the region. Mr. Taylor, who is facing trial on war crimes charges, organized and financed a decade of conflicts across West Africa that left more than 300,000 people dead. A decision has not been made on the trial's location.

The prosecution of Mr. Kouwenhoven for his wartime role in Africa was one of the first cases of its kind, lawyers said. Some called it a warning for others.

"I applaud this because financiers and companies working in the shadows of African wars are now on notice that they may be held accountable," said David Crane, the former chief prosecutor of the United Nations-backed tribunal dealing with war crimes in Sierra Leone, where Mr. Taylor is being held.
254 2006-06-08 TAMPA, Fla., June 7 (AP) — Frank Spencer, an F.B.I. agent who helped investigate the 1963 Ku Klux Klan church bombing in Birmingham, Ala., that became a rallying point for the civil rights movement, died here on Friday. He was 87.

The cause was lung cancer, his family said Tuesday.

Mr. Spencer was 82 when he testified in 2001 about the bombing at the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church, which killed four black girls, Denise McNair, 11, and Addie Mae Collins, Cynthia Wesley and Carole Robertson, all 14. They died in a basement room of the church while preparing for Sunday services.

In the 1970's, a former Klansman, Robert E. Chambliss, was convicted of the bombing and sentenced to life in prison, where he died almost a decade later.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation reopened its investigation into the bombings in the 1990's at the urging of black pastors. Two former Klansmen were then indicted, Thomas Blanton Jr. and Bobby Frank Cherry.

In 2001, Mr. Spencer testified against Mr. Blanton, who was eventually convicted of murder and is serving a life sentence. Mr. Blanton says he is innocent.

Mr. Cherry was also convicted and sentenced to life, and died in prison in 2004.

Mr. Spencer testified that Mr. Blanton gave conflicting accounts of his whereabouts on the two nights before the blast.
255 2006-06-08 All four men had distinguished playing careers. Mr. Nieporte played in 13 P.G.A. Championships and in the 1965 Masters. In the 1959 Open at Winged Foot, he shot 79 in the first round, leaving him two strokes behind an amateur named Jack Nicklaus and one behind Ken Venturi. Ben Hogan led with a 69 and Arnold Palmer was at 71, with Sam Snead at 73. Billy Casper went on to win, and Mr. Nieporte wound up missing the cut by two strokes. The point is that these are the names that come up when one discusses Mr. Nieporte's career.

Think of the four previous United States Open champions at Winged Foot: Bobby Jones in 1929, Mr. Casper in 1959, Hale Irwin in 1974 and Fuzzy Zoeller in 1984. Mr. Nieporte has met them all.

Sturdy and slim, he is still playing golf after having his arthritic knees replaced recently with titanium joints. He played Winged Foot recently with Phil Mickelson, the current Masters champion, who wanted a preview of the West course, where the Open will be played. Designed by A. W. Tillinghast, it requires accurate tee shots and long approaches to well-protected, sloping greens.

A survey of golf history can be had from Mr. Nieporte's stories. How about Ben Hogan, who was famous for his concentration during competitions?

"You didn't talk to him, it was understood," Mr. Nieporte said. "After he finished, he was perfectly friendly."

And Tommy Bolt, who was known to throw golf clubs in anger?

"He always said, 'I never threw them as much as people said I did.' "

Mr. Nieporte grew up in Cincinnati and played golf at Ohio State, where he won the national intercollegiate golf championships in 1951. On tour, he won three tournaments. His best United States Open finish was 16th in 1958, at Southern Hills Country Club, in Tulsa, Okla., and he finished fifth in the 1964 P.G.A. Championship, playing the final round with Hogan and Bobby Nichols, the eventual winner.

His modest pro shop at the club displays memorabilia from his life in golf. But most people are interested in merchandise, not memories.

"Do you have any ladies' jackets?" asked a woman who came huffing in. Mr. Nieporte directed her to a display.

He often works seven days a week, commuting from his home in Bayville on Long Island, a 90-minute drive at rush hour. He and his wife, Joan, have nine children — five daughters and four sons — and 27 grandchildren.

Many of Winged Foot's members are excellent golfers, and Mr. Nieporte, who still gives lessons, offers guidance with their games. Around the club, he is treated like a celebrity, even though it has many famous members, including Donald Trump and Frank Gifford.

Stepping in to explore the 36,000-square-foot merchandise pavilion that has sprung up near the clubhouse in advance of the Open, he stared at a squadron of staff members loading the shelves.

"You could put a hockey rink in here," he said, looking at the hangar-size shop. "How do you think they hold up the roof?"

Most of the items have a catchy United States Open logo that incorporates the Winged Foot insignia, one that Mr. Nieporte has long had on his own merchandise. Under an agreement between the club and the golf association, he may not sell merchandise during the Open, and his shop will be closed.

During the 1984 Open at Winged Foot, Mr. Nieporte sold merchandise out of a tent, with his father-in-law at the cash register. Asked about his exclusion from the retail setup this year, he said politely: "I don't talk about that stuff to reporters. They have officials to talk about that."

He met up with Doug Smith, the club's volunteer historian, who gave a brief tour of historic spots like the narrow nook in the locker room where a young Tom Watson took refuge after his game imploded on the second nine on Sunday in the 1974 Open. The legendary Byron Nelson comforted him there.

"Watson said later that Byron told him: 'You can't let this destroy your game. You have the game to be a fine champion.' It led to a strong friendship between them and a great career for Watson," Mr. Smith said.

After a chat in the clubhouse garret that is Mr. Smith's office, the two men walked slowly down the back stairs, Mr. Nieporte on his artificial knees and Mr. Smith using his cane. "You promised you'd get me an elevator," Mr. Smith said.

"Yeah, well, I never won the U.S. Open," Mr. Nieporte replied.
256 2006-06-08 Amid the somber procession of injustices paraded by the annual Human Rights Watch International Film Festival, rays of light inevitably filter through. Human resilience, determination and hope in the face of hardship and oppression can never be underestimated. When you run across such radiance in a grim environment, your heart surges with wonder.

"The Refugee All Stars," the opening film this evening of the 15-day festival at the Walter Reade Theater in Lincoln Center, follows a hardy band of six Sierra Leonean musicians who fled their country's civil war to settle in the Sembakounya refugee camp in rural Guinea. For all their diversity in age and background — members of the group include a teenage rapper and a rhythm guitarist in his 50's — their stories, told in a reggae- and soul-tinged West African style, knit into a powerful expression of common experience. As harrowing as these personal tales may be, the music buoying them is uplifting. The cliché bears repeating: music heals and creates community.

Directed by Zach Niles and Banker White, two documentarians from the Bay Area, this no-frills movie, made over three years, follows the group, founded in 2002, as it embarks on a concert tour of Guinean refugee camps during which the members tell their stories and reunite with friends they had assumed had been killed in the war. With enormous trepidation, they eventually decide to leave the relative safety of Guinea and go back across the border to confront the unknown in their homeland, where an uneasy peace has been reached.

Two more screenings of the film on June 22 will be accompanied by a discussion and appearances by the band.

"Rain in a Dry Land," written and directed by Anne Makepeace, is a fascinating companion to "The Refugee All Stars" because it illustrates the cultural chasm between Africa and America. The movie follows the amazing journey of two Somali Bantu families from a refugee camp in Kenya to the United States under the sponsorship of two different relief organizations.

One settles in Atlanta, the other in Springfield, Mass. As they learn the basics of life in the industrialized West (they have to be taught to walk up and down stairs), individual personalities emerge. The particular strength of this film is its intimacy, its insistence on portraying immigrants, too often lumped together by documentaries as a huddled mass of suffering, as complicated, high-strung people negotiating the personal boundaries between their traditions and Western modernity.
257 2006-06-08 Last Saturday at the Manhattan Bridge Club, the Reisinger Knockout Teams was won by Glenn Milgrim, Jesus Arias, Richard Schwartz, Aaron Silverstein and Chris Willenken of New York and Jeff Aker of Briarcliff Manor, N.J., by two international match points.

The losers could point to several boards that gave them an opportunity to reverse the results. This was one. At both tables, South was in four spades. In the given auction, three spades was a game-invitational limit raise. This was a slight underbid with a singleton and a side five-card suit. One alternative would have been to respond four hearts, a splinter bid showing a singleton (or void) in that suit and the values for at least game in spades.

But that would have been an overbid. When Janet Colchamiro held the hand, it is surprising that she did not respond four spades because she and her husband, Mel, play a strong-club system. Since South's hand was limited to 15 high-card points, a slam was unlikely. North should have jumped to game and hoped her partner could make it. (In a team match, if the faintest aroma of game is wafting across the table, bid that game.)

Both Wests started the defense with the club seven, leading third-highest from an even number of cards and lowest from an odd number. (This is popular in the tournament world because it tends to count a suit more quickly.)

When Schwartz sat East, he won with his club jack and immediately shifted to a diamond, the best defense. Now it looked as if declarer would fail, losing one spade, one diamond and two clubs. But Mel Colchamiro won with his diamond ace, cashed his spade king and ran the spade jack through West. When it held, declarer could claim.

Why did Colchamiro take an antipercentage play in spades? Because over North's three-spade response, East had cogitated for even longer than is his wont. Colchamiro drew the conclusion that East was short in spades. But if East had had the doubleton queen-ten of spades, declarer could not have complained. You draw conclusions from an opponent's hesitation at your own risk.
258 2006-06-08 It'S 1992, and I am in a theater watching the new movie everyone is talking about. The protagonist falls in love with a woman who has rather broad shoulders and an athletic build. I, a competitive swimmer, keep hissing loudly to my friends: "Finally! A movie that highlights the beautiful, muscular form of the female body! It's about time!" I see the broadly built female character as a symbol of vindication. Women can be tall and strong and still be attractive. But of course.

I eat my Raisinets in triumphant handfuls until we get to the end of the movie, "The Crying Game," and see that the woman with the shoulders is actually a man in drag.

A couple of weeks ago I replicated the utter humiliation of that scene, on a consumer level, in the new Patricia Field store. Downstairs, past the footlong rhinestone-studded cigarette holders, I saw a pair of sky-high stiletto-heel boots in a fetching black and white graphic canvas. "Cool," I announced to the sales clerk standing nearby, who nodded, then cast a polite sideways glance in my direction. Turning the boots over, I saw that the sole read "Size N/A."

Not applicable? The taste of chocolate-covered raisins rose in my mouth as the terrible truth dawned: the boots were gunboats, far too big for most women without a pituitary problem, so big that mere numeric size was not even a relevant concept. I had simply wandered into the drag-queen shoe section of the store.

The worst part: the sales clerk had been polite to me.

I should have expected nothing less. This was Patricia Field, downtown purveyor of cross-gendered chic. In the 80's and 90's, Ms. Field was the doyenne of drag, her boutique on Eighth Street the destination for anyone who was truly serious about neon wigs, heavy-duty fishnet tights and booty boosters, the padded panties that add a womanly curve to otherwise unendowed buttocks.

Later her store moved to West Broadway, and her résumé was burnished by a lengthy run as the stylist for "Sex and the City," during which time she attempted to convince an entire generation of women in their 30's and 40's that it was O.K. to wear tube tops, newsboy caps and capri pants to the office. At the end of the month, Ms. Field's hand can be seen in "The Devil Wears Prada," for which she dressed Anne Hathaway in Dolce & Gabbana and Chanel, and a white-blond Meryl Streep in, natch, Prada. (Earlier this week, Amazon introduced an online boutique where you can buy a distressed-leather studded La Rue handbag Ms. Field designed for Ms. Hathaway's character, for $79.95. )
259 2006-06-08 The Nets scheduled a workout June 17 for Jay Williams, whom the Chicago Bulls took with the second selection in the 2002 draft. Williams played a season with the Bulls but was injured in a motorcycle accident in 2003.        JOHN ELIGON (NYT)...
260 2006-06-08 Darrell Kestner, who missed the cut last year, yesterday won the rain-shortened Long Island Golf Association Open championship at the Bethpage State Park Red Course. Kestner parred the final hole for a 75 and a 36-hole total of 142. Ron Faria boge...
261 2006-06-08 ARREST IN INTERNET PHONE CASE -- Federal authorities arrested a Miami man who they said made more than $1 million in a hacking scheme involving the resale of Internet phone service. [Page C1.]    BEHIND VENEZUELA'S BOOM -- A spending spree in Vene...
262 2006-06-09 Floyd Norris writes his column in the New York Times today on the credibility of the consumer price index. He notes that when housing prices were going up, this widely used measure of inflation didn't count it, and so inflation was underestimated....
263 2006-06-09 Nasdaq made it clear on Friday that it has no intention of giving up on the London Stock Exchange, setting the stage for a long, hot summer of speculation over how the takeover stalemate will get resolved. Nasdaq chief executive Robert Greifeld to...
264 2006-06-09 Patience seems to have paid off for Royal Group Technologies. The Canadian maker of plastic building components, which has been up for sale for more than a year, on Friday announced an agreement to be acquired for about 1.7 billion Canadian dollar...
265 2006-06-09 The excitement of the opening ceremony 11:35 Okay, the ceremony is apparently over, and Univision is going back to show what we missed. Which was a German pop star of some sort. I have to classify the ceremony (and perhaps our "live" coverage of i...
266 2006-06-09 New York is joining with Euronext, and the pair is now reportedly wooing Italy. Germany is looking for - somebody. But the consolidation fever that has gripped the world's stock exchanges has apparently not affected the Irish Stock Exchange, one o...
267 2006-06-09 It's time for General Motors and Ford Motor Company to admit to two more mistakes and sell the European carmakers each thought could stem the defection of luxury buyers from Cadillac and Lincoln, according to Bloomberg News's Doron Levin. The colu...
268 2006-06-09 Houston Exploration has agreed to provide a New York hedge fund with some of the documents it demanded last week in its efforts to get the company to reconsider recent strategic investments. Jana Partners, which owns about 10 percent of Houston Ex...
269 2006-06-09 New accusations of corporate stock option abuse were leveled yesterday, this time against Cyberonics, a medical device maker that is no stranger to controversy. The company's board approved stock option grants for top executives one evening in Jun...
270 2006-06-09 The former head of Howard Stern's accounting firm skirted jail time yesterday when a federal judge sentenced him to probation for hoarding stock in Sirius, the satellite radio company the radio host moved to, days before the deal was announced. "I...
271 2006-06-09 As the star expert for the plaintiff firm Milberg Weiss, John Torkelsen became a legend for his ability to cap an all-night binge with a crack performance in a deposition the next morning. But his latest hangover won't be so easy to shake. As Tork...
272 2006-06-09 Apple's popular iTunes music-download service is facing fresh legal attacks in Europe. Government consumer protection agencies in Norway and Sweden want Apple to remove restrictions that prevent customers from playing music they bought through iTu...
273 2006-06-09 On the surface, Colombo, Sri Lanka, may seem like a strange place for Intel Capital to invest $4 million in a new Web services middleware developer, but according to Sanjiva Weerawarana, the chief executive officer of WSO2, there are few other pla...
274 2006-06-09 Determined to expand its reach into Western Europe, Gazprom, Russia's state-owned natural gas producer, has agreed with Gasunie, the Dutch gas trading company, to exchange stakes in a move that would give Gazprom access to the British market. For ...
275 2006-06-09 Televisa, the Mexican media group, is considering establishing its own United States broadcasting network if it fails to acquire Univision Communications, the largest Spanish-language television and radio group in the United States, which is being...
276 2006-06-09 One of the chief critics of Micron Technology's $741 million acquisition of Lexar Media has sold its equity holdings in the target, buoying the merger's chances of succeeding. In a June 8 securities filing, a New York hedge fund, Elliott Associate...
277 2006-06-09 The Tribune Company says it is sticking to a stock buyback plan, but investors yesterday reacted as if the company might be in play. Shares of Tribune rose 4 percent on speculation about the company's future after the Chandler family – its secon...
278 2006-06-09 German drugs and chemicals group Merck has raised its holding in a rival, Schering, to just over 10 percent, threatening a planned takeover of Schering by Bayer. Schering said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission overnight that ...
279 2006-06-09 For those of us who did not make it to Hedgestock - the 1960's-themed be-in for hedge fund professionals and people who want to sell them things - Friday's report from The New York Times' Heather Timmons offers the next best thing. The event, held...
280 2006-06-09 "Slow Jam King" is an example of do-it-yourself filmmaking at its purest. Working with a minuscule budget, Steven E. Mallorca functioned as director, screenwriter, producer, editor, cinematographer, song composer and performer. While he shows promise in certain areas, the camerawork, scene blocking and editing are amateur at best. But Mr. Mallorca tries hard and sometimes manages to make up for what is lacking in the technical department with spirited characters and high levels of comic energy.

After a failed carjacking attempt, JoJo (Ron Domingo), a Filipino-American college dropout who aspires to be a full-fledged gangsta, instead becomes a gun-wielding passenger in the targeted vehicle. The driver, Vance (Whitney Melton), who refuses to abandon his car, is a celebrated country-singer-turned-traveling-perfume-salesman. Devaun (D. K. Bowser), a former "Star Search" contestant who can't seem to let go of his past, comes along for the ride to make sure that his much younger buddy JoJo doesn't try anything more foolish than he already has.

As JoJo, Vance and Devaun, a most unlikely trio of lost souls, drive from New York to Nashville, they quarrel, get in and out of trouble, bond, re-evaluate their musical tastes, mature a little, find love, and in the process discover what they've been searching for. Their journey is agreeable enough that, in the end, the film's predictability doesn't much matter.

Written and directed by Steven E. Mallorca; directors of photography, Colin Rivera and Mr. Mallorca; music by Jeff Gray and Mr. Mallorca; production designer, John Wong; produced by Mr. Mallorca and Cindy L. Torres; released by Unico Entertainment. At the ImaginAsian Theater, 239 East 59th Street, Manhattan. Running time: 109 minutes. This film is not rated.
281 2006-06-09 In the 17th minute, midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger darted into the penalty area in his Mohawk hairdo and sent a cross to Klose, whose left-footed volley put Germany back ahead, 2-1.

The team had a chance to put the game away before halftime, but forward Lukas Podolski hit a line drive over the crossbar and Klose could not get his foot on a corner kick that bent threateningly across the goal mouth.

Early in the second half, Costa Rica found another leak in the German defense but midfielder Danny Fonseca's header drifted wide. Then, in the 61st minute, Klose struck again. His low header was saved by goalkeeper José Porras, but the ball rebounded and Klose punched it into the net for a 3-1 German lead.

Still, the game was not safely tucked away. The crowd seemed stunned in the 73rd minute when Wanchope came barreling through the middle for Costa Rica, found another seam and scored again to draw the visitors to 3-2. But any threat of a tie ended in the 87th minute when German midfielder Torsten Frings rammed in a shot from about 35 yards to provide a 4-2 cushion.

The German lineup did not include Ballack, the midfielder who is superb at heading the ball and is the team's one true star. He was out with a strained calf muscle. This morning, though, Germans awakened to a news report that Ballack desired to play and to a suggestion of possible tension between the captain and his coach.

On Thursday, Klinsmann said Ballack would not play because of a dodgy leg, which the German media have been referring to as "the country's calf muscle."

But in today's issue of Bild, the country's largest newspaper, Ballack said he was fit to be in the lineup for the opening match. "I'm not feeling pain anymore," Ballack told the paper. "I want to play."

A day earlier, Klinsmann said he wanted to make sure that Ballack would be healthy for later matches in the tournament. While he consulted his captain, Klinsmann said, "I have the final say as manager."

The German news media have hinted at friction between the captain and coach, with Ballack criticizing Klinsmann's attack-minded approach as paying too little attention to shoring up a porous defense. Ballack told the Berliner Tagesspiegel newspaper this week, "This team makes mistakes and that is why I go into this tournament a bit unsure."

If there was a rift, it healed at the moment of Lahm's opening goal, with Klinsmann and Ballack hugging in celebration.

The motto of this World Cup is "A Time to Make Friends." And Germany's international embrace was displayed in an opening ceremony that was a hallucinogenic costume ball featuring Pelé, Claudia Schiffer, flags of the 32 participating nations, lederhosen, Bavarian hip-hop, portable haystacks, women dangling from the stadium like bells in their magnificent hoop skirts, men cracking whips and other men wearing headdresses piled as high as the pressure on the German team.

A great roar from the crowd, dressed in the white jerseys of the German team, greeted a march of players who had performed on Germany's World Cup champion teams of 1954, 1974 and 1990. But this nostalgic moment of past greatness seemed tinged with recognition that the current German team does not possess such apparent weightiness.

Many fans are already nervous about a possible second-round matchup against either England or Sweden.

"Quarterfinals, and it will be finished for Germany," said Claudia Aichele, a housewife from Stuttgart as she entered the stadium. "They are a very young team without very much experience."

But Markus Klinsmann, 20, a nephew of the German coach, noted that little was expected of Germany in 2002 also, but the team reached the final. It has a history of gaining in strength as a tournament progresses.

"I think Germans are too negative," Markus Klinsmann said. "They should be more optimistic."

Soccer is, after all, a sport where the home team wins about 80 percent of the time. Franz Beckenbauer, who won World Cups as Germany's captain in 1974 and as coach in 1990, has suggested that the support of the country's 80 million fans might carry Germany all the way to the final on emotion and enthusiasm, if not on transcendent skill.

"A parallel is the 1980 Olympics," Hans-Jorg Kudlich, chief engineer of Mars candy bars in Germany, said before the match. "The U.S. ice hockey team had no chance against the Soviet Union, but everyone wanted them to win. I hope the same thing will happen with the German team."

Angst beforehand about the team's chances could not overcome a sense of joy and celebration and national pride as the tournament opened. Fans wore the red, gold and black national flag as capes, and skirts and face markings, flew flags from cars and sported the national colors on fingernails, scarves and Mohawk wigs. There is a relaxed feeling about displaying national symbols, fans and historians said.

"This is a new generation," said Christian Klees, 38, a city office worker from Eutin in northern Germany, as he wore a German flag around his waist. "It's okay to have pride. We are not going in the direction of 60 years ago."

Michael Nienhaus, 34, plant manager in Minden, Germany, said: "Many people think Germans can't be enthusiastic and celebrate. If there is no security incident, this will be a big party."

He said that he did not think Germany would win the tournament but that national enthusiasm would rise with the opening victory. "If we lose, only 5 percent think Germany will be world champion," Nienhaus said. "Now it's 80 percent."
282 2006-06-09 Mr. Hazan did not accuse Cyberonics of backdating the options to a day when prices were particularly low — a practice that has recently been reported among more than 30 companies and has become the subject of a Justice Department investigation. But, he wrote, "the effect was exactly the same."

A number of technology companies, most recently McAfee, which makes antivirus software, have announced the departures of senior executives as a result of questions about options dating. The Securities and Exchange Commission has been investigating issues surrounding dating for more than a year.

Mr. Hazan, who said he was surveying all the companies he follows for potential backdating issues, focused on Cyberonics options that were granted at a special board meeting on the evening of June 15, 2004. That was only hours after a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel recommended that the agency approve Cyberonics's request to market its implantable nerve stimulator as a treatment for severe chronic depression.

Mr. Cummins received options on 150,000 shares at an exercise price of $19.58, the closing price the day before the F.D.A. panel's recommendation. The chief medical officer, Dr. Richard L. Rudolph, and the vice president for regulatory affairs, Alan D. Totah, who played pivotal roles in winning the panel's backing, each received options on 10,000 shares at that price.

The shares soared when trading resumed the next day, June 16, closing at $34.81, as investors bet that Cyberonics might soon be selling a new approach to treating the most severe forms of depression, a condition that affects millions of Americans annually.

"The board acted on an event before investors were able to do so," Mr. Hazan said yesterday in an interview. "It's a perfect example of an abusive option. Options are supposed to be an incentive to align executives' interests with shareholders. This was just a reward."

Mr. Hazan said that because the options were priced below what would become the market value the instant that trading resumed, they should have been accounted for as compensation in that quarter. Because the company did not do so, it might have to restate its earnings for that fiscal year, he said.

Mr. Cummins, an imposing and combative executive already known for prickly relations with critical analysts and skeptical investors, e-mailed Mr. Hazan yesterday, sarcastically thanking him for "a completely uninformed note" about "a nonissue," Mr. Hazan said.

Mr. Cummins said in a telephone interview that all the options had been legally priced, properly reported and approved by the company's auditors and lawyers. He acknowledged that the options had been a reward but said that they had been designed to conserve the company's cash and to serve as an incentive because they vested over a five-year period. The only way to benefit from them, Mr. Cummins said, would be to "create and sustain value over time."

Mr. Hazan said that the company's response did nothing to change his attitude. "My problem is the timing of when they did this," Mr. Hazan said. "The fact that it doesn't vest immediately doesn't mean it was ethical, and I haven't heard from one institutional investor today who disagrees with me."

The options granted to the executives in June 2004 are now 38 percent vested. At yesterday's closing price for Cyberonics, the value of the vested options was $601,500 to Mr. Cummins and $40,100 each to the others.

Mr. Cummins and the company said he exercised options on 350,000 shares in February 2005 and sold them at prices ranging from $40 to $45, but those options had been granted earlier: in October 1997, March 1999 and June 2001. He has been chief executive of Cyberonics since 1995.

As it turned out, Cyberonics's price began falling soon after the June advisory panel meeting and plunged to $14.36 that August, the day after the F.D.A. took the unusual step of ignoring the panel's recommendation and refusing to approve the application.

Cyberonics' implant, a battery-powered, pacemakerlike device that stimulates the vagus nerve just below the neck, has been used widely since 1997 as an F.D.A.-approved treatment for epilepsy. But the clinical trial data the F.D.A. considered in 2004 did not show conclusively that VNS Therapy, as the treatment is called, was effective for severe depression when compared with patients who had a device implanted but no power turned on.

Mr. Cummins bitterly criticized the agency at the time. Through a combination of lobbying and additional data, Cyberonics got the F.D.A. to reverse its stance, with conditions, in February 2005. It received final approval last July to market VNS Therapy for depression, but not before the controversy led to an inquiry by the Senate Finance Committee into the tangled process.

Since then, Mr. Cummins has spent much of his time battling insurers who label the therapy experimental and who are hesitant to pay for it as a depression treatment.

By the end of April, 1,100 patients had VNS implants for depression, and 1,200 more were appealing for insurance coverage, Cyberonics said.

Mr. Hazan, the analyst, said that he was optimistic about the long-term prospects for VNS but that resistance from insurers was another factor in his decision to downgrade his rating on Cyberonics yesterday to neutral from buy.

The company recently reported that it lost $5.2 million, or 21 cents a share, on revenue of $123.4 million in the fiscal year that ended April 28.

Cyberonics and analysts who favor the stock say much of the insurers' resistance stems from the focus of the original clinical trials on three-month results, too short a period to demonstrate an advantage. But more data, they say, has shown that the rates of remission of depression symptoms in VNS patients remain high in two-year follow-up data, while those receiving other treatments suffer relapses.

Data presented last month at a scientific meeting in Toronto also suggested that rates of suicide and hospitalization drop steadily for patients on VNS Therapy for two years.

The pro-VNS argument received an indirect boost yesterday with the publication in The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry of research documenting the high failure rate of conventional drug and electroconvulsive therapies for patients suffering recurrent bouts of severe depression.
283 2006-06-09 "It gets mind-boggling," said Debbie Jones, 47, who after the hurricane wound up as the city's long-term recovery coordinator. "I go home at night trying to figure out how we're going to do this."

And she was just talking about the boats in the trees.

To get to Bayou La Batre, you turn off U.S. 90 at the Citgo station, where a huge plastic chicken rests in the bed of an El Camino, and follow a road that runs like a stream to the all-important bayou. Shrimp and oysters have long defined the city. But then you pass evidence of Katrina's temporary redefinition.

The guarded encampment of trailers provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Zirlott Park, where children should be playing baseball. The mud-colored tent shading mounds of donated clothing, where, at night, people shine the headlights of cars on the piles as they pick through. The many out-of-state volunteers, including those young Mennonite women along the roadside, playing a game of evening volleyball in their plain dresses and prayer coverings.

These are snapshots from a city where, before the storm, 30 percent of the residents were living in poverty, and rising fuel costs and competition from imports were already squeezing its seafood industry. Life wasn't easy here, before.

But Bayou La Batre is demonstrating its grit to all "farmers," as locals refer to anyone who lives inland. Some boat-building continues. Fishing vessels pull in and push out. Heavily damaged St. Margaret's Roman Catholic Church held a rededication ceremony Sunday morning, and an embroidery class Monday evening. And yet, boats in trees.

Katrina actually stranded several dozen boats, but most of them were insured, which meant their owners were able to pay for their retrieval within a few months. The uninsured vessels are victims of bureaucracy and, simply, the way things are.

A county health officer had the boats declared a public hazard, which prompted the Coast Guard to remove the fuel and batteries, which prompted FEMA to say it no longer had reason to spend public money on retrieving private property, which prompted the state and the city to submit an application to the Clinton-Bush Katrina Fund, a private charity organized by two former presidents.

Finally, two months ago, the city received $1.6 million from the fund to get those boats out of the trees and back into the water. But it seems that no hurricane-related problem is ever easily resolved.

The Army Corps of Engineers, not keen on the idea of dragging tons of steel across protected wetlands, is encouraging salvage crews to take the long way around, along timber cuts, and not straight to the water. And in the case of a few boats some 800 yards into the woods, like the Gulf Star, the shortest path to the bayou might mean disturbing an Indian burial ground.

The Gulf Star's owner, Jimmy Nguyen, 36, was reached by telephone on a relative's boat in Mississippi Sound, but he emphasized that he would rather be shrimping out of Bayou La Batre on his own boat, bequeathed to him by a brother. "Most definitely," he said.

"Your boat looks good, if that helps," Ms. Jones told him, leaning into a cellphone set on speaker mode. "It hasn't been vandalized. For the other boats, I can't say."

Mr. Nguyen's thank you came drifting back.

Linked in misery to Mr. Nguyen is Buddy Johnson, 66, the owner of B&B Boat Builders, on the bayou. Katrina took temporary custody of several of his boats, including two shrimp boats he had just bought to refurbish and resell, but which now lay deep in marsh grass, against a pine thicket.

A large man, white, friendly and exceedingly candid, he distinguished himself from everyone else encountered in Bayou La Batre by peppering his observations with slurs about blacks, Catholics and, especially, the Vietnamese. Mr. Johnson, it seems, has a thing about the Vietnamese.

As he stood at the bayou's edge, some Vietnamese fishermen puttered past, and he said a bad word. Then he returned his gaze to those stranded vessels, a sight that vexed him, a sight that spoke of Katrina's sweeping democracy.
284 2006-06-09 The people briefed on the approaches to board members by private equity firms cautioned that it did not appear that the company could be put into play imminently.

Tribune — publisher of The Chicago Tribune and The Los Angeles Times, and owner of several TV businesses — issued a statement yesterday pointing out that its tender offer was approved by a "clear majority" of the board "after considering a broad range of alternatives."

The chief executive of Tribune, Dennis J. FitzSimons, and four current and former Tribune executives exercise control over shares owned by trusts from the estate of Robert R. McCormick, the company founder. The McCormick interests represent 13.7 percent of the company's shares.

A successful buyback would probably make any spinoff of assets or broader transaction more difficult, analysts said. And because of the complexities of the situation, Tribune is unlikely to be forced into a quick sale or other action as the newspaper chain Knight Ridder was after coming under pressure from a shareholder.

Since the Chandler representatives on the board made public their dissent from Tribune management's buyback plan, a parlor game has begun over the future of the company's 11 newspapers, 26 television stations and other assets, including the Chicago Cubs baseball team.

The Chandlers have not been opposed to the buyback but want the company to focus on strategy before taking on more debt and using financial engineering, said a person with knowledge of the trusts' thinking.

This comes amid talks between the Chandler trusts and Tribune management over unwinding two complex partnerships through which the Chandler family owns its Tribune stake. The partnerships, which are partly owned by Tribune, were valued at the end of 2005 at some $2.6 billion, according to regulatory filings.

The partnerships, called "mixing bowls" when they were established in 1997 and 1999, meld real estate, common and preferred shares and other equity investments of the family and the company and were created to allow the Chandlers to diversify their holdings on a favorable tax basis without diluting their shareholding. The trusts also include classes of preferred shares, owned only by the Chandler interests, that guarantee dividend income.

Unwinding the partnerships would be necessary before the company could consider major asset sales, but the two sides have not been able to agree on the value of the trusts.

The board rift was disclosed in a securities filing Tuesday. Yesterday, The Wall Street Journal reported that the company was considering spinning off its TV business and possibly pursuing a sale of the company.

People close to the Tribune board said that such a plan was not being actively considered and questioned whether the Chandler interests were trying to stoke the fire and put the company into play.

A spokesman for the Chandler trusts declined to comment.

"There are obviously very complicated tax issues related to the Chandler family which they want resolved before anything goes forward," said Christopher H. Browne, managing director of Tweedy, Browne, a Tribune shareholder. "The train has definitely left the station but no one knows where it's going."
285 2006-06-09 "The Federal Bureau of Investigation personnel involved in the San Francisco investigation of Barry Bonds have advised my client that you cannot compel her to testify and that she should not testify because of the pending criminal proceeding," Garbus wrote.

In a letter dated May 31, Mitchell had written Garbus to "re-emphasize my request that Ms. Bell cooperate with my independent investigation of alleged steroid and performance-enhancing drug use in Major League Baseball."

Mitchell asked that Bell provide copies of relevant documents, including tape recordings, and offered to interview her "anywhere in the United States" and "at a date and time convenient for her."

Bell has twice testified before the grand jury, in March 2005 and last January, and has reportedly told it that Bonds had given her $80,000 as a down payment for a house that he wanted her to buy in Arizona.

Bell has said that Bonds had instructed her to deposit the money in amounts of less than $10,000. Federal law requires financial institutions to report transactions of $10,000 or more.

If Bell's grand jury testimony included this information, Bonds could be in jeopardy of being indicted on charges of money laundering, tax evasion and evading banking laws.

Bonds's situation has been complicated by Grimsley's admission to federal investigators that he used performance-enhancing substances for several years and that other players did, too.

"It was a specific effort to target Bonds," Novak told The Arizona Republic. "We were told that Jason's cooperation was necessary to their case."

Reached by telephone yesterday, Novak said he did not wish to discuss Grimsley's comments beyond what he had told The Republic.

Novak told the newspaper that Grimsley "was outed by the feds" because he refused to cooperate. Thirteen federal agents searched Grimsley's home for six hours on Tuesday. Grimsley, a 38-year-old right-hander, asked for, and received, his release from the Arizona Diamondbacks on Wednesday.

Luke Macaulay, a spokesman for the United States attorney's office for the Northern District of California, said in a statement that the investigation into possible illegal actions involving performance-enhancing substances would continue and that it "will diligently follow the evidence."

Concerning Grimsley, Macaulay's statement added, "We believe that this search and the investigative procedures involved were conducted in an entirely appropriate and legal fashion."

In Grimsley's affidavit, the names of several players who he said used performance-enhancing substances were blacked out. Novak told The Republic that Grimsley did not volunteer any names of current and former players and instead answered questions when investigators asked him about specific players.

Novak said the investigators asked Grimsley if he knew any players on the Giants who would speak openly about Bonds in front of him, but that Grimsley declined to assist them.

Jeffrey A. Fagan, a professor of law and public health at Columbia University's law school, said getting Grimsley to wear a wire would have been "for symbolic value." Fagan theorized that federal authorities were trying to make "a deal with Grimsley to get the higher-value target."

Still, Fagan wondered about the wisdom of focusing so heavily on Bonds.

"One could be critical they're spending scarce resources and scarce time going after someone of symbolic value rather than strategic value," Fagan said. "You could go after someone bigger who is involved in distribution."

But, Fagan added, authorities could view Bonds, who is second on the career home run list with 716, as being valuable in preventing others from using illegal substances.

"In theory, a minor leaguer coming up is more likely to be deterred by a criminal investigation of Barry Bonds than a criminal investigation of Jason Grimsley," Fagan said. "Perhaps the government sees Bonds as a deterrent."
286 2006-06-09 A St. Peters woman angry that her new puppy had died pushed her way into a dog breeder's home and repeatedly hit the breeder on the head with the dead Chihuahua, the authorities said. The woman, 33, went to the home early Wednesday and tried to get another puppy, but the fight ensued, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported. The police said they were considering burglary and assault charges against the woman.
287 2006-06-09 Germany suffered a setback yesterday when captain Michael Ballack was ruled out of the opening game against Costa Rica because of a calf injury.

Today's game between Germany and Costa Rica in Munich is the first of 64 World Cup matches.

"Of course we would have liked to have him in the team," said Germany's coach, Jürgen Klinsmann. "He's our captain and our leader."

But he also said the injury, sustained in a match against Colombia last week, was on the mend. "We'll leave him on the sidelines for this game and have him fit for the next one. It's annoying but not the end of the world," he said.

Ballack answered suggestions that he should have sought treatment for the injury earlier. "I completely reject all allegations this was handled unprofessionally," he said. "It's almost a slur on my reputation."

ARENA SKEPTICAL OF CZECH INJURIES Czech midfielder Pavel Nedved pulled out of practice after sustaining a possible knee injury in a collision with teammate David Rozehnal.
288 2006-06-09 Caleb D. Hammond Jr., who was president of C. S. Hammond & Company, the map makers, from 1948 to 1974, died Monday in Summit, N.J. He was 90 and lived in Maplewood, N.J.

The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Dean Hammond, who later headed the company.

Mr. Hammond helped the company, founded by his grandfather in 1900, as it evolved into the computer age from a time when dozens of cartographers sat at drafting tables and researchers called municipal officials around the country.

"He was the bridge," his son said, "helping the longtime workers get comfortable with the new technology."

C. S. Hammond & Company was second only to Rand McNally in Chicago in producing road maps and atlases pinpointing cities and towns, large and tiny, across the country and around the world. The 1955 edition of "Hammond's Ambassador World Atlas" included 326 maps and a 242-page index with more than 100,000 location names.

Mr. Hammond made his mark on the family-owned company by selling its maps to book publishers, including Random House and Simon & Schuster. In 1955 he produced a novel item, a foldable plastic globe that inflated to 18 inches in diameter.
289 2006-06-09 WASHINGTON, June 8 — A legal struggle over logging in two roadless tracts of a national forest in Oregon ravaged by fire four years ago is coming to a conclusion as logging rights on more than 400 acres will be auctioned off by the Forest Service on Friday.

A federal appeals court ruled Wednesday that the sale could proceed. The timber sales, on two small tracts inside 500,000 fire-blighted acres, would not usually attract much attention — and indeed, it is unclear how much demand there will be for the timber, most of which has been dead and prey to insects and rot for four years.

But Oregon has long been the central battleground for environmental groups opposed to any logging anywhere on the 500,000 acres.

The objection is that logging could set back the regeneration of the forest by damaging fragile new growth, and that it would set a precedent for logging in an area that, under the currently approved plan for the Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest, was supposed to remain roadless.

Opening a roadless area at a time when governors are still drawing up proposals to indicate their preferences for where roads should and should not be built in the federal forests, drew the governors of Oregon, Washington, California and New Mexico to oppose these two sales. One tract is more than 200 acres called Mike's Gulch, about 30 miles inland, and the other is called Blackberry, which covers slightly less than 200 acres along the Pacific coast.
290 2006-06-09 WASHINGTON, June 8 — The Senate on Thursday approved the nomination of Susan C. Schwab to be the United States trade representative.

Ms. Schwab, 51, currently the deputy trade representative for Europe, the Middle East and the Americas, takes over the top trade post from Rob Portman, a former congressman who has become President Bush's budget director.

Ms. Schwab, whose nomination was approved by a voice vote, becomes the third trade representative in a little more than five years — following Mr. Portman, who was in the job for about 13 months, and Robert B. Zoellick, Mr. Bush's first trade representative, who is now deputy secretary of state.

A vote on her nomination was delayed last month by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who expressed concern that she would not be tough enough in pushing China to honor commitments to open its market to American banks and insurance firms. Mr. Schumer dropped his objection after Ms. Schwab pledged that trade officials would recommend filing a World Trade Organization case against China if it missed a Dec. 11 deadline to liberalize its commerce in financial services.
291 2006-06-09 Splinter factions of two Sudanese rebel groups that rejected the Darfur peace accord last month said they had signed a document pledging to abide by its principles. The earlier agreement was signed by the Sudanese government and the largest of the Darfur rebel groups, the Sudan Liberation Movement. A faction of that group and a smaller rebel group, the Justice and Equality Movement, had refused to sign, and officials from the Africa Union, which backed the accord, had become increasingly frustrated with the holdouts.
292 2006-06-09 Howard Rosenstone, a prominent theatrical agent who helped shepherd the work of some of the country's most distinguished playwrights and lyricists onto the stage, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68.

The cause was pulmonary failure, said Phyllis Wender, his partner in Rosenstone/Wender, the New York-based agency he founded in 1981.

Among the artists in Mr. Rosenstone's stable were the playwrights David Mamet, Wallace Shawn and Donald Margulies; the director and choreographer Graciela Daniele; and the playwright, lyricist and composer William Finn, whose musical "The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee" is currently on Broadway at the Circle in the Square Theater.

Mr. Rosenstone's job was twofold. He was partly a literary agent, reading drafts of his clients' scripts and suggesting improvements. Once the script was polished, he became a theatrical matchmaker, sending it to producers, directors, regional theaters or marquee actors — anyone he felt could be counted on to stage a good production.

His clients earned some of the theater's highest honors, including the Pulitzer Prize (Mr. Mamet for "Glengarry Glen Ross" in 1984 and Mr. Margulies for "Dinner With Friends" in 2000) and the Tony Award (Mr. Finn, twice, for the book and score of "Falsettos" in 1992).

Howard Rosenstone was born on Aug. 20, 1937, in Paterson, N.J., and reared in Suffern, N.Y. After attending Syracuse University and the University of Grenoble in France, he began his career in the mailroom of the William Morris agency. Mr. Rosenstone eventually became an agent there, and left in 1979 to start an agency of his own. He formed his partnership with Ms. Wender two years later.
293 2006-06-09 Apple representatives in Norway and Britain declined to comment for this article. But a major Norwegian news Web site quoted a company official as saying that Apple was seeking a settlement of the complaints.

"We want to resolve this without closing down our operations in Scandinavia," the Apple spokesman, Fredrik Hallstan, told the Web site, Forbruker.no. The site said he would not comment on whether Apple had discussed allowing iTunes music files to be used on non-Apple portable players.

Apple dominates the legal music download market in most countries. Consumers spent about $1.1 billion on music online in 2005, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry; Britain accounted for about 7 percent of that figure, and the three Scandinavian countries less than 1 percent. Apple does not release sales breakdowns by country.

The Consumer Ombudsman's Office of Norway, a government authority with power to fine companies for marketing and business practices that it deems unfair, said on Wednesday that some parts of the iTunes user agreement violate Norwegian law. It cited, among other provisions, Apple's reservation of the right to change the terms of the agreement without notice and its disclaimer of responsibility for computer viruses or other damage that might result from downloading music from iTunes.

Bjorn Erik Thon, director of the ombudsman's office, said those provisions must be changed by June 21, or Apple could be fined.

As for making iTunes music compatible with non-Apple players, Mr. Thon said that his office expected a response from Apple by June 21, and would rule on the matter after that.

"We are likely to rule against Apple, but it is fair to hear their point of view," Mr. Thon said. "Consumers should be able to play music they have purchased on any device they want."

Mr. Thon said that he himself had bought a large number of songs from iTunes for about 1 euro apiece, and now wanted to transfer them to his new Nokia N80 cellular phone, but could not.

"I just cannot imagine an argument in favor of stopping someone from using a song they purchased," he said.

He dismissed the claim Apple has often made that its policy helps combat copyright violation. "They are not protecting against piracy, but instead encouraging it," Mr. Thon said. "When consumers cannot copy an iTunes song onto their mobile phone, they will get a download of it free from Napster."

Consumer protection authorities in Sweden echoed Norway's action today, and Denmark is expected to do the same.

"We have a common position with Norway and have written a parallel letter to iTunes," said Marianne Abyhammar, deputy consumer ombudsman at the Swedish agency. "We will discuss our position when we have Apple's response to our queries and those of Norway."

In Britain, record companies raised the pressure on Apple during a hearing on digital media issues before a committee of the House of Commons.

"It's not particularly healthy for any one company to have such a dominant share," said Peter Jamieson, the chairman of the committee. "We would advocate that Apple opts for interoperability."
294 2006-06-09 Men are not the only offenders. A group of women on her daily train regularly broadcast their personal lives to anyone in earshot. "I hear about their kids," Ms. Krebelj-Douglas said, as much amused as irritated. "I know when one of them is pregnant. I know they're having a girl. And these people are total strangers to me."

In her notebook was a list from the Commuters Council of behaviors to look out for, including feet on seats, littering, excessive sounds on headphones and "extended talking on cellphones."

As trees and backyards sped past, there seemed to be little to report. Behind Ms. Krebelj-Douglas, a woman wore an iPod, but no hissing emanated from it; the two men across from her were engrossed in a book and a newspaper. The loudest sound was the clip-clip-clip made by the approaching conductor.

Evening trains are more problematic than morning ones, Ms. Krebelj-Douglas said. "Going home, people tend to be more talkative," she said. "They've had a drink perhaps."

At Jamaica, Ms. Krebelj-Douglas switched to the 8:38 train to Hunterspoint Avenue. The only problem to that point had been the conductor's failure to make courtesy announcements — polite nudges about appropriate behavior — which the railroad has adopted as standard operating procedure thanks to pressure from the Commuters Council.

Eventually, Ms. Krebelj-Douglas did record a couple of minor infractions — a woman in flip-flops with her feet on a seat, and a newspaper left on another seat.

As the train neared Hunterspoint Avenue, one commuter, Barry Ritholtz, revealed his own approach to problems on the train: "If there's really bad behavior on the train, I simply take a cellphone photo and post it to my Web site."

He has nicknamed some offenders: the Baritone, Barefoot Guy and Nail Polish Narcissist. "I realized I needed a healthier outlet than sending my blood pressure up by getting into an argument," he said.

Ms. Krebelj-Douglas was amused by his solution, and she sees humor as part of the Commuters Council's approach, too.

"Ideally, we'd like the L.I.R.R. to put up posters based on our research," she said. "Something clever that pokes fun at it, that doesn't feel like a lecture."

As she arrived at Hunterspoint Avenue, she put away her notebook. But she would be pulling it out again on the trip home.
295 2006-06-09 The killing in Iraq of the archterrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is important — both for Iraq and for the U.S. political debate about Iraq.

It is important for Iraq for a few reasons. First, Zarqawi was finally tracked down because someone in his organization or in the Sunni community in Iraq turned against him. We need more of that, because Iraq will only work if more Sunnis turn against the terrorists and join the government. Second, Al Qaeda can talk all it wants about replacing Zarqawi, but he is not so easily replaced, because he was a world-class, first-team all-star terrorist. For three years he terrorized Iraq, while eluding the U.S. Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force and C.I.A. Bad guys like him don't grow on trees. But his death will be a turning point only if it leads more Iraqis to come together into a coherent government and army. Ultimately, that is all that matters.

Zarqawi's death, though, also interests me in terms of U.S. politics. Recent polls show that not only are the Democrats more trusted to manage key domestic issues — from health care to the budget — but they have pulled even with Republicans on national security, a traditional Democratic Party weakness. If I were the Democrats, though, I wouldn't get too comfortable.

What the polls show is largely the result of President Bush's incompetent performance in Iraq, rather than the emergence of a convincing Democratic national security message or group of candidates respected on defense. When it comes to national security, I've always felt that voters don't listen through their ears. They listen through their gut. They vote based on a visceral sense of whether a candidate understands we have real enemies and is ready to confront them.

What Zarqawi and the recently arrested group of terrorists in Canada remind us of is that, whatever you think about the Iraq war, open societies today are threatened by these utterly ruthless jihadists. Many Americans feel that. If Democrats want to really seize control of the national security issue, they must persuade the country — in its gut — that they have a convincing post-Iraq strategy to rally the world against these Islamo-totalitarians.

Precisely how is the subject of two insightful, provocative new books. One is "The Good Fight: Why Liberals — and Only Liberals — Can Win the War on Terror and Make America Great Again," by Peter Beinart, editor at large of The New Republic. The other is "With All Our Might: A Progressive Strategy for Defeating Jihadism and Defending Liberty," essays edited by Will Marshall, who heads the Progressive Policy Institute.
296 2006-06-09 ESTATE TAX MEASURE FALTERS -- Senate Republicans failed to muster the votes they needed to abolish the estate tax, but supporters of a compromise held out hope for a deal this year that could attract enough Democrats to pass. [Page C1.]    CERVICA...
297 2006-06-10 The World Cup finally opened after years of preparations. Mark Landler talks about the country's new playful nationalism.
298 2006-06-10 The United States and Chinese Olympic committees signed an agreement of cooperation yesterday, opening an exchange leading up to the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.

Each country will send delegations of athletes, coaches and administrators to the other to share information about training and research.

Included in the agreement is an emphasis on antidoping matters. In the past, China's antidoping approach has drawn criticism from international sports officials, but drug testing at the Games will be coordinated by the International Olympic Committee and the World Anti-Doping Agency.

China has signed similar agreements with other countries, including Russia.

"This agreement will benefit the athletes and coaches of each national Olympic committee, but it will also benefit the Olympic movement and sports," Peter Ueberroth, the chairman of the United States Olympic Committee, said in a statement.

Liu Peng, the president of the Chinese Olympic Committee, said in a statement, "This agreement between our two countries will contribute to the betterment of sport in the world."
299 2006-06-10 NEW HAVEN, June 9 (AP) — A reputed mob boss, a former Waterbury mayor and the owner of a Danbury trash hauling business were among 29 people charged on Friday in a federal investigation of the mob's influence over the trash industry in Connecticut.

Companies owned by James Galante paid a "mob tax" to a reputed Genovese crime family boss, Matthew Ianniello, as part of a scheme in which trash haulers carved out routes for one another, according to a 117-page indictment.

One of the effects, the indictment said, "has been to stifle competition by preventing small independent companies from competing."

Federal authorities took over operations on Friday at Mr. Galante's trash hauling businesses, which handle garbage pickup for thousands of residents and businesses in about 20 towns in southwest Connecticut.

"Organized crime's stranglehold on the citizens of Connecticut through its control of the trash industry has been broken," said Kimberly K. Mertz, special agent in charge of the Connecticut office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
300 2006-06-10 "We have voted in the village the way everybody else does. The only requirement is you have to have lived there 30 days before the election. If that's illegal, the village should not have those registration days," said Ms. Ferraro, a lawyer.

Ms. Ferraro and her husband are not the only ones to have voted in two places where they have homes.

One village trustee, Bruce A. Rich, has acknowledged also voting in Manhattan, where he lives and works as a lawyer. To settle litigation challenging his status as a candidate for re-election, he agreed to withdraw from the ballot in last month's village election. But he campaigned as a write-in candidate and won. Election records show that he has regularly voted in Saltaire and in Manhattan at least since 1992. That year, he voted in both places in the presidential election, records show.

He did not return calls seeking comment.

Another summer resident, James P. McCann, who lives in Irvington in Westchester County and has a home in Saltaire, cast decisive ballots last year in closely fought contests in both villages.

In March 2005, Mr. McCann voted in Irvington's mayoral race, an election disputed in months of litigation that culminated in a tie vote decided by a drawing of coins from a bag. Mr. McCann publicly supported the incumbent, Dennis P. Flood, and his vote enabled the tie.

Then in May, while Irvington's results were still being contested, he also voted in Saltaire's race to fill two village board seats, according to records. The winners tied at 110 votes, with the runner-up at 109.

The focus on Saltaire stems from complaints by Noel Feustel, a former village trustee who has filed several lawsuits against village officials. Mr. McCann declined to comment on his voting, but said, "The Feustels are intent on destroying the village of Saltaire, trying to disbar people from managing a summer community."

Election experts say that the voting cases show how easy it is to violate election laws, and how little enforcement there is.

Whether such practices are widespread is unclear. Several election experts, among them Mr. Berger, said they believed that dual voting was uncommon. But no one knows for sure, since the state does not have an integrated system of voter records as required by the federal Help America Vote Act of 2000. The Department of Justice has sued New York State to force compliance.

Many New Yorkers have multiple residences. As a resort village, Saltaire has only 46 year-round residents, but its summertime population swells to about 3,000. In the off season, its village board often meets for convenience at the private law office of the mayor, Scott S. Rosenblum — in Midtown Manhattan.

Some seasonal residents have asserted that they should have the right to vote where they hold property. Ms. Ferraro agreed, saying, "People are making decisions on how our taxes are spent." Without the vote, she said, "we have payment without representation." But courts have refused to allow dual voting.

When a summer resident sued in federal court in 2000 for the right to vote in local Southampton elections, his request was denied.

A former four-term mayor in Saltaire, Joel L. Carr, who is a law professor at Hofstra University and also lives in Garden City, said: "I was concerned enough to limit myself to voting in one place at a time. I know a lot of people apparently have taken advantage of the situation and have voted in both places. I can't really blame them." He added that he did not want to discourage summer residents from getting involved in village affairs.
301 2006-06-10 MUNICH, June 9 — Happiness mixed with tension Friday as the 32-team World Cup opened with a victory by Germany over Costa Rica and a standoff between English and German fans who were watching the opening match on giant television screens 190 miles away.

Germany's 4-2 triumph here was not a surprising one, and the edginess that developed in the streets of Frankfurt was almost predictable, too.

But there was one unexpected result, as Ecuador, making only its second appearance in the tournament, defeated Poland, 2-0.

The tournament's motto is "A Time to Make Friends," and the opening ceremony before Germany played had something of the flamboyance that surrounds the beginning of the Olympics. Then came the game, which was flamboyant, too, with six goals, the most ever scored in a World Cup opener.

But hours after German forward Miroslav Klose celebrated his 28th birthday by scoring two goals, police officers in Frankfurt wearing riot gear were keeping English and German fans apart, the Reuters news service reported.

England plays its first game on Saturday in Frankfurt, against Paraguay, and 30,000 English fans are expected to be present; perhaps half of them have tickets. That, in turn, will have German authorities on the lookout for trouble in a tournament in which the potential for mayhem may be a constant footnote to the drama on the field.
302 2006-06-10 George J. Mitchell is not taking no for an answer.

A former United States attorney and the chief of baseball's steroids investigation, Mitchell is eager to meet with a former companion of Barry Bonds and will try to secure her cooperation by discussing the issue with the United States attorney in San Francisco.

Martin Garbus, the lawyer for Kimberly Bell, Bonds's former companion, said that he spoke with Mitchell yesterday about Bell. A day earlier, Garbus sent Mitchell a letter saying Federal Bureau of Investigation personnel involved in the Bonds investigation had advised Bell that she was not compelled to talk to Mitchell and that she should not speak with him "because of the pending criminal proceeding."

Garbus said Mitchell had told him that he was going to speak with Kevin Ryan, the United States attorney in San Francisco, "to see if something can be worked out" so that Bell could speak with baseball investigators about Bonds.

Because Mitchell has declined to speak publicly about specifics of his investigation, it was not clear if he was interested only in Bonds's possible use of steroids or if he also wanted to learn about possible federal charges that could be pending against Bonds, including perjury, income tax evasion and money laundering.

Mitchell has also contacted Michael Rains, the lawyer for Bonds, expressing his interest in meeting with Bonds, according to The New York Post.

The Post said that Rains received a letter from Mitchell last month and that Rains had told Mitchell that Bonds would be willing to cooperate as long as any federal investigation did not make such cooperation impossible.
303 2006-06-10 A border agent was arrested Thursday and pleaded not guilty on Friday to charges of taking cash and cars to wave scores of illegal immigrants into the United States through the San Diego-Tijuana border crossing. The agent, Richard Elizalda, 55, a 10-year border inspector, was arraigned in Federal District Court with six other defendants. Mr. Elizalda is charged with 11 counts, including bribery by a public official and bringing in illegal immigrants for financial gain. The group was accused of bringing carloads of people into the United States for at least two years. An indictment said Mr. Elizalda used a cellphone or other communication device to let drivers know which lane he was monitoring.
304 2006-06-10 The Mercury Interactive Corporation, a software maker, canceled 2.63 million stock options issued to its former chief executive, Amnon Landan, after a company inquiry found that he manipulated the price.

The board of Mercury accepted the recommendation from a special committee formed after three top executives quit in November when a company investigation found they had manipulated stock option values for six years. The committee urged that legal action be pursued against the executives, according to a regulatory filing.

The company, which makes software that tests computer programs, is 1 of at least 36 under scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Justice Department and internal investigations of manipulation of option dates.

Three other companies announced yesterday that federal inquiries were being conducted.

McAfee, the maker of antivirus software, said it received a subpoena for documents and that it would cooperate with the S.E.C. The company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., fired its general counsel May 30 after finding improperly granted options.

And Intuit, which makes TurboTax software, said the S.E.C. began an informal inquiry into its stock option practices. The company, based in Mountain View, Calif., said it was contacted after forming a special directors' committee to review options grants. The third company was the Sanmina-SCI Corporation, an electronics maker in San Jose, Calif.
305 2006-06-10 Christopher Boal's comic melodrama "Crazy for the Dog," a new American play just opened by the Jean Cocteau Rep (an odd choice for this company, which normally concentrates on classics), is an accomplished and often effective dissection of contemporary family dynamics. A sister and a brother, both young adults, engage in a series of emotional confrontations, with the sister's boyfriend and the brother's wife looking on as the siblings reopen old wounds.

The plot that instigates these psychic knife fights is somewhat contrived, but no matter: Jenny, a somewhat unstable woman who spends much of the first act of this short two-act play pasting photocopies of her face over the walls of her Brooklyn apartment, has kidnapped her brother's beloved dog, a Shih Tzu, in retaliation for his decision to move to San Francisco. She feels abandoned, and when Paul, her brother, arrives to confront her, the secrets begin to pour out.

And this is a play with a lot of secrets (none of which I'll reveal here) and plaintive, heartfelt pleas for emotional restitution. Mr. Boal demonstrates a deft dramatic hand and comfort with this uniquely American genre of tortured family truth-telling. The four characters of the play are alive with their own idiosyncrasies and verbal tics, and Jenny's boyfriend, Kevin, provides considerable comic relief in the second act as a seeming sociopath with a surprising vein of compassion.

Patrick Melville (Paul) and Wrenn Schmidt (Jenny), onstage through the entire play, infuse their performances with an effective sense of sibling angst. Mr. Melville is particularly good when stripping the aloof veneer from his emotionally crippled character.

Karen Sternberg as Paul's wife, Sarah, gives more than Mr. Boal offers as a high-strung social worker in the only underwritten role. And Ryan Tramont as Kevin expertly draws out the subtle humor Mr. Boal has embedded in the role.

Eric Parness directs with an eye for visual stimulation, though from the start he pitches the whole production on an emotional high note that allows for little modulation.
306 2006-06-10 Sounds pretty technical, right? And for the most part, it is. The S.E.C. goes on to say that there are often legitimate reasons for a "failure to deliver" and that in some circumstances naked short selling isn't even necessarily a violation of the agency's rules. But it can be an abusive practice. Witness, for instance, the news Thursday that the New York Stock Exchange was investigating the possibility that naked short selling contributed to the decline in the shares of Vonage, the Internet phone company that went public last month.

To better monitor naked short selling — and try to lower the number of "failures to deliver" — early last year the S.E.C. instituted something called Regulation SHO, which compiles what the agency calls a "threshold" list of companies in which there are more than 10,000 shares that have "failed to deliver" in the allotted time. Overstock has been on the threshold list pretty much ever since Reg SHO came into being. Which, to Mr. Byrne — though to virtually no one else — means that shadowy, bad people, who lurk in the darkest corners of Wall Street, are breaking the law and creating "phantom shares" of the stock through the practice of naked shorting.

Actually, Mr. Byrne doesn't really characterize his naked shorting crusade as an Overstock issue — the Overstock situation, he told me yesterday, merely brought the whole situation to light. Indeed, his lawsuit against Rocker Partners has nothing at all to do with naked short selling. (Rocker Partners and Gradient are aggressively defending against the Overstock lawsuit.) Rather, he portrays himself as a Don Quixote-like figure, fighting to rid Wall Street of "criminals" — a word he used frequently during our short interview. (He asked if he could tape our conversation, so I'm confident you'll be able to read it soon on the Internet. That has become one of Mr. Byrne's favorite tactics.)

"Right now," he said, "people in certain hedge funds are being scofflaws and the S.E.C. is giving hall passes to criminals" — by not making public the names of the institutions that have persistent "fails" beyond the allotted time frame, information he believes should be in the public domain. In fact, the S.E.C. has no intention of releasing such information, precisely because the agency fears that it might cause the companies on the list to seek retribution.

Mr. Byrne says that firms and hedge funds that consistently fail to deliver are in violation of the law and that the rampant abuses are creating "systemic risk," generating millions of "phantom shares," destroying small-cap companies and robbing small investors who are getting, as he puts it, "I.O.U.'s" instead of real shares. Before our conversation ended, he tossed me one of his favorite lines: "Somewhere in America, a grandma is eating dog food tonight because these people are looting the savings of America."

If you find this all a little hard to take seriously, join the crowd. Grandmas are eating dog food because of a "failure to deliver?" Really? Except for a few fellow-traveling Web sites, where Mr. Byrne is viewed as a heroic figure, most people who understand the issue or have looked into it think it's pretty bogus. Apparently, though, that doesn't bother Utah's legislators and its governor.

Here's something else Mr. Byrne told me: he really wasn't that involved in the Utah bill. Not exactly. The state senator who sponsored the bill, Curtis Bramble, said that it was first brought to his attention by a Utah lobbyist named Douglas Foxley. As it happens, one of Mr. Foxley's clients is Overstock.com. According to The Deseret News, Mr. Byrne is also the largest individual political donor in the state, whose contributions include $75,000 toward the 2004 gubernatorial campaign of Governor Huntsman. (Mr. Huntsman denies that the contributions were the reason he supported the bill.) When it passed the Legislature, the bill had virtually no opposition, though I suspect that is largely because most legislators had little idea what it was about.

So what will the new law do? According to The Deseret News, it will require sellers involved in "failure to deliver" transactions "to report to the Utah Division of Securities and reveal the identities of all parties, including dates, locations and prices involved in the sales." In other words, Mr. Byrne is hoping to use the state regulatory apparatus to pry out the information the S.E.C. won't supply.

The state will also have the ability to set daily fines starting at $10,000 a day for brokers that don't comply with the new state rules about disclosure, and companies will also be able to sue for damages. I should add that the law applies only to the stocks of Utah-based companies — but every broker-dealer in the country would have to comply with it.

When I spoke to Governor Huntsman, he heralded the new law as a way to attract entrepreneurs to the state of Utah. "Our future as a state consists of companies that are just getting off the ground," he said. "For me, this was a means of enhancing our attractiveness to these kinds of companies, by making the playing field a little more transparent, a little more fair. This is an issue that is important to many of them."

I don't really think the practical effect of the new law is going to lead to a surge of hungry, shackled entrepreneurs moving to Provo, though. The Securities Industry Association, the big Wall Street lobby, is up in arms about the new law, and will undoubtedly sue on the grounds that Utah is trying to pre-empt federal securities law and impose an operational requirement that it simply doesn't have the right to impose. I'm putting my money on the association.

Another possibility, which the securities lobby pointed out in a letter to the governor, is that Wall Street firms would just stop trading in the stocks of Utah-based companies. "Limiting interaction with Utah companies could make trading in such companies illiquid and negatively impact the ability of companies to raise capital necessary to grow and prosper," it said in the letter.

Twenty-five years ago, the state of Utah made a concerted — and quite foolish — legislative effort to impose its will on Wall Street. Back then, the issue was money market funds, a new financial product that was helping middle-class Americans keep pace with raging inflation at a time when bank interest rates were fixed by law at 5 ¼ percent. Egged on by the banking industry, the Utah Legislature tried to outlaw money market funds. But in that case, the state was saved from embarrassment when a crucial opponent of money market funds made a procedural error that could not be reversed. Because of that mistake, money market funds were saved for the citizens of Utah.

This time, the state wasn't so lucky. There wasn't one small mistake this time. Just one big one.
307 2006-06-10 McCULLOUGH--John P. Of Princeton died unexpectedly in his home on Tuesday, June 6, 2006 at age of 81. He was a long-time resident of Princeton and a retired executive from Mobil Oil Corporation in Pennington. He is survived by his wife, Ann Calver...
308 2006-06-10 One example, which he did not anticipate when first undertaking his analysis, was the Boston Catholic Charities' decision to withdraw from providing adoption services because the state license required placing children with gay married couples on the same basis as heterosexual married couples.

Chai R. Feldblum, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center and a proponent of same-sex marriage, agrees that permitting gay couples equal access to civil marriage will inevitably burden the religious liberty of those religiously opposed.

Mr. Stern and Professor Feldblum were among the First Amendment scholars participating in a conference last December sponsored by the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty. The conference was first widely reported in a May 15 cover article by Maggie Gallagher in The Weekly Standard. Those conservative auspices could also feed the impression that these constitutional arguments were only a scare tactic by opponents of same-sex marriage.

The Becket papers themselves, however, do not confirm that impression. They are serious legal analyses. And, though virtually all the writers see same-sex marriage creating potential conflicts with the religious liberty of institutions and individuals rejecting such marriages on religious grounds, the writers by no means agree on how serious those conflicts are or how they might be resolved.

One of Ms. Gallagher's most interesting observations, in fact, is that the legal scholars opposed to same-sex marriage seemed more sanguine about overcoming potential conflicts than those, like Professor Feldblum or Jonathan Turley, a professor at George Washington Law School, who favor same-sex marriage, or those, like Mr. Stern, who simply feel that the culture is moving almost inexorably in that direction.

Needless to say, the legal arguments are intricate; that, after all, seems to be the definition of legal arguments. The lawyers are back and forth on whether continuing opposition to same-sex marriage, if it were recognized, might put a religiously affiliated institution at risk of losing its tax-exempt status, as Bob Jones University did for prohibiting interracial dating and marriage on the grounds that they were unbiblical.

Asked by a reporter for The Chicago Tribune whether a conservative Christian college would risk its tax-exempt status by refusing to admit a legally married gay couple to married-student housing, Cass Sunstein, a constitutional scholar at the University of Chicago Law School who had not been at the Becket conference, answered, "Sure — and if pigs had wings, they would fly." He dismissed the idea as a scenario "generated by advocacy groups trying to scare people."

But Professor Sunstein, as it happened, had been asked only about this specific question and not the whole range of the Becket papers' arguments, which he had not read. After quickly reading Professor Feldblum's paper and dipping into Mr. Stern's, he granted that they pointed to conflicts that were "real and serious."

Besides possible, even if remote, risks regarding tax exemption, the scholars' papers noted laws forbidding discrimination in hiring or toleration of a hostile workplace environment. They noted antidiscrimination provisions in many local or state laws licensing commercial enterprises and professional activities, as well as in the ethics codes of professional associations that have a role in accrediting professional schools, licensing professionals or resolving civil suits. And of course they noted the civil rights laws, federal, state and local, barring discrimination in places of public accommodation, housing and education.

Many of these laws contain exemptions for religious bodies or even for the personal moral beliefs of some professionals like doctors. A number of such exemptions arose in the wake of the legalization of abortion, and one paper at the Becket conference, by Robin Fretwell Wilson, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Law, reviews the lessons they might have for the legalization of same-sex marriage.

But Ms. Wilson and Mr. Stern make clear that such religious exemptions are not only under challenge by reproductive rights advocates in several states but also follow, in Mr. Stern's phrase, "a crazy quilt pattern," exempting different kinds of religious institutions from the provisions of different laws regarding different sorts of actions in different localities.

After one pushes through these legal thickets do any clear conclusions emerge? For Professor Sunstein, same-sex marriage does not raise qualitatively new issues so much as intensify existing tensions "between antidiscrimination norms and deeply held religious convictions."

For Professor Feldblum, the only honest position is to admit that "we are in a zero-sum game in terms of moral values." In her view, the dignity and equality of gay people should almost always outweigh considerations of religious freedom, though she believes that such freedom might weigh more heavily for religious institutions "geared just towards members of the faith" as opposed to those that interact broadly with the general public.

For Mr. Stern, "this is going to be a train wreck" — one that he believes can be avoided only if advocates on both sides renounce what he called "a winner take all" attitude.

And for just about anyone with political savvy, one conclusion is that a long series of court battles regarding same-sex marriage and religious freedom could be in the offing, with ample room, given the multiplicity of statutes and complexity of precedents, for unpredictable, inconsistent and controversial rulings.

Whatever the ultimate impact on religious freedom, then, won't the first great impact, as the debate in Congress showed, be on the political climate? "No question," Professor Sunstein said.
309 2006-06-10 The United States and Chinese Olympic committees signed an agreement of cooperation yesterday, opening an exchange leading up to the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.     Each country will send delegations of athletes, coaches and administrators to t...
310 2006-06-10 The drug and chemical maker Bayer said yesterday that it was buying shares of Schering on the open market in reaction to Merck of Germany's taking a 10.1 percent stake in Schering. Earlier this year, Bayer initiated a takeover bid of 16.5 billion ...
311 2006-06-11 PARIS (AP) -- Rafael Nadal scrambled across the sun-baked clay for three hours in 90-degree heat, chasing another French Open title by repeatedly forcing Roger Federer to hit one more shot. The effort paid off. Nadal won 1-6, 6-1, 6-4, 7-6 (4) Sunday, spoiling Federer's bid for a fourth consecutive Grand Slam championship.

Nadal earned his second successive Roland Garros title and extended his record clay-court winning streak to 60 matches. The 20-year-old Spaniard also prevented the top-ranked Federer from becoming only the third man to hold all four major titles at the same time.

Nadal closed the victory with a swinging volley for a winner, then collapsed to his back and rolled over, covered in the clay he loves.

Federer's first loss in eight Grand Slam finals came at the only major he has yet to win, and at the hands of nemesis Nadal, who also won when they met at Roland Garros last year in the semifinals. Federer fell to 0-4 against Nadal this year; he's 44-0 against everyone else.

French fans were mostly in Federer's corner, chanting ''Ro-ger! Ro-ger!'' during changeovers. But the crowd support failed to faze Nadal, who won the first meeting of the two top-seeded men in a Roland Garros final since 1984.

With his unsurpassed retrieving skills, the Spaniard kept running down balls in both corners to extend points. And the left-hander kept pulling his heavy, high-kicking forehand crosscourt to break down Federer's backhand, his weaker side.
312 2006-06-11 Nothing compares to the pageantry, food, historical magnitude and pure fun of La Rural, the annual Buenos Aires livestock fair....
313 2006-06-11 Spoiled in the loss was the Ivory Coast players' hope that victory in their first World Cup match might further signify the possibilities of peace and unity in their foundering West African nation, which has been divided by civil war since 2002.

Forward Didier Drogba, who like Crespo plays for Chelsea, champion of the English Premier League, reduced Argentina's margin to 2-1 in the 82nd minute, cuffing a cross with his left foot. But Ivory Coast could not manage an equalizer in the frantic final minutes.

"Other people thought Ivory Coast was easy," Crespo said, "but we knew it was going to be complicated, and it was."

The Ivorians played with great energy and intent, but they will regret inefficiency in finishing their chances. Until he departed in added time, Riquelme controlled the match during the important moments, expertly managing the pace and applying the brakes when Ivory Coast wanted to stomp on the accelerator.

It says much about Argentina's depth that Saturday's victory was achieved without its two young star forwards: Lionel Messi, 18, who helped lead Argentina to the world youth championship last year, and Carlos Tevez, 22, the star of the gold-medal-winning Olympic team at the 2004 Athens Games.

In the 24th minute, Argentina switched tactics from crisp short passes to a long ball to Crespo that drew a foul. From the left flank, Riquelme delivered an inviting free kick to the 6-yard line. When Argentine defender Gabriel Heinze was shoved down in a scrum, the ball bounced free and Crespo ran onto it with a hop and a skip and poked it into the net for a 1-0 lead.

In the 38th minute, Riquelme held the ball patiently in midfield and waited while Saviola feinted, then sprinted sharply behind the Ivory Coast defense. With deft timing to avoid an offside trap, Riquelme pushed the ball through a seam to an open Saviola.

Jean-Jacques Tizié charged forward from the goalmouth, but he was too late, and Saviola flicked the ball with his right foot from 12 yards, giving Argentina a 2-0 advantage.

In his younger days, Riquelme, soon to be 28, was called the next Diego Maradona, an impossible mantle to shoulder, one of brutal responsibility and expectation.

They are of disparate personalities, Riquelme forever modest and Maradona always given to excess on the field and off. But Riquelme wears No. 10, as Maradona did in bringing two World Cup titles to Argentina, so the comparisons, however unfair, will endure.

And with Maradona in the audience on Saturday, pumping his tattooed arms and waving a jersey in celebration, Riquelme did not disappoint.

He is a star but also a poignant figure in Argentine soccer. Riquelme came to prominence with Boca Juniors in the Argentine league and, briefly, teamed with Maradona.

But in 2002, Riquelme's younger brother was kidnapped. He was later released after the family paid a $160,000 ransom, according to news reports.

In part, the kidnapping spurred Riquelme's decision to leave Boca Juniors for Spain, where he now plays for Villarreal. It recently advanced to the semifinals of the Champions League, Europe's most important club tournament.

Suitably impressed with Riquelme during Champions League play, even though he missed a penalty kick against Arsenal in the semifinals, Arsenal Manager Arsène Wenger said of him, "He's always able to slow the game down and wait for a weak moment to kill you."

It was an assessment the Ivory Coast would not dispute.
314 2006-06-11 He remembers. He was born during World War II, the grandson of Maxim Litvinov, a onetime Soviet foreign minister, and raised among the Russian ruling class, taught to revere Stalin and communism. Later, Mr. Litvinov trained as a physicist, the scientific awakening soon producing a political one.

"When you are trained to think, you cannot take this propaganda seriously," he said. "Sooner or later, you see through all the nonsense and lies."

Mr. Litvinov began campaigning for the right to speak and write freely, as scientists must. "The most important thing about the Soviet regime was that it was a lie," he said, "this whole idea that they were building a paradise when they were actually building labor camps."

He passed information on to Western reporters and petitioned the Politburo on behalf of imprisoned intellectuals. In return, he was stripped of his academic job and, after the Red Square protest, sent to prison and then to Siberia to work in the mines. When he returned to Moscow more than four years later, he resumed his fight against the regime. Leave Russia now, he was told, or you will go to Siberia again and never come back.

He left, bringing his family with him to America. Mr. Litvinov has since spent nearly half his life here, teaching and working with groups like Amnesty International and Memorial, a Russian human rights organization. He no longer considers himself an exile.

"I'm American as apple pie," he said lightly. The Soviet government long banned him from visiting home, but that ban ended in 1990, shortly before the Soviet government did. He has visited nearly every year since.

Walter Johnson, Hackley's headmaster, said: "For students to have contact with someone who is legitimately a figure of great experience in the 20th century, and who has witnessed his own conviction with courage, is just extraordinary. He is a very gentle man, but he is a man of extraordinary will."

A few years ago, he recalled, Mr. Litvinov was struck by lightning while hiking. (He used to run marathons, but his knees wore out.) His fellow hiker, a doctor, revived him, and he made it down the mountain under his own power. This summer, Mr. Litvinov plans to climb Mount Rainier.

First, though, he will move out of the rambling shingled house on Hackley's campus where he has lived for nearly 30 years. He and his third wife, Julia — they married in 1998 — will live in nearby Irvington, and he has some unfinished business to take care of.

"When I came to this country, I started to write a book," Mr. Litvinov said, a memoir of freedom and oppression. He hopes to finish it soon and return to a different sort of teaching.

"I consider my fight for human rights my lifetime thing," he said. The absolutisms of communism have much in common, he notes, with a more recent threat, radical Islam. But the solutions are less obvious.

"The picture was clearer and easier in my time. You had simply left-wing and right-wing dictatorships," he said. "Islam is a way of life. You start to criticize the fascistic nature of some of these regimes, and you come immediately to the DNA of family's lives."

He blinks his clear blue eyes once, twice, considering.

"That makes it harder," he added. "But we must still do it."
315 2006-06-11 Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi was pleased to see people in Central Park yesterday enjoying one of his state's most prized culinary exports, fried catfish. But he was somewhat taken aback that the down-home delicacy was getting an uptown twist.

"They're having catfish and red wine," Mr. Barbour said with dismay.

A little bit of culture clash was inevitable yesterday afternoon, when two cultures — the Southern kind and the New York City kind — met on a small patch of Central Park for a picnic for homesick natives of Mississippi. For 27 years, the picnic has provided Southerners living in the New York region with the tastes, the traditions and the drawls of home, some 1,200 miles away from it.

Organized by the New York Society for the Preservation of Mississippi Heritage, the event drew several hundred people to the park's East Meadow. People sat on the grass, listened to a blues band and ate catfish at $7 a plate. There was enough catfish to feed 800 people. It was light and flaky, cooked not by a New Yorker but by a 42-year-old resident of Madison, Miss., with the accent to prove it.

The cook, Ken Akins, runs a catering business called the Mississippi Catfish Cooking Team. About 360 pounds of the stuff was donated by the Simmons catfish farm in Yazoo City, stored in coolers packed with dry ice and loaded into the back of Mr. Akins's Ford truck for the 18-hour trip to Manhattan. He travels with a mobile deep-fryer, a blue-painted trailer with six fryer vats, each with room for five to six gallons of peanut oil.

Adrian Benepe, the city's parks commissioner, said he was a fan of Mr. Akins's catfish, which Mr. Akins said was made with a special seasoning of lemon, red cayenne pepper "and a few other little things." Mr. Benepe said that all his department asked was that the fryer-trailer get parked on the concrete path and not on the grass, so the peanut oil did not ruin the grass. The fryer was indeed on solid ground yesterday.

Mr. Akins likes New York. The day before the picnic, he took his son to a Yankees game. Yesterday, someone came up to him and told him he should open a restaurant in the city. It sounded like a good idea, but he said he was not in a rush to leave Mississippi, a state that, it turns out, has roughly as many people living in it as the borough of Brooklyn.
316 2006-06-11 Mr. Spitzer, the state attorney general, leads in opinion polls by 50 points and enjoys a vast superiority in fund-raising, with $19 million on hand in January, the last reporting period, when Mr. Faso had $933,000.

And Mr. Faso lacks a powerful Republican patron who can raise money for him. Gov. George E. Pataki is focusing his fund-raising machinery on his possible presidential campaign, and another prodigious Republican fund-raiser, former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, has been regularly praising Mr. Spitzer.

Crucially, Republican Party officials in Washington say they do not plan to devote much party money or fund-raising to Mr. Faso's campaign. While they will be watching it closely, they say they prefer to work hard for candidates for the United States Senate and House who are more competitive.

Mr. Faso was busy calling prospective donors late last week, and his advisers said he would have the money to compete. Yet many Republican and Democratic consultants were less certain.

Cathy Blaney, the fund-raiser for Mr. Faso's former rival, said last week that Mr. Weld, as a former governor of Massachusetts, benefited from state and national pools of donors. Mr. Faso, by contrast, is a relatively little-known former assemblyman from Columbia County.

"What the future holds money-wise for John Faso, I don't know," Ms. Blaney said.

Joel Benenson, a Democratic pollster and strategist in New York, said that Mr. Faso would probably face sharp competition from candidates outside New York coming here to raise money for the fiercely competitive Congressional races this year.

"The money people are going to look at this governor's race and say, 'Why put money in here when national Republicans want me to put money into Rick Santorum's Senate campaign in Pennsylvania?' " Mr. Benenson said.

If Mr. Spitzer does outspend Mr. Faso this summer and fall, when candidates need more than $1 million a week to run a spread of televisions commercials statewide, Mr. Faso hopes to find his own advantage in a singular, memorable message: hammering home the need to reduce taxes.

"Republicans have become much better about developing campaign strategy beyond broadcast television, such as turning races into referendums," said Michael Hook, Mr. Faso's chief campaign consultant, "and this race is absolutely going to be a referendum on taxes."

Mr. Hook said the Faso campaign would go toe-to-toe with the Spitzer campaign in "smart expenditures" — calculated, well-defined spending in media markets that yield the most payoff. "You can run out of money really quickly if you're not being smart," Mr. Hook said.

Whether Mr. Faso can persuade New Yorkers that Mr. Spitzer would raise their taxes, or that they should care, is impossible to predict.

While property taxes enrage many homeowners in vote-rich suburban counties, according to opinion polls, New York has a long tradition of high taxes that support social services.

Mr. Spitzer has said that he supports smart tax cuts aimed at reducing property taxes, and that tax increases are not necessary.

He also plans to unveil proposals this month that aim to provide property tax relief.

Yet he has also declined to categorically rule out any tax increase, something Mr. Faso has trumpeted.

"The Bush '04 campaign showed that a targeted and convincing message, unmercifully repeated, is not only effective — it can also affect how the candidate responds to attacks and conducts his campaign," said Brian Jones, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, who also worked on President Bush's re-election. "Witness John Kerry's 'I-was-for-it-before-I-was-against-it' moment."

Both Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Faso are disciplined, self-conscious communicators; no prosecutor parses his words as judiciously as Mr. Spitzer. Some Spitzer allies have looser tongues, however, and they have already played into Mr. Faso's hands.

Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., the state Democratic chairman, was teed up to atomize Mr. Faso's candidacy at a news conference last Wednesday, yet the ensuing coverage focused on Mr. Farrell's suggestion that tax cuts were not a top priority of Democrats.

An hour after the news conference, Mr. Faso pounced, saying, "Eliot Spitzer and Denny Farrell don't think tax cuts are important to create jobs and opportunity for all New Yorkers."

Far from being outdone, Democrats view Mr. Faso as an easier target to define negatively than Mr. Weld, who took more moderate positions than Mr. Faso on social issues.

Spitzer advisers use phrases such as "arch-conservative" and "right winger" to describe Mr. Faso, whose opposition to abortion rights puts him out of the mainstream of New York voters on at least one major issue.

Mr. Faso was once a keen defender of Mr. Pataki on taxes and spending; this year, though, he said the governor had "lost his way" by allowing spending to soar.

And Mr. Faso's 16-year voting record in the Assembly has already been labeled "out of touch" — by a Republican, William L. DeProspo, the party chairman in Orange County.

Democrats plan to go a few steps farther, describing some votes as those of a radical extremist.

"John Faso has been one of the most intellectually honest ultraconservatives throughout his career — but that said, New York is not an ultraconservative state," said Mr. Benenson, the Democratic political consultant.

In a recent interview, Mr. Faso noted that he was one of a handful of Assembly Republicans to vote for a non-discrimination bill protecting gay men and lesbians in the early 1990's; at the time, that position drew the ire of Michael Long, the Conservative Party chairman, Republicans close to both men say.

But Mr. Faso also has a history of Assembly votes that Mr. DeProspo, the Orange County Republican chairman, described as "votes against women" and "votes against honoring civil rights."

Mr. Long is strongly supporting Mr. Faso this year, and Mr. Faso's alliance with the Conservative Party helped persuade many Republicans to give him the party's backing at the G.O.P. state convention on June 1.

In the interview, Mr. Faso said that he was not a fan of labels, arguing that "conservative" and "moderate" are too simplistic. Then, in nearly the next breath, he made clear there was at least one label he liked.

"Eliot Spitzer," he said, "is an absolute tax-hiker."
317 2006-06-11 If a school is oversubscribed, students are chosen based on a number of "tie-breakers," including racial targets designed to ensure that each school's racial makeup doesn't differ by more than 15 percent from the racial composition of the Seattle public schools as a whole.

Last October, no one was surprised when the famously liberal United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the Seattle plan. It cited a 2003 Supreme Court opinion, by Justice O'Connor, which held that classroom diversity was a compelling governmental interest for law schools and universities.

But it was eye-opening that Judge Alex Kozinski, a conservative libertarian on the Ninth Circuit, wrote an unexpected concurring opinion. "That a student is denied the school of his choice may be disappointing, but it carries no racial stigma and says nothing at all about that individual's aptitude or ability," he wrote.

And Judge Kozinski quoted the opinion of Chief Judge Michael Boudin of the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, another Republican judge, who upheld the use of racial balancing in a Massachusetts school choice plan. Unlike "modern affirmative action," Judge Boudin had written, these plans do not "seek to give one racial group an edge over another."

Some conservative scholars suggest that there may be significant differences between racial balancing for public elementary and high schools and racial preferences for competitive public universities.

"When you're talking about public schools, everybody's got to go somewhere, and it's not as if some schools are necessarily better than others," said Charles Fried, a conservative law professor at Harvard. "At some point, the government has to have some basis for breaking the tie."

Professor Fried said he had not made up his mind on the issue. "I think Roberts and Alito are both men who are open to arguments, and I would trust them to think long and hard about this," he said.

Conservatives have also long emphasized the importance of deferring to local school officials, a reaction in part to judicially imposed busing programs.

In the Seattle and Louisville cases, the plans were designed by local politicians.

"This is not the result of some liberal master plan; it was adopted from the ground up, " said Samuel Issacharoff, a liberal legal scholar at Columbia Law School. Judicial deference is as deeply held a conservative principle as the importance of a colorblind society, and conservative judges and activists are conducting a vigorous internal debate about how these principles should be reconciled.

Last year, for example, the Supreme Court, in another opinion by Justice O'Connor, struck down California's policy of racially segregating new prisoners to prevent gang violence. Justice Clarence Thomas and Justice Antonin Scalia, ordinarily fierce champions of colorblind policies, argued that an exception should be made in this case because of the importance of deferring to the expertise of local prison officials.

Opponents of affirmative action don't buy conservative arguments that racial balancing is acceptable. Parents don't view all public schools as equal, they argue, so racial tie-breakers force some parents to send their children to worse schools farther from home because of their race.

"In some ways, the damage may be greater than in the university context, since this may limit the ability of black families to escape inferior schools by transferring to schools where the authorities deem there to be too many blacks," says Peter H. Schuck of Yale Law School, author of "Diversity in America," a prominent critique of affirmative action.

In the Seattle case, the conservative dissenting judges wrote that the educational benefits of diversity for university students were less obvious for lower-school students. The dissenters quoted David J. Armor, a George Mason professor who has reported finding little connection between racial integration and student achievement.

"Where we have had very substantial long-term desegregation, we did not find the achievement gap changing significantly," Mr. Armor said in an interview. "I did find a modest association for math but not reading in terms of racial composition and achievement, but there's a big state variation."

Professor Armor estimated that "at least dozens or maybe hundreds of school districts still use race in some way" and said he hoped that the Supreme Court would put an end to all race-conscious assignment plans. "We have racially imbalanced neighborhoods and cities based on where people choose to live. What's wrong with racially imbalanced schools?"

IF the court agrees with him, it might require districts to consider "race-neutral alternatives," like a lottery, to decide which students gain admission to popular schools. But given segregated housing patterns, that might mean the end of integration.

Chief Justice Roberts, in his first term, has shown a skill in persuading his colleagues to join unanimous opinions decided on narrow grounds. The race cases may test his leadership abilities more than any he has confronted so far. And the fact that conservatives disagree so vigorously about how to apply the principle of colorblindness in different contexts makes the outcome especially hard to predict.
318 2006-06-11 It was an awful week for the stock market. All three major domestic indexes fell sharply, and the Dow Jones industrial average had its steepest weekly decline since April 2005.

For many foreign stock markets, the damage was more severe. The Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia, Far East index, or E.A.F.E., fell 5.9 percent for the week, and the M.S.C.I. Emerging Markets index plummeted 8 percent.

Much of the turmoil in global markets stemmed from concern about inflation. Several central banks in Europe and Asia raised short-term interest rates last week, and Wall Street expects Federal Reserve policymakers to do the same later this month.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 355.95 points, or 3.2 percent, to close at 10,891.92. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 35.92 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 1,252.30. The Nasdaq composite index lost 84.35 points, or 3.8 percent, to close at 2,135.06.

The nervousness in the stock markets strengthened demand for Treasury bonds, raising bond prices and lowering their yields. The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell to 4.97 percent, from 4.99 percent the previous week.
319 2006-06-11 Individual tickets for the United States Open will go on sale tomorrow at 9 a.m.

The Open will be Aug. 28 to Sept. 10 at the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens.

Arthur Ashe Kids Day, for children and families, will be Aug. 26. Tickets for Arthur Ashe Kids Day cost $10 to $25.

Individual tickets for the matches cost $22 to $98 and are available through the United States Open's Web site, usopen.org. Tickets are also available at Ticketmaster outlets and by telephone (866-673-6849), as well as at the National Tennis Center box office.

Box-office hours are from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mondays through Fridays, and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
320 2006-06-11 "We have been making the investment case that there is going to be a reversion to quality companies, those with more stable growth in earnings and dividends," Mr. Biggar said.

But Mike Williams, a strategist at Tocqueville Asset Management, thinks that aversion is more like it.

"I think there used to be a very strong desire to be in dividend-producing stocks, but today people look for an overall rate of return," he said. "Even when you include dividend payments, alternatives provide higher long-term rates of return. That's what people need to look for."

Mr. Williams says he looks for companies with strong earnings growth that reinvest cash flow to fuel further expansion. "Companies that continue to grow on a fundamental basis are going to outperform those that are focused on dividend-paying," he said.

Among his favorites are Cisco Systems — a stock he said he bought "several dollars ago" — as well as Microsoft, Citigroup and the drug makers Pfizer and Merck. He also likes producers of basic materials, including the chemical company DuPont and two mining concerns, Alcan and Cleveland-Cliffs.

Jonathan Golub, a strategist at J. P. Morgan Asset Management, offers another reason to anticipate continued mediocrity from high-yielding stocks.

"If you're buying high-dividend-paying companies specifically for that dividend, you should expect that in periods of rising interest rates you're going to get hurt," Mr. Golub cautioned. He offered the same advice that Mr. Williams did: focus on total return, not on any particular source of that return.

"If you get 2 percent on the dividend and 5 percent appreciation, or a 5 percent dividend and 2 percent appreciation, why should you care?" he said. "The problem is that people, especially retirees, believe that dividends are better because they don't have to touch the principal."

Mr. Golub advised investors to take a middle-of-the-road approach to dividend yields. He divided the investment universe into three types of companies: those with high dividend yields, those with moderate yields (more than zero but less than 2.5 percent) and those with no dividends at all.

The first variety, which includes utilities and real estate investment trusts, suffers when interest rates rise, he said, as do the stocks that pay nothing — what he called "speculative companies."

"Those companies also freak me out," Mr. Golub said. "If the Fed raises rates, they will get hurt even more because they're stocks on steroids."

He prefers stocks with moderate yields, noting that they outperformed the other two types for much of this year. The high-yielders have suffered far less since the market turned down last month, however, and that has put them ahead of the other two groups since the start of 2006.

Nevertheless, Mr. Golub is sticking with his preference for moderate-yielding stocks, which he said belong to "healthy companies that use capital and return it when they don't need it." They tend to be found in sectors like consumer products, telecommunications, health care and industrials.

Mr. Huguet, at Great Companies, expresses far more appreciation for dividend-paying stocks. His favorites include Johnson & Johnson, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble and American Express on his favorites list, partly because of their dividend yields.

Barbara S. Walchli, manager of the Aquila Rocky Mountain Equity fund, pointed out that a company could pay out cash in the form of a dividend only when it is generating plenty of cash to begin with.

"If you have a company that is managing its business well, throwing off a lot of cash flow, it can do a lot of things with it," she explained. "It can buy a new business, invest in a business it currently owns, buy back shares. At some point cash flow is so big that the company can't deal with it all and it returns it to shareholders." She described cash flow as "the fuel on the rocket ship that propels a stock up."

Ms. Walchli likes companies with so much fuel to burn that they consistently raise their dividends. "If you can find companies that grow their dividends 5 to 8 percent a year, your dividend, in many cases, can double" within a decade, she said, a possibility that may lure aging investors into high-yielding stocks.

"I think there is going to be huge interest in dividend-paying stocks when baby boomers start to retire," Ms. Walchli said. "At some point they are going to transition over and start looking for income."

Three companies that she likes for their frequent dividend increases are Microchip Technology, a semiconductor company; and Phelps Dodge, the copper producer.

MR. BIGGAR offered a list of a dozen companies whose earnings and dividend payments have grown strongly and consistently over the last 10 years and whose stocks carry the highest rating from Standard & Poor's.

They include Automatic Data Processing, Citigroup, Home Depot, Colgate-Palmolive, Wal-Mart Stores, Wrigley and two of Mr. Huguet's favorites, Johnson & Johnson and PepsiCo.

Others on the list are Capital One Financial, the Danaher Corporation, SunTrust Banks and Applebee's International.

Advocates of high-yield stocks would point to such a list as evidence that investors can achieve growth and income and need not choose between the two. When a company pays a big dividend, Mr. Huguet said, it is just letting its shareholders decide how to spend what is, after all, their money.

"If they want to buy more shares, or shares in another company, or put it in the bank, they can," he said. When you cash a dividend check, he added, "it gives you more control over your financial resources."
321 2006-06-11 French was very much alive in Lewiston, Me., during my younger days in the 1940's and 1950's. When I was in downtown Lewiston, it was French that I heard most often.

There was a daily French-language newspaper, Le Messager; education in French was available from kindergarten through high school; and there was Sunday programming in French on a local radio station, WCOU.

Growing up in the city inspired in me a lifelong fascination with French and French literature. I regretted the decline of the French society in subsequent years, and have watched its renaissance in the hope that something of the once vibrant French culture in the city will one day reappear.
322 2006-06-11 I hope that Mr. Bernanke will reconsider. Making friends with important people in the capital is not a trivial consideration at any time. Having casual conversation about economics with the best and the brightest in the field is not to be sneezed at.

And, speaking of economics, I just read one of the best books about economics I have ever read: "Everyman," by Philip Roth. It is a slender novel. Even a dope like me can read it in a couple of hours, tops. I call it a book about economics because economics, as the immortal professor C. Lowell Harriss taught us on Day 1 of "Money and Banking" at Columbia, is about the allocation of scarce goods. Mr. Roth would have made a fine practitioner of the dismal science, because this book is about the scarcest of human resources, and the proper allocation and sad misallocation of that resource.

That resource, of course, is the love of those we care about and who care about us. Mr. Roth's main character makes every sort of mistake in this allocation, but at the end realizes his mistakes and has one good day, perhaps, where he gets his economics right and appreciates fully the love that made his life possible, the love for him that was in the bones of his parents.

I've been especially haunted by one part of the book. In it, Mr. Roth's protagonist — who has no name — talks about his dad opening a jewelry store in Elizabeth, N.J., called Everyman's Jewelry Store, specializing in jewelry for working people. He opened it in the depths of the Great Depression — in 1933, the only year on record when the combined profits of all American business were negative. (Some economists also include 1934.) When asked why he took such a risk, he said, "So I would have something to leave my boys." This was a man who understood the allocation of scarce goods.

My father did not start a jewelry store. He never had any kind of business at all. After he left the Navy in 1945, he never once applied for a job. He was supersmart, and he was sought out to work for the rest of his life, starting at the Committee for Economic Development, a businessmen's group studying economic problems, to serving on the Council of Economic Advisers as a member and, later, chairman under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. My father always told me that he regretted not having had a business, so that he and I would be partners, and he could leave me a place to work where I would not be beholden to a boss.

He was seriously mistaken, of course. He had plenty to leave me. Father's Day is next week, and for all of my Pop's life, I gave him dinky little presents on that Sunday. Douwe Egberts pipe tobacco. Neckties from Brooks Brothers and Hermès. Sweaters, always from Brooks Brothers. Near the end of his life, I gave him a tallis, a Jewish prayer shawl (which he loathed — he was never big on ceremony).

But what I got from him was far beyond a name on a pebbled glass door saying "Stein & Son." I got from him a lifetime of teaching by example — that you get the things you want by hard work, not by whining. The inheritance of a name synonymous with integrity on public policy issues, regardless of party line. A name known nationwide for wit and insight.

Even now, when I stroll around Washington, where I visit a few weeks a year, I meet people who tell me how much they enjoyed working with my father. Lawrence Kudlow, the economist and television host, still calls me "Herb" when I appear on his program (like my Pop, pleading for a fairer tax system and better treatment of those who wear the uniform and carry the weapon to keep us all safe — and, like my father, mocked by many in my party for it).

People whom I have never met trust me because they trusted my father. (That, by itself, makes Pop and me partners.) It's the way the customers of Everyman's Jewelers trusted Philip Roth's father character to give them a fair shake on their tiny engagement rings.

Here is what my father gave me: every time I had a childhood chore to do and complained about it — raking leaves, cleaning the carpets, waxing the floors — my Pop would say, "We'll do it together and it'll take half the time." That's a gift. So was the sight of him sitting out on the deck overlooking Sligo Creek Park behind our house in Silver Spring, Md., smoking, drinking a Pabst Blue Ribbon, listening to the Senators play ball and realizing that a man was entitled to rest after a day's hard work. There was also his endless gift of gratitude for waking up every morning in America. And the astounding lifetime gift of telling me that no matter what Mr. Nixon or his chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, wanted him to do, he would make it plain that helping out "his one and only son" always came first.

ECONOMICS is about the allocation of scarce resources. Life is about the allocation of scarce resources. The love of a father is as precious and scarce as it gets. There is never enough of it. If you are richer than Henry M. Paulson Jr., richer than Warren E. Buffett — and you are if you still have living parents — be thankful today that you can still learn your father's business and grow in it.

"I grew up in a house my father built," Mr. Nixon wrote to begin his autobiography. I am still living in the house of hard work, gratitude, and study that my father built — and working in it, too. It's a great business and, again, we're partners. In a way, if you play your cards right and have enough appreciation of that scarce good, it's Everyman's Business, and yours.
323 2006-06-11 Melissa G. Bergfeld, a nurse practitioner, and the Rev. Zachary S. Mabe, a minister of the United Church of Christ, were married yesterday at the South Lyme Chapel in Old Lyme, Conn. The Rev. Dr. Dale Wood Peterson, a Baptist minister and the associate dean of students at Yale Divinity School, officiated, with the Rev. Cynthia Willauer, a United Church of Christ minister, taking part.

Mrs. Mabe, 33, works at Ob-Gyn Services, a group practice in Norwich, Conn. She graduated from Wesleyan University and received a master's degree in nursing from Yale. She is a daughter of Mary and Robert Bergfeld of Eugene, Ore.

The bridegroom, 28, is the pastor of Terryville Congregational Church in Terryville, Conn. He graduated magna cum laude from Catawba College in Salisbury, N.C., and received two master's degrees from Yale, one in divinity and the other in sacred theology.

He is the son of Leah Murray of Lexington, N.C., and Manily Mabe Jr. of Kernersville, N.C., and is the stepson of Pete Murray.
324 2006-06-11 Melissa Jane Pordy and Richard Paul Lefkowitz were married last evening in New York. Cantor Bruce Ruben officiated at the Powerhouse, an event space at the American Museum of Natural History.

The bride and bridegroom are media planners and buyers for advertising agencies. The bride works in Ridgefield Park, N.J., for the American subsidiary of Cheil Communications, a Korean firm. The bridegroom is a managing partner of the New York office of Cossette Communication Group, a Canadian company.

Ms. Pordy, 40, graduated from Clark University. She is the daughter of Ruth Gansberg Pordy of New York and the late Dr. Leon Pordy, a cardiologist, who was the chairman and chief executive of the Chock Full o'Nuts Corporation in New York.

Mr. Lefkowitz, 50, was a founder of Post & Partners, a New York agency, which Cossette acquired in 2001. He graduated from Fairleigh Dickinson University. He is the son of Sarah Popkin Lefkowitz of Pembroke Pines, Fla., and the late Louis Lefkowitz, who was an owner of Rale Liquor, a store in New York. The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce.
325 2006-06-11 Diana Blake Wiss and Nelson Tebbe were married yesterday at the Round Barn Farm in Waitsfield, Vt. David Rosenberg, a Vermont justice of the peace, officiated.

The bride, 29, is a marketing specialist in Manhattan in the global markets division of Deutsche Bank. She graduated from Middlebury College and received an M.B.A. from Columbia.

She is a daughter of Lois Ann Larkey of South Orange, N.J., and Ronald E. Wiss of Maplewood, N.J. Her father is a principal in Avalon Risk Associates, an insurance agency in Jersey City. Her mother teaches history at Horace Mann School in Riverdale, the Bronx. The bride is a stepdaughter of Laura Wiss.

The bridegroom, 37, is an assistant professor of law at St. John's University in Jamaica, Queens, and a candidate for a Ph.D. in religious studies at the University of Chicago. He graduated magna cum laude from Brown and received his law degree from Yale.

He is the son of Shirley A. Greene of Rowayton, Conn., and Horst Tebbe of Old Greenwich, Conn. His father retired as the chief information officer at the Sealed Air Corporation, a maker of protective packaging in Saddle Brook, N.J. The bridegroom is the stepson of Elizabeth Tebbe of Old Greenwich, Conn.
326 2006-06-11 Just about everyone I know calls me by the nickname I got in college 25 years ago. I use this name professionally. My husband and even my father use it. Those who do refer to me by my given name almost always shorten it in some way.

So it was obvious, for a few years back in my mid-30's (this was pre-caller ID for me), when the person on the other end of the phone was a debt collector. No one else ever asked for Jacqueline.

Here's a typical exchange — which took place several times a day — from that time in my life:

"She's not here right now," I said.

"Do you know when she'll be back?"

"I'm not sure. Next month sometime maybe?"

"Is there a number where I can reach her?"

Sometimes I told the caller that I couldn't take a message. Other times that yes, I'd be glad to take a message — but then I never wrote down the name of the company or the number they gave to return the call.

These calls annoyed me. They scared me. I had nothing to give the debt collectors. I earned very little back then. What money I did make, I spent bringing up my son, alone, without child support. Admittedly, I was lousy when it came to personal finance, so the rare professional triumph was always cause for great celebration and more foolish spending rather than a chance to put a dent in credit-card balances that had become as abstract and insurmountable as Mount Parnassus.

Like so many others I know, I used credit cards to bridge that expanse (often quite broad) between what I made (on average, for many years, less than two grand per month) and what I needed (to cover child care, food, rent, utilities, gas). I also used credit cards to cheer myself up. I had only a few cards, and by far the highest limit on any of them was just $3,000. For the most part, I managed to send in the minimum monthly payment required of me. I did not, however, often manage much more than that. Interest accrued; balances grew even after the months when I avoided buying on credit.
327 2006-06-11 To the Editor:     Mr. Kozinn writes that cities include new concert halls on their lists of ''must-have status symbols.'' This may be admirable, but the building, too often, is the focus of attention, when what happens inside is far more importan...
328 2006-06-11 SOKOL--Margaret McCor mack. 90, Sunday, June 4, 2006 in NYC after a short illness. Services private.     $(6$)SOKOL--Margaret. A charming and discerning benefactor whose generosity was key to the development of structural DNA nanotechnology. Nadri...
329 2006-06-11 FEW people are more familiar with the layout of Winged Foot Golf Club than Tom Nieporte, 77, the club's head pro for the last 28 years.     But lately, he hardly recognizes the place. The grounds have been invaded by more than 100 alien structures...
330 2006-06-11 FEW people are more familiar with the layout of Winged Foot Golf Club than Tom Nieporte, 77, the club's head pro for the last 28 years.     But lately, he hardly recognizes the place. The grounds have been invaded by more than 100 alien structures...
331 2006-06-11 The eminent domain battle in New London moved closer to resolution when the City Council voted last Monday to begin the eviction process for the remaining residents of the Fort Trumbull neighborhood. All but two of the seven remaining homeowners h...
332 2006-06-11 THE 7:47 a.m. Long Island Rail Road train from Ronkonkoma to Jamaica pulled into the Deer Park station, and Sandra Krebelj-Douglas eyed her fellow passengers carefully.      As one of eight official ''note takers'' for the L.I.R.R. Commuters Counc...
333 2006-06-11 THE 7:47 a.m. Long Island Rail Road train from Ronkonkoma to Jamaica pulled into the Deer Park station, and Sandra Krebelj-Douglas eyed her fellow passengers carefully.      As one of eight official ''note takers'' for the L.I.R.R. Commuters Counc...
334 2006-06-11 FEW people are more familiar with the layout of Winged Foot Golf Club than Tom Nieporte, 77, the club's head pro for the last 28 years.     But lately, he hardly recognizes the place. The grounds have been invaded by more than 100 alien structures...
335 2006-06-11 FEW people are more familiar with the layout of Winged Foot Golf Club than Tom Nieporte, 77, the club's head pro for the last 28 years.     But lately, he hardly recognizes the place. The grounds have been invaded by more than 100 alien structures...
336 2006-06-11 To the Editor:     Re ''Long Scorned in Maine, French Has Renaissance'' (news article, June 4):     French was very much alive in Lewiston, Me., during my younger days in the 1940's and 1950's. When I was in downtown Lewiston, it was French that I...
337 2006-06-11 THE 7:47 a.m. Long Island Rail Road train from Ronkonkoma to Jamaica pulled into the Deer Park station, and Sandra Krebelj-Douglas eyed her fellow passengers carefully.      As one of eight official ''note takers'' for the L.I.R.R. Commuters Counc...
338 2006-06-11 THE 7:47 a.m. Long Island Rail Road train from Ronkonkoma to Jamaica pulled into the Deer Park station, and Sandra Krebelj-Douglas eyed her fellow passengers carefully.      As one of eight official ''note takers'' for the L.I.R.R. Commuters Counc...
339 2006-06-12 What more does Wall Street want? Lehman Brothers early Monday posted a 47 percent rise in net income for the fiscal second quarter, topping analysts' average estimates. Lehman chief administrative officer David Goldfarb declared them the firm's "s...
340 2006-06-12 Credit John Faso for staying on message. Shortly after Eliot Spitzer unveiled a $6 billion property tax cut package, Mr. Faso said in comments to reporters that he still firmly believed Mr. Spitzer would raise taxes. Why is he so convinced? "I thi...
341 2006-06-12 The sunny - and lightly regulated - Cayman Islands are a favorite choice of hedge funds seeking to domicile themselves offshore. But Dublin, which has an active industry for servicing hedge funds, is working to lure more of them, according to an a...
342 2006-06-12 Attack daily. Every day this month, the Suozzi camp has put out a press release on his Enemy No. 1 - the man most voters know as Eliot Spitzer. This morning, the attack came early, in response to a story in the Post about the Spitzer's family trus...
343 2006-06-12 The United Kingdom's financial regulator said Monday that United States regulations would not automatically apply to British companies in the event that a U.S. exchange bought the London Stock Exchange. This news is of vital importance to the Nasd...
344 2006-06-12 Hedge funds get blamed for a lot of things these days, and BusinessWeek is adding potential money laundering to the list. "When drug runners and terrorists want to park illicit cash, there may be no better haven than hedge funds." So begins this w...
345 2006-06-12 A wireless equipment maker in California, Powerwave Technologies, said on Monday it was buying the majority of the wireless infrastructure business from a British rival, Filtronic, in a deal worth $336 million. Powerave said it would pay $150 mill...
346 2006-06-12 Bank of America has asked a federal judge to reject Parmalat's bid to throw out the bank's claims over the Italian dairy's fraud. Lawyers for Parmalat chief Enrico Bondi last month asked U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in Manhattan to dismiss mor...
347 2006-06-12 The Mercury Interactive Corporation, a software maker, canceled 2.63 million stock options issued to its former chief executive, Amnon Landan, after a company inquiry found that he manipulated the price. The board of Mercury accepted the recommend...
348 2006-06-12 Renowned corporate blogger Robert Scoble, credited with helping to break down a siege mentality at his employer, Microsoft, confirmed Sunday that he is leaving to join a Silicon Valley video blogging start-up. Scoble, a "technical evangelist" and ...
349 2006-06-12 Standard Life, Europe's largest mutual insurer, is to become the latest victim of turbulent stock markets and is expected to lower the price range for its planned flotation by as much as 10 percent. The group had said that it expected its shares t...
350 2006-06-12 Reuters Group has bought risk management software firm Application Networks for $41 million cash to expand the services it can offer customers, the news and financial data company said on Sunday. Application Networks, with offices in London and Pa...
351 2006-06-12 Swiss Re on Monday became the world's largest reinsurance firm after completing its acquisition of G.E. Insurance Solutions for $7.4 billion. Swiss Re, which will take over from Munich Re as the top reinsurer measured by premiums, said it paid $6....
352 2006-06-12 AXA, the French insurance company, is in exclusive talks with Credit Suisse to buy its Winterthur insurance division in a deal worth more than $8 billion. Credit Suisse, the Swiss global bank, has long expressed interest in shedding its insurance ...
353 2006-06-12 MIAMI, June 12 — A hurricane warning was issued and evacuations were ordered today for parts of Florida's Gulf Coast as the season's first tropical storm intensified in the Gulf of Mexico. The National Hurricane Center issued the warning for a 300-mile stretch from Longboat Key, north of Sarasota, to Ochlockonee Bay, south of Tallahassee.

Late Monday afternoon, Tropical Storm Alberto was situated about 125 miles south of Apalachicola, moving northeast at 10 miles per hour with winds of 70 m.p.h., just shy of becoming a hurricane. It was expected to make landfall sometime Tuesday.

"We're within five miles of it becoming a hurricane," said Michelle Mainelli, a hurricane specialist at the National Hurricane Center. "We're forecasting the worse case scenario just to be sure everyone is prepared in case a minor fluctuation does occur."

Forecasters are mostly concerned with heavy rainfall — between 4 and 6 inches are expected — and storm surge flooding expected to be between 8 and 10 feet above normal along portions of the Gulf, Ms. Mainelli said.

"We're really stressing those as our main concerns," she said. "Some isolated areas may even see up to 10 inches of rainfall."

During an afternoon briefing in Tallahassee, Gov. Jeb Bush told reporters at the state's Emergency Operations Center that mandatory evacuation orders had been issued for residents in low-lying areas in six counties north of Tampa and south of Tallahassee along the state's Gulf coast.
354 2006-06-12 SARATOGA SPRINGS, June 12 — With his gubernatorial rivals trying to paint him as a tax-and-spend Democrat, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer unveiled today a plan to cut property taxes by $6 billion over three years, targeting the middle class and senior citizens.

Mr. Spitzer also proposed $11 billion worth of budget cuts and initiatives over three years to pay for the plan, leaning most heavily on Medicaid, and did not rule out layoffs of state workers.

In a speech here to the New York State Conference of Mayors, Mr. Spitzer said he was dedicated to lowering taxes in a state that some studies have shown has the nation's highest tax burden.

"If it were possible to indict a state for a grand Ponzi scheme, perhaps New York would be vulnerable, because we have heard repeatedly that state taxes have been cut, but we in this room are too smart to buy into that shell game," Mr. Spitzer said, adding that he would not play the shell game by offsetting property tax cuts with increases of other taxes.

His two remaining rivals were quick to pounce with skepticism.

"I am grateful that after seven and a half years in Albany, a year and half as a candidate for governor, and three months of dodging the issue that I have made a cornerstone of my campaign, Eliot Spitzer has finally agreed with me that New Yorkers deserve property tax relief," Nassau County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi, Mr. Spitzer's Democratic rival, said in a statement.
355 2006-06-12 "You can expect that every state will now have to defend its protocol," Eric M. Freedman, a law professor at Hofstra University and a death penalty expert, said today. But Mr. Freedman said the Hill case will not provide any "springboard" for an attack on the death penalty in general.

Mr. Hill's lawyers argued before the court on April 26 that the three chemicals used in Florida executions place inmates at the risk of "wanton" pain in violation of the Eighth Amendment ban against cruel and unusual punishment. The three are sodium pentothal, pancuronium bromide and potassium chloride, to anesthetize the inmate, paralyze his muscles and stop his heart.

As for the chemicals used in executions in other states, Ty Alper, a visiting professor at the Boalt Hall Death Penalty Clinic at the University of California at Berkeley said he believed "the vast majority" used a blend quite similar to that in Florida.

The Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of capital punishment 30 years ago this summer, in a case from Georgia. Since then, the court has rejected challenges to the death penalty based on contentions that it is imposed in a racially discriminatory manner. But the court has barred the execution of mentally retarded prisoners and those who were juveniles at the time they committed murder.

In prevailing today, Mr. Hill's lawyers triumphed on a technical but crucial point. The justices agreed that his lawyers could proceed under a Reconstruction-era civil rights law, known as Section 1983, that permits suits for constitutional violations. That finding was important, because Mr. Hill had seemingly exhausted his chances to proceed under a writ of habeas corpus, the usual avenue for a state inmate to get to federal court to challenge his conviction or sentence.

Four days before his scheduled execution, Mr. Hill's lawyers filed their challenge to the lethal-injection procedure in Federal District Court. He lost in that court, then lost in the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit on the day he was to be put to death. Only Justice Kennedy's last-minute stay spared Mr. Hill's life.

The lethal-injection procedure to which Mr. Hill objects came about because of problems with Florida's electric chair. In 1990 and 1997, inmates caught fire in the chair as they were being put to death. And in 1999, a 300-pound murderer bucked grotesquely against the straps, bled profusely from his nose and appeared to be breathing for several seconds after the power was turned off.

Photographs of the execution, posted on the Internet by the Florida Supreme Court, caused such revulsion that the days of Florida's electric chair were numbered.
356 2006-06-12 Hopes of rescuing Philip Merrill, a publisher and former government official, all but evaporated today, two days after he went missing while sailing in brisk winds on the Chesapeake Bay.

The Coast Guard called off the search for Mr. Merrill late this afternoon, according to The Capital of Annapolis, Md., one of Mr. Merrill's publications. Officials said the publisher, who disappeared Saturday, could not have survived more than 28 hours in the 62-degree waters of the bay.

The Capital said he was "presumed drowned" and said the rescue operation had given way to efforts to recover the body of Mr. Merrill, 72.

Mr. Merrill's 41-foot sailboat was found drifting unoccupied on Saturday about 25 miles south of Annapolis, according to news accounts. The chairman of Capital-Gazette Communications, which publishes The Capital newspaper in Annapolis, Washingtonian magazine and other publications, had been sailing alone, as he often did.

"He just couldn't resist a sunny day with the wind at his back," Mr. Merrill's family said in a statement released to the The Capital by Tom Marquardt, its executive editor.

Mr. Merrill combined business and public service for most of his career, serving as assistant secretary-general of NATO, a special assistant to the deputy secretary of state and a member of the Department of Defense Policy Board at various times.
357 2006-06-12 With the largest Medicaid program in the nation at more than $45 billion a year, New York should be doing a vastly better job of making certain that so much money does not go astray. But according to a scathing report from the federal government released last week, "New York's anti-fraud efforts over the last several years have not been proportionate to its vulnerability." Even in the spongy bureaucratic language of Washington, that means that New York's efforts to weed out Medicaid fraud have been a disgrace.

Last summer a series of articles in The Times documented how unscrupulous operators had siphoned billions of dollars from the state's health insurance system for the poor. The details were infuriating — like the dentist who claimed she performed 991 procedures in a day or scam artists who rerouted a drug for AIDS patients to bodybuilders. A federal investigation followed, and auditors criticized the drastic cuts in the Medicaid enforcement staff since Gov. George Pataki has been in office. Even recent staff additions have done little to get the state's investigative units up to speed.

During most of the Pataki era, administrators focused less on fraud than on blocking questionable applicants from getting Medicaid funds in the first place. This front-loaded method mostly failed, as the audit notes. The state's own estimate is that the effort has saved the Medicaid system about $50 million a year. That works out to about one-thousandth of New York's total Medicaid budget.

In fairness, Mr. Pataki has been trying to improve matters of late, and he is not the only New York politician who has been too slow on this issue. Legislators have haggled for too long about the details of appointing a Medicaid inspector general. They have stalled on an important whistle-blower law, leaving New York one of the few large states without such protections.

Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, now running for governor, also has missed an opportunity here. Although he dutifully prosecuted the cases sent to his office, Mr. Spitzer, who is not known for being shy when he sees a problem, should have pushed the Pataki administration to be more diligent about watching over Medicaid funds.

New York needs more staff members to investigate Medicaid fraud. The state must have a chief Medicaid inspector who is not a political hack, and a workable whistle-blower or false-claims law. The biggest Medicaid program in the country should also strive to be the cleanest.
358 2006-06-12 At Roslyn, as at most schools, cellphones must be turned off during class. But one morning last week, a high-pitched ring tone went off that set teeth on edge for anyone who could hear it. To the students' surprise, that group included their teacher.

"Whose cellphone is that?" Miss Musorofiti demanded, demonstrating that at 28, her ears had not lost their sensitivity to strangely annoying, high-pitched, though virtually inaudible tones.

"You can hear that?" one of them asked.

"Adults are not supposed to be able to hear that," said another, according to the teacher's account.

She had indeed heard that, Miss Musorofiti said, adding, "Now turn it off."

The cellphone ring tone that she heard was the offshoot of an invention called the Mosquito, developed last year by a Welsh security company to annoy teenagers and gratify adults, not the other way around.

It was marketed as an ultrasonic teenager repellent, an ear-splitting 17-kilohertz buzzer designed to help shopkeepers disperse young people loitering in front of their stores while leaving adults unaffected.

The principle behind it is a biological reality that hearing experts refer to as presbycusis, or aging ear. While Miss Musorofiti is not likely to have it, most adults over 40 or 50 seem to have some symptoms, scientists say.

While most human communication takes place in a frequency range between 200 and 8,000 hertz (a hertz being the scientific unit of frequency equal to one cycle per second), most adults' ability to hear frequencies higher than that begins to deteriorate in early middle age.

"It's the most common sensory abnormality in the world," said Dr. Rick A. Friedman, an ear surgeon and research scientist at the House Ear Institute in Los Angeles.

But in a bit of techno-jujitsu, someone — a person unknown at this time, but probably not someone with presbycusis — realized that the Mosquito, which uses this common adult abnormality to adults' advantage, could be turned against them.

The Mosquito noise was reinvented as a ring tone.

"Our high-frequency buzzer was copied. It is not exactly what we developed, but it's a pretty good imitation," said Simon Morris, marketing director for Compound Security, the company behind the Mosquito. "You've got to give the kids credit for ingenuity."

British newspapers described the first use of the high-frequency ring tone last month in some schools in Wales, where Compound Security's Mosquito device was introduced as a "yob-buster," a reference to the hooligans it was meant to disperse.

Since then, Mr. Morris said his company has received so much attention — none of it profit-making because the ring tone was in effect pirated — that he and his partner, Howard Stapleton, the inventor, decided to start selling a ring tone of their own. It is called Mosquitotone, and it is now advertised as "the authentic Mosquito ring tone."

David Herzka, a Roslyn High School freshman, said he researched the British phenomenon a few weeks ago on the Web, and managed to upload a version of the high-pitched sound into his cellphone.

He transferred the ring tone to the cellphones of two of his friends at a birthday party on June 3. Two days later, he said, about five students at school were using it, and by Tuesday the number was a couple of dozen.

"I just made it for my friends. I don't use a cellphone during class at school," he said.

How, David was asked, did he think this new device would alter the balance of power between adults and teenagers? Or did he suppose it was a passing fad?

"Well, probably it is," said David, who added after a moment's thought, "And if not, I guess the school will just have to hire a lot of young teachers."
359 2006-06-12 Half the crowd at the 43,000-capacity Zentral Stadion was dressed in orange, the color of the Dutch team's shirts, and the goal was all the Dutch fans needed to start a party. The celebrations lasted the rest of the game.

"This is a very important victory," Dutch midfielder Phillip Cocu said. "Especially since the Argentines won, too."

The defeat was a bitter blow for Serbia and Montenegro, which dominated the opening moments but badly let down, for once, on its vaunted defense. Its defenders were caught flatfooted on Robben's decisive goal.

"We make one mistake, and we are punished for it," Serbia and Montenegro Coach Ilija Petkovic said.

Serbian players criticized Petkovic's tactics. One called them "cowardly."

"I don't see any logic starting an opener at the World Cup with such a closed formation," midfielder Ognjen Koroman said. "If we attacked them from the start, we could have scored. We also might have lost by several goals, but at least it wouldn't be in such a cowardly fashion."

The Netherlands, one of the few nations playing a 4-3-3 alignment at the World Cup, kept its attack open through its excellent wings, van Persie and Robben, and quickly regrouped once Serbia and Montenegro had the ball.

PORTUGAL 1, ANGOLA 0 Portugal finally opened a major tournament with a victory, but even that did not please its fans.

The often-inventive Portuguese did not look like a favorite in Group D, failing to impress against Angola, a World Cup newcomer, in Cologne. By the end, Portugal was jeered by a crowd frustrated by its sluggish play.

Portugal was stunningly beaten in its openers at the 2002 World Cup by the United States and in the 2004 European Championship by Greece despite boasting some of Europe's top players. One of them, Pauleta, scored his 47th goal for Portugal in the fourth minute yesterday, tapping into an empty net after Luis Figo sliced through the defense and drew out the goalkeeper.

But there was not a lot more creativity — and no more goals.

"It was a tough game," Portugal Coach Luiz Felipe Scolari said. "The early goal calmed us down and we could have got three or four more. But in the second half, the Angolans improved, and at times they were better than us."

ROONEY COULD PLAY England Coach Sven-Goran Eriksson said last night that he was "optimistic" that striker Wayne Rooney could play against Trinidad and Tobago on Thursday. Rooney has been sidelined for six weeks with a broken foot.

TOGO SEARCHING FOR A COACH Soccer officials from Togo tried to resolve their coaching soap opera by contacting the former coach of Cameroon, one day after the coach they brought to the World Cup abruptly resigned.

Winfried Schäfer, who coached Cameroon at the 2002 World Cup, spoke with Togolese soccer federation officials for more than three hours at the team hotel. He emerged to say he would take over only if a money dispute with players was resolved, but then announced he was going home and that the Togolese could call if they wanted to talk further.

"I am ready to become trainer if they accept my conditions," said Schäfer, a German native like the team's former coach, Otto Pfister. "If not, it's finished."

Togo will make its World Cup debut tomorrow against South Korea.
360 2006-06-12 The German police dispersed 16 people who they said were distributing anti-Jewish leaflets before the game. But neo-Nazi rallies in support of Ahmadinejad did not materialize.

Iran's national team, which failed to qualify for the 2002 World Cup, came into this tournament with reasonable hopes. Its squad has a mix of young players and seasoned talent, some of whom play for professional teams in Germany and are well known to local spectators.

Iran came out strong at the start, with two quick shots by forward Vahid Hashemian — the second a header saved dramatically by the Mexican goalkeeper, Oswaldo Sánchez.

But Mexico scored first, when Pável Pardo took a free kick from the right of the penalty area and Guillermo Franco headed it down to Bravo, who kicked it home in the 28th minute.

Iran tied the score eight minutes later. Sánchez saved Rahman Rezaei's header, but defender Yahya Golmohammadi chipped in the rebound.

The teams finished the first half evenly matched. But the second half was Mexico's. Iran seemed to lose focus and its defense got sloppy. Mexico, playing a patient game, set up a shot in front of Iran's goal for Bravo, who drilled it past goalkeeper Ebrahim Mirzapour in the 76th minute.

Three minutes later, with Iran's defenders seemingly not paying attention, a substitute midfielder, Zinha, put himself in front of the goal and headed in Mexico's third goal. Zinha, whose given name is Antonio Naelson Matías, was born in Brazil and is a naturalized Mexican citizen.

Iran's coach, Branko Ivankovic, paced the sidelines with a distraught expression as the clock ticked away.

The victory was especially sweet for Sánchez, Mexico's veteran goalkeeper. His father died last week, and he returned Saturday from the funeral in Guadalajara. The Mexican team was not sure whether Sánchez, 32, would be in mental shape for the game. Judging from his several leaping saves, he was more than ready for the challenge.

Iran's preparations for the World Cup have been shadowed by politics every step of the way. Critics of the Tehran government urged soccer's world governing body, FIFA, to bar the team — citing not only its president's anti-Jewish remarks but Iran's standoff with the West over its nuclear program. FIFA declined to do that, saying that sports should be kept separate from politics.

On Sunday afternoon, a few hundred members of a local Jewish group protested against Ahmadinejad in a square in Nuremberg's old city. They carried Israeli flags and placards that read: "Never Again. No Acceptance of Mass Murder. No Acceptance of Threats of Mass Murder."

"We don't want a second Hitler; we know what his purposes here are," the group's leader, Arno Hamburger, said. He added that the players bore no blame and should be allowed to compete.

The protesters expressed anger that Germany had allowed Iran's vice president, Mohammad Aliabadi, to travel here for the game. Though Aliabadi has not been quoted saying inflammatory things about Israel, people here said he was a representative of the president.

"We don't want an Iran that is associated with terrorism," said Tahara Jafapour, an Iranian exile who lives in Stuttgart and attended the protest carrying a Persian flag.

Among Iranian fans outside the stadium, opinion about the government was split, but support for the players was uniform.

"I don't think he should come," Shahram Bakhtiari, 46, a salesman who has lived in Germany for 27 years, said, referring to Ahmadinejad. "It's a provocation. The government is trying to use the team to its advantage."

Ali Shahrani, 38, an information technology specialist from Tehran, said that Ahmadinejad should be allowed to come to Germany like any other leader. He blamed the news media for hounding the team. "People are trying to mix sports and politics," he said. "Let's just leave one day without politics."
361 2006-06-12 Shortly after the buffaloes arrived, five of them — the steer and four cows — were found to have red nose, a deadly bovine virus, and had to be slaughtered. On top of that, the recipe for mozzarella that Mr. Bieri and his friends had downloaded from the Internet for use in their venture produced cheese that was almost inedible.

It was at this point, in about 2000, that the cheese makers of Schangnau, Mr. Bieri included, departed for Italy in what he described as a bit of "industrial espionage" to learn the craft of making mozzarella at the source.

"In Italy, they treated us like kings," said Michael Jaun, a Schangnau cheese maker who was part of the Swiss delegation. "At 4 a.m. they picked us up at our hotels with taxis. They were very open."'

Well, almost. But, he said, "They didn't tell us everything." The Swiss stuck with it, though, and by the summer of 2000 they had gotten the recipe right.

At first Mr. Jaun and his fellow cheese makers did without machines. "We stood around the table, five of us, and made the mozzarella balls by hand," said Mr. Jaun, 29. "One was 100 grams, another 500. Our distributors were not pleased. They wanted uniformity, and suggested we mechanize." Now, the mozzarella balls are rolled out by stainless steel machines small enough to fit in most kitchens.

Eventually, several cheese makers, including Mr. Jaun, were receiving regular deliveries of water buffalo milk from Mr. Bieri and transforming it into fluffy mozzarella. They sold it over the counter and to selected specialty food stores in Swiss cities, including Interlaken. They recently signed a deal with Emmi, a major Swiss food distributor that handles one-third of all the mozzarella sold in Switzerland.

In the meantime, major food makers, including Emmi, are using regular cow's milk to make less expensive mozzarella. But Mr. Bieri and his circle of friends see their product as appealing to genuine cheese lovers. "We see ourselves as a niche product," Mr. Jaun said.

Their success has turned tiny Schangnau, population 954, into the mozzarella capital of Switzerland, and mozzarella into the favorite Swiss cheese. To be sure, the lion's share of mozzarella consumed by the Swiss is made using cow's milk by big producers, like Emmi; but Schangnau remains the boutonniere on the lapel. "I had to laugh at the latest statistics," Mr. Jaun said, showing that each Swiss consumes roughly 12 pounds of mozzarella a year, more than any other cheese.

In a world of rising cheese consumption, there appears to be little envy of the mozzarella farmers among Switzerland's other cheese makers, most of whom are operating at capacity.

But it is a different story with Italy. "The Italians are not very happy over the fact that the Swiss are making mozzarella," said Francesca Heiniger, the spokeswoman for Switzerland Cheese Marketing, the organization in Bern that promotes Swiss cheeses abroad. The Italian name mozzarella di bufala is protected by law, so Mr. Bieri and his friends have adopted the German-Italian hybrid Büffelmozzarella.

The success of domestic Swiss mozzarella has cut into imports of mozzarella, which dropped in 2005 by 789 tons, Ms. Heineger's organization said. But the damage was suffered mainly by big Italian producers of cow's milk mozzarella, not the higher priced buffalo milk variety. Its sales to Switzerland soared last year.

"Exports of our cheese to Switzerland have doubled," said Gennaro Testa, an official of the National Consortium for the Protection of Mozzarella di Bufala Campana, the group that promotes genuine buffalo milk mozzarella in the Naples area of Italy. In fact, he said, the success of Swiss mozzarella, "is a kind of promotion that we enjoy."
362 2006-06-12 OTTAWA, June 11 — The Canadian police have issued arrest warrants for seven people involved in an Indian land-claim dispute, accusing them of involvement in several violent episodes on Friday, including the hijacking of a United States Border Patrol vehicle.

Five of the people being sought were identified by the Ontario Provincial Police as residents of the Six Nations Reserve near Caledonia, Ontario. Since February, some of reserve's residents have been occupying a construction site that the Indian group contends is on its land. One person being sought is from British Columbia, and it was unclear where the seventh person lives.

The police said Sunday that the three violent episodes on Friday all appeared to have happened within an hour's time, during the early afternoon. Earlier reports by the police had suggested that the other incidents, an attack on an elderly couple and an assault on a television crew, had been much earlier in the day than the hijacking.

The elderly man who was attacked was hospitalized for observation because he has a heart ailment, and one cameraman who was assaulted required stitches and his camera was stolen, the police said.

Constable Keith Robb of the provincial police said that, in the hijacking episode, protesters forcibly removed two American plainclothes border patrol officers and a Canadian provincial police officer from the American officers' unmarked sport utility vehicle. The hijackers, he said, then drove toward the Canadian police officer, who was pulled by colleagues from the vehicle's path but was lightly injured. He was taken to a hospital and later released.

The American investigators were unarmed because Canadian law prohibits them from carrying weapons in Canada. They had arrived earlier Friday, Constable Robb said, to study how the Canadian police were handling the protracted standoff.
363 2006-06-12 The first known dollhouse was made in the mid-16th century, and since then dolls' houses have inflamed the acquisitive passions of generations of collectors. A dollhouse lets its owner preside over a miniature cosmos. It affords control, or at least the illusion of it, in a disorderly world. One can make all the aesthetic decisions, and do all the wiring, without ever having to argue with contractors.

The finest dollhouses have electric lights that turn on; running water (cold, usually); libraries with tiny printed books that can be taken down and read; and kitchen stoves that can be fired up. They can contain ornate chandeliers; scaled-down fine furniture; minute sterling tea sets; and little household pets, often made from fur-coat scraps.

For Ms. Jacobs, the attraction went beyond even these things. To her, an antique dollhouse was social history in microcosm, offering a meticulous record of the architecture and decorative arts of its era. And today, with many real historic buildings falling to the wrecker's ball, dollhouses, as she often said, offer a small way of preserving the past.

Flora Gill was born in Washington on Dec. 22, 1918. Growing up, she did not have a dollhouse, but the girl next door did — a magnificent one that her father, a soldier in World War I, had brought back from Germany.

While Flora was still a student at George Washington University, she wrote film reviews for the old Washington Times-Herald. She left college for a job on the paper, eventually becoming the fashion editor. She later went to work as a reporter for The Washington Post, where she was assigned to the women's page.

In 1940, she married Ephraim Jacobs. He survives her, along with their daughter, Amanda, of Centreville, Md.

Leaving The Post after several years, Ms. Jacobs decided to write a book about dollhouses and, not long afterward, decided she had better own one. She bought her first from a New Jersey antiques shop in 1945. A derelict post-Civil War sandstone with a mansard roof, it cost $35.

At the time, dollhouses were unfashionable things in the world of collectibles. "Most antiques dealers didn't even know what I was talking about," Ms. Jacobs told The Washington Times in 1999. "One thought I was looking for doghouses."

As her collection grew, friends clamored to see it. So did friends of friends. Brownie troops trooped through. Eventually, Ms. Jacobs's houses outgrew Ms. Jacobs's house. She rented a small building in northwest Washington, and the museum was born.

Comprising about 40 dollhouses from the 18th to the early 20th centuries, the museum's collection focused on Victoriana. The star attraction was the multistory Mexican villa, built circa 1890. Besides the chapel, it had roof gardens, an aviary, a working elevator and a gated driveway with a vintage Paige touring car.

Among the other miniature buildings on display were a dentist's office, a milliner's shop and a seaside hotel. There was a tiny circus and a tableau of Teddy Roosevelt on safari in Africa that featured porters, a naturalist and a menagerie that, somewhat incongruously, included a kangaroo.

Ms. Jacobs, who lectured throughout the world on dollhouse history, also wrote several children's books inspired by her work, among them "The Doll House Mystery" (Coward-McCann, 1958) and "The Toy Shop Mystery" (Coward-McCann, 1960).

In May 2004, the contents of the museum were sold at auction for about $1.4 million. The Mexican villa alone brought $231,000, said Noel Barrett, a dealer in antique toys who handled the sale.

It was hard for Ms. Jacobs to see her dollhouses go, but she had ample consolation at home. There, she had a collection as big as — by some accounts bigger than — the one at the museum.
364 2006-06-12 "This has been a very powerful liquidity-driven market that has drawn a lot of support from low interest rates," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. "And investors are coming to the realization that the Fed is taking the candy away. They have to come down to earth."

Adding to the market anxiety is the widespread belief that the Federal Reserve, which has said inflation is rising at an uncomfortable rate, will raise interest rates yet again when it meets later this month.

"Market participants have been forced to think about, 'Will the Fed overdo it?' " said Jack Caffrey, an equity strategist with J. P. Morgan Private Bank. "Investors are responding as they do. They're pulling in."

Investors are also adjusting to the ideology of a new Fed chairman. Since Ben S. Bernanke took the reins of the central bank in February, investors have struggled to discern how tough Mr. Bernanke will be in fighting inflation. On the one hand, raising interest rates too much could squelch economic growth. But at the same time, Mr. Bernanke has said that inflation is a top concern of the Federal Reserve.

A major question facing investors is what will Mr. Bernanke think is a bigger risk to the economy: rising inflation or slowing growth.

"I'd say you're left with a touch of the Abbott and Costello routine 'Who's on First.' Is it inflation? Is it growth?" Mr. Caffrey said.

This week, the government is set to release several reports measuring economic activity, including retail sales and the federal budget deficit. But the most closely watched will be the Consumer Price Index, the government's major barometer of inflation. If the numbers show too much of an acceleration, that could make already-jumpy investors nervous that the expected June interest rate increase could go as high as a half-point.

Most would agree that the global economy is not in any immediate danger of faltering and that the stock market so far shows no signs that it is headed toward a protracted slump. "The fundamentals of the world economy are still O.K.," Mr. Roach, of Morgan Stanley, said. "They're not terrific, but still O.K."

Mark Cliffe, global head of financial markets research at ING Group in London, said: "So far, the fact that the U.S. market has fallen by 5 or 6 percent from the peak is hardly catastrophic. But if it starts to fall another 5 percent, it could have some meaningful impact, for example, on consumer spending. Joe Six-Pack could start to cut back his stock portfolio."

Both the Dow and the S.& P. are still up for the year, as are major indexes in Europe and Asia. Even in the emerging markets, which have had big surges and fallbacks, the fundamentals remain largely intact.

Moreover, experts say that if investors were truly worried about the American economy slowing too rapidly, they would be pushing bond prices higher, seeking a safer investment. That has not yet happened on a broad scale.

Questions about the strength of the global economy were on the minds of the Group of 8's leaders this weekend, who offered an assurance that growth is healthy but the world's economies remain vulnerable to erratic market forces like oil prices. "Global growth remains strong and is gradually becoming more broadly based," finance ministers from the eight nations, including Russia, the United States and Germany, said in a statement. "However, downside risks from high and volatile energy prices and widening global imbalances remain."

Although the statement did not differ much from one the Group of 8 released in February, it took on an added significance given the worldwide market slumps last week.

James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, cautioned about overreacting to the current market dip. "Every time it swoons doesn't mean we have a recession coming."
365 2006-06-12 AXA, the French insurance company, is in exclusive talks with Credit Suisse to buy its Winterthur insurance division in a deal worth more than $8 billion, according to a person with direct knowledge of the transaction.

Credit Suisse, the Swiss global bank, has long expressed interest in shedding its insurance division to focus on its core banking and wealth-management operations, and it was widely expected to spin off at least a 20 percent stake in an initial public offering this summer.

But with the jittery financial markets, the proposed sale to AXA for more than 10 billion Swiss francs, or about $8.12 billion, offers a safer course. Credit Suisse has given AXA two weeks to review Winterthur's books, according to people close to the talks, and the transaction could be completed as early as next week.

But those people cautioned that it was still possible that the negotiations could collapse if certain issues, including a final price, were not resolved. That would allow rival insurance companies or private equity players to submit bids.

Winterthur, a 130-year-old insurance group based in Switzerland, offers life, pension and nonlife insurance policies in more than 17 countries around the world, including the United States. It has about 13 million clients and generated a profit of 1.1 billion Swiss francs, or $900 million, in 2005, after a major overhaul of its operations significantly improved its performance after several years of disappointing results.
366 2006-06-12 OSLO, June 11 (Reuters) — The Norwegian government will intervene in a dispute between banks, insurers and their employees to prevent an expanded strike and lockout and to force them into mediation, officials said on Sunday.

The employers had responded to the threat of a wider strike by saying that they would lock out 24,000 workers, which would have virtually shut down the Norwegian financial industry.

Labor Minister Bjarne Haakon Hanssen said a special session of Parliament would enact the legislation needed to force the parties into mediation on Monday.

"I have asked the parties not to put the escalation into effect and to resume work as soon as possible," Mr. Hanssen said in a statement.

The strike and lockout had been expected to shut banks and halt card payments, and it seemed likely to lead to a shortage of cash as Norwegians hoarded notes from automated teller machines. The dispute, which began June 1, is over rights to negotiate pension and insurance benefits.

Talks between the union and the employers' federation collapsed on Saturday, creating the prospect of the country's first banking strike in 30 years.

The 36,000-member Finansforbundet financial-sector union said on its Web site, "All must return to work tomorrow." Still, the union's chief, Jorunn Berland, criticized the decision to intervene.
367 2006-06-12 His buoyant words echo the prevailing sentiments in this city of 55,000, which was enjoying a growth spurt when the storm hit.

Yes sir, they say, the hurricane killed more than 50 local residents, turned our lives upside-down, destroyed nearly all our casinos and wiped out a fifth of our structures. Yes ma'am, but we have to get on with it, and seize the opportunity among the debris — sort of like finding the coins that spilled from unmoored casino barges.

"They were everywhere," Mr. Holmes said, holding up a token the size of a silver dollar from a casino that is no longer.

Mr. Holmes, 60 and burly, can sound giddy about the post-Katrina prospects for Biloxi. It is the giddiness of one who has survived, and who now appreciates not just the ice in his glass of water, but the water as well. He lost his roof, and two of his three sons lost their homes.

He gets excited talking about the hurricane, which he and 50 others rode out on the coliseum's second floor, as the waves swept over U.S. 90, dragging cars, debris and even the President Casino barge across the property he maintains. The storm destroyed the electrical system, broke most of the windows and doors and deposited tons of mud on the arena's floor.

Cancel that Hank Williams Jr. concert. Ditto the one by Neil Diamond.

Nine months later, Mr. Holmes has new transformers, a new energy-efficient boiler and new toilets, paid for by insurance, though plastic sheeting still hangs where there ought to be windows. And the ambitious plans for bigger casinos and more hotels along U.S. 90 only sharpen his vision of an expanded convention center that befits a Biloxi renaissance.

As he walks the fairground, he points to where the coliseum's large marquee used to stand, and to where a live oak tree had thrived, 60 inches around and dressed in a yellow ribbon to honor American troops. Sixteen other live oaks were lost as well, though one magnolia marked for dead was showing signs of life.

"Every day can be depressing; every day has challenges," Mr. Holmes admitted, lowering his booster mask. "But you have to be positive."

And that is the beauty of the fair, he says, his exuberance returned. A free petting zoo, modestly priced rides, diversion — all between a ruined Holiday Inn and the severely damaged Beauvoir, the historic home of the only president of the Confederate States of America, Jefferson Davis.

Mr. Holmes leaves, ceding the injured grounds to corn dogs and funnel cakes and a hog race and calls of "Ya ready to play?" and flashing colored lights that cast life in a state of happy-crazy dreams.

Oh, and the thrilling rides, just a few dozen yards from the Gulf and yet somehow free of it. The Tugboat, tossing you around in a fake storm's surge. The White Water, sending you headlong into contained choppy waters. The YoYo, spinning you counterclockwise, like Katrina.

As his daughter Mia flies on the YoYo, William James recalls being flooded out of Pass Christian, spending several months in a trailer provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and finally finding a place in Gulfport, close to his job in the tire department at Sam's Club. He says the fair is not just for kids.

"It gets a lot of stuff off your mind," Mr. James said.

Nearby, Ernest Fontenot, a slight 12, climbs into a bucket of the Ferris wheel and instantly regrets it. As he rises higher and higher, he struggles to be a man in front of his older brother, Dalane. He crosses his fingers. He cannot look. Tears well.

But by the time his bucket reaches the top, Ernest has conquered his fears, mostly. He peers over the lip to see the Gulf, Biloxi, and beyond.
368 2006-06-12 Many popular young adult novels, of course, already spread references to brands throughout their pages in series like "The Gossip Girl" and "The A-List," although there are no actual product placement deals.

But such deals are not unprecedented. Five years ago, Bulgari, the Italian jewelry company, paid Fay Weldon an undisclosed amount to feature the brand prominently in her novel, entitled — what else? — "The Bulgari Connection."

In that instance, Bulgari actually commissioned Ms. Weldon, a well-known British author, to write the novel. But with "Cathy's Book," the authors had already written it when Mr. Weisman's agents at Creative Artists Agency showed the manuscript to Maurice Coffey, a marketing manager at Procter & Gamble.

Mr. Coffey had already been in contact with C.A.A. about other promotional deals. And Mr. Weisman, a co-founder and partner with Mr. Stewart in 42 Entertainment, an interactive marketing company, had also been talking to Mr. Coffey about doing some separate work for Procter.

Mr. Coffey, meanwhile, passed the manuscript on to Bob Arnold, interactive marketing manager for Beinggirl.com and Aimee LaFerriere, the interactive marketing manager for Cover Girl.

The novel, a surprisingly lyrical addition to the teen-lit genre, features Cathy Vickers, a 17-year-old aspiring artist who is trying to learn why her boyfriend, Victor, has dumped her. Aided by her feisty best friend, Emma, Cathy comes across a series of increasingly troubling clues suggesting that Victor may or may not be dying of a fatal illness, be connected to the Chinatown underworld or be part of a biotechnology conspiracy — not to mention be a possible murderer.

"It was very hard to put down," recalled Mr. Arnold, who said he passed the book around to colleagues who were excited about a potential marketing partnership.

Mr. Weisman said that he and Mr. Stewart were comfortable with the association because they believed it would not fundamentally alter their creative content. "We had already put in these drawings where Cathy was giving makeup tips on how she dresses when she wants to behave like different parts of herself," said Mr. Weisman, who helped conceive the plot and characters for the book, while Mr. Stewart, an award-winning science fiction and fantasy writer, wrote the text. "So, it seemed like there was a natural connection there."

Some of the changes that the authors and illustrators, Cathy Brigg and Shane Small, have made since the partnership was struck include altering a drawing entitled "Artgirl Detective" to "Artist! Detective! UnderCover Girl" and changing a generic reference to "gunmetal grey eyeliner" to "eyecolor in 'Midnight Metal.' "

Mr. Arnold said that Cover Girl had never had a promotional relationship with authors or publishers before. But with "Cathy's Book," he said, "the integration was a no-brainer. We thought we could help out and hopefully become part of the story as well."

Beinggirl.com will begin promoting the book in banner ads on the site in August, Mr. Arnold said, with links to cartoons drawn by Cathy's character. But, he said, the site would strive to "keep the fiction away from reality."

From a marketing perspective, said Michael Watras, chief executive of Straightline International, a New York strategic branding agency, "it's a great concept."

"It doesn't cost the cosmetic company anything," he said. If readers "can get into the character and look up to her in some way, then I think it's a home run."

The authors were perhaps more at ease with the product placement idea because of their own backgrounds in marketing. In fact, the idea for "Cathy's Book" grew out of work the pair did on Steven Spielberg's movie "Artificial Intelligence: A.I." to create a promotional campaign based on planting hundreds of clues on the Web, on cellphones, on billboards and in newspapers, leading people to put the tips together to form a coherent narrative.

With "Cathy's Book," although Mr. Stewart has written a self-contained textual narrative, Mr. Weisman also created a series of clues that are included in a so-called evidence pack that will come with the book in a sealed plastic envelope filled with photos, post-it notes with phone numbers scrawled on them, pages from a date book, birth and marriage certificates and letters. There will also be a business card for a fictional "online consultant" at Beinggirl.com.

Hints to most of these documents are embedded in the novel, which also contains Web site addresses and phone numbers that readers can access for extra material. The telephone number on the book's cover, for example, leads to an outgoing voicemail message from Cathy.

"What we are selling here to the customer or the reader is an experience that transcends the book itself," said David Steinberger, president and chief executive of Perseus, the publisher. "The relationships with Beinggirl.com and Cover Girl are enriching that experience."

Those relationships will be fully disclosed, Mr. Steinberger said. Right on the copyright page, Cathy, in character, thanks Beinggirl.com and Cover Girl for their work to "help me get the message out."

Mr. Stewart said the authors did not include any branded mentions they felt were inconsistent with the existing narrative. "I had strong feelings about the kinds of things I was willing to have in the book and the kinds of things I absolutely was not willing to have in the book," he said.

At one point, recalled Mr. Weisman, Mr. Arnold of Beinggirl.com sent the authors some advertisements for feminine hygiene products and "said 'What do you think about Cathy annotating an existing ad for Tampax or Always?' " The authors drew the line at that. "We said while that might be very funny, we think that would be very far over the edge," Mr. Weisman said.

But some booksellers are concerned that the precedent is an unwelcome one. "I'm not crazy about it," said Carol Chittenden, owner of Eight Cousins, a bookstore in Falmouth, Mass., and the children's book buyer for BookStream, a book wholesaler in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. "Once you're under contract to include certain kinds of things, then that narrows the editorial possibilities greatly and has a huge influence over the nature of the writing and the nature of the story."

Mr. Steinberger of Perseus said that so far, the response to the book had been based on the quality of the writing and the novelty of the Web and phone clues. He said the book had already been sold in five foreign countries and that plans for an initial print run of 30,000 had been increased to more than 100,000 copies based on bookseller response. "There's a risk in putting so much emphasis on the Cover Girl relationship that it comes across as a crass commercial project," he said. "But it's not."
369 2006-06-12 If any golfer is capable of winning a tour event and the Open back to back over 11 days, Singh is that golfer.

It has happened with each of the other three majors, including Mickelson's BellSouth Classic-Masters double this year.

Sandy Lyle in 1988, Art Wall Jr. in 1959, Sam Snead in 1949 and Ralph Guldahl in 1939 also added a Masters green jacket to a triumph at the previous PGA Tour stop. Lee Trevino won the 1971 British Open after winning the Canadian Open. Ben Hogan in 1946, Byron Nelson in 1945 and Henry Picard in 1939 each won the P.G.A. Championship, then a match-play event, after winning the previous PGA Tour event.

Singh's arrival at Winged Foot, the classic course designed by the classic architect A. W. Tillinghast that has been the site of four previous Opens in Mamaroneck, N.Y., will coincide with Woods's return. He is coming back from a nine-week layoff from the PGA Tour since the Masters, which included the May 3 death of his father and mentor, Earl Woods, after a long battle with cancer.

In his nine previous years as a pro, Woods, who won the Open at Pebble Beach in 2000 and at Bethpage Black in 2002, usually played three tournaments between the Masters and the Open; in 1999 he played four; in 2003 he played two.

For whatever reason, Woods didn't win any of his eight tournaments between the Masters and the Open in the past three years. He didn't win any Opens, either. He tied for 20th at Olympia Fields in 2003, tied for 17th at Shinnecock Hills in 2004, and was runner-up by two strokes to Michael Campbell of New Zealand last year at Pinehurst No. 2.

Except for some quick practice at Winged Foot more than two weeks ago, Woods all but disappeared, but he addressed his Open chances last week on his Web site.

"As for my golf game," he said, "I don't really know what to expect next week. I've never had to experience anything in life like this and never had a nine-week layoff before so we'll just have to wait and see. Hopefully, my game will be sharp."

Judging by all the complaints about the thickness of Winged Foot's rough from other golfers who have practiced there, Woods's irons better be sharp, too.

Somewhere, Michelle Wie will probably be watching what happens at Winged Foot, watching and wondering how she would have played on its 7,266-yard, par-70 West Course had she survived last week's 36-hole sectional qualifying and been the first female to tee off in what is considered the men's Open.

Not that her failed Open bid crushed her. If anything, it apparently inspired her.

All those naysayers who think the 16-year-old Wie is being rushed into competition should have seen her yesterday. She came within two shots of a sudden-death playoff with Se Ri Pak, the eventual winner, and Karrie Webb yesterday in the L.P.G.A. Championship, a major on the women's tour.

Wie, who has five top-five finishes in her past five women's majors, keeps proving that, no matter her age, she can compete over 72 holes with the best women's pros. It's only a matter of time until she wins a major title.

Why not the Women's Open, which starts June 29 at Newport (R.I.) Country Club?

Until then, golf must be satisfied with the men's Open at Winged Foot, where Vijay Singh has been added to the marquee.
370 2006-06-12 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:         Golfsmith International, an initial public offering of six million shares. Merrill Lynch and J. P. Morgan.     Horizon Lines, 5.8 million shares. Deutsche Bank.   ...
371 2006-06-12 Phil Mickelson's changes in his practice regimen have put him on an equal footing with Tiger Woods entering the United States Open at Winged Foot Golf Club. With a look at the challenges of Winged Foot and its rich Open history. Section F....
372 2006-06-12 Winged Foot Golf Club is located in Mamaroneck, N.Y., 27 miles north of New York City.    Getting There by Car  Spectator parking will be provided at lots located north and south of the course, with free transportation to and from the course.     ...
373 2006-06-12 INVESTORS SHUN RISK -- The terms differ slightly -- a nervous sell-off, a correction, the beginnings of a bear market. But as markets from India to Brazil to the United States skidded last week, there was little doubt that investors were dumping r...
374 2006-06-12 Jones Is On When It Counts  THE WORLD'S BEST golfer was Bobby Jones, a 27-year-old amateur (and lawyer) from Atlanta. The next year, he won the Grand Slam of that day: United States Open, United States Amateur, British Open and British Amateur. Th...
375 2006-06-13 William F. Weld's aides had promised that the former candidate for governor would deliver "Secrets of My Campaign" at the annual awards dinner tonight of the Brownstone Republican Club. But anyone expecting a tell-all by Mr. Weld would have been d...
376 2006-06-13 The NYSE Group's regulation subsidiary said on Tuesday it had fined three banks a total of $1.35 million for proxy vote violations, such as submitting more votes than they were entitled to in various proxy matters. The NYSE said it had fined UBS S...
377 2006-06-13 A new investigative Web site, Sharesleuth.com, is getting all its financing from Mark Cuban, the technology entrepreneur, independent media mogul and owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball franchise, according to PaidContent.org. Sharesleuth, wh...
378 2006-06-13 The Hain Celestial Group said on Tuesday it had acquired the Linda McCartney brand frozen meat-free food business from the H.J. Heinz Company, expanding its line of natural and organic products. Go to Article from Reuters via Yahoo »...
379 2006-06-13 Marsh Supermarkets, which agreed to be acquired by an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, said on Monday it opposed a richer takeover offer from a group led by Cardinal Paragon because of uncertainty surrounding the bid. Last month, Marsh said it h...
380 2006-06-13 A start-up dubbed Baynote is set to begin operating on Tuesday with on-demand software so Web site publishers can make it easier for visitors to find what they are looking for. Baynote, which received $4.6 million in venture capital funding last y...
381 2006-06-13 Adept Technology agreed Monday to sell $10 million worth of its common stock to Crosslink Capital. Livermore-based Adept will sell the shares at $13.6752 each. The deal represents about 11 percent of the company's outstanding shares before the fin...
382 2006-06-13 The buzz surrounding ethanol producers is growing as the first of three companies gets set to go public, but analysts say retail investors should beware of the risks associated with getting in on the ethanol game. Three ethanol producers are looki...
383 2006-06-13 The Securities and Exchange Commission has charged a Wachovia Securities broker with insider trading relating to Blue Rhino's 2004 merger with Ferrellgas Partners. The S.E.C. has alleged insider trading by five individuals, including Mark Michel, ...
384 2006-06-13 Nasdaq Stock Market said on Monday it had agreed to buy PrimeZone Media Network, a privately held publisher of corporate press releases, for an undisclosed price. Nasdaq said it plans to integrate Los Angeles-based PrimeZone's information distribu...
385 2006-06-13 Alcan's chief executive, Richard Evans, downplayed speculation on Monday that the company, the world's second-largest aluminum producer, is a takeover target. "We are a company that we think is doing all the right things. We do not need a partner,...
386 2006-06-13 The New York Post speculated that a dramatic fall in New York Stock Exchange shares over the past two weeks may undermine its plans to merge with Euronext, a deal that has been hammered by a host of politicians across the Atlantic. The slide, whic...
387 2006-06-13 Mirant withdrew its proposal to acquire its rival, NRG Energy, on Monday. But apparently that was not enough for one disgruntled hedge fund. Pirate Capital, an activist hedge fund that owns 1.6 percent of Mirant, reiterated a call for the energy c...
388 2006-06-13 A federal judge in New York has awardedthe book publishing and movie rights to some ofJohn Steinbeck's major works to his bloodheirs. They have feuded with his widow, Elaine,or her estate since Steinbeck died in 1968.The works, which include "The Grapes ofWrath," "Of Mice and Men" and "Tortilla Flat,"will become the property of Steinbeck's sonThomas and granddaughter Blake Smyle,daughter of Steinbeck's other son, John SteinbeckIV, who died in 1991. Thomas Steinbeckand Ms. Smyle had also sought theatrical rightsto "Cannery Row" and film rights to "The WaywardBus," but the judge denied those; the suitwas filed in 2004. Judge Richard Owen's decision on Thursday was part of alarger dispute involving Thomas Steinbeck, Ms. Smyle, Elaine Steinbeck'sheirs, the Steinbeck Heritage Foundation and the literary agents McIntosh &Otis. Thomas and John Steinbeck IV are Steinbeck's children by his secondwife, Gwyndolyn Conger. When the author died, his will did not expresslymention the copyrights of his works. Susan J. Kohlmann, a lawyer for the estateof Elaine Steinbeck, who died in 2003, said, "We disagree with some of thejudge's conclusions and are considering our options."
389 2006-06-13 Monday's slide in United States' stock markets was blamed on many factors - inflation, energy prices, geopolitics - but why not chalk it up to Americans' sad showing in the World Cup? As unlikely as it may seem, the financial world is happily draw...
390 2006-06-13 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
391 2006-06-13 The U.S. national team didn't look too animated on Monday, but that doesn't mean there's no room for animation in soccer. In fact, these animated re-enactments of goals from the current tournament, appearing on the Czech site aktualny.cz, are fun ...
392 2006-06-13 Goldman's shares fell $5.75, or 4 percent, to close at $139.25 this afternoon on the New York Stock Exchange, after trading as low as $138.01. On Monday, Lehman Brothers reported profit that was 47 percent higher than the previous year and its stock dropped more than $5.

"This is market specific," said Lauren Smith, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, a boutique that focuses on financial service firms. "There was nothing Lehman specific yesterday and nothing Goldman specific today. We've had difficult markets and they seem to be not turning."

Investment banking revenue increased 87 percent from a year earlier, to $1.5 billion, fueled by a sequential and year-on-year rise in overall underwriting and stock underwriting and a 58 percent increase in merger and acquisition revenue over the second quarter of 2005.

The fixed-income division, the company's biggest unit, reported revenue of $4.3 billion, up 15 percent from the first quarter and 184 percent over the second quarter of 2005. The group's results were helped by the $700 million sale of a power plant to a General Electric unit.

David A. Viniar, Goldman's chief financial officer, said all of the divisions within fixed income, including currencies, commodities, credit products and mortgages, performed as well as or better than they did in the first quarter.

The equities division, which handles the trading of stocks and stock-related products, made $2.4 billion, down 4 percent from the first quarter but up 113 percent from a year earlier.

The business of servicing hedge funds also reported strong growth, up 34 percent sequentially and year on year and totaling $656 million for the quarter. Over all, the asset management and securities services division recorded $1.6 billion in revenue, down 19 percent from the first quarter but up 37 percent from a year earlier.

Goldman's value-at-risk, its estimate of what it can lose in a trading day, rose to $112 million from $60 million a year earlier and $92 million in the first quarter.

Ms. Smith said such a trend was not surprising. "Goldman is notorious for and committed to trading for their clients in good and bad markets, as well as trading using capital proprietarily."

Mr. Viniar predicted more of the same.

"When we see opportunities, we take risks," he said. "Over the course of Goldman Sachs's history it will get higher as the firm grows."

Like Lehman, Goldman has a positive view on global economic growth but believes weak equity markets, if they persist, will translate to waning corporate confidence and less activity.

Unlike the fixed-income markets, in which the investment firms appear to be able to make money regardless of the direction of interest rates, Mr. Viniar said falling equity markets affect activity levels as well as economic growth. "The direction of equity markets does matter," he said.

Some investors in financial services stocks had a bleaker outlook. "It's all about the psychology and the psychology is very negative," said Michael Holland, a money manager who focuses on the financial services industry.

How to manage turbulence in the markets will be one of the main challenges facing Lloyd C. Blankfein, who was named on June 2 to succeed Henry M. Paulson Jr. as chairman and chief executive. President Bush nominated Mr. Paulson to succeed John W. Snow as Treasury secretary on May 30. Mr. Blankfein, who hails from the commodities side of the business, will take over if the Senate confirms Mr. Paulson's nomination, which is widely expected.
393 2006-06-13 At the same time, energy price increases eased last month, the report said. Gasoline prices rose 2.2 percent following a 12.3 percent jump in April and a 9.1 percent jump in March. Heating oil also rose at a much slower rate. Economic indicators like the Producer Price Index have taken on added significance ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting at the end of this month. The Fed's policymakers will decide whether to raise short-term interest rates for the 17th time since June 2004, and several Fed governors have said lately that they are concerned about accelerating inflation.

Many investors have taken the Fed's comments about inflation to mean that a rate increase is inevitable. That has helped push stocks down sharply worldwide in recent weeks as investors fear that the higher rates will dampen stock market activity.

A deep sell-off jolted Asian markets early today, and the leading European markets later dropped nearly 2 percent or more.

The losses were more modest in the American stock market. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 86.44 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 10,706.14 this afternoon. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 12.71 points, or 1 percent, to 1,223.69, while the Nasdaq composite index lost 18.85 points, or 0.9 percent, to 2,072.47.

On Monday, stocks in the United States fell broadly, with the S.&P. 500 erasing its gains for the year. The Dow fell nearly 100 points, or 1 percent, and the Nasdaq dropped more than 2 percent.

That set off the sharp decline today in Asian markets, which saw one of their worst trading days in recent years. Japan's benchmark index, the Nikkei, fell more than 4 percent in its biggest single-day drop since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

The Asian selling took on the appearance of a general rout as steep declines were posted by some of the nation's best-known and most profitable companies, including Toyota Motor, Canon and Sharp.

India's Sensex index posted Asia's biggest decline, falling 4.6 percent. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong both fell close to 2.5 percent.

Today's moves were the latest in a series of dramatic swings by markets in recent days. The Nikkei, for instance, is down 7.58 percent over the last five trading days, despite rallies on Friday and Monday.

Analysts said the volatility partly reflects the sudden shifting of money by short-term investors like hedge funds and day traders. Today, they appeared to be once again dumping stocks to get out of what some fear could be a stubborn bear market.

"To be honest, I'm surprised by the recent volatility," said Chisato Haganuma, a strategist at Nomura Securities in Tokyo.

Today's report on the Producer Price Index was the first of two major economic reports on inflation scheduled this week. On Wednesday, the Labor Department will report May's Consumer Price Index, which measures inflation at the retail level and is considered to be a better indicator of the direction of prices.

But today's numbers suggest that price pressure at the consumer level could accelerate in the coming months. As the price of goods further up the production chain rise, those costs are passed along to wholesalers and eventually consumers.

Last month's jump in the prices of goods used in manufacturing like lumber and processed steel "suggests growing inflationary pressures in the production pipeline that could ultimately make their way into prices for final goods," said Stuart G. Hoffman and Richard F. Moody, economists at PNC Financial, in a research note to clients.

The Producer Price Index is often more volatile than the Consumer Price Index, and some economists cautioned that focusing too much on prices at the wholesale level could exaggerate the actual inflationary pressures.

"The increase of the core inflation rate is a slight concern," Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist with Global Insight, said in a telephone interview. "However, any one month's change has to be discounted somewhat because monthly changes in producer prices are relatively noisy."

In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that retail sales barely grew in May, inching up 0.1 percent, compared with 0.5 percent in April. Excluding auto sales, which dropped considerably last month, retail sales rose 0.5 percent in May, compared with 0.7 percent the prior month.

"Economic activity is doing exactly what the Fed expected," said Ken McCarthy, chief economist at vFinance Investments. "It's slowing down. It's being influenced by higher energy prices, interest rates and a slowing housing market."
394 2006-06-13 India's industrial output rose a stronger-than-expected 9.5 percent in April, helped by consumer spending on products like motorcycles, televisions and refrigerators, the government reported. Manufacturing, which accounts for more than three-quarters of industrial production, increased 10.4 percent. Capital goods output rose 24.9 percent in April and consumer goods output rose 8.7 percent. Mining expanded 4.3 percent in April, while electricity generation rose 5.6 percent.
395 2006-06-13 Dogs' sniffing prowess, well known for ages, lends itself to any number of needs. "Cocaine or peanut butter: whatever you want to find, we can train a dog to find it," said Bill Whitstine, Jada's original trainer and the founder of the Florida Canine Academy in Safety Harbor, Fla.

Engineers are still years away from creating instruments as sensitive or as flexible as a dog's nose. Until then, Mother Nature remains the master engineer. "You can train a dog for anything that has a unique or mostly unique odor," Dr. Myers said. In the case of DVD's, the smell that Lucky and Flo have been trained to detect is polycarbonate plastic. In the case of cancer, scientists believe that dogs may be picking up biological compounds, like alkanes and benzene derivatives, that are not found in healthy tissue.

The cancer detection research is in a preliminary stage, but some early tests with a variety of cancers like lung and bladder show a success rate better than conventional tests'.

Because dogs have 20 to 40 times the number of nasal receptor cells that humans do, they can detect the tiniest levels of odors, even a few parts per billion, Dr. Myers said. In addition, the dogs' nasal anatomy is very effective at sampling air, so much so that researchers are studying whether they can adapt it for a mechanical detector.

To be sure, dogs are but one animal with an extremely acute sense of smell (think European pigs and truffles), but being man's best friend helps with employment opportunities.

"I don't think you could ever get a police officer to get a pig around a car for a narcotics search," said David Latimer, a dog trainer in Birmingham, Ala., who has taught a dog to sniff out cellphones, part of an effort to thwart terrorists who plan to use them to detonate bombs. The dog has not been put to use in the field, however.

The training process is similar for almost all odors. For months, the dogs are given multiple items in succession to smell. When they come to the target odor — bedbugs or mold, for example — they get a reward. Eventually they associate the odor with the reward.

"All animals strive for food, sex and praise," Mr. Whitstine said. "We can't give them the middle one, but we can give them the food and praise." The more odors a dog is being asked to pick out, the longer the training. Mold dogs, for example, are taught to detect about 18 toxic molds, some of which cause allergies.

The training has to continue even after the dogs start working, so they remain sharp. Every day, Jada gets a refresher course from her owner, Carl Massicott, who runs Advanced K9 Detectives in Milford, Conn. To conduct the retraining, he built a contraption out of aluminum bars, a lazy susan and plastic containers. He spins the wheel and says, "Jada! Seek! Seek!"

Jada sniffed around the containers — one containing bedbug carcasses and the others containing decoy materials like carpet and plaster. When she got to the one with the dead bedbugs, she stopped. Then she tapped the container with her paw. "Good girl!" Mr. Massicott said, giving her a snack out of his waist pack.

He also uses live bedbugs for the retraining, which troubles his wife. Once, one escaped. "We weren't going to bed until we found it," Mr. Massicott said. Jada tracked the wayward bedbug down.

Jada needs only two minutes to check a room that can take a human up to half an hour to inspect. She has rooted out clusters of bedbugs in $500-a-night hotel rooms, elegant Park Avenue co-op buildings and Queens low-rise rentals. She has found bedbugs behind radiators and in cracks in the wall.

Many dogs who end up as career sniffers are rescued from shelters or pounds, just as Jada was, because the most important trait for them is not pedigree but personality. Trainers look for dogs that are eager and enjoy games. A common test is to see if they react enthusiastically to a tennis ball.

"Some dogs are too smart," said Alice Whitelaw, who works for a nonprofit conservation group in Montana and uses dogs to track wild animal excrement for biological surveying. "They're like, 'I don't need this. I could be lying down all day.' "

There are other limitations, since dogs are not machines. Jada can look for bedbugs only six hours a day before her accuracy declines. Dogs get tired. They are temperamental. They make mistakes in trying to please their handlers. In fact, overly high expectations helped fuel a boom and bust in termite-sniffing dogs in the 1980's. "We realize their fallibility," said Mr. Latimer, the trainer from Birmingham who is also training bedbug dogs. "I think that has caused them to gain in popularity and, quite frankly, in credibility."

Also, using sniffing dogs makes economic sense only when there is sufficient demand, like the recent surge in bedbugs in New York City.

As for sensing cows in heat, Dr. Myers sighed. "There is economic interest, but not enough to sustain it."
396 2006-06-13 On his first day back on the job, Woods drew more attention than anyone, and he even threw a decoy at the gathered fans and reporters.

A schedule posted on the course listed Woods as playing off the 10th tee at 1:14 p.m. with John Cook, Tommy Armour III and Madalitso Muthiya. At the appointed hour, thousands crammed into the grandstands and pressed against the gallery ropes, waiting for Woods to appear.

Cook said that he did not know Woods's whereabouts but guessed that he might play sometime later in the afternoon.

At 2 p.m., Woods was waggling his driver on the first tee.

Soon enough, the cameras found him, and so did the fans. They seemed happy to have him back.

"Get your sand wedge, Tiger!" another cautioned.

In all of Woods's years playing golf in New York, beginning with the 1995 United States Open at Shinnecock Hills in Southampton, fans have not been shy to praise or to rib him.

In a practice round during the 2002 United States Open at Bethpage Black, a fan broke the silence by announcing: "Hey, Tiger, I'm the Tiger of building supplies. You want a two-by-four, I'm the guy to see."

Woods did not speak with reporters Monday (he is scheduled to have a news conference Tuesday), but he spent part of the day joking with his caddie, Steve Williams, and receiving pats on the back from his competitors.

After his opening drive, he laced an iron to 10 feet before leaving the putt short. He split the fairway on the second hole and found the back of the green with a 5-wood on the 243-yard, par-3 third hole before missing the green wide left on his second attempt with a long iron.

"He's always good," Sluman said. "There's no rust on his game. If he drives it straight, then he'll win the golf tournament.

"If he doesn't drive it straight, he'll still have a hell of a chance to win."

Cook, one of Woods's closest friends, played two practice rounds with Woods last week at Isleworth Country Club in Florida and marveled at his precision.

"He must have been playing under someone else's name," Cook said. "He wasn't rusty at all."

Asked about Woods's preparedness for Winged Foot, Cook held his hands wide and said, "His eyes were this big."

At the end of his practice session, Woods walked off the ninth green with his arm around Sluman's shoulders.

As Woods walked between the gallery ropes, he pulled a pen from his golf bag and began signing autographs as he headed back to the practice area. He scrawled his signature on a tiger head cover and a pink hat.

After his last autograph, Woods returned to the practice area, where he rolled putts on the practice green and briefly chatted with Cook, who had finished his practice round on the opposite nine holes.

It was 5 p.m., and as Woods's coach, Hank Haney, stood with his arms folded, Woods lightly rapped putt after putt, sending golf balls tumbling across the quick green toward the hole.
397 2006-06-13 By The Associated Press

Italy distanced itself from a corruption scandal back home with a 2-0 victory over Ghana yesterday in Hanover, Germany.

Andrea Pirlo blasted a shot past a crowd of players after a short corner in the 40th minute, and the substitute Vincenzo Iaquinta capitalized on a defensive mistake to score in the 83rd minute.

Italy produced 13 shots on goal to Ghana's 4 and hit the crossbar and goalpost with shots.

"It was the best soccer of the tournament so far," said Joseph S. Blatter, the president of the sport's governing body, FIFA.

It was also a welcome bit of good news for Italy. Prosecutors in four Italian cities are investigating allegations of match-fixing, referee arrangements and illegal betting. Several players on Italy's roster have been linked to the scandal, either by their own actions or their clubs'.

Last week, Blatter issued an ultimatum to Italian authorities, telling them to decide on punishments for the scandal by the end of next month.
398 2006-06-13 The government cut electricity to the American diplomatic mission in Havana a week ago, and requests for power to be restored have gone unanswered, officials said. The seven-story building has been operating with generator power. "I would just say that the bullying tactics of the Castro regime aren't going to work," said the State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack.
399 2006-06-13 The Emirates has sent 1,075 boys smuggled in from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Eritrea, Mauritania and Sudan to race camels home to their countries, government officials said. The Emirates began enforcing a ban on child jockeys, some as young as 4, last year, after the State Department cited the country as a destination for smuggled children. "They are now a thing of the past," said the deputy interior minister, Maj. Gen. Saif Abdullah al-Shafar. "They no longer exist in the Emirates." Camel racers must now prove they are older than 18. The Emirates, Qatar and other Persian Gulf countries have also begun using small, remotely controlled robots as jockeys.
400 2006-06-13 The New York City Commission on Human Rights has scheduled hearings on how the advertising industry hires, retains and promotes minority employees, to be held the same week in September that the industry plans to hold its annual Advertising Week event.

Avery S. Mehlman, deputy commissioner in the law enforcement bureau of the commission, confirmed a report this week in Advertising Age that the hearings are scheduled for the week of Sept. 25. That is the week during which the numerous high-profile events of the third annual Advertising Week have been planned.

Mr. Mehlman declined yesterday to comment on whether the timing of the hearings was coincidental.

Mr. Mehlman also confirmed the Advertising Age report that 16 senior agency executives are being subpoenaed to testify at the hearings. Among them are the chief executives of agencies owned by the four largest agency companies: the Omnicom Group, the WPP Group, the Interpublic Group of Companies and the Publicis Groupe.

Although the industry has been working on efforts to increase minority hiring, critics have complained that not enough is being done to diversify the staffs of agencies. The topic, which the commission has been exploring for almost two years, was also the subject of a symposium yesterday sponsored by Black Enterprise magazine. At the symposium, Black Enterprise issued its list of the 40 best companies for diversity; none were agencies or agency companies.
401 2006-06-13 Accessibility for disabled passengers is mandated by the Air Carrier Access Act, which was passed in 1986. The Americans with Disabilities Act, which bars discrimination against the disabled, was passed in 1990.

Even so, many people who are familiar with the issue said that experiences like Ms. Cocuzzi's were all too common. Businesses, they say, may be following the letter of the regulations in accessibility, but not the spirit of them. All too often, they say, companies fall short in the way they accommodate people.

"The hospitality industry has done a fairly good job of making the physical aspects of travel accessible," said Cricket Park, former deputy executive director for the Association on Higher Education and Disability and now an independent meeting planner in Columbus, Ohio. "But there is still work to be done as far as educating people so that the attitude toward disability is one of welcome, rather than something they have to put up with. Unless someone has a relative or other personal experience with a disability, it's just not on people's radar."

"There is major customer service inconsistency," said Eric Lipp, executive director of the Open Doors Organization, a nonprofit group based in Chicago that researches travel by people with disabilities. According to an Open Doors survey from 2005, more than 80 percent of adults with disabilities who have traveled by air encountered obstacles. Their two most common complaints were the handling of devices like wheelchairs or scooters and the quality of the contracted workers, such as those who were unable to assist Ms. Cocuzzi.

Mr. Lipp is optimistic the situation will improve. In mid-May, he met with representatives of several airlines and their trade group, the Air Transport Association, to address these complaints. "The fact that 13 airlines showed up is amazing," he said. "They're really starting to open their eyes."

The airlines trade group helped organize the meeting. "We're always looking for ways to help our members improve their delivery of services and ensure that they comply with the law," said Sophy Chen, a senior attorney at the trade association, who attended. The Open Doors survey showed that 71 percent of disabled adults — more than 21 million people — traveled in the last two years. And a 2002 study revealed that disabled people spent $13.6 billion annually on travel.

"This is a huge market," said Joan W. Stein, chief executive of Accessibility Development Associates, and Ms. Cocuzzi's boss. Census Bureau figures released in April showed that 51.2 million people, or 18 percent of the population, had some sort of disability.

"That doesn't even touch the whole demographic of seniors," Ms. Stein added.

Mr. Lipp agreed. "There are a lot of mature travelers who don't self-identify as disabled but could use a walker or a large-print menu," he said. "They won't necessarily ask for it ahead of time, but if it's offered to them, they'll take it." Open Doors estimates that disabled and mature travelers spend $38 billion on travel. "This segment of the population has been overlooked," said Suzanne D. Cook, senior vice president of research at the Travel Industry Association of America. "Given that aging and disability are correlated, there will be millions more of these travelers."

Level Travel, an organization in Coatesville, Pa., has a Web site (www.leveltravel .com) that ranks hotels and restaurants in major cities on their accessibility for four groups: older travelers and travelers with mobility, hearing or vision impairment.

Jamie Sharples, Level Travel's president, said he founded the company three years ago because of inconsistencies he found in the travel industry. "We wanted to provide a standard instead of getting someone's opinion" on whether a facility was accessible, he said.

Kevin Maher, a vice president who handles adherence to regulations at the American Hotel and Lodging Association, said he had not heard any complaints that accessibility for the disabled was inconsistent within hotel chains. "Our industry is heavily franchised, though, so that may occasionally create some disconnect," he said.

Marcus Engel, a motivational speaker in St. Louis, Mo., who is blind and travels with a seeing-eye dog, said that contrary to the experiences of many disabled travelers, he had few complaints. "My career is about teaching people to overcome problems, so I may gloss over things, but in 11 years of traveling I've only had one true case of discrimination," he said. In January, he was returning home from a business trip and was refused entry into a taxi cab because of his dog, he said.

Mr. Engel added that he was suing the cab driver. "I hate to sue anyone, but when I give presentations people ask me what they should do if they're refused admittance anywhere," he said. "My answer is that it's a question of civil rights. Dr. King fought for everyone's civil rights, and I'm going to fight for mine."
402 2006-06-13 A publisher who disappeared on Saturday while sailing the Chesapeake Bay was presumed dead after a search of 100 square miles of water over two days turned up nothing. Search crews continued to look for the man, Philip Merrill, 72, but rescuers said it was unlikely he was still alive. His sailboat was found on Saturday more than a dozen miles south of his planned sailing route. Mr. Merrill, the publisher of Washingtonian magazine and six Maryland newspapers, was sailing alone.
403 2006-06-13 I WOULD rather ride my motorcycle for a business trip than fly — and I often do.

Atlanta to Louisville, Ky., is a six-hour drive on my BMW 1200 RT touring bike. It takes about the same amount of time to get to the airport, stand in line at the ticket counter, get screened, wait for the flight to leave, make the actual flight and then pick up my luggage after I land.

Being on a bike is a Zen-like experience. You're actually in the environment. You can smell the fresh-cut grass on the side of the road, the hot asphalt under your tires and the smoke from a faraway barbecue.

It's not at all like air travel, which to me is aggravated sensory deprivation. I think travel has become too easy, and too numbing. It's not an adventure anymore like it used to be.

When I show up to a business meeting in a pinstriped suit and motorcycle boots, I always get the same reaction from the men. They're envious. There is something about being on a bike that is singularly American. It says, "I have some priorities here that aren't about life expectancy."

I usually have some explaining to do. For example, the funny indentation on my head, from the helmet. Or the dust. It's a lovely ice-breaker, explaining that you got to your meeting on a motorcycle.

Not everyone approves of my choice of transportation. My wife gets a lot of negative feedback from other women. They say, "How could you let your husband do that?" I was stopped at an intersection in Atlanta, next to a luxury S.U.V. with a couple in their mid-40's. The guy gave me the "nice bike" nod, a universal sign of approval among men. I nodded back, and when I did, his wife slapped him.
404 2006-06-13 For every American who dreams that a singing voice, dance skills or back-stabbing boardroom tactics will earn him a piece of prime-time fame, thousands more have dreamed smaller, longing only to guess the price of a sectional couch or a pint of heavy cream. They don't want a record contract; they want an all-expenses-paid trip to Asia, or maybe a banjo.

"I have been watching this show all my life," said Gregory Bourgard, 26, who comes several times a year from Odenton, Md., to line up for a spot in the audience, even though he can never be a contestant again because he was once a showcase winner.

"I'm not trying to relive the moment," he said on a recent Sunday night at the Farmer's Daughter, where he was gearing up for visit No. 30. "I just want to be in the audience again."

Game shows may come and go, but "The Price Is Right" is a cultural touchstone for generations of Americans.

Who under 50 — except for those raised by parents who banned television and put rice cakes rather than Ring Dings in their lunchboxes — did not spend dozens of childhood mornings zoned out on the couch, playing along with the Dice Game or screaming at the fool from San Diego about to overbid on a bag of corn chips?

"We're here for our parents, our grandparents and people in our lives who have since passed on who watched the show," said Cindy Kilkenny, 57.

It is the democracy of the audience, and the show's theme — how to gauge inflation, essentially — that has sustained its appeal, said Mr. Barker, the show's 82-year-old host (and its executive producer).

"Everyone in the United States can identify with our show," he said. "On most game shows today you will see contestants between 20 and 45 who are physically attractive. We have people on 'The Price Is Right' who are between 20 and 45 who are physically attractive too."

"But we have people who, when they became 18, the first thing they did was come to 'The Price Is Right,' " he continued, "and I had a big winner on a recent show who was 95. We deliberately select contestants that are black, white and brown. We deliberately pick contestants from all over the United States. We have fat people, thin, short, tall, you name it."

How much stuff costs, he added, is what people think about every day, anyway. "The premise is so overpowering," he said. "Everyone identifies with prices. Whether you're a television executive or a newspaper reporter or a policeman or unemployed."

And while television may worship 22-year-olds and body parts created in the operating theater, Mr. Barker is also part of the show's grand appeal, and he has the X-rays to prove it. One overzealous fan bear-hugged Mr. Barker and broke a rib; several have crushed his toes; and one raced onto the stage and head-butted him in the solar plexus.

"It is a dangerous job," said Mr. Barker, who holds special affection for a fan who raced to her contestant's seat with such enthusiasm that her tube top fell down. She failed to adjust it for several live minutes.

The audience is largely filled by groups on buses who are guaranteed seats. The rest are fans who line up, often beginning at midnight, for the extra spots, which are doled out on a first-come-first-served basis. Some days there are two, others 200.

For these fans Ted Ott, a clerk at the Farmer's Daughter, gives free workshops each night before tapings (two on Mondays and one Tuesday through Thursday).

Mr. Ott, who lines up on his day off, uses a broken section of a backgammon board to represent the "Price Is Right" studio, and lectures for roughly 40 minutes, in between checking in guests.

He gives the following advice: Do not wear costumes. ("The show's producers have a horror of waking up and finding out they are on 'Let's Make a Deal,' " he said.) Show up on time to get your four-digit line-spot number, and guard it with your life.

If you get a spot in the audience — and are thus granted a 20-second interview with the producer to see if you might be called down — be clever. Don't go to the restroom when people are being called down. If you are thinking of bringing in a cheat sheet on prices, think again, because that is a felony.

But to that quintessential American question: is it worth it? For Sean Steiner, 22, who came from Akron, Ohio, to be the first in line for the show, it was the fulfillment of a childhood dream. "It was a once-in-a-lifetime experience," he said. "I was feet from Bob. He was cracking jokes, telling stories about the ducks who live in his swimming pool during the commercial break. The best part was, I got to come home and watch myself on TV."
405 2006-06-13 Premature babies and those with low birth weights are at significantly increased risk of developing the most severe form of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, according to new research.

In comparing 834 premature and low-birth-weight babies with 20,100 normal ones born from 1980 to 1994, Danish researchers found that those with gestational ages of 34 to 36 weeks had a 70 percent increased risk of the disorder compared with full-term infants, and those born before 34 weeks of gestation had almost triple the risk. Normal gestation age is 38 to 42 weeks.

Full-term, low-birth-weight babies were also at risk. Those who were born weighing 3.3 to 5.5 pounds had a 90 percent increased risk of attention disorder, and those with birth weights of 5.5 to 5.7 pounds were one and a half times as likely as heavier infants to develop the illness.

The results remained valid after controlling for the socioeconomic status of the parents, family history of psychiatric disorders, conduct disorders and maternal smoking during pregnancy. The study appears online in The Archives of Disease in Childhood.

"Our results are based on a study of associations," said Dr. Karen M. Linnet, the lead author and a pediatrician at Aarhus University Hospital. "We don't know if the results reflect mechanisms related to pregnancy, delivery or the neonatal period."

This is discouraging news for the parents of premature babies, Dr. Linnet said, "but perhaps the results could contribute to the etiological research on A.D.H.D., where the causes for most cases are unknown."
406 2006-06-13 AUTO WORKERS CONVENTION -- The United Automobile Workers convention opened in Las Vegas with leaders and members in a familiar fighting mood, but with a new battle plan aimed at protecting what they have rather than gaining new ground. [Page C1.] ...
407 2006-06-14 Mergers and acquisitions star Joseph Perella may launch his much-anticipated investment banking boutique this week and possibly as early as Thursday, CNBC's Charles Gasparino reported Wednesday. Despite last week's defection of Jon Anda back to hi...
408 2006-06-14 Michaels Stores filed its delayed quarterly report late Tuesday and confirmed that there may be accounting discrepancies in its financials related to stock options granted before 2001. The arts-and-crafts retailer became associated with the so-cal...
409 2006-06-14 Private equity players Blackstone Group and Carlyle Group have reportedly postponed plans to launch listed buyout funds. In the current market conditions, it's not surprising. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts already mopped up most of the demand. But Break...
410 2006-06-14 Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation could auction off the MySpace search business to one of the larger search providers like Google, Yahoo or Microsoft's MSN, a senior News Corp. executive said Tuesday. Chief Operating Officer Peter Chernin, speakin...
411 2006-06-14 J. Crew will offer 18.8 million shares at a per-share price between $15 and $17 in its upcoming initial public offering, according to a regulatory filing on Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission According to Tuesday's amended prospec...
412 2006-06-14 Adobe Systems "has made no determination" to take legal action against Microsoft, after Microsoft said it would offer a free download to let users create PDF files in the next version of Office. Adobe, the world's largest maker of graphics softwar...
413 2006-06-14 The Securities and Exchange Commission is inviting public comment on the cost of mutual fund governance rules set aside by a federal court in April, a move that leaves open the possibility of reviving or revising them. The agency will accept comme...
414 2006-06-14 The buyout firm Nautic Partners is near closing a deal to sell Contec, which repairs cable TV set-top boxes, to a fellow buyout firm, LBO Wire reported. The transaction, which was cleared of antitrust concerns by the Federal Trade Commission, is e...
415 2006-06-14 The French insurer AXA has agreed to buy the Swiss-based Winterthur unit from Credit Suisse for 12.3 billion Swiss francs ($10 billion), the companies said Wednesday. AXA, one of the world's largest insurers, said the purchase would strengthen its...
416 2006-06-14 Place Micron Technology's acquisition of Lexar Media in the "be careful what you wish for" file. Shareholders are scheduled to vote Friday on the $732 million deal, which links two chipmakers, and signs suggest they will approve the transaction. S...
417 2006-06-14 In the hullabaloo over the future of Euronext, a stock market with suitors on both sides of the Atlantic, the myriad interests are so vocal and so varied that they risk drowning out a crucial question for many Europeans: What outcome, if any, will...
418 2006-06-14 Bucking the recent trend toward last-minute price cuts on stock offerings, ethanol producer VeraSun Energy pegged its initial public offering above the forecast range late Tuesday. Then the new stock proceeded to jump nearly 30 percent on the New ...
419 2006-06-14 To defuse the tensions, Mr. Haniyeh and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president and a member of Fatah, have agreed to a series of talks, which continued today.

But a central issue seem beyond immediate resolution: Mr. Abbas, a moderate, has been pressing Hamas into accepting some implicit recognition of Israel, aimed at freeing up foreign money and restarting peace talks with Israel. Barring that, Mr. Abbas has said he will schedule a referendum next month calling for a Palestinian state within pre-1967 borders, a proposal that polls show most Palestinians support.

Hamas's leadership strongly opposes the referendum as illegal and an effort to undermine the party's election victory.

But there were indications today that the two sides may have made progress on the difficult question of the Hamas militia, still outside government control. Fatah officials said that Hamas had agreed to steps to integrate some 3,000 fighters into the security forces, though no timetable was given. Hamas has already agreed in principle to such a move.

With the government in desperate need of cash, the Hamas foreign minister, Mahmoud Zahar, crossed over into Gaza from Egypt carrying a reported $20 million in cash in his suitcases. He was returning from a long trip to Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei, China, Pakistan, Iran and Egypt.

At least two other Hamas leaders have been stopped at the border carrying large amounts of cash, since international banks have refused to transfer money to the Hamas-led government. While the United States and European Union have refused to fund the government, many Muslim nations have pledged their support.

The earlier shipments, totaling some $5 million, had been confiscated but then released, supposedly to the Palestinian government. But some Palestinians suggest that the money may not have gone to the finance ministry but used by Hamas to pay its loyalists.

As a top government official, Mr. Zahar was reportedly allowed to bring the money into Gaza.

Though a substantial sum, the $20 million is a fraction of $120 million the Palestinian Authority needs each month just for the salaries of its 165,000 employees, most of whom have not been paid for four months. The authority's current budget would require another $45 million for all costs other than salaries.

Even as tensions continued to flare between Palestinian factions, the wider conflict was the Israeli military was largely quiet today. The Israeli military reported that Palestinians had fired one home-made rocket from Gaza, but that it landed harmlessly in the desert.

In recent months, the number of homemade rocket attacks has increased dramatically, to nearly 100 this month alone. Last week, during an Israeli retaliatory attack, seven members of a Palestinian family were killed on a beach in Gaza, causing Hamas to call off its 16-month truce and provoking much soul-searching in Israel about its military's tactics.

On Tuesday, however, the Israeli military contended that an internal investigation showed its munitions had not been responsible, a finding rejected by the Palestinians.

The deaths, followed by another 10 killed in Gaza on Tuesday, among them 8 civilians, came at a sensitive time, as Prime Minister Ehud Olmert made his first trip in office to Europe. Today, Mr. Olmert met with President Jacques Chirac of France, trying to persuade him to accept Israeli plans to withdraw unilaterally from parts of the West Bank in the absence of a peace with the Palestinians.

Many European leaders, Mr. Chirac included, have said they oppose any such unilateral withdrawal. Mr. Olmert told reporters after his meeting that while he still hoped for a negotiated solution, Israel was determined to carry through on its plans.

"The realignment plan is inevitable," he told reporters in France. "It will be implemented."
420 2006-06-14 Lesser terms were handed down for others charged in the case, including Mr. Benchelalli's father, mother and brother, Hafed, who were found guilty of "criminal association in relation with a terrorist enterprise." Two people were acquitted.

French counterterrorism officials and the press dubbed the group the "Chechen network" because several of its members trained with Chechen rebels in the Caucasus Mountains.

Former Secretary of State Colin Powell singled the group out as a link between Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and gobal terrorism in his February 2003 presentation to the United Nations about the threat then posed by Iraq. The presentation included a flow chart showing a string of alleged relationships between Mr. Zarqawi and Mr. Benhamed and Mr. Benchelalli.

Those ties were never proven, but French investigators claim a link did exist between Mr. Arif and Mr. Zarqawi, who was killed by American bombs in Iraq last week.

Mr. Arif was born in Oran, Algeria, in 1965 and served as a lieutenant in the Algerian Army before joining the Islamist movement that swept the nation in the 1990's. Counterterrorism experts say he trained in Afghanistan and forged close relationships with many people there, including Mr. Zarqawi.

They say he was associated with members of a terrorist cell in Frankfurt who were arrested and charged with planning an attack against France's Strasbourg cathedral in December 2000.

In mid-2001, investigators say, Mr. Arif and other members of the group arrested in Paris traveled to the Pankisi Gorge in Northeastern Georgia, where they joined other ethnic Arabs from Europe and the Middle East for paramilitary training. There, they allegedly met associates of Mr. Zarqawi's who had moved to the gorge from Afghanistan after the American invasion of Afghanistan in 2001.

In March 2002, Mr. Arif and two other members of the French group returned to France by way of Barcelona, Spain, where they were briefly held on suspicion of having stolen a laptop computer belonging to an American tourist.

The group was arrested in December that year, but Mr. Arif vanished. He was later arrested in Syria.

Among the items that investigators found in the apartment used by the group in 2002 were two integrated circuit boards, each about the size of a stick of chewing gum, concealed in the soap dish of a defunct washing machine. The boards were each connected to a 9-volt battery and experts later determined that they worked as receivers for touch-tone signals transmitted by a mobile telephone.

Police believe they were intended for a remote detonator that would be both more secure and allow greater control than the cruder mobile telephone detonators used in past terrorist bombings. By using a tone signal device, the French group could detonate an explosion from a great distance at the touch of a button.

French counterterrorism officials believe the training to build the transmitters came from the network in Chechnya.

But the lawyers for Mr. Arif and Mr. Benhamed dismissed all of those claims as part of an elaborate fiction constructed by the government to target men because of their religious and political beliefs. Mr. Benhamed has been sentenced to death in Algeria for his activities there as a member of the Islamic Armed Group, or G.I.A.

Sebastian Bono, Mr. Arif's lawyer, said his client never met Mr. Zarqawi and that Mr. Arif was tortured into saying making many false statements while in custody in Syria.

"There was never a question of link to Zarqawi," he said.

Isabelle Coutant-Peyre, Mr. Benhamed's lawyer, went further, accusing the French intelligence services of planting the circuit boards in the apartment and bowing to foreign pressure to convict her client.

"The plot never existed, it was manipulation by the Americans and the Russians," she said. "This confirms that the French justice system isn't independent of political decisions taken overseas about Muslims in France."
421 2006-06-14 A summary of the top stories in Russian newspapers appears Monday through Friday.

Russia's strength as a world economic power was discussed in most national newspapers Wednesday, after President Vladimir V. Putin opened a conference billed as the Russian Davos on the same day that the stock market suffered its biggest one-day drop since Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky was arrested in 2003.

Opening the 10th Petersburg International Economic Forum on Tuesday, Mr. Putin said that "nobody has any doubt that Russia is a world leader in the speed of its economic growth," according to Rossiskaya Gazeta. Mr. Putin added that gold and currency reserves continued to grow, and that his country was no longer threatened by foreign debt or in need of foreign loans, several newspapers reported. Izvestia concluded that "everything in Russia is going very well".

First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev, who is regularly touted as Mr. Putin's heir-in-waiting, delivered a speech at the conference's opening session in which he seemed "enthused by the strong state of the Russian economy," according to Nezavisimaya Gazeta. Mr. Medvedev also questioned the wisdom of the United States dollar remaining the basic unit for world currency reserves, citing high budget and trade deficits in America. "The current state of the economy in the United States — the issuer of the world's sole reserve currency — raises concerns," Mr. Medvedev said, according to the Moscow Times, "and gives us the moral right to initiate a discussion about the need for more balanced rules in this area." He suggested diversifying the world reserve system by including several world currencies, including the Russian ruble. Kommersant said that Mr. Medvedev's speech amounted to a "presentation of his campaign program."

Vremya Novostei referred to the day as "another black Tuesday," however. While delegates at the conference in St. Petersburg "were talking about investment opportunities," the paper wrote, "investors were getting rid of Russian assets, which are still considered risky." The Russian Trading System stock exchange plunged 9.37 percent, with Gazprom shares falling 11 percent and Lukoil dropping 10.2 percent. The same stock exchange had reached a record high in early May, the Moscow Times noted, highlighting "the growing volatility of the local market."

Vremya Novstei attributed the crash to the turnaround of the dollar and its recent rise against other world currencies, which decreased the price of gold in world markets.
422 2006-06-14 Prices at the retail level continued to climb in May, led by rising fuel costs and rents.

The government reported today that the so-called core rate of the Consumer Price Index, a closely watched measure of prices excluding the volatile food and energy categories, rose a slightly higher than expected 0.3 percent, reaffirming the belief among many economists and investors that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again later this month.

The price data came as a Fed official said in a speech today that recent inflationary pressures have been "corrosive."

The Labor Department said that overall consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in May, a slight deceleration from April's 0.6 percent increase. But compared with last May, prices have jumped 4.2 percent, the government said. That is considerably higher than the 3.9 percent increase economists forecast. The core rate, meanwhile, rose at an annual pace of 2.4 percent in May, up from a 2.3 percent pace in April.

The cost of housing accounted for more than half of the 0.3 increase in the core rate from April to May, the Labor Department said.

Investors, wary that another interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve could slow down economic growth, have pushed stock prices lower worldwide recently.
423 2006-06-14 Federal Homeland Security officials have expressed concerns about the coverage of a warning siren system that Entergy Nuclear Northeast is installing across four counties for its Indian Point nuclear plant. A brief review of a preliminary design report by Entergy found that the network "will not provide complete coverage" of the 10-mile emergency zone surrounding Indian Point. An Entergy spokesman, Jim Steets, said yesterday that the company would review the department's findings.
424 2006-06-14 Economic indicators like the Producer Price Index and the retail sales report have taken on added significance ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting at the end of this month. The Fed's policy makers will decide whether to raise short-term interest rates for the 17th time since June 2004, and several Fed governors have said lately that they are concerned about accelerating inflation.

But with many economists of the belief that another rate increase is a foregone conclusion and with overall inflation still relatively low, the slight bump in the price data raised few eyebrows yesterday.

"No alarm bells were set off by today's report," Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist with Global Insight, said. "The increase of the core inflation rate is a slight concern. However, any one month's change has to be discounted somewhat because monthly changes in producer prices are relatively noisy."

On Wall Street, stocks closed lower yesterday, but the losses were more moderate than on Monday. These followed steep losses in Asian markets. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was slightly higher.

Anxiety over another rate increase has helped push stocks down sharply worldwide as investors fear that the higher rates will dampen stock market activity.

Yesterday's report on the Producer Price Index was the first of two major reports on inflation this week. This morning, the Labor Department will report the Consumer Price Index for May, which measures inflation at the retail level and is considered to be a better indicator of the direction of prices.

Most economists will be looking to those figures to see whether inflation is accelerating at a troubling pace.

"On the margin, you've got slightly higher numbers on the core than expected," said James O'Sullivan, an economist with UBS. "But it really wasn't that big of a deal. There's really a lot more focus on the consumer number."

The price report also showed that increases for energy eased last month. Wholesale gasoline prices rose 2.2 percent, after a 12.3 percent jump in April and a 9.1 percent jump in March. The price of heating oil also rose at a much slower rate.

But the numbers suggest that price pressure at the consumer level could accelerate in the coming months. As the price of goods on the production chain rise, those costs are passed along to wholesalers and eventually consumers.

Last month's jump in the prices of goods used in manufacturing like lumber and processed steel "suggests growing inflationary pressures in the production pipeline that could ultimately make their way into prices for final goods," Stuart G. Hoffman and Richard F. Moody, economists at PNC Financial, said in a research note to clients.

Although the price of automobiles fell 0.4 percent in May, that hardly helped sales. Overall retail sales rose 0.1 percent in May, but excluding autos, the increase was 0.5 percent. Auto sales fell 1.6 percent compared with April.

Retail sales by grocery stores in May were up, as were sales at gasoline stations, which rose 1.9 percent for the month and 21.9 percent for the preceding 12 months, reflecting the higher cost of fuel.
425 2006-06-14 WASHINGTON, June 13 — Nearly two months after stepping down as the top Democrat on the House ethics committee, Representative Alan B. Mollohan on Tuesday filed some two dozen corrections to his past six annual financial disclosure forms, saying his accountant had uncovered "a relative handful of unintentional and immaterial mistakes."

Mr. Mollohan, of West Virginia, is facing his most intense electoral challenge since he was first elected in 1982, fueled in part by an F.B.I. investigation into possible links between his real estate investments and five nonprofit groups he founded and supported with special federal appropriations known as earmarks.

In releasing the long-awaited financial report, Mr. Mollohan said it "shows that government money has never been used" and "no money has ever been diverted from the nonprofits" to his investments. He compared the National Legal and Policy Center — a conservative group whose written complaint prompted the F.B.I. inquiry — to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy for publicly describing "250 misrepresentations and omissions" in his financial forms but refusing to release the 500-page complaint detailing the accusations.

"It has been obvious for some time that N.L.P.C. is not really interested in learning the truth," Mr. Mollohan said in a statement. "It is not a public watchdog. It is an attack dog controlled by, and linked to, national political operatives who are desperate to unseat me."

Most of the amendments Mr. Mollohan filed with the clerk of the House are minor matters of sloppiness, switching closing dates on real estate deals or tweaking income totals from rental properties. But the congressman also acknowledged that from 1999 to 2002 he failed to include a significant transaction relating to the Remington condominiums he and his wife own with Rosemary and Joseph Jarvis, distant cousins who have a history of bankruptcy and failed federal contracts.
426 2006-06-14 The signers of the letter include booksellers and distributors in Lisbon, Barcelona, Copenhagen, Amsterdam and Paris. "In a global market, this would be an atavistic move," they write, "because it means a return to protectionism and an attack on cultural diversity."

If a book is originally published in Britain, its publisher already gets exclusive rights in Europe. Sales of British-published English-language editions in Continental Europe represent about $300 million in annual revenue, about 6 percent of total sales, said Tim Hely Hutchinson, chief executive of Hachette Livre UK, a publishing company that owns the Hodder Headline, Orion, Little Brown UK and Octopus imprints. In comparison, sales by British publishers totaled about $5.2 billion last year, according to the Publishers Association, a trade group.

"It's not a land grab for Europe as a territory," said Stephen Page, chief executive and publisher of Faber & Faber UK and president of the Publishers Association. "It's about defending the United Kingdom as a territory for British publishers."

Although Mr. Page could not cite specific figures on how many American editions had been showing up for sale in Britain, he said, "it's not the scale of what is happening, it's our anxiety of what could happen."

Jonathan Lloyd, group managing director of Curtis Brown UK, a literary agency in London, said that in one high-profile case last year, the United States hardcover edition of "Star of the Sea" by Joseph O'Connor, a historical novel published by Harcourt, became the No. 1 best seller in Ireland at the same time that Random House UK was publishing the paperback version of the book in Britain.

The American publishers dispute that British publishers are having trouble protecting their home market from American interlopers.

An open European market "is the way it has worked for years, and there has to be a big perceived benefit to change it," said Carolyn K. Reidy, president of adult publishing at Simon & Schuster in New York, which is owned by the CBS Corporation. She estimated that United States publishers sold about $250 million in books in Continental Europe each year, or 2 percent of sales.

Ms. Reidy argues that the ability to produce European editions also enables publishers to sell English-language versions in small export markets in Asia and Latin America, helping to increase an author's global exposure.

With so many publishing companies now owned by large corporations with divisions on both sides of the Atlantic, the debate is often an internal one. "We have talked quite rationally to the British part of our company but I don't think they are in total agreement with our global stance," said Jane Friedman, president and chief executive of HarperCollins Publishers, the United States publishing unit of the News Corporation media conglomerate. Calls to Amanda Ridout, managing director of general books at HarperCollins UK, were not returned.

One global company that is siding with its British divisions is Hachette. "It is of vital importance that we maintain European exclusivity for U.K. publishers," said David Young, chief executive of Hachette Book Group USA, which owns the Little, Brown and Warner Books imprints.

His counterpart in London, Mr. Hely Hutchinson, said that authors and publishers "are far better served where there is one publisher who can provide all the marketing and customer support for the book and do so without worrying about somebody else free-riding on all that publicity."

But American publishers do not want to give in on Europe because of the precedent it might set. "You want to protect as many of the rights suite as is available," said Jack Romanos, president and chief executive of Simon & Schuster. He pointed out that publishers once gave away film or audio rights and then had to fight to get them once movie and audiobook deals became more popular.

The dispute is mostly theoretical for now, as British publishers are still negotiating book by book for rights to publish in Europe. Agents in the United States say they have had a few requests from British publishers seeking exclusive rights in Europe, but by and large it has not become a deal-breaker.

Lost in the debate between publishers is the consumer's voice, booksellers argue. "My customers are extremely sensitive to the American or English paperbacks," said Odile Hellier, owner of Village Voice Bookshop in Paris and one of the signatories of the open letter to publishers. "Americans love to buy the U.K. editions here because they don't see them at home and vice versa. The U.K. people love to see American jackets. It's the diversity which is important."
427 2006-06-14 Based on the new verdict and his record of service, defense lawyers had asked the judge to give Mr. Campbell probation or home confinement.

Instead of speaking to reporters on the courthouse steps, as he has throughout the trial, Mr. Campbell and his wife left through an underground garage.

"I disagree vehemently with the sentence," Mr. Campbell said, stopping briefly. "This is, I think, an abomination in terms of what we expected and certainly in terms of what the jury's verdict was."

On March 10, a jury found there was sufficient doubt that Mr. Campbell had headed a criminal enterprise and accepted illegal bribes and campaign contributions, the conditions that had to be met for a determination of guilt under the Racketeering Influenced Corrupt Organizations statute, or RICO. He was found guilty on the tax evasion counts.

On Tuesday, Judge Story said the law allowed him to determine guilt based on a "preponderance of evidence," a somewhat less stringent standard than the jury had to meet with "reasonable doubt." He found that Mr. Campbell had taken more than $50,000 in bribes from an executive who wanted a computer contract with the city.

Judge Story also found Mr. Campbell guilty of obstruction of justice based on new testimony from a witness who regularly played poker with him.

The witness, Gabe Pascarella, a travel agent who was a gambling buddy, told F.B.I. agents in April, after Mr. Campbell's trial, that Mr. Campbell had taken financial records from him that included travel records and gambling tally sheets.

A defense lawyer, Jerry Froelich, tried to discredit Mr. Pascarella's recollection by pointing out that he had been questioned six to eight times before the trial without disclosing that Mr. Campbell had ever taken any records from him.

In another twist, prosecutors disputed the credibility of a newly discovered letter from Mr. Campbell's mother that defense lawyers presented to Judge Story as part of a sealed "presentence report."

The letter, Mr. Campbell's lawyers argued, showed that his mother, June Campbell, had given her son $20,000 in the tax years in question, a gift that would not have qualified as taxable income, possibly making him eligible for a lighter sentence.

The defense team had argued in the trial that the large sum of cash that Mr. Campbell spent could be explained by his gambling winnings.

As he had throughout the trial, Judge Story listened to the arguments impassively. As he began to rule on points of law that influenced the penalties, it seemed clear that the prosecution's case had carried more weight.

After a break, Judge Story said, "I'm going to send you to prison, and I do not take that lightly."

Mr. Campbell has 10 days to file an appeal and has indicated that he will.

A judge will then decide if Mr. Campbell can remain free on bond or must await his appeal in prison.
428 2006-06-14 When they finished last year, the answer seemed clear. "Across almost everything we looked at," said Mr. Gruber, an M.I.T., professor, "the policy led to much worse outcomes for kids."

Young children in Quebec are more anxious and aggressive than they were a decade ago, even though children elsewhere in Canada did not show big changes. Quebec children also learn to use a toilet, climb stairs and count to three at later ages, on average, than they once did. The effects weren't so great for parents, either. More of them reported being depressed, and they were less satisfied with their marriages — which also didn't happen in other provinces.

Before you dismiss the researchers as just three more men starting a new assault in the mommy wars, listen to Jane Waldfogel, a leading child-policy researcher and the author of the book, "What Children Need" (Harvard University Press). "This is a very high-quality paper by high-quality guys," she said. "They're very careful. This is a paper that's going to stand."

AT its root, the Quebec policy is an admirable effort to deal with an enormous economic shift that has taken place across the Western world and that American companies and politicians have pretty much ignored. Today, almost two-thirds of children younger than 6 in the United States don't have a parent at home with them during the day, up from a third just 35 years ago.

Yet laws and workplace policies have changed only marginally. (The right of workers at large companies to take unpaid family leave, as a much-celebrated 1993 law guarantees, is nice but hardly revolutionary.) Instead, many women, and the occasional man, have been left with the burden of doing two full-time jobs at once.

Their efforts are often heroic, but many end up feeling guilty that they are neglecting their careers, their families or both.

Meanwhile, the polite thing to say about work and family is that children are resilient little creatures who will end up doing just as well in one situation as another. And obviously a lot of children are thriving in full-time day care, as their parents can attest.

But there is now overwhelming evidence that — at least in the first year of life — most young children are not well served by spending long hours away from their parents. They will have more behavior problems on average and won't learn as quickly, according to various studies done over the last decade.

As Ms. Waldfogel, a Columbia professor who has been a working mother, said, "I didn't set out to find effects on the kids of parents who are working in the first year." In fact, she said she had "tried really hard to kill off the effects" by looking for other variables that could have been the real culprits. "But the effects are there," she said.

The picture is murkier for toddlers and preschoolers. The stimulation they get at day care tends to make them better prepared for school than children who are home with a parent full time. Yet those who spend too many hours in day care or attend poor-quality programs also seem to be at greater risk of obesity and behavior problems.

This probably explains Quebec, where teacher-child ratios were on the high side and an audit found the programs' educational content to be mediocre. The policy has also discouraged parents who want to put their children in day care only part time by giving preference to families looking for eight hours of care a day.

The big lesson from Quebec is that parents really do need more support, but they need the kind of support that allows them to choose what is best for their family. Mothers and fathers should get paid time off after a baby is born, and the money should come from a government insurance program, as it does in Canada, England and other countries. Companies need to be given incentives to create more part-time jobs that don't derail careers — and then find some up-and-coming men who want those jobs. High-quality preschool programs should be available for every low-income child and perhaps universally.

Yes, this would cost money, and not a little bit. Some taxes would have to be increased, and other spending would have to be cut. (My first candidate: raise the age for Social Security retirement eligibility. Two-year-olds need more help than 66-year-olds do. But that's a column for another day.)

Fortunately, research shows that these investments can produce a nice return. They create a better-educated, healthier work force to compete with other countries over the next century.

But I prefer a much more basic argument. Why don't we just decide that our children are worth it?
429 2006-06-14 UNITED NATIONS, June 13 (AP) — Secretary General Kofi Annan said Tuesday that he would send a team to East Timor to prepare for the return of United Nations peacekeepers, but warned that a new mission would need at least six more months to set up.

Mr. Annan also bluntly suggested that the Security Council had scaled down the previous United Nations peacekeeping mission in East Timor too quickly. That, he said, was partly responsible for new violence that has killed more than 30 people in the last month.

"The sad events of recent weeks reflect shortcomings not only on the part of the Timorese leadership but also on the part of the international community in inadequately sustaining Timor-Leste's nation-building process," he told the Council. (The country's official name is the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste.)

In the last month, East Timor has suffered the worst wave of violence since its break from Indonesian rule seven years ago. That came after the United Nations cut its mission over the last four years to a skeleton staff — which had been preparing to withdraw in May.

East Timor's ambassador to the United Nations, José Luís Guterres, told the Council that the United Nations must establish a new mission with a police force to replace the peacekeepers from Australia, New Zealand, Portugal and Malaysia that were sent to quell the latest violence.
430 2006-06-14 In the attack on Tuesday, one missile struck a van and killed two members of Islamic Jihad and apparently wounded a third. But a second missile fired shortly afterward hit the curb just in front of a house whose occupants had emerged to see what had happened, and members of the Mughrabi family and their neighbors were killed.

Two children and three medical workers died in the second explosion, after the first had destroyed the yellow Volkswagen van of a noted Islamic Jihad rocket maker, Hamoud Wadiya, who was killed. Israel said Mr. Wadiya was transporting Katyusha rockets to launch at Israel, and rockets were seen in the wreckage.

The Katyusha is a factory-made weapon of longer range and much greater accuracy than the crude Qassam rocket that Palestinian militants build in machine shops with explosives mixed in cooking pots.

The Katyushas, Israel says, have been smuggled into the Gaza Strip from Egypt and represent a significantly enhanced danger to Israeli cities.

Since Israel withdrew from Gaza 10 months ago, scores of Qassam rockets have been launched from Gaza; Israel says there were 100 rockets fired last month. Between June 2004 and March 2006, eight Israelis, including three children, were killed in the attacks, the Israeli military says.

Israel says it has been forced to go after the launching sites because the Palestinian authorities have done nothing about them.

Palestinian militants say they launch the rockets in response to Israel's continuing campaign to capture or kill Palestinian militants from Islamic Jihad and Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades.

After Tuesday's attack, a weeping Hekmat Mughrabi said her 30-year-old son, Ashraf, had died in her arms. Ashraf ran to the door after the first explosion, trying to calm children playing on the roof, she said. "He was shouting to the kids, 'Don't be afraid, don't be afraid!' " and had not even finished his sentence when the second missile hit, she told The Associated Press.

An angry Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, called the Israeli actions "state terrorism" and accused Israel of trying to "wipe out the Palestinian people."

Mr. Abbas, whose aides feel his support for talks is being undermined by the civilian death toll, said, "Every day there are martyrs, there are wounded people, all of them innocents, all of them bystanders."

The deaths are bound to make it harder for Mr. Abbas and the United States to persuade Hamas, which controls the Palestinian Authority, to recognize the right of Israel to exist, to forswear violence and to accept previous Palestinian-Israeli agreements, which are based on a permanent two-state solution.

Mr. Abbas will also find it more difficult to get Hamas to accept a referendum proposal that would at least implicitly recognize Israel.

There was pandemonium on Tuesday at Al Shifa Hospital, where the dead and the wounded were brought. Gunmen surged through the courtyard, firing weapons into the air, and banging on the door of the morgue to retrieve the bodies of their colleagues or family members.

They grabbed stretchers and paraded the corpses in impromptu marches around the hospital yards and into the streets, bearing the black banners of Islamic Jihad and the yellow ones of Fatah and Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, to which Ashraf Mughrabi belonged.

In a gruesome scene, one Islamic Jihad militant smeared the blood of his dead colleague onto his rifle and lifted it high into the air. Amid the acrid smoke of burning tires, women shouted, "Death to Israel! Death to the occupation!"

After the explosion on the beach in Gaza on Friday, Hamas said it was abandoning its 16-month cease-fire with Israel, though Israeli officials insist that Hamas had started firing its own Qassams toward Israel a week before.

Human Rights Watch, which has been investigating the Israeli shelling in Gaza on Friday, said of the deaths, "The evidence we have gathered strongly suggests Israeli artillery fire was to blame." It called on Israel to open an independent investigation rather than relying on its own military.

An American expert working with Human Rights Watch, Marc Garlasco, is a former Pentagon official who did bomb damage assessment for the American military in Kosovo and worked for the Defense Intelligence Agency.

He said that he had visited the beach the day after the explosion, and that the crater size, the shrapnel and the location of injuries on the bodies all pointed to "a shell dropping from the sky, not explosives under the sand."

In an interview in Gaza, he said he had found shrapnel "consistent with a 155-mm. Israeli shell fired from a M109 howitzer," including one piece stamped "155mm."

Defense Minister Peretz and other Israeli military officials offered a different analysis.

They contended that the explosion on the beach occurred between 4:57 p.m. and 5:10 p.m. They based that on an array of films, not specifically identified but shown at the news conference in Tel Aviv. One film taken from seaward showed what the officials called normal activity on that stretch of beach, with the time stamped as late as 4:57. A later film stamped at 5:15 showed an ambulance arriving from a hospital about five minutes away.

Brig. Gen. Hezi Levy, Israel's surgeon general and one of the investigators, said that they had accounted for all but one of the shells fired that day, and that none of them had exploded during this time. He said the one unaccounted-for artillery shell was fired "much" before 4:57. Later, another military official specified that that shell was launched at 4:30.

"There is no chance that this shell caused such damage," the general said.

The news conference, however, did make clear that shelling had occurred near that time and place. The last shell fell, according to a photograph of the site marked with the artillery hits, at 4:48, several hundred yards north of the site of the deaths.

General Levy said that four of those injured were taken to Israeli hospitals and that the single piece of shrapnel extracted from one of them did not match any munitions used that day.

The officials said they also reviewed other recent bombardments in the area and ruled out the possibility that an Israeli shell had landed there earlier and might have been set off by the Palestinian family.

Mr. Peretz and the others refused to speculate on what could have caused the explosion, though military officials have contended that Hamas may have planted land mines against Israeli commandos.

Mr. Peretz did not rule out the possibility of allowing outside experts review Israel's evidence, as Human Rights Watch demanded. But the army's chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Dan Halutz, said he did not see the need.

"What we are doing is very, very, very professional," he told reporters. "We don't need the assistance of anyone."
431 2006-06-14 Mrs. Clinton said that the Food and Drug Administration's refusal to approve the Plan B contraceptive was a prime example of the "Washington Republican war on contraception."

"Let's really understand what we're up against," she said. "This is not just about Roe, this is not just about choice, this is about contraception, family planning and, most profoundly, women's roles and responsibilities and rights."

Mrs. Clinton's advisers say that shifting the debate to family planning is a way for the Democratic Party to gain an upper hand over Republicans. "It's time to go on the offensive," one of Mrs. Clinton's advisers said. Her advisers noted how Republicans have put Democrats on the defensive in the debate on this issue, particularly on a procedure that anti-abortion groups call partial-birth abortion.

But the campaign of one of Mrs. Clinton's Republican opponents in the New York Senate race, John Spencer, a former mayor of Yonkers, accused her of engaging in empty political rhetoric.

"It's very good to be talking about a middle ground in the abortion debate," said Kevin Collins, a spokesman for the Spencer campaign. "But she has never supported any limit or restriction on what can be a gruesome procedure, partial-birth abortion."

Mrs. Clinton began talking about a need for compromise more than a year ago, shortly after the 2004 elections, when some Democrats began arguing that the party's poor showing stemmed from the fact that it was seen as too liberal on social issues.

Speaking to abortion rights supporters in Albany in January 2005, Mrs. Clinton said both sides in the debate needed to work together to prevent unwanted pregnancies and ultimately reduce abortions, which she called a "sad, even tragic choice to many, many women." Mrs. Clinton made her remarks on the same day as the annual anti-abortion campaigners' rally in Washington marking the Roe v. Wade anniversary.

On Tuesday, she echoed that sentiment. "There is a lot of common ground we can find together," she said.

In making the case for reducing abortions, rather than outlawing the procedure, Mrs. Clinton noted that her husband's administration managed to reduce teenage pregnancy by nearly one-third through an ambitious campaign that focused on family planning.

"Why did that happen?" Mrs. Clinton said. "Well, it happened because people came together instead of pointing fingers at each other and, you know, walling each other off in our respective camps.

"But today," she continued, "the U.S. continues to have one of the highest rates of unintended pregnancies in the industrialized world. Half of the six million pregnancies are unintended, and nearly half of those end in abortion every year."

Citing a recent study by the Guttmacher Institute, which is a nonprofit corporation with headquarters in Washington and New York that researches reproductive health, Mrs. Clinton noted that a poor woman is four times as likely to experience an unplanned pregnancy as a higher-income woman.

"High-income women have quick, convenient access to contraceptives; low income women do not," she said. "And the result is often and increasingly becoming unintentional, unintended pregnancy."
432 2006-06-14 Daily Kos's convention — the in-person gathering of the nation's most-read online political blog — was practically carpeted with presidential candidates. But perhaps the most notable presentation came from Ava Lowery, a 15-year-old from rural Alabama, whose homemade video was shown at the convention on jumbo television screens.

Ms. Lowery's video, set to the Queen song "We Will Rock You," contrasted the "liars" and "leakers" in the Bush administration with "those of us who choose to stand up for truth and justice." Her handiwork, which can be seen at Youtube.com (Ava Lowery's video), is a bit over the top. But it shows that a 15-year-old with video software and Internet access can now create and disseminate a professional-quality political ad.

Last week's gathering was widely described as a bloggers' convention, but it was a lot more. It was the mainstream debut of "Internet-powered politics," and it made a convincing case that the Internet will quickly surpass television as the primary medium for communicating political ideas. This could be good news for progressives, as the Daily Kos community hopes, and for the Democratic Party, which sorely needs some. But like all technological revolutions, Internet-powered politics could have some unintended consequences.

The cutting-edge discussions at YearlyKos were about the intersection of technology and politics. Bloggers sketched out their plans for shaping news in upcoming elections. The liberal political-action group Democracy for America gave a primer on turning online activism into offline activism, by developing networks of supporters and sending out "action alerts" to get them to contribute money and volunteer for campaigns and causes. The Participatory Culture Foundation, a nonprofit group, led a workshop on how ordinary people can make political videos and distribute them over the Internet.

The 2004 presidential election was the first to give an inkling of the Internet's potential, but in 2008 its impact will be much greater. Web sites like Daily Kos will play a growing role in fund-raising, particularly the so-called "money primary," in which candidates prove their worth by raising money early. Bloggers will do more to shape the issues and the debate, and more of their ideas will jump into traditional news outlets. The breakout commercial in the next presidential cycle could be one produced on a teenager's computer and e-mailed from friend to friend.
433 2006-06-14 For much of the match, Brazil looked ordinary. Its star striker, Ronaldo, who has scored 12 World Cup goals, the same number as Pelé, is clearly overweight. He was a study in lumbering immobility until he was replaced in the 69th minute by Robinho, a teammate at Real Madrid. Whether Ronaldo is fit enough to make any impact on this tournament is an open question.

Alongside him, Adriano was also subdued. With two of the four members of its glittering attacking quartet — Ronaldo, Adriano, Ronaldinho and Kaká — making scant impression, Brazil was a side drained of its customary brio.

Instead, Brazil will be satisfied, and relieved, to have taken 3 points from the team expected to be its toughest opponent in Group F. Brazil will next play Australia, which beat Japan on Tuesday, in Munich on Sunday.

It was a historical setting for Brazil's first game. Germany has refurbished rather than rebuilt the Olympiastadion, the stadium completed for the 1936 Olympic Games, which opened under Hitler's gaze and amid a sea of Nazi swastikas. Jesse Owens's name, as well as that of Nazi architects, is still engraved in the stone of the Marathon Gate.

Croatia, which finished in third place in the 1998 World Cup in France, started with a confidence reflecting the fact it had not been beaten in its previous 10 competitive games.

Its most prolific striker, Dado Prso, was immediately menacing. A defense that had conceded only five goals in its 10 qualifying games looked solid. Several stray passes from Ronaldinho, the Brazilian midfielder widely regarded as the best player in the world, reflected his team's apparent unease.

Only in the 14th minute did Brazil test Stipe Pletikosa, the Croatian goalkeeper. First, he tipped a searing drive from left back Roberto Carlos over the crossbar.

Then, from the ensuing corner, Pletikosa palmed wide a curling shot from Ronaldinho. Another corner, from Ronaldinho, produced a crashing half-volley from the onrushing Roberto Carlos that rocketed over the bar.

But Croatia was not ready to bow to Brazil. In the 21st minute, Robert Kovac, Croatia's best defender, almost burst through the defense, and in the 37th minute, midfielder Niko Kovac failed to connect with a swerving free kick from left back Darijo Srna in front of an empty net.

Croatia then suffered a double blow: the departure of the injured Niko Kovac in the 40th minute and, four minutes later, Kaká's extravagant, ice-cool display of marksmanship.

Still, Croatia repeatedly threatened to tie the score in the second half. Dida had to be at his best to save shots from Prso in the 50th minute and from Ivan Klasnic three minutes later.

The Brazilian defense, marshaled by Lúcio, looked porous, and it often needed the fine covering of the defensive midfielder Emerson.

But Brazil also went close to extending its lead. In the 61st minute, Ronaldinho, whose impact grew as the game went on, almost did something he does very rarely — score with a header. He came drifting in to meet Cafu's cross from the right wing, but somehow Pletikosa clawed the ball away at his left side.

A brief and surreal interlude marked the game in the 85th minute when a Croatian supporter somehow made his way onto the field. The Germans, who have meticulously planned this World Cup, seemed flummoxed by the unexpected intrusion. Nobody moved.

Eventually, a single security guard made his way across the field, the man was escorted off, and Brazil and Croatia played the remaining minutes without incident.

It was the end of the game, but only the beginning of a long night of samba in a German capital flooded with Brazilian fans.
434 2006-06-14 The Securities and Exchange Commission is inviting public comment on the cost of mutual fund governance rules set aside by a federal court in April, a move that leaves open the possibility of reviving or revising them.

The agency will accept comment until Aug. 21 on the cost issue and on "any issue related to the underlying purpose" of the rules, the S.E.C. said in a statement yesterday.

The rules would require that the chairman and three-quarters of the directors of mutual funds be independent from management. They were adopted on a 3-2 vote under William H. Donaldson, the agency's former chairman.

The United States Chamber of Commerce successfully challenged the requirements in a lawsuit. On April 7, a federal appeals court said the S.E.C. had not followed its own procedures in adopting the rules. The court gave the agency 90 days to correct its process.

The five-member commission voted unanimously to solicit the new round of comment, the S.E.C. said in yesterday's statement. Commissioners are split on whether ultimately to kill the rule or keep it.

"I have every confidence that the process we are announcing today will result in mutual fund governance that both protects investors and promotes their interests," Christopher Cox, the current S.E.C. chairman, said in the statement.

In a status report filed with the appeals court, the S.E.C. said it would rely on the public comments to decide whether to pass rules "identical to, similar to or different than" the ones struck down on April 7.
435 2006-06-14 "The pitch was more than slow," said Henry, the captain of Arsenal. "In England at halftime and before the game, they put water on the pitch. I saw that they were watering the pitch after the game. I don't know why."

Domenech has been criticized in the French news media for failing to find a reliable attacking combination. Yesterday he dropped Juventus forward David Trezeguet to the bench and deployed Henry as a lone striker with support from the three-time world player of the year Zinédine Zidane, Sylvain Wiltord and Franck Ribery, who made his first start for France.

The French fans, outnumbered and outsung by their Swiss counterparts, registered their frustration at a third successive draw with Switzerland by whistling and booing.

France next meets the 2002 semifinalist South Korea, which leads the group after rallying to defeat Togo, 2-1.

A FIRST FOR SOUTH KOREA South Korea's long wait for its first World Cup victory on foreign soil ended with a 2-1 victory over Togo in Frankfurt, ending a drought that began in 1954 when South Korea made its tournament debut.

The South Koreans were forced to rally. The substitute Ahn Jung Hwan, who was fired by the Italian club Perugia after his overtime goal knocked Italy out of the second round of the 2002 World Cup, scored the winner in the 72nd minute. His perfectly placed 25-yard shot beat Togo goalkeeper Kossi Agassa. Lee Chun Soo had tied the score in the 54th with a free kick that soared over the defensive wall and past Agassa's outstretched arm.

Moments before, the Togo captain, Jean-Paul Abalo, received his second yellow card and was ejected after bringing down Park Ji Sung just outside the penalty area. (AP)

ROONEY DOUBTFUL FOR ENGLAND Wayne Rooney is unlikely to play in England's game with Trinidad and Tobago. British newspapers have reported that Rooney was expected to play in tomorrow's Group B game in Nuremberg, where a victory would put England into the second round.

But reports yesterday said that Rooney's return was unlikely because medical experts who said his foot injury had healed would not fly to Germany to reassess Rooney's condition until Friday.

KOLLER COULD BE DONE Czech Republic striker Jan Koller has strained his hamstring and may not be fit until the quarterfinal stage of the World Cup, the team's doctor said yesterday. "It could be anything between 10 days and 6 weeks," Dr. Jiri Foucek said. "We hope that he would be able to play in a quarterfinal."

Koller was carried off on a stretcher just before halftime in Monday's game against the United States, which the Czech Republic won, 3-0. (REUTERS)
436 2006-06-14 A university committee voted 6 to 3 to recommend that a controversial professor of ethnic studies at the University of Colorado be dismissed. The committee, accepting the recommendation of an investigative panel last month, concluded that the professor, Ward Churchill, committed repeated, intentional and extreme examples of research misconduct, said Barrie Hartman, a university spokesman. Dr. Churchill said: "Baloney. That's my one-word-response," according to The Associated Press. Dr. Churchill is known for an essay that compared World Trade Center victims to Adolf Eichmann of Nazi Germany, although the essay was not part of the investigation. The findings from the committee will now go to the provost and the dean of arts and sciences, who will offer a final recommendation to the interim chancellor.
437 2006-06-14 Republicans scrapped a vote on President Bush's choice to head the agency in charge of mine safety after it became clear that he did not have enough support to win Senate approval. Democrats opposed the nominee, Richard Stickler, saying he had spent too many years as a coal mining executive and had failed to demonstrate that safety was his top priority. In his confirmation hearing earlier this year, Mr. Stickler declined to endorse several proposed changes to mine safety laws but said the enforcement of existing laws could be improved. Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, used a procedure known as a legislative hold to block the nomination.
438 2006-06-14 Ingo Preminger, a Hollywood agent and producer who represented several blacklisted screenwriters the anti-Communist fervor of the postwar years, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 95.

A brother of the producer and director Otto Preminger, Ingo Preminger was also known for producing the movie "M*A*S*H," released in 1970.

As an agent, Ingo Preminger represented two members of the Hollywood 10, Ring Lardner Jr. and Dalton Trumbo, as well as other blacklisted writers. During the worst years of the blacklist, they wrote scripts under pseudonyms or were uncredited.

Ingo Preminger was born on Feb. 25, 1911, in Czernowitz, which was then in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, later in Romania and today in Ukraine. Reared in Vienna, he earned a law degree from the University of Vienna, fleeing the country with his family in 1938. He settled first in New York and in 1947 moved to Los Angeles, where he joined the Nat Goldstone Agency. He opened his own agency the next year.

Mr. Preminger is survived by his wife, the former Katharina Musil, known as Kate, whom he married in 1936; a son, Jim, a literary agent, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Eve, the former Manhattan Surrogate Court judge, and Kathy Kauff, a retired lawyer, both of New York City; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. Otto Preminger died in 1986.
439 2006-06-14 And so it is a time that blends heat and headlines, pints and patriotism.

"Another scorcher" was on the way on Monday, said The Daily Mail as Britons braced for a beer or two.

"We are struggling to keep shelves stocked with beer," said Jennifer England, a spokeswoman for Asda supermarkets, which is owned by Wal-Mart. "It is absolutely flying off the shelves. What with the combination of the weather and the World Cup, it's been a busy old weekend."

As always, though, the alchemy of sport and booze yielded a darker subtext.

While England fans filled the bleachers in Frankfurt in relative peace on Saturday, crowds closer to home — an estimated 50,000 — thronged to watch the game against Paraguay on huge screens in city centers.

On Saturday, skirmishes broke out in London and Liverpool among fans watching big-screen live coverage. The screens in two places had to be switched off, the play replaced by a notice promising a white-out "until order has been restored." On Monday the BBC announced that screens in those places would not be switched on again. Ever. Well, at least not during this year's tournament. Having thrown their toys from their stroller, in other words, the fans would have to forfeit their playtime.

Not for nothing is the BBC nicknamed Auntie.

Among people prone to binge-drinking, it came as no surprise that the fusion of patriotic thirst and its slaking should yield unruliness.

Two years ago, some 400 drunken soccer fans rampaged through Croydon, in South London, after England lost to France in a European tournament. This time, the authorities ordered pubs in Croydon to close just after the end of the England-Paraguay game. Pub owners barred anyone wearing national team colors from entering their establishments when they reopened a little later.

The paired demons of heat and liquor were manifest elsewhere. Of the 5,000 emergency calls made to London's ambulance services on Saturday — about the same number as on the average New Year's — most were reportedly inspired by alcohol abuse or sunstroke or, conceivably, both.

In truth, this has been a quirky time for the weather. Until the heat began to build last week, the year had seemed unusually damp and dismal, even by Britain's soggy standards.

And yet as the spring rain sluiced down, the water utility in southeastern England was warning that a winter drought had left reservoirs half-filled and lined with cracked mud, which evoked the parched imagery of Africa in the dry season.

Indeed, so out of kilter did the seasons seem that homeowners watching the incessant rain were told not to use hoses to soak their gardens or wash their cars because of the shortage of water.

Drought or not, the so-called hose ban did not deter vandals who broke open a fire hydrant on Saturday in Beckton, in East London, sending a 50-foot gusher to chill those who frolicked below it.

This is a nation, these days, of travelers who will hop on cheap flights to the southern sun, yet find their own land stretched to cope with too much heat.

Last weekend, British beaches filled beyond capacity with bathers and sun-seekers trading pallid for pink. In more urban areas, like North London, the lidos — municipal open-air swimming pools — were jammed with swimmers. In the city center, people paddled their feet in the Princess Diana memorial fountain and bared their (male) chests in Trafalgar Square. Commuters in shorts and safety helmets took to bicycles to get to work and avoid subway cars, where the temperature reached 97 degrees.

One subway rider, Aspasia Louvari, told The Evening Standard: "It's really bad down here, and every year it seems to get hotter, and every year they're still unprepared for it. It's too hot."

Tim O'Toole, the managing director of London Underground, which runs the Tube, acknowledged that "it can get hot in the Tube in summer."

But Peter Hendy, who runs London's fleet of 4,900 double-decker buses, promised a less torrid ride, saying 2,300 buses had been equipped with better ventilation systems "to help deal with the high temperatures that we sometimes encounter during the summer months."

While you may think Mr. Hendy is talking about air conditioning, think again. In fact, this latest innovation consists mainly of windows that open.

"The remainder of the fleet will be similarly equipped by summer next year," he added helpfully.

Of course, there is a reason that warm weather should be treated as something of a novelty: it is a novelty.

Even as the temperatures climbed yet again on Monday, weather forecasters pointed gleefully to thunderclouds moving in from the west, offering a promised return of Britain's meteorological default: cooler temperatures, with showers later.

And on Tuesday, the rains came.
440 2006-06-14 If you dropped dead, who would take your children? It's a subject parents discuss with a kind of reluctant fascination. The question is more difficult when your child has what are euphemistically termed issues, like Asperger's syndrome, a form of autism. And this scenario is the subject of Darci Picoult's play "Jayson With a Y," which opened on Tuesday night at the Lion Theater on Theater Row.

The play, directed by Sheryl Kaller, goes directly for emotional punch: the anguish of 13-year-old Jayson at the loss of his mother, which he can express only obliquely, and the conflicts of his two aunts and their husbands at the thought of taking him on.

Jayson is impressively played by Miles Purinton, a high school sophomore, who captures the tics and the awkward sweetness of someone with what appears to be an extreme manifestation of Asperger's. (The condition can go undiagnosed altogether in people who seem merely very bright and very odd.)

One aunt, Lynette (Maryann Plunkett), is about to move to France for a year with her husband, Mike (convincingly played by Daniel Oreskes as a New York smart aleck); the other aunt, Kyle (Marin Hinkle), is eight months pregnant. Neither woman is ready for the particular challenges of this angry and sometimes uncontrollable adolescent.

Managing to present such a theme competently, as Ms. Picoult undeniably does, almost exempts an author from being judged; anyone not moved by the piece on a purely human level seems a churl. It hardly mattered that not all of the relationships were credible. (Kevin Geer was a cipher as Kyle's unpleasant husband, Joe.)

And while the piece itself seems more a topical exploration than a work of deep resonance, some elements are beautifully observed. Ms. Plunkett plays Lynette as annoyingly flaky, which in practice somehow made the character's unpredictability all the more believable. And as Allison, Jayson's mother, Alysia Reiner (who reappears as two other characters) exuded strength and interest, making palpable the idea that not only her child but also her whole family had lost in her a force that kept them going.
441 2006-06-14 Asked to clarify his remarks, Convey said, "I don't think it was confusion. It wasn't that people didn't know where to go. We just kind of didn't really jell well together. We just did okay. At a World Cup, it's not fine just to do okay. Obviously, when you play against good teams and players, they punish you for mistakes. We kind of just went out there and said, 'Okay, we're just going to play.' We didn't collectively know what we all needed to do at the same time. We didn't really play as a complete unit throughout the entire game."

Before the World Cup began, both Beasley and Convey expressed some concern that Arena had not named his starting lineup early enough, allowing players to get more comfortable in their roles.

Monday's game plan to attack the Czechs and to prevent long passes to the towering forward Jan Koller was shredded when Koller scored on a header in the fifth minute, Convey said. Such an early deficit produces a kind of "shock," Convey said, and "everyone is kind of frantic for a while."

"We had a game plan to play a certain way," Convey said. "It all changed right from the beginning."

After Monday's match, Arena criticized the assertiveness of both Donovan and Beasley. Beasley said he disagreed with Arena's positioning him essentially at right back in the second half, saying, "I don't know what he wants me to do."

Donovan started at forward instead of attacking midfielder. But he has said that he prefers the midfield role because he can serve more as a playmaker. He was quoted by The Los Angeles Times as saying after Monday's match: "I need to get the ball in better spots. If we're going to concede that we're just going to move the ball uphill, that's not playing into my strength."

Arena, Beasley and Donovan were not made available to reporters Wednesday. Convey said he believed that both Beasley and Donovan would use the coach's criticism as motivation.

"I think people are used to it," Convey said of Arena's familiar bluntness. "Everyone's had a coach who's yelled at them before. That's Bruce's job to try to keep everyone on their toes and in line and try to keep their concentration and kind of step on people's toes a little bit and try to get them fired up."

It seems likely that Donovan will return to midfield against Italy. Arena has many options, including the possible switching to a 3-5-2 formation. If he does, then Brian McBride could be paired at forward with Eddie Johnson, who gave the United States some vigor in the second half against the Czech Republic.

A five-man midfield could include Donovan, Convey, Claudio Reyna, John O'Brien and Steve Cherundolo, pushed up from right back. The three-man back line could include Eddie Pope, Oguchi Onyewu and likely Carlos Bocanegra or Gregg Berhalter.

Whatever the formation and lineup against Italy, Convey said, the United States needs a more assured and aggressive start.

"Our strength has been our speed," Convey said. "We have to play a little bit quicker. We have to relax a little bit more and not get so nervous. We need to get it wide a little bit more and get crosses in. Set pieces are crucial for us. We have to link up better with each other, get through the first 5 or 10 minutes and relax and get on the ball and be confident and try and take people on."
442 2006-06-14 The finest chocolate, as we know it, dates from 1879. That was when Rudolph Lindt, a Swiss chocolatier, invented the conching machine, which made it easier to knead a mass of warm chocolate to a satin-smooth texture. The longer the chocolate is co...
443 2006-06-14 India's factories will double annual exports to $100 billion and create 25 million jobs by 2010, according to a new study. The country's low-cost labor and engineering expertise will draw increased investment in the country's manufacturing, accord...
444 2006-06-14 WEISSMAN--Blanche (Nee Talansky). Died Thursday June 8th, 2006. Beloved wife of Robert for 581/2 years. She leaves two children: Linda and Mark. Grandsons: Dov, Elaad and Jeremy, Corey. Donations to Hospice Care Network. Information: Sinai Chapels...
445 2006-06-14 GOOGLE'S BIG PLANS -- On the banks of the windswept Columbia River in Oregon, Google is working on a secret weapon in its quest to dominate the next generation of Internet computing: a computing center as big as two football fields. [Page A1.]    ...
446 2006-06-15 Tough day at Winged Foot where the average score was an untidy 76....
447 2006-06-15 If only the government would let them speak, hedge fund managers could convince the public that their business is not a nest of secrecy and fraud, several fund executives suggested at a Securities Industry Association conference on Wednesday, acco...
448 2006-06-15 With inspiration from "60 Minutes," gadgets too good to pass up.
449 2006-06-15 Several pension funds have hired well-known law firm William Lerach and filed lawsuits Tuesday against firms under federal investigation for allegedly enriching executives by manipulating the timing of stock-option grants. Pension funds from the U...
450 2006-06-15 Richard A. Grasso, the former chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange, faced questions from federal regulators about whether he prodded traders to support the American International Group's share price while he was head of the exchange and ...
451 2006-06-15 In an apparent show of investor wariness, shares of Parlux Fragrances shares traded sharply lower Wednesday than a management-led cash buyout offer for the perfume maker. Parlux share volume was extraordinarily active, at more than 10 times the no...
452 2006-06-15 A golf equipment retailer Golfsmith International Holdings priced an initial public offering worth $69 million Wednesday, according to an underwriter. The 6 million share offering, which represents about a 39 percent stake in the company, sold for...
453 2006-06-15 A furious row erupted Wednesday night between Airbus's two shareholders after BAE Systems accused European Aeronautic, Defence & Space of deliberately trying to depress the value of the company in order to buy out BAE's 20 percent stake in the Eur...
454 2006-06-15 After three years of trading lawsuits, rival wireless technology companies Padcom and NetMotion Wireless have taken an unusual step: They've decided to merge. Venture-backed NetMotion lost a patent infringement suit to Padcom in late March - the c...
455 2006-06-15 McClatchy said on Wednesday the Department of Justice had requested additional information on the sale of two California newspapers, a deal that is part of the company's larger purchase of Knight Ridder. McClatchy said it would respond promptly to...
456 2006-06-15 A trans-Atlantic deal that looked like a strategic coup for the newly public NYSE Group – its proposed acquisition of the pan-European stock exchange Euronext – appears to be turning into a quagmire. The NYSE Group's traction has slipped as po...
457 2006-06-15 The health care giant Bayer clinched its bid for Schering on Wednesday as the rival suitor, Merck of Germany, backed off, agreeing to sell its stake to Bayer in return for a possible joint venture with the combined company. The new company is expe...
458 2006-06-15 The wraps came off Joseph Perella's long-awaited boutique investment banking firm early Thursday, with a press release declaring the launch of Perella Weinberg Partners, "a new financial services firm that will provide corporate advisory and inves...
459 2006-06-15 New shows include "The Water's Edge," "The Porch" and a revival of "Hello, Dolly!"...
460 2006-06-15 Bill Gates, the 50-year-old chairman of Microsoft, announced today that he planned to step away from day-to-day work at the company he founded 31 years ago.

Mr. Gates said he was making the move mainly to spend more time on his philanthropy through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which supports initiatives in education and global health, especially in poor nations.

The personal and management transition will be stretched over two years, with Mr. Gates finally giving up his daily duties in July 2008.

In a press conference after the close of the stock market today, Mr. Gates was at pains to say he was not leaving Microsoft altogether. He said he planned to remain as chairman, and maintain his large holding in Microsoft.

"I always see myself as being the largest shareholder in Microsoft," Mr. Gates said.

But the move, analysts say, is a historic step for Microsoft that points to the changes sweeping the software industry. Probably more than any other person, Mr. Gates has been identified with personal computer software, while the center of gravity in computing is increasing shifting to the Internet.
461 2006-06-15 After five tumultuous weeks, investors finally breathed a collective sigh of relief today.

Stock prices turned up sharply in most world markets. In the United States, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2 percent and the Nasdaq composite index jumped more than 2.8 percent, their second straight day in the black after almost 10 straight days of declines. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.8 percent, pushing it back above the 11,000 mark.

Elsewhere in the world, the frenetic selling of the last few weeks gave way to buying from Tokyo, up 1.1 percent, to London, up 2 percent.

Stocks staged an even bigger comeback in emerging markets, which had been hammered on concerns that they were beginning to resemble the American technology bubble of the late 1990's and 2000. India's Sensex index, which had fallen more than 27 percent in the five-week period that ended Tuesday, was up almost 7 percent today.

Cautioning that the rally could prove to be a brief interlude in a more sustained slide, experts said the snapback appears to reflect the fundamental strength of the American and world economies. Inflation remains low by historical standards and economic growth, while slowing, is not expected to stall.

"To me, this is a lack of sell orders combined with a little bit of a sigh of relief that maybe this isn't a hard landing" for the economy, said Chris M. Hyzy, an investment strategist at U.S. Trust, an investment firm in New York.
462 2006-06-15 Newspapers seemed unanimous, meanwhile, in noting who could have had the authority to bring about such a turnaround. "This is a very serious case," said Vladimir Loskutov, the investigator now working on the case, according to the Moscow Times. "And we would not have made the progress we've made were it not for the support of the president." Kommersant quoted an unnamed official in the Federal Customs Service: "Their guilt was obvious to us even five years ago, but getting them arrested required the personal intervention of Vladimir Putin."

RUSSIA TO BUILD FLOATING NUCLEAR PLANTS: The head of the Federal Atomic Energy Agency has signed a contract that will provide for the world's first floating nuclear power plant to be built by 2010. The station will also be the first in a planned fleet of 20 similar structures, all of which will be based in the Arctic Circle in Russia's Far North. The plant will be built on a 20,000-ton barge and will use a modernized version of the same technology that powered Russia's fleet of atomic ledokoly, or ice-breakers. "The problem of providing energy to the Far North is a constant headache," Izvestia writes, "but the Far North, with its enormous mineral wealth, feeds all of Russia."

ST. PETERSBURG PROPOSES TRIALS IN ABSENTIA: Members of the St. Petersburg local parliament have sent a bill to the State Duma that would allow court trials to be conducted in the absence of the accused, witnesses or claimants, even if any of the above were absent "for legitimate reasons." The bill's author, Viktor Yevtukhov, argues that many cases are dragged out unnecessarily when participants are or claim to be unwell. The relevant State Duma committee is against the initiative, Gazeta writes, but Mr. Yevtukhov believes that his bill, "all the same, will be taken into law."

'EXTREMIST' ACTIVITY TO BE REDEFINED: The State Duma was to consider Thursday a range of amendments to a law "On countering extremism," which Kommersant says will "forbid criticism of the authorities." The proposed amendments would broaden the first article of the law, expanding the definition of "extremist activity" to include, for example, "public slander" of any Russian citizens or officials by accusing them of a "serious crime." Kommersant says that this clause would prohibit opposition leaders from accusing government officials of corruption. A further clause would label as extremist "not only a direct call to conduct an extremist act" but any "public statement that induces carrying out an extremist act or concedes the possibility of an extremist act being committed." The paper writes that this would condemn any journalist who did not "rule out the possibility of an 'orange revolution' in Russia." The initiative would also allow the authorities to block any individual from running in an election, if that individual had made any "pronouncements of an extremist nature."

MINISTERS FLAG RETURN OF SLIDING TAX SCALES: At the second day of the economic forum taking place in St. Petersburg , Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin and Economics Minister German Gref both stated publicly that in time Russia would return to a progressive scale system for paying taxes, based on income levels. This is the first statement of its kind from civil servants "of such a high rank," the paper said, since the 13 percent flat tax ratewas introduced in 2001. That move was aimed at encouraging individuals to pay taxes and to "bring salaries out of the shade," which the newspaper says has been "at least partly successful." Both ministers said Wednesday, however, that the change would not come soon, and Mr. Kudrin said that a scaled tax would not work well at present — "in other words," the paper writes, "because the taxmen would not be able to collect it".
463 2006-06-15 Mr. Spitzer is expected to make the case that it was important for Mr. Grasso to appease Mr. Greenberg because he was a member of the compensation committee at the exchange from 1996 until 2002. In 2001, Mr. Grasso received $25.6 million in salary, bonus and deferred compensation.

Mr. Spitzer's suit contends that Mr. Grasso's compensation was "unreasonable," a violation of New York's not-for-profit law. The suit also contends that Mr. Grasso's regulatory authority created a conflict of interest because he oversaw regulation of many of the companies whose chief executives approved his pay.

In the 2005 deposition, S.E.C. lawyers questioned Mr. Grasso about whether he put pressure on specialists at Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, a specialist unit of Goldman Sachs, to support A.I.G.'s stock; encouraged and backed Spear's decision to set up a $17 million fund to support the stock; and whether he knew that Mr. Greenberg wanted to maintain a certain price for the stock when A.I.G. announced it would buy AmGen in 2001.

Lawyers also inquired whether Mr. Grasso yelled at the specialists, threatened to take the stock away from them and arranged meetings with top executives at Spear, Leeds to discuss its performance. Mr. Grasso invoked the Fifth Amendment in response.

Specialists are responsible for creating orderly markets, buying when investors are selling and selling when most are buying. They are prohibited from manipulating a share price — for example, buying at higher prices than are displayed.

A lawyer in Mr. Spitzer's office, Avi Schick, said, "What this transcript demonstrates is that Grasso was unable to defend to the S.E.C. his failure to protect investors and regulate traders."

Representatives of Goldman Sachs and Mr. Greenberg declined to comment.

While Mr. Grasso declined to answer questions regarding his relationship with Mr. Greenberg before S.E.C. lawyers, he was more forthcoming in his recent deposition on his pay.

Stating that he had overseen the listing of A.I.G. in 1984, Mr. Grasso said the complaints from Mr. Greenberg started soon thereafter.

"Somewhere after 1985 he started complaining," Mr. Grasso said, according to the deposition. "There were instances when he was unhappy, there were instances when he was extremely unhappy and there were instances when he was cosmically unhappy. And in the last case, I would probably get up and go to the floor."

During these visits, according to the deposition, Mr. Grasso would relay word of Mr. Greenberg's unhappiness to Spear traders, but he said he did not encourage them to buy the stock to placate Mr. Greenberg.

Mr. Grasso also said he was aware that Spear maintained a separate investment account, distinct from its main specialist portfolio, that S.E.C. lawyers contended was set up to support A.I.G.'s stock and to appease Mr. Greenberg.

Mr. Grasso said that in 2006, to his knowledge, the account held 200,000 A.I.G. shares and that from time to time, Spear traders discussed increasing that to address Mr. Greenberg's concerns.

Asked whether such separate accounts were normal at the exchange, Mr. Grasso said he was "not aware of any."

"There was a period of time when Mr. Greenberg was so patently unhappy that there was some dialogue that the specialists might increase their position in the investment account from 200,000 shares to 500,000 shares," Mr. Grasso said in the deposition. He added that no such increase was made, and that the number of shares was too small to influence the value of so large a company as A.I.G.

Mr. Grasso said that "it might be a nice gesture of faith that you go from 200,000 to 500,000 but don't think that is going to cure his overall belief that the system is not big enough for certain market-cap-sized companies."

Specialists at the exchange, and the oversight of them, have been under scrutiny for years. In 2004, the S.E.C. brought enforcement actions against seven specialist firms. They paid more than $243 million without admitting wrongdoing. In April 2005, federal prosecutors obtained indictments of 15 specialists on charges of illegally trading ahead of customer accounts and of getting between trades, a practice called interpositioning. Last month, two specialists admitted charges of securities fraud, and await sentencing. This week, two former specialists are scheduled to start trials in New York.
464 2006-06-15 Steve Morabito of Switzerland won the fifth stage of the Tour de Suisse yesterday, and Ángel Vicioso of Spain took the overall lead. Morabito finished the 130.5-mile stage from La Chaux de Fondsin to Leukerbad in 5 hours, 37 minutes and 48 seconds. Jurgen van Goolen of Belgium was runner-up, 14 seconds back. Vicioso, two seconds farther back in third, took the overall lead from Nick Nuyens of Belgium.
465 2006-06-15 "The mergers as proposed will not subject foreign markets or their listed companies to U.S. regulation," she said, adding that United States regulations applied only to markets that transacted business in the United States. "The notion that this is a backdoor means of exporting Sarbanes-Oxley requirements internationally is completely misguided.

"Market forces should drive these merger transactions rather than political or regulatory imperatives."

A recent decline of more than 20 percent in the NYSE Group's share price has narrowed the gap between its bid and that of the Deutsche Börse, the Frankfurt-based exchange, which is also in the bidding.

French banks, which are large owners of Euronext, are concerned about whether they are getting a fairly priced deal, said one person close to the negotiations, who agreed to speak only on the condition of not being identified.

The political storm grew this week as the Italian prime minister, Romano Prodi, added his support for a European deal to that of Jacques Chirac, the president of France, and Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank.

Mr. Prodi told reporters in Berlin yesterday that he favored a tie-up between Deutsche Börse and Euronext. He was quoted by Reuters as saying a deal between the two European exchanges would "help a Europe that is being born."

Mr. Trichet said during a news conference on June 8 that he preferred a "European option" to the NYSE deal, adding that it was his personal view rather than a position of the central bank. Earlier this month, Mr. Chirac and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said they would prefer that Euronext combine with the German exchange.

John A. Thain, the NYSE Group's chief executive, was in Europe earlier this week trying to sell his deal. Already the exchange has hired Société Générale, a French bank, to advise with Citigroup on the deal. The news conference announcing the transaction was held in Paris to assuage fears that the United States would seek to dominate the local exchanges.

Callum McCarthy, the chairman of the British stock market regulator, the Financial Services Authority, addressed that concern on Monday when he issued a statement concerning a possible takeover of the London Stock Exchange. He said that if the London exchange were to be acquired by an exchange in the United States, neither his agency nor the S.E.C. considered "that U.S. ownership of the L.S.E., in and of itself, would result in U.S. regulations, including Sarbanes-Oxley, applying to companies listed or quoted on its markets or member firms of the L.S.E."

Nasdaq has made an approach to the London exchange but has been rebuffed and has since acquired a 25.1 percent stake.

Edward Balls, Britain's economic secretary to the Treasury, said Sarbanes-Oxley was unwelcome in Britain. He said the country had considered and rejected more onerous market regulations at the same time that Sarbanes-Oxley was passed in the United States.

"We could have sought easy headlines and used an aggressive and heavy-handed populist response," Mr. Balls said. "But at what cost? That approach, as the Americans have found with Sarbanes-Oxley, would have been wrong for Britain."

There has been little public discourse about the NYSE-Euronext deal in the United States but one senator said Sarbanes-Oxley was not going to be exported.

"Europe will be regulated by Europe, period," said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democrat. "It will hurt the merger and the market if the U.S. imposes its standards on Europe."

The political storm adds a layer of complexity to the commercial question of which deal is better.

"The problem with the politicians getting involved is that it turns this from a commercial deal to a political deal, and that is not what this is all about," said Lynton Jones, head of Bourse Consult, a London consulting firm, and the former head of Nasdaq International.

Ultimately the deal will be decided by Euronext shareholders who will have the right to vote at an as-yet-unscheduled meeting.

Some major shareholders appear to have taken sides: the Children's Fund, an activist fund in Europe, backs a Deutsche Börse deal, according to press reports, while Atticus Capital, an influential hedge fund, appears to favor the NYSE Group, according to comments made by Mr. Thain.

Neither fund returned calls for comment. The NYSE declined to comment as well.

Some long-term shareholders, meanwhile, have already abandoned Deutsche Börse and Euronext stock, figuring consolidation frenzy had driven them to a peak.

"We sold out of both earlier this month," said Ed Wallace, investment manager of global equities at Gartmore Investment Management in London. The stocks had done well because the equity and derivative markets were strong, and because of the prospect of consolidation. "We struggled to see how the outlook could get any better and the stocks were expensive to the market," Mr. Wallace said.
466 2006-06-15 A chemistry professor at Columbia University who in March retracted two papers and part of a third published in a leading journal is now retracting four additional scientific papers.

The retractions came after the experimental findings of the papers could not be reproduced by other researchers in the same laboratory.

The professor, Dalibor Sames, was the senior author of all the papers in question. Another author, Bengu Sezen, a former graduate student of Dr. Sames who received her doctorate last year, performed most of the experiments described in the papers.

In a telephone interview, Dr. Sames said efforts to reproduce the original findings had failed. "We have re-examined Ms. Sezen's work extremely carefully," he said. "Each experiment was performed by at least two independent, fully qualified scientists."

Dr. Sames added: "I would not do anything like this lightly. To retract a paper is very difficult for any scientist."

Dr. Sezen, now a doctoral student in another field at the University of Heidelberg in Germany, has vigorously disputed the retractions. She said she had not been told that the papers were being withdrawn, and she questioned whether other members of Dr. Sames's group had even tried to repeat the experiments.
467 2006-06-15 A federal judge dismissed a juror in the trial of David H. Safavian, a former White House aide accused of lying about his relationship to the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, and then sent the case to the revised jury. The jury is weighing charges against Mr. Safavian, who is accused of lying to government investigators about the circumstances a 2002 golf trip to Scotland. The trial is the first to result from the influence-peddling scandal centered on Mr. Abramoff, who has pleaded guilty to conspiring to corrupt public officials.
468 2006-06-15 The House voted 406 to 22 to cut the Amtrak federal subsidy by 18 percent, to $1.1 billion. The subsidy is $214 million more than President Bush requested and a House panel approved last week.
469 2006-06-15 Every aspect of that story illustrates the present global reality, in which American know-how is building a formidable economy in China while creating echoing opportunities in the United States.

Mr. Wang, now 57, recalled recently that the idea of a 60-story building sounded challenging but that the mayor of Nanjing, a city of five million on the Yangtze River, promised that the government-owned Industrial and Commercial Bank of China would provide the equivalent of $100 million in financing.

"So I consulted with architects here in America and invested $4 million of my own money and started the project," he said.

Building in China in 1992 demanded fresh approaches. The building codes were all Russian ones dating to 1945. "Human labor was so cheap that we didn't need to use machinery to dig the foundation," Mr. Wang said.

The laborers, however, had never worked on a building site or on any kind of industrial project. So Mr. Wang had to write detailed descriptions of their tasks every day.

"I explained the purpose of the work and the concept of the building," he said. "It was like my days at Thrifty Drug. To make it work, you have to be a leader and an educator and an enforcer."

But in 1993, the central government in Beijing, fearing inflation from a surge of building projects around the country, decreed a halt to bank loans for construction. "My Chinese partner, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, had to quit our joint venture and pull out all their investments," Mr. Wang recalled.

His company, named Golden Eagle, became "a sole foreign investment company, but I was short $96 million of the funds needed."

So he subdivided the building, which existed only in plans and blueprints, and sold some space to local customers and banks. He put in more of his own money and hung on, persuading suppliers to stick with the project on the promise of a future payoff.

"It was very hard," said Dominic Ng, chairman of East West Bank in Pasadena, Calif., which has backed Mr. Wang's ventures in America and overseas. "Roger stuck it out there while his wife and daughters were here in Beverly Hills."

By 1995, six stories of the building were completed. Mr. Wang hit upon the idea of opening a department store in those floors while construction continued above them. He stocked the store with merchandise on consignment — when the items sold, he would pay the suppliers.

The store was a success, and cash flow from retailing helped finance further construction. A year later, Mr. Wang brought in Crowne Plaza to put a hotel on several upper levels of the building. The 60-story building was completed in 1997.

By that time, department stores had taken on a life of their own. Success in Nanjing spawned Golden Eagle stores in six other locations, including the cities of Xi'an and Suzhou. Today the group has 11 stores, 4 of them former government-owned operations where business practices are being overhauled and workers retrained. Last year, the Golden Eagle Retail Group, with 10,000 employees, had total sales of more than 3 billion yuan, or about $350 million.

And it is one of the most efficient and profitable companies in China because Mr. Wang has brought modern technology to bear, revolutionizing retailing in China. In the late 1990's, he bought a software company and helped it develop a program for running retail operations.

"It is a user-friendly program so it can be used by middle managers," Mr. Wang said, mindful of the struggles he once endured as manager of an American drugstore.

The company took a significant step in March when the Golden Eagle Group issued stock on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange worth 1.8 billion Hong Kong dollars — about $234 million.

"To gain transparency of accounts and a stock so the company can grow," Mr. Wang said, "and for eventual succession."

Mr. Wang has spent eight months of every year since 1991 in China and only four months at home in California. Now, he said, there may be more time in Beverly Hills. But he is not retiring. On the contrary, informed that he is now one of the richest men in China, he shrugged. "It's only paper. I'm building a large company."

He is pursuing a new idea, to start a fashion business that would give exposure in China to designers like Vera Wang, the New York designer of bridal fashion, and Victoria's Secret, the lingerie division of Limited Brands. "I can showcase the fashions inexpensively in my stores," Mr. Wang said.

The hope is that American ideas and fashions, some of them undoubtedly sewn in China or elsewhere in Asia, will become hot sales items in China.

"It's not simply trade. It's an exchange of American business principles and ideas inspiring China," Mr. Ng of the East West Bank said.

Mr. Wang put it more specifically: "The skills I acquired in Southeastern Louisiana University, Thrifty Drugs, Pacific Mutual, along with knowing the history, behavior and local staff, helped make Golden Eagle a success story."
470 2006-06-15 Economic growth in the last month and a half was generally strong across the country, the Federal Reserve said in a report yesterday, but showed "some signs of deceleration."

At the same time, prices in most regions rose, according to the report, known as the Beige Book.

With a decision on setting interest rates two weeks away, the report underscores the two issues competing for the Fed's attention: rising inflation and softening economic growth.

Remarks in recent weeks by the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and other central bank officials have made clear that their primary concern is fighting inflation. That point was reaffirmed yesterday when the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Richard W. Fisher, a nonvoting member of the Fed's rate-setting committee, called current inflationary pressures corrosive and discomforting. Susan Schmidt Bies, a Fed governor, made similar remarks yesterday, saying inflation was running at a level that made her uncomfortable.

In its Beige Book report, which it releases eight times a year, the Fed said high energy costs had pushed up prices in manufacturing and, to a lesser extent, retail from mid-April to early June. Reports of those costs being passed along to the consumer varied, but were more prevalent than earlier in the year.

"I think the Beige Book was a pretty faithful mirror on what we pretty much already know, which is that economy is slowing a bit, but it's not nearly enough to stop the pressures of inflation," said Ethan Harris, chief United States economist for Lehman Brothers. "It's a milder version of stagflation."
471 2006-06-15 LONDON, June 14 (AP) — An alliance led by the Goldman Sachs Group will acquire Associated British Ports Holdings for £2.5 billion ($4.6 billion), the companies said Wednesday, after months of speculation about a deal.

The agreement for AB Ports, Britain's biggest ports operator, came after Goldman Sachs — which was stung earlier this year in bids for the airport operator BAA and the broadcaster ITV — raised its bid to £8.1 ($14.91) a share.

Goldman Sachs faces the possibility of a counterbid, however, after Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein began buying shares of AB Ports on Wednesday.

Shares in AB Ports closed up 6.4 percent at £8.265 ($15.21) on the London Stock Exchange.

AB Ports, which owns 21 ports across Britain, including Grimsby and Hull, as well as a 49 percent stake in the Southampton container port, rejected a bid of £7.3 ($13.44) a share in March.

Goldman Sachs's alliance, called Admiral Acquisitions U.K., said private ownership would enhance the long-term value of AB Ports. The alliance includes Borealis Infrastructure Management, a part of Canada's Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System; and GIC Special Investments, a Singapore government fund.

Port operators have become takeover targets because of their stable income, large property holdings and buoyant shipping markets.
472 2006-06-15 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 110.78, up 1.03 points, to 10,816.92. Broader stock indicators also rose, but not as much. The Standard & Poor's index rose 6.35 points, or 0.52 percent, to 1,230.04, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 13.53 points, or 0.65 percent, to 2,086.

Bonds fell, with the price of the benchmark 10-year note falling 24/32 to 10016/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 5.06 percent, from 4.96 percent late Tuesday. The dollar was down against most major currencies. Gold prices also fell, closing at $559.75 a troy ounce, far below their recent highs above $700.

Crude oil futures rose. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $69.14, up 58 cents, in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Japanese markets rebounded yesterday after their biggest drop in two years, and European stocks closed mixed. But markets remained shaky elsewhere. Russia's benchmark index dropped 9.4 percent yesterday after falling 10 percent in Tuesday's trading. Pakistan's benchmark index lost 5.86 percent, and Thai stocks fell 3.54 percent.

Both United States and global stocks have been pummeled by fears that inflation will reduce spending worldwide, and that the resulting rise in interest rates will make capital more expensive for companies seeking to expand. But by the time the C.P.I. numbers came out yesterday, analysts said, inflation news had already been factored into stock prices.

In company news, Boeing rose $5.03, or 6.5 percent, to $82.01 after Singapore Airlines said it would buy 20 Boeing 787-9 aircraft for $4.52 billion, hours after it expressed unhappiness about delays in the delivery of the A380 superjumbo from Airbus.

Bayer rose $3.07, to $41.28, after an agreement that could clear the way for it to take over Schering. Schering rose $2.54, to $111.55.

The Tribune Company rose 89 cents, to $31.94, after one of its largest shareholders called for a breakup of the company, saying its strategy of combining broadcasting and newspaper properties in large cities had failed.

Shares of the stun-gun maker Taser International rose 55 cents, to $8.02, after the company's chairman, Phillips W. Smith, bought $762,000 worth of the company's stock. The stock has fallen nearly 18 percent since Monday, when the company announced that it had filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Bestex, a maker of air guns that fire darts to shock humans.

Shares of VeraSun Energy, an ethanol producer based in Brookings, S.D., jumped as much as 34 percent in their first day of trading yesterday.

VeraSun rose as high as $30.75 after an initial public offering at $23, at least $1 a share more than the company anticipated in its regulatory filing for the sale. The shares closed at $30, up 30.4 percent.

"Ethanol supplies are pretty tight and demand is still rising," said Kevin Buente, who helps oversee a $2 billion portfolio of loans to ethanol makers and farmers at 1st Farm Credit Services, which is based in Normal, Ill. "Anyone who can make ethanol will have no trouble finding buyers for it."

Stocks of ethanol makers, including Pacific Ethanol and Archer Daniels Midland, have almost doubled in the last year.
473 2006-06-15 In trading Wednesday, the stocks of all three companies were higher. Bayer shares closed at 32.66 euros, up 6.9 percent; Schering ended at 89 euros, up 2.1 percent; and Merck finished at 72.58 euros, up 6 percent.

Under the agreement, Merck will sell its holdings in Schering to Bayer for 89 euros a share, 3 euros above what it offered in March. Bayer will pay the same price to other shareholders who had already agreed to sell, meaning about 400 million euros ($504 million) more than the 16.5 billion euros it originally offered.

Merck, whose shares of Schering are worth 3.7 billion euros, will realize a profit of 400 million euros on its acquisition and quick sale of Schering stock.

Analysts and traders had debated whether the German Merck was really challenging Bayer, a much larger company, for control of Schering, or whether it was simply trying to squeeze some cash out of Bayer.

But Merck, a business still controlled by its founding family, said that it acquired the stake to gain Bayer's willingness to work together in the future.

"Short-term profit gained through speculation was never our goal," Merck's chief executive, Michael Römer, said in a statement, "and is certainly not a motive for a company that thinks in generations. But when an option to secure one's position arises, a company has the responsibility to make every possible effort right up to the end."

Neither Merck nor Bayer publicly disclosed what kind of work they might do together, but Oliver Kämmerer, an analyst with WestLB in Düsseldorf, said that the likeliest arrangement was that Merck products might be sold through Bayer's distribution channels.

Merck is developing treatments for central nervous system disorders and already sells Erbitux for colorectal cancer, as well as some hormone-replacement therapies. Merck lacks Bayer's advanced sales operation in markets like the United States and Japan.

A Merck spokesman noted that many joint operations in the pharmaceutical industry worked in this way, but emphasized, "We have an agreement to talk."

Merck's initial bid for Schering prompted Bayer's interest in the first place.

"I'm sure Merck still would rather have all of Schering," Mr. Kämmerer said. "Bayer managed to back them down, and you can certainly spin it that everyone is a winner here."

Indeed, both companies echoed that view. "We're very pleased about Merck's decision, because a lengthy competitive bidding process would have greatly affected Schering's future," Mr. Wenning said.

Bayer was facing the possibility that it would have to compensate minority shareholders at a premium above its earlier price of 86 euros a share — something that increased its interest in reaching an accommodation with Merck.
474 2006-06-15 SAN FRANCISCO, June 14 — Hewlett-Packard announced a new line of servers on Wednesday that it said would play a major role in its vision of the next generation of data centers that operate with less energy and almost no people.

The company said its new BladeSystems c-class servers could reduce the cost of building and running a data center by almost half in some cases.

The new line will join one of the fastest-growing categories in the computer industry: blade servers, which contain multiple circuit boards, often with many processors, in a single chassis. About $1.2 billion in blade servers were sold last year, a figure expected to double this year. The concentration of circuitry means the blade servers occupy less space, but use more power and generate more heat.

To solve that problem, Hewlett said the new servers use a special system of fans inside the boxes. The fans cut air-conditioning airflow by 30 percent and energy consumption by 50 percent compared with traditional fans, the company said.

Software that runs the servers would also be able to adjust the performance of the fan and the server to reduce the heat on any blade that is overheating, rather than cooling the entire room to solve the problem, the company said.
475 2006-06-15 Sudoku, the number game from Japan that has invaded newspaper pages, Web sites and computer screens, has more recently migrated to low-cost L.C.D. devices that offer an unlimited supply of puzzles.

Sudoku Mega Screen from TechnoSource ($20 through sudokumegascreen.com) has a 2.5-by-3-inch touch screen, and you use a stylus to drop numbers into the Sudoku grid.

In the "easy" mode, the wrong answers flash, which is helpful feedback for novice players or children.

Some of the boxes are prefilled, but there is a good degree of mental juggling required, which may explain the game's addictive quality. Perhaps there should be a warning label.

Other features include four challenge levels, a timer and back-lighting. A game will stay in memory until solved, and the device goes to sleep if left unattended, preserving the two AA batteries.
476 2006-06-15 In a bold surgical endeavor that recalls the experiments of the mad Dr. Frankenstein, Theresa Rebeck has tried to transplant the big, blood-gorged heart of a Greek tragedy into the slender body of a modest American comic drama. The resulting self-sabotaging hybrid is called "The Water's Edge," and it is quietly running amok in a stylishly acted production starring Kate Burton and Tony Goldwyn that opened last night at the Second Stage Theater.

This bizarre offering from the talented Ms. Rebeck harks to the days when the announcement "Daddy's home" really meant something. And I don't mean the happy family television comedies of the 1950's and 60's, like "Father Knows Best." The model for "The Water's Edge" is a few thousand years older than that. Imagine, if you dare, Aeschylus's "Agamemnon," the tale of the disastrous return of an arrogant king to his family after the Trojan War, reconceived as a blithe contemporary mini-series for HBO. Not for nothing does one of the characters observe, with more aptness than originality, "Beware of Greeks bearing gifts."

That line is muttered resentfully by a young woman named Erica (Mamie Gummer) on the occasion of the unexpected homecoming of her father. After an absence of 17 years, Richard (Mr. Goldwyn) has finally come back to the shabby but stately lakeside manse occupied by his wife, Helen (Ms. Burton), and their children, Erica and Nate (Austin Lysy).

It was 17 years ago that Helen and Richard's 4-year-old daughter drowned in the lake while under Richard's supervision. Helen, who has insisted her husband stay away from the family, has been steeping in grief and bitterness ever since. It doesn't help, of course, that Richard has arrived for this long-delayed reunion in the company of a pneumatic, much younger girlfriend, Lucy (Katharine Powell). As Erica, who obviously knows her literary references, says, "This clearly is not going to turn into 'A Winter's Tale,' with everyone hugging and being so glad."

For the first half of "The Water's Edge," directed with an unswervingly straight face by Will Frears, it looks as if Ms. Rebeck might pull off her mix of classical darkness and latter-day levity. The venturesome author (with Alexandra Gersten-Vassilaros) of "Omnium Gatherum," about a dinner party in hell in the wake of 9/11, and "The Scene," which was the toast of this year's Humana Festival of new plays, Ms. Rebeck has a gift for lively dialogue teasingly layered in ambivalence.

If the dramatic setup of "The Water's Edge" feels contrived, the emotional responses it elicits from its characters are often engagingly authentic. The relationships among Helen and her children are especially well drawn, with entire, complex histories summoned in quick bursts of words. And in Act I and the beginning of Act II, Ms. Rebeck stealthily weaves ominous shadows through the bright, sharp banter of battling family members. (The same mixed sensibility is evident in Alexander Dodge's claustrophobic, sylvan set, featuring a looming house with white columns that suggests a scaled-down version of the mansion in Eugene O'Neill's "Mourning Becomes Electra.")
477 2006-06-15 Katsuya, a Japanese restaurant, will open on June 26 in the Brentwood area of Los Angeles, a project of the designer Philippe Starck, above on left, and the SBE Restaurant Group. It will be the first in a series of restaurants and hotels the resta...
478 2006-06-15 TRIBUNE SHOWDOWN A boardroom feud at the Tribune Company escalated as the Chandler family -- the billionaire former owners of the Los Angeles Times and now large Tribune investors -- called for a breakup of the company. [Page C1.]    AIRBUS DELAY ...
479 2006-06-15 Photo of Franklin Square, LI, home of Joseph Sicari after explosion destroyed structure and left him critically burned...
480 2006-06-15 WEISSMAN--Blanche (Nee Talansky). Died Thursday June 8th, 2006. Beloved wife of Robert for 581/2 years. She leaves two children: Linda and Mark. Grandsons: Dov, Elaad and Jeremy, Corey. Donations to Hospice Care Network. Information: Sinai Chapels...
481 2006-06-16 Man, after all the fun I've made (and many others have made) of idiotic PR-speak, there's still one rep out there who has the cluenessness to send around this buzzwordy email pitch: "Please consider a potential review of [Product Name Here], an ou...
482 2006-06-16 If you think the stock market has been grim in recent weeks, check out shares of the major exchanges, NYSE Group and the Nasdaq Stock Market. They are down 41 percent and 43 percent, respectively, from their 52-week highs. But TheStreet.com points...
483 2006-06-16 Mr. Walentas said the $1,215 a square foot paid for the two apartments was at the very upper end of prices in the neighborhood.

He is now in the process of creating a 6,000-square-foot triplex penthouse within the 16-story building's clock tower.

"That apartment, when complete, maybe we'll sell it for $25 million," Mr. Walentas said. "It's very special, one of a kind in the world."

Mr. Capossela was a managing director of Goldman Sachs when, in 2001, he jumped to its rival J. P. Morgan Chase and was named head of that company's North American cash equities business. Less than two years later Mr. Capossela and J. P. Morgan parted ways. Mr. Capossela and Ms. McDonnell did not return phone calls seeking comment.

WHAT if there were a different way to buy real estate? One that helped ease anxiety for buyers by helping to protect them against the risk of buying into a softening market? And one that provided potential benefits to the seller as well?

Suppose the buyer and seller agree on two prices for a property: a maximum, and a minimum perhaps 5 or 10 percent lower. The buyer pays the minimum price at the closing, and the balance is put in escrow.

Next, they wait about six months and then consult the most recent quarterly sales figures for the local housing market. If the average sales price of a home in the area has risen by an agreed upon amount, measured on an annualized basis, then the seller gets the money in escrow. If prices haven't risen that much, then the buyer gets the escrow money back.

In this way, the buyer creates a hedge, a kind of insurance policy against the market's softening after the purchase. And if prices continue to rise, the seller presumably achieves a higher price than he otherwise might for his property, in effect benefiting from the overall market appreciation after the sale.

Well, something along those lines appears to have occurred in the sale of a Harlem town house in March, which set a record for a residence in Upper Manhattan.

The buyer of the five-story home on Convent Avenue was John Geanakoplos, a Yale economics professor and a managing director of an investment firm. The seller was Robert F. Van Lierop, a lawyer whose clients have included Halle Berry and Spike Lee.

When the sale was first reported in The New York Times on May 21, Professor Geanakoplos would say only that the $3.89 million price recorded on the deed was a "maximum," and that the final, adjusted, sale price could be significantly lower. Beyond that, Professor Geanakoplos and Mr. Van Lierop have refused to disclose the full terms of their deal.

Since that article appeared, however, two people who discussed the deal with the principals while it was being negotiated said in interviews that its basic outlines were similar to the hypothetical transaction just described. According to one of those people, a minimum price was to be paid at the closing, and later in the year the two sides would base the ultimate price on sales figures, probably for the third quarter.

Robert J. Shiller, a colleague of Professor Geanakoplos at Yale and a noted expert on the behavior of stock and real estate markets, said Mr. Geanakoplos consulted him during his negotiations over the town house, when he was looking for a price index that would reflect the Harlem market. Professor Shiller said that he was not familiar with the final details of the deal, but that he believed it was intended to provide a hedge against prices' tapering off after the sale. "People don't want to buy a house at the peak," Professor Shiller said. "They feel bad about that."

He has proposed two types of products that could ease the anxiety of home buyers: home equity insurance, which would protect people against falling home values; and price warranties for home buyers, where "if prices fall, you get some money back."

Such products would achieve the same aim as the deal worked out by Professor Geanakoplos. "I think this is a future trend that he's just at the beginning of," he said.

THE Israeli billionaire Lev Leviev and the Brooklyn-based developer Shaya Boymelgreen have teamed up for some high-profile residential projects since they first became partners in 2002.

Now, acting through his holding company, Africa Israel, Mr. Leviev has made his first significant move here without Mr. Boymelgreen, buying 111 Fulton Street, a commercial building at the corner of William Street in Lower Manhattan, which he plans to convert to condominiums.

But Mr. Leviev said the venture did not indicate differences with Mr. Boymelgreen. "Our relationship is very good with Mr. Boymelgreen," Mr. Leviev said last month during a visit to 20 Pine Street, one of the financial district buildings that he and Mr. Boymelgreen are converting to condos.

The partners have also worked together on the conversion of 15 Broad Street and 60 Spring Street, as well as in the construction of new condo buildings in TriBeCa, downtown Brooklyn and Dumbo. They also have ambitious projects under way in Miami and Las Vegas.

Mr. Leviev said he had other partners in the Fulton Street project but would not say who they were. Records filed with the Department of Buildings, however, give the names of two partners: Joseph Klaynberg, a developer, and Ricky Cohen, whose family owns the Conway Stores chain.

Those documents, filed on June 6 by the architect Karl Fischer, call for nine stories to be added to the existing eight-story building. But Dan Avidan, the head of finance for Africa Israel, said on Wednesday that plans had been scaled back and now only two stories would be added.

A deed filed with the city says the sale price of 111 Fulton Street was $21.8 million. But Mr. Avidan said the company had paid $59 million for the building and he was not sure why the deed showed a lower price.

Mr. Boymelgreen said he and Mr. Leviev had been working under a five-year agreement that required him to offer any new projects exclusively to Africa Israel. That expires next year. "The relationship is a beautiful relationship, but we're not married for life; we're married for five years," he said. He said they would continue to work together for several years on a number of projects, like a planned condo complex on the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn.

He also sounded a note of caution on the New York market, saying he had been reluctant to start more new condo projects here. "I didn't buy for a while, maybe more than a year and a half, anything in condos in New York because it's a little bit overbuilt."

Instead he has begun to focus on markets he considers undervalued, like Israel, where he is completing the $500 million acquisition of Azorim, a company that develops condos and houses.
484 2006-06-16 Everything seemed to be on track for German drug maker Bayer's $20.8 billion takeover of Schering until Merck started buying Schering stock last week. Schering had rejected Merck's hostile bid in March, and Merck wasn't going away silently. A bidd...
485 2006-06-16 Tiger Woods is out and Steve Stricker is leading the pack....
486 2006-06-16 As Verizon Communications prepares to announce whether it will sell or spin off its directories business, a research analyst is calling the planned separation a "mixed bag" for the telephone giant's investors. Morgan Stanley analyst Simon Flannery...
487 2006-06-16 The EMI Group, the music giant, agreed yesterday to pay $3.75 million to resolve accusations of paying radio programmers to play specific songs, becoming the last of four major companies to reach a settlement as part of an investigation by the New...
488 2006-06-16 A Bear Stearns-backed hedge fund is shutting its doors under a mysterious cloud after regulators discovered an unusual, potentially improper pay deal in which one of the Wall Street giant's brokers was caught matching super-rich investors with sec...
489 2006-06-16 Ports and airports are hot assets in Britian but regional brewers are even hotter. Their crafted cask ales still face an unequal fight against overpromoted bland lagers, but it is their pubs the buyers want. Hardys & Hansons agreed on Thursday to ...
490 2006-06-16 Americans live longer today (technically, no one has died of old age since 1951, when the government dropped that official cause). They also age more slowly, or so they say. Half the over-65 population define themselves as middle-aged or even young, though a greater proportion today are likely to be perilously overweight.

Yet the song still resonates. Julian Lennon, John's son, sang it in an Allstate Insurance commercial in 2002. When Paul Simon turned 64 last year, Mr. McCartney called and serenaded him with it.

According to most accounts, Mr. McCartney wrote the lyrics for his father (his mother had died of breast cancer when he was 13) and the song was recorded not long after the elder McCartney turned 64. "While it may have been done tongue in cheek," said Bruce Spizer, a Beatles biographer, "life began to imitate art."

Mr. McCartney's first wife, Linda, died in 1998 at 56, of breast cancer; they had been married 29 years. "The bliss of being with a lifelong partner, as expressed in 'When I'm Sixty-Four,' was shattered by Linda's tragic death," Mr. Spizer said. "The little things expressed in the song, such as working the garden and going for a Sunday morning drive, were part of his life with Linda."

Gail Sheehy, the author, who, at 68, is still guiding readers through life's passages, said today's 64-year-olds have a "360-degree view of life." They may believe in yesterday, but they also can't stop thinking about tomorrow. Thanks to seasoning (and Viagra), males are not necessarily half the men they used to be.

Mr. McCartney, who recently appeared on the cover of AARP magazine, does not appear to be losing his hair yet, despite the song's augury. He has three grandchildren (not the song's "Vera, Chuck and Dave"). He is also the father of a 2-year-old daughter. And while he may not be living his own lyrical vision, Mr. McCartney seems closer to fulfilling Bob Dylan's "Forever Young" than Pete Townshend's "Hope I die before I get old."

Now a billionaire, he has said he has no plans to retire, either as a rock star or an animal-rights advocate (although, at 65, he will be entitled to a basic pension from the British government, at least $156 a week, and a free transit pass).

This year, the first baby boomers turned 60. About 2.7 million other Americans mark their 64th birthdays in 2006, including Muhammad Ali, Erica Jong, Larry Flynt, Garrison Keillor, Michael Bloomberg, Harrison Ford, Ted Kaczynski and Barbra Streisand. (Ringo Starr, the only other surviving Beatle, will be 66 next month; John Lennon was murdered at 40 in 1980; George Harrison died of cancer at 58 in 2001.)

"The slogan back then was "never trust anyone over 30,' " recalled Jeff Greenfield, the CNN commentator, who is 63. "We thought people would be dead or in a home by their 60's."

Today, on average, 64-year-olds can expect to live more than 16 years, about 4 years longer than 64-year-olds could expect in 1967, according to government statisticians (and, hey, an editor of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Jude Rutledge, was named for another of Mr. McCartney's songs).

"The new 64," Ms. Sheehy said, "is more like 84."
491 2006-06-16 "And this is what we have got: his body," he said. He had been assured time and again by Pakistani officials, Mr. Dawar said, that Hayatullah was alive and well but had been detained on matters relating to national security.

"We knew it all along whom or which agency had held him. There is not even an iota of doubt in our mind. He was wearing government handcuffs."

His family suspected that Mr. Khan had been picked up by an intelligence agency after he first released pictures of the remains of American missiles that had killed a senior Al Qaeda operative, Hamza Rabia, in North Waziristan on Dec. 1 last year.

His pictures proving United States involvement in taking out Mr. Rabia, exposed as false the Pakistani military's claim that the Al Qaeda operative had been killed in a blast inside the house, his brother pointed out.

The secretary of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Arbab Shehzad, said that while he was saddened by the tragic death of Mr. Khan, he did not know who was behind his kidnapping and subsequent killing. "It remains a mystery", he said.

Mr. Khan, who worked for the Urdu-language daily newspaper, Ausaf, and the photo news agency, EPA, was kidnapped by five armed masked men on Dec. 5 last year.

He is the third Pakistani journalist to be killed while covering the restive Waziristan region and the military operation there against Islamic militants. Two journalists were gunned down by masked men in Wana, in the South Waziristan tribal region, in February last year.

Mr. Khan had received numerous threats from Pakistani security forces, Taliban members, and local tribesmen because of his reporting, the Committee to Protect Journalists said today in a statement.

"This is a Pakistani journalist murdered in Pakistan, and we hold Pakistani authorities fully responsible for carrying out a vigorous investigation, and prosecuting the perpetrators of this terrible crime," the statement said. Mr. Khan's disappearance had been a subject of much speculation and had sparked protest demonstrations by journalists in Peshawar. International organizations including Reporters Sans Frontières, the Committee to Protect Journalists, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch had issued statements urging Islamabad to secure his release.

When information leaked by government officials suggested Mr. Khan had been relocated to America to reward him for pinpointing Mr. Rabia's hideout, the American Consulate in Peshawar issued a statement on May 10 saying that the United States had no information about Mr. Khan's whereabouts.
492 2006-06-16 The AMF said an investigation concerning EADS shares had been under way "for several weeks," and that "the most recent events will be examined as part of this inquiry."

The German market regulator Bafin also said that it was looking into "the volatility of the past days" in what a spokeswoman, Anja Neukötter, called a "routine" investigation.

An EADS spokesman, Michael Hauger, said that the share trading by company executives was "fully in line with EADS regulations." Forgeard insisted he had no "privileged information" before the sales, describing the timing as an "unfortunate coincidence."

"Between March 9 and March 17, we did not know there was a problem," Mr. Forgeard said n the interview. "What we knew was that there was a race against the clock for the A380."

Mr. and others disposed of their stock shortly before news that DaimlerChrysler and Lagardère were selling part of their stakes in the company, which also sent the share price down, although nothing like the 26 percent drop on Wednesday after news of the A380's delay.

In a statement today, EADS repeated the defense it used in March, explaining that under the company's own insider trading rules, directors may only exercise their stock options during specified three-week periods each quarter, provided executives do not have any privileged information and subject to prior approval by the EADS compliance officer.

"Such a period was opened from March 8 to 28, 2006. Six directors duly exercised their options during this period following the process described above," EADS said.

Today, President Jacques Chirac of France sought to play down the problems facing Airbus and EADS — Europe's premier symbol of industrial cooperation.

Speaking at a European Union summit meeting in Brussels, Chirac said he had "full confidence" in the EADS management and was not worried about the A380, The Associated Press reported.

"One must not exaggerate" the delays, he said. "Airbus is a grand project, a very big European success."

France, Germany, Spain and Britain contributed 3.5 billion euros in loans to the 12-billion-euro cost of developing the 555-seat double-decker jet. "It's a very complicated plane, given the scale of the project; there was a bottleneck, and unfortunately the alarm bells didn't go off at the right time," said Mr. Forgeard, who ran Airbus from 1998 until 2005.

EADS and Airbus executives said Thursday that the new Airbus chief, Gustav Humbert, ordered an audit of the A380's production process in early April. Mr. Forgeard said today that the audit, conducted by the McKinsey consultancy, was finished Tuesday, and that EADS and Airbus went straight to shareholders with the bad news.

That evening, Airbus also announced to the public that the delivery schedule for A380 would have to be pushed back by up to seven months, limiting deliveries in 2007 to just nine planes from a planned 25. In a separate statement on Tuesday, EADS disclosed that the Airbus delays were likely to reduce the parent company's operating profit by around 500 million euros per year for the period from 2007 to 2010.

Leading customers for the A380, including Singapore Airlines and Emirates, indicated that they might seek financial compensation for the delays.
493 2006-06-16 Montgomerie, who like Stricker is seeking his first major title, shot a one-over-par 71. Geoff Ogilvy of Australia and Kenneth Ferrie of England trailed Stricker by two shots after each shot even-par 70. Jim Furyk (72) and Padraig Harrington of Ireland (69) stood three shots back while Phil Mickelson (73) and Arron Oberholser (68) headlined a group of four players four strokes back.

Golfers who finished in the top 60 and ties, and those within 10 shots of the lead, made the cut, which fell at nine-over-par 149.

Woods failed to gain entry into the weekend via either route.

"It's not something you want to have happen," Woods said after finishing at 12-over-par 152 for his worst score in consecutive rounds as a professional.

"Unfortunately, I missed this one, and hopefully I can win the British," he said, referring to the British Open, which will be played next month at Royal Liverpool Golf Club in England.

With Woods's departure, the United States Open lost the world's No. 1 player and NBC lost its biggest draw for its weekend telecast, including on Father's Day, which is Sunday.

Woods will not joust with Mickelson, who is trying to win his third consecutive major championship and fourth in 10 events.

Asked what his next move was, Woods said, "Practice."

Before the Open, Woods had not played in a tournament since the Masters on April 9, when he finished tied for third.

After the death of his father, Earl, on May 3, Woods extended his layoff, skipping one of his favorite tournaments, the Memorial, two weeks ago.

His game never looked right at Winged Foot, which has punished golfers for decades. He started with three consecutive bogeys Thursday and closed with two bogeys Friday, spending much his time becoming familiar with the gallery and the West Course rough.

When he made double bogey on No. 14 by missing a short putt, a fan shouted about the hush, "You're better than that, Tiger."

Woods had made 39 straight cuts in majors — 37 as a professional — dating back to his miss at the 1996 Masters, which he played as an amateur. (Woods did not play in the 1996 P.G.A. Championship.)

At the West Course, Woods lacked precision with an array of clubs. He missed fairways with his driver, hit wayward shots with his irons and came up short with his putter throughout.

After missing 11 of 14 fairways Thursday, Woods missed 10 of 14 on Friday, thrashing about in stepped rough made more difficult by the United States Golf Association.

"It's playing really hard," Woods said. "Marginal shots are going to get killed now. It's the nature of this course."

Charles Howell III, one of Woods's frequent practice partners, said he was surprised Woods missed the cut, "especially because, on Monday, he hit it really, really well, and he had that look to him."

Woods did not blame rust or the death of his father for his errant play.

"I'm more frustrated than anything else," Woods said.

He had his chances. After starting his round on the back nine and curling in a 20-foot putt for birdie on No. 17, Woods made par on No. 18 and got up-and-down for par from the greenside rough on No. 1.

After two more pars, he stood in the middle of the fourth fairway and pushed an iron shot 60 feet right of the flag and dropped his club before the ball hit the ground. He took three putts from there, settling for bogey, and stood at 10-over-par.

In need of a dynamic finish to make the cut, Woods missed his last two fairways and bogeyed No. 8 and No. 9.

Michael Campbell, the defending champion who played with Woods for both rounds and also missed the cut, said he thought Woods had fought as hard as he could.

"To come back under the circumstances speaks volumes on how strong he is as a person," Campbell said. "It's a tough thing. I'm lucky my father is still alive. But for him to come back only after two months, that's not very long, you know. Time heals, and I believe that eventually it's going to empower Tiger to be a better player."

Mickelson said of Woods missing the cut: "Surprised is the biggest word. He's the best player in the world and he'll come out at the British ready to go and play some exceptional golf."

As Woods walked away from Winged Foot's stone clubhouse, he passed the practice area, where Mickelson stood on the putting green preparing for his round. Woods moved behind the green and the practice bunker before passing under a large sign leading to the players' parking lot.

In bold letters, the sign read: "THE USGA THANKS YOU FOR ATTENDING."
494 2006-06-16 The new reserve requirement "is very modest," said Nicholas R. Lardy, a Chinese financial policy expert at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "This will be erased in one month."

China's central bank has been buying foreign currency from commercial banks as fast as foreign investment and China's trade surplus bring money into the country. The central bank has been paying for the foreign currency by essentially printing more of China's currency, known as the yuan or renminbi.

The central bank has done this to prevent the yuan from rising in value against the dollar, which would make Chinese goods less competitive in overseas markets.

Awash with yuan as a result of these transactions, China's banks have gone on a lending spree. Having been told by regulators at the start of the year that they would be allowed to increase their total stock of outstanding loans by amount equivalent to $310 billion, they proceeded to step up lending by $220 billion in just the first five months of this year.

That was an increase of 80 percent over the same period last year. "It's a complete credit blowout," Mr. Lardy said.

Liang Hong, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Goldman Sachs, said in a research note that the timing of the reserve requirement was a surprise, although many had predicted that the central bank would act later this summer.

Bank regulators have already moved this spring to discourage loans for real estate ventures and factories in overheated industries like property loans and steel. The People's Bank of China also raised its benchmark lending rate on corporate loans by 27-hundredths of a percentage point on April 27, to 5.85 percent.

The question now is whether the interest rate increase in late April and now a reserve requirement increase will be enough to prevent higher inflation this year — or whether, as in the past, more drastic measures may be needed.

When the Chinese economy threatened to overheat with rising inflation in 2003 and early 2004, China raised reserve requirements by a full percentage point in August, 2003, and by another half point in April, 2004.

But those steps proved ineffective, and ports and railroads threatened to become overwhelmed with goods. The government then began publicly denouncing, reprimanding and even jailing Communist officials, corporate executives and bank loan officers involved in speculative ventures that had not received all the necessary government approvals.

These administrative measures, together with heavy investment in ports and other potential bottlenecks in a fast-growing economy, succeeded in slowing the economy and restoring order to the country's rail and road networks by late 2004.

Inflation has been much more subdued this year than in 2004. Overall consumer prices, including food and energy, were up only 1.4 percent last month in China from a year earlier. Over the past year in the United States, by contrast, consumer prices went up 4.2 percent.

But the People's Bank of China expressed concern in its statement today that rising commodity prices as well as rapid bank lending might cause more inflation later.

Unlike in the United States, wages have been rising steeply in China over the past couple years. It is not yet clear whether the wage increases reflect productivity improvements, a long-term shift toward better pay, the beginnings of an inflationary spiral or some combination of all of these.
495 2006-06-16 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
496 2006-06-16 Pennington, who is entering his seventh year in the league, may still reclaim the starting position he lost last September in the Jets' third game when he sustained his second tear in his right rotator cuff. He has three more months to refine his timing and regain the velocity on his throws.

While his future remains foggy, one thing is clear: Under the new coach, not even the franchise quarterback can count on having his job protected.

It was a different message than was conveyed at this time last year. Then, Coach Herman Edwards said that Pennington was on pace to start the regular season even though he had just resumed throwing after having surgery in February and the Jets had acquired a former starter, Jay Fiedler, as insurance.

It is too early to set the depth chart but apparently not too soon for Mangini to drive home his bedrock philosophy.

"Every single position is wide open right now," he said. "The best guy is going to play, best guy is going to make the team and everybody has got an equal opportunity."

Pennington said that he does not mind having to audition for a job he has held outright since 2002 because even in the years when he was the incumbent starter he was driving himself every day to improve.

"So really the feeling of coming out here and competing every day isn't different," he said. "It's different to the outside world because Coach has made it clear that it is an open competition. And that's fine."

Pennington is throwing without pain but not without restrictions. "I am on a pitch count," he said. "So they'll still watch me on the pitch count and make sure I'm not going above and beyond what I'm supposed to be doing."

Mangini said of the limits on Pennington: "He is full-go based on what we have set up for him as part of his rehab. So he does everything we ask him to do."

Pennington threw mostly short passes in the morning practice, though he did loft a 30-yard completion to Laveranues Coles near the end.

"Believe me, I'd love to throw it every play if I could and work on those long balls," Pennington said, "but I'm going to do what I'm coached to do, and that's go through my reads and when it's there, take it; when it's not, make sure I get a completion and make sure I take care of the football."

He added: "Things are going really well. I've been able to control myself and stick to the plan. It's very hard when you're competitive, but at the same time, you've got to realize the big picture."
497 2006-06-16 Stocks staged an even bigger comeback in emerging markets, which had been hammered on concerns that they were beginning to resemble the American technology bubble of the late 1990's and 2000. The Sensex index of India, which had fallen more than 27 percent in the five weeks that ended Tuesday, rose almost 7 percent yesterday.

Cautioning that the rally could prove to be a brief interlude in a more sustained slide, analysts said the upswing appeared to reflect the fundamental strength of the American and world economies. Inflation remains low by historical standards and economic growth, while slowing, is not expected to stall.

"To me this is a lack of sell orders combined with a little bit of a sigh of relief that maybe this isn't a hard landing" for the economy, said Chris M. Hyzy, an investment strategist at U.S. Trust, an investment firm in New York.

A report showing that American industrial activity pulled back slightly in May also signaled to investors that a slowdown in economic activity would help rein in inflation, which could allow the Federal Reserve to stop raising interest rates later this summer. Investors are expecting the Fed to raise short-term rates by a quarter-point, to 5.25 percent, at its meeting June 29, and possibly again on Aug. 8.

In the stock market, volatility, or the rate at which issues move up and down, has increased noticeably in recent weeks, though it remains low by historical standards. The Chicago Board of Options Exchange Volatility Index, which gauges future volatility of the S.& P. 500 based on the prices of options, recently broke out of a low and narrow range but remains at levels that are about half those in 2002, the year in which the market hit its lowest point of the decade.

High volatility is typically associated with greater pessimism among individual investors because of the uncertainty it creates. Stock trading may be quite turbulent today because stock index futures, stock index options, stock options and single stock futures all expire at the end of trading in what is known as the witching hour, which occurs on the third Fridays of March, June, September and December.

For savvy investors, volatility may present opportunities to buy stocks they have been watching for a bargain. This may be "an attractive entry point," said Elizabeth Weymouth, a global investment specialist at J. P. Morgan Private Bank, but added, "We expect to see more competitive entry points."

One company that might have fit that profile yesterday was Caterpillar, the industrial giant that has led the Dow industrials in the last five years. Shares of the company rose 5 percent yesterday after having fallen by 18.3 percent in the last five weeks.

Stocks may also be rising for some technical reasons.

Investors who believe that the price of a stock will fall often sell shares they do not own in a practice known as short selling. If prices fall they can buy the shares they earlier sold at a lower price to complete their bet. Those latter purchases can briefly bolster the price of those stocks.

It is hard to determine exactly how much short selling is contributing to the current market movements, but analysts say it appears to have played some part in bolstering the price of metals and other commodities, which staged a small rebound in the last two days. The price of gold rose $17.30, to $577.05 an ounce, yesterday, after falling 12.6 percent in the previous seven days.

"Short positions have been closed out significantly in commodities," Mr. Hyzy said.

The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 26.12 points, to 1,256.16, and is now up 0.6 percent for the year; the Nasdaq climbed 58.15 points, to 2,144.15, though it is still down about 2.8 percent for the year; and the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 198.27 points, to 11,015.19, up about 2.8 percent for the year.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 5.09 percent, from 5.06 percent late Wednesday and the price, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, which fell 9/32, to 100 7/32.
498 2006-06-16 The EMI Group, the music giant, agreed yesterday to pay $3.75 million to resolve accusations of paying radio programmers to play specific songs, becoming the last of four major companies to reach a settlement as part of an investigation by the New York attorney general.

The office of the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, which announced the settlement yesterday, released e-mail messages and other documents showing that EMI executives agreed to give radio programmers Rolling Stones tickets or offered direct cash payments to stations for airplay of specific songs.

Federal and New York state laws prohibit broadcasters from accepting payments of cash or anything of value unless the arrangement is disclosed to listeners.

EMI, the smallest of the four major companies in terms of sales of new releases in the United States, offered an acknowledgment that echoed its rivals. The company said certain employees had "engaged in some promotional activities that were wrong and inappropriate." EMI also agreed to a series of changes, including a prohibition on providing cash for use in radio contests. The company had instituted stricter policies on its promotion practices last year after Mr. Spitzer, who is running for governor of New York, started his inquiry.

As with earlier settlements, Mr. Spitzer said senior EMI executives were often aware of the practices, which included arranging a concert in exchange for airplay or staging fake requests to radio station call-in lines.
499 2006-06-16 WASHINGTON, June 15 (AP) — Industrial production fell unexpectedly in May, reflecting weakness in manufacturing, as the economy gave more signs of a slowdown.

The Federal Reserve reported Thursday that output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities dropped by 0.1 percent last month after an increase of 0.8 percent in April. It was the first decline since a 0.1 percent drop in January.

The weakness last month reflected a slowdown in the auto industry. Production of autos and auto parts fell by 1.3 percent last month, after a 0.2 percent drop in April. Analysts said the slowdown in production of autos, appliances and other big-ticket consumer items was consistent with a slower pace of consumer spending. Manufacturing, which had finally started to recover from the 2001 recession, will slow in coming months as overall economic growth slows, economists say.

"Manufacturing output growth will slow in 2006 and 2007 as U.S. and global growth slows," said Cliff Waldman, an economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. "But export growth and capital spending should stay strong enough to keep the factory expansion intact for at least the next few years."

The decline in industrial production left United States industry operating at 81.7 percent of capacity in May, down slightly from an April operating rate of 81.9 percent of capacity.

The Federal Reserve keeps a close watch on the operating rate to see if it is approaching levels where bottlenecks could develop and threaten to heighten inflationary pressures.
500 2006-06-16 "Given the media-generated hysteria surrounding this issue," Senator Rice, a Newark Democrat, added, "one would think that every home in the state is threatened by eminent domain."

Mr. Rice also promised that critics of his bill could testify at open hearings around the state in the next few weeks, as they have been doing at a series of hearings before the General Assembly's Commerce and Economic Development Committee. That panel's last hearing was on Monday.

The United States Supreme Court decision, Kelo v. New London, brought a reaction that forged an unusual coalition of conservative Republican property rights advocates and groups like the Environmental Federation, South Jersey Legal Services and the Coalition for Affordable Housing and the Environment.

The state's new public advocate, Ronald K. Chen, shares most of their concerns; he issued a report last month that said the state had not adequately protected property owners and tenants.

The furor has forced the hand of the Democrats who dominate the Legislature, many of whom are local officials themselves or work for law firms and other businesses active in redevelopment work.

The current law was rewritten in 1992 to encourage building in deteriorated urban areas by allowing a local government to declare an area "in need of redevelopment" and acquire land there by eminent domain. Critics say the criteria for designating redevelopment area, using terms like "underutilized" and "stagnant," are too expansive.

Both the Assembly and Senate bills restrict the criteria for designating a redevelopment area, and they provide property owners with more notice and opportunity to appeal a condemnation decision.

Mr. Chen has voiced support, with reservations, for Mr. Rice's bill and the Assembly bill, sponsored by John J. Burzichelli, the chairman of the economic development committee.

In testimony on Thursday, George Hawkins, the director of New Jersey Future, the main advocacy organization for the state plan, said its interest was preserving open space while channeling development to cities. Mr. Hawkins also said that while homeowners might be granted more protection, "how about three warehouses and a gas station?"

Both committees heard from dissenting Republican legislators this week. Assemblyman Guy R. Gregg, speaking to Mr. Burzichelli's committee on Monday, protested: "We have a system to redevelop. It's called capitalism.

"We've developed an open-space program that has worked for 20 years, working with willing buyers and willing sellers."

And Senator Diane B. Allen, a Burlington County Republican, urged Mr. Rice's committee on Thursday to consider a moratorium on eminent domain. During any delay, Senator Allen said, "we're going to have people's homes taken from them inappropriately, immorally, and in my mind, unethically and illegally."

Senator Fred H. Madden Jr., a Democrat from Turnersville, said he would support a moratorium, too. "In traveling around South Jersey," Senator Madden said, "eminent domain always comes up, almost as often as property taxes."
501 2006-06-16 In a class-action lawsuit, the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People accused the Baltimore Police Department of encouraging arrests without probable cause to increase arrest numbers. The suit, filed in Baltimore Circuit Court, asserts that of more than 76,000 people arrested in the city last year, more than 25,000 were released without being charged. In a statement, Ralph S. Tyler, the city solicitor, said the plaintiffs would fail to "prove their wild allegation that the police department has a policy of making arrests without probable cause."
502 2006-06-16 Months before arresting 17 suspects in an alleged terrorism plot this month, agents of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service warned some of the suspects' parents that their sons were adopting "extremist ideology," The Globe and Mail reported. The accused, mostly in their late teens and early 20's, face charges of participating in a plot to attack Canadian landmarks and behead the prime minister. The approach taken by the agents to speak to the suspects' parents was in line with a strategy to scare off the accused by not hiding the fact that they were being monitored. "C.S.I.S. officers had approached some parents to let them know that C.S.I.S. suspected their children were becoming adherents to an extremist ideology," a spokeswoman for the service, Barb Campion, told the newspaper.
503 2006-06-16 For 10 years, until 2004, Dr. Morris was dean of science at the American Museum, overseeing the staff of curators and coordinating their work on public exhibitions. "He was a pillar of our community personally and intellectually," said Ellen V. Futter, the museum president.

Michael J. Novacek, senior vice president and provost of the museum, said that Dr. Morris had a major role in the renaissance of the scientific exhibitions at the museum in recent years. He took a direct hand in curating several temporary and permanent exhibits, including one on the royal tombs of Sipán in Peru.

But it was Dr. Morris's own research that dominated his 31 years at the museum, where at his death he was a senior vice president and curator of anthropology. His expertise in Inca culture and his scholarly publications earned him membership in the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

He was also vice president of the Institute of Andean Research, treasurer of the Peruvian-American Research Foundation and an adjunct professor of anthropology at Columbia.

Edward Craig Morris was born on Oct. 7, 1939, in Murray, Ky., and grew up there. As an undergraduate student at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, he developed an interest in anthropology, and at the University of Chicago, where he earned his Ph.D. in 1967, his abiding fascination with Peruvian prehistory took root.

This led to his principal work on three long-term field projects. Besides the 11-year research at Huánuco Pampa, he put in years at sites of the Chincha kingdom on the south coast of Peru and then at excavations on the southeastern frontier of the Inca realm on the slopes of the Bolivian Andes.

Collaborating with Adriana von Hagen, an American writer living in Peru, he wrote "The Cities of the Ancient Andes" and "The Inca Empire and Its Andean Origins." She is also co-author with him of a new book on art in the ancient Andes, expected to be published by Thames & Hudson.

"We were working together only last week on the final chapter," Ms. von Hagen said by telephone from Lima. "It's ready to go to our editor."

Dr. Morris is survived by a sister, Emily Morris Luther of Murray, Ky., and his partner, Alexei Baklanov of New York City.

Colleagues and other archaeologists who knew him said that the Peruvian past was such a central part of his life that Dr. Morris maintained an apartment in Lima, his base of exploration over the years, and that Peruvian archaeologists considered him one of their own.
504 2006-06-16 The collective began crossing borders shortly thereafter, screening 11 films from five different countries for its first festival. As in 2002, most of the films in this year's edition are from Japan, which has a robust and, in the United States, criminally neglected national cinema. Also showing are films from Korea (seven), India (five) and Thailand, Malaysia and China (one apiece).

The crisis in foreign-language film distribution in the United States is a point of obsessive concern for those who believe the movie of the moment isn't "The Break-Up" but the Romanian social satire "The Death of Mr. Lazarescu." Still, despite the grim tidings — the shrinking theatrical audience, the shuttered distributors — showcases like the New York Asian Film Festival suggest all may not be lost. And Mr. Hendrix, for one, remains uncharacteristically hopeful for someone in this business.

"Kids who read manga and watch anime," he said, "they're into movies with female protagonists, they're into romance and comedy. They make it a point to seek out animes with subtitles. And at some point someone in the U.S. is going to realize that is an audience that should be served."

Over the next two weeks the festival will play 29 films, including a short, "Hair," from the South Korean director Jang Jun-Hwan, whose "Save the Green Planet" received a limited American release last year. As usual, the selections encompass a range of genres, from hardcore horror to softhearted melodrama, and include multiple premieres. Some of the films arrive laden with accolades, like the epic-size Chinese family drama "Peacock" (2005), which won a significant prize at last year's Berlin Film Festival. Directed by Gu Changwei, a cinematographer who has shot films for Chen Kaige and Robert Altman, "Peacock" follows three adult children who, beginning in the 1970's, are trying to find their way in a country not yet in the grip of Louis Vuitton knockoffs and ennui.

The hushed naturalism and unhurried rhythms of "Peacock" could not be more different from the go-go frenzy of a film like "Gangster" (2005), the festival's sole selection from Malaysia. Directed by Bade Haji Azmi, this cinematic pileup — think "Amores Perros" by way of "The Fast and the Furious" and every Roger Corman cheapie you can think of — is as irredeemably absurd as it is watchable. The film offers a glimmer of social commentary tucked between its throbbing musical-and-storybook beats, but what it mostly has to offer are slick surfaces, spinning wheels and a young cast who — whether hanging off one another curbside or bouncing in the local nightclub — unintentionally provide further evidence of pop culture's homogenizing effects.

Those looking to satisfy their craving for Asian extreme cinema will find relief in "Art of the Devil 2" (2005), a sporadically amusing, gore-soaked Thai horror flick that proves you should never eat anything you haven't cooked yourself. (Oops, is that a blue lacquered fingernail in my soup?)

Far more satisfying, aesthetically if not nutritionally, is the slick, fast-moving gangster film "Company" (2002), from the well-regarded Indian director and producer Ram Gopal Varma. A sweeping, self-consciously cynical crime story about a cartel that spreads its violent tentacles from Bollywood to Hong Kong ("Yes, it stinks, but it's business"), the film is playing as part of a four-title tribute to Mr. Varma titled "No Singing, No Dancing, No Mercy."

Given the festival's commitment to genre cinema it's instructive that two of best films I've seen from this year's lineup push the limits of form almost to the breaking point. In the diverting "Cromartie High School" (2005), the Japanese director Yudai Yamaguchi, working with an economy of means and a bountiful imagination, tracks the supremely unhinged adventures of a group of very unusual high school students. Much like the swoon-worthy South Korean period story "Duelist" (2005), from Lee Myung-Se, this parody of juvenile delinquent films takes a satisfyingly heretical approach to traditional narrative. In "Duelist," a film that bridges the musical and the action movie with abandon, brandished swords lead not only to some wonderfully riotous fight scenes, but also to an awfully fine romance.
505 2006-06-16 I hope you won't object if I cede the floor, for a moment, to a superior critic, Kenneth Tynan, who wrote the following ecstatic passage in a youthful journal and quoted it, "unflinchingly," in a 1979 New Yorker profile of the silent film star Louise Brooks:

"Infatuation with L. Brooks reinforced by second viewing of 'Pandora.' She has run through my life like a magnetic thread — this shameless urchin tomboy, this unbroken, unbreakable filly. She is a prairie princess, equally at home in a waterfront bar and in the royal suite at Neuschwanstein; a creature of impulse, a creator of impulses, a temptress with no pretensions; capable of dissolving into a giggling fit at a peak of erotic ecstasy; amoral but totally selfless. ... In short, the only star actress I can imagine either being enslaved by or wanting to enslave; and a dark lady worthy of any poet's devotion."

Perhaps this strikes you as hyperbolic. If so — and, for that matter, if not — then you should direct your steps to Film Forum, where a restored print of "Pandora's Box" is currently on view, with live musical accompaniment. G. W. Pabst's 1929 melodrama has earned its place in film history, where his name and Brooks's are duly recorded. But as Tynan made clear, watching this movie is hardly an archival experience. Brooks's star would wane, and her obscurity would be long, but her performance as Lulu retains a vitality, a live physical and affective presence, that has rarely, if ever, been matched on screen.

Lulu, the creation of the German Expressionist playwright Frank Wedekind, is, in the course of "Pandora's Box," a music hall performer and a rich man's bride, a murderess and a victim, a fugitive from justice and an object of desire. Though she bears a kinship to Theodore Dreiser's Sister Carrie and Émile Zola's Nana, she is, as incarnated by Brooks, a woman who transcends categories and frustrates expectations. She might have been interpreted as a fallen innocent or a femme fatale — prey or predator of the men around her — but Brooks and Pabst dismiss such sentimental notions. Brooks, a Kansas native still in her early 20's when she went to Berlin to make the film, shows a remarkable combination of freshness and poise, blending easygoing guilelessness with knowing seductive poise.

Neither an exposé of social conditions nor a psychological case study — and certainly not a moral parable — "Pandora's Box" is a tour de force of cinematic eroticism, in which the mercurial nature of the sexual appetite is explored in set pieces that are at once divinely frenzied and meticulously controlled. With each viewing, a new dimension of Lulu's personality (and Brooks's) seems to emerge, and yet the film remains as indelibly strange as ever, capable of inspiring some critics to babbling gush — and reducing others to awed silence.
506 2006-06-16 In 2003, when Colombia's big bull market was getting under way, its main stock index rose 41 percent and the dollar volume of trading was up by a third, to $427 million. By the time the market peaked this January, weekly trading volume was greater than in all of 2003.

Colombia was not alone. From 2002 lows, one index in Egypt was up 1,000 percent when measured in dollars, and Turkey's market rose 500 percent. Argentina did almost that well, and Colombia added 900 percent. The S.& P. 500 rose a paltry 71 percent to its recent high.

There were stories of economic growth in many developing countries, and Argentina benefited from repudiating much of its debt. (Now there's a reason to buy stocks.) Bulls on Colombia pointed to the sharp falloff in kidnappings. In April of this year there were just 9, down 97 percent from four years earlier.

Now the bloom is off. At this week's lows, Colombia was down almost 50 percent in little over a month. Russia, Turkey and India were off about 30 percent.

Those sell-offs cannot be explained by local fundamentals, but then again neither could all of the gains be so explained. Some of the declines look suspiciously like that of the Nasdaq market after its peak in 2000. Whether or not the markets recover this year, it is a reminder that bubbles eventually burst.

Speculators will play, and some will suffer. The important risk is not to their wealth, and it seems unlikely that a global recession is being foretold. The real danger is of renewed hostility to open economies.

Developing countries learned in 1998 that it was risky to let foreign fast money buy short-term credit instruments, because of the damage that could be created if they all tried to get out at once. Now they may fear letting foreigners buy stock.

•Last week's column argued that reported inflation rates in the United States may have been understated because the government bases its estimates of homeownership costs on rental rates, rather than on the prices houses actually sell for.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which computes the consumer price index, has pointed out that my estimates did not reflect changing weights of items in the index. Adding that refinement, I now estimate that using home prices from the end of 1996 through the first quarter of this year would have raised the average annual inflation rate to 3.7 percent, not 4 percent, from the reported 2.5 percent. The core rate, for all goods except food and energy, would have been 3.9 percent, not 4.2 percent, up from 2.2 percent.
507 2006-06-16 FOR decades, Clarksdale has been more famous for the musicians who left than for anyone who stayed. The electric blues masters Muddy Waters and John Lee Hooker, the rhythm and blues pioneer Ike Turner and the soul man Sam Cooke are just a few of the refugees who made a hard turn onto Highway 61 north and never looked back. They sought greater opportunity, but also were fleeing poverty and the Jim Crow South. Want and hardship still haunt Clarksdale — those shotgun shacks are not for nostalgic show — but www.clarksdaletourism.com beckons visitors with a blue guitar and two highway signs that mark the mythic crossroads where, it is said, the bluesman Robert Johnson sold his soul to ol' Scratch in exchange for a few otherworldly guitar licks. Clarksdale's downtown is just a few square blocks — fine for a city of about 20,000 — but its legend, as a kiln for shaping the blues, resonates worldwide. (And you never know when you might stumble over the ghost of Faulkner or Tennessee Williams.)

Unless like some of the locals you pilot a crop duster, you'll fly into Memphis. The drive south will take you through cotton fields and cypress swamps and is dotted with small towns — Lula, Robinsonville and Tunica, which is among the top five spots in the nation for casino revenue. An old diner there, the Blue & White (1355 Highway 61 north, Tunica; 662-363-1371), serves sublime onion rings in a delicate but crunchy batter ($3.99 for a large order) and homemade pies. Allow a leisurely hour and a half for the 75-mile drive. When you find yourself swaying to the soulful sounds of WROX (1450 AM and 92.1 FM), you're getting close.

The Hopson Plantation is where the mechanical cotton picker was unveiled in 1941, and it is again on the cutting edge — this time with cultural tourism. The Shack Up Inn, above, consists of six former sharecropper shacks, each transformed into a guesthouse that sleeps three or four. Yes, there is indoor plumbing (and kitchenettes). The contrast of the shacks' down-at-the-heels histories and their contemporary coziness can, at first, feel presumptuous and like a form of exploitation. One guestbook comment read: "Negrophilia: Commodification: Everything but the burden. Thanks!" But the silence and the breeze sneaking through the shacks' open doors make them a profound way to experience the Delta. The Cotton Gin Inn recently opened on the same site: five hotel rooms built into an old cotton gin building.

Just as you've become accustomed to the sense of being somewhere else, step into Madidi (164 Delta Avenue, 662-627-7724; www.madidires.com), a restaurant and cosmopolitan oasis, below. The Levingston salad ($6) — baby arugula cloaked in cucumber and blue cheese — refreshes, and the spicy catfish cake ($8) is a comfort. Striped bass is served with cardamom and coriander on grilled green tomatoes ($23). Madidi is partly owned by the actor Morgan Freeman, who lives in nearby Charleston. After dinner, stroll through the small downtown to Mr. Freeman's other venture: Ground Zero Blues Club (364 Delta Avenue, 662-621-9009; www.groundzerobluesclub.com). A former cotton warehouse, Ground Zero is Clarksdale's top blues spot. The local favorites in Clarksdale include Super Chikan, Jimbo Mathus (former leader of Squirrel Nut Zippers), the Deep Cuts and that cantankerous sweetheart, T-Model Ford.

Breakfast at the Delta Amusement Blues Cafe (348 Delta Avenue, 662-627-1467) isn't anything you can't get on a grill elsewhere, but the sense of small-town intrigue is straight out of Eudora Welty. You can hear the laughing and cursing over poker and dominos even when the games aren't being played. Walk out the back door to the Delta Blues Museum (1 Blues Alley, 662-627-6820; www.deltabluesmuseum.org; $7 adults, $5 children ages 6 to 12). Alluringly low-tech, it delivers not only the music but also the culture that produced it. A former freight depot, the museum houses Muddy Waters's childhood cabin, above. Step inside and feel the blues falling down like rain. Nearby is Cat Head Delta Blues & Folk Art (252 Delta Avenue, 662-624-5992; www.cathead.biz), stuffed with Southern creations.
508 2006-06-16 Photo of visitors to Bronx Zoo's new African Wild Dog exhibit...
509 2006-06-16 Months before arresting 17 suspects in an alleged terrorism plot this month, agents of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service warned some of the suspects' parents that their sons were adopting ''extremist ideology,'' The Globe and Mail reporte...
510 2006-06-16 In a class-action lawsuit, the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People accused the Baltimore Police Department of encouraging arrests without probable cause to increase arrest numbers. The ...
511 2006-06-16 CHANGE AT MICROSOFT Three decades after he started Microsoft with the dream of placing a personal computer in every home and business, Bill Gates announced that he would leave his day-to-day role there in two years. He will shift his energies to r...
512 2006-06-16 BARKER--Chrissie Head of communications for JWT in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, passed away Friday, June 9, after a brave battle against cancer. Over more than a decade at JWT, Chrissie worked passionately and tirelessly to ensure that the...
513 2006-06-17 A young mother jumped off the Victory Bridge in Perth Amboy, N.J., late yesterday morning clutching her baby daughter, the authorities said. The woman survived the plunge into the Raritan River, but the child died.

The woman, Jerlisa Contreras, 24, of Perth Amboy, was in critical condition after jumping from the southbound side of the bridge, said a spokeswoman for Perth Amboy, Shakira Johnson, who said the two were pulled from the river by fire and emergency rescue workers.

The mother was taken to Robert Wood Johnson Medical Center in New Brunswick. The baby, Alyssa Scott, 14 months old, was taken to Raritan Bay Medical Center in Perth Amboy, where she was pronounced dead, a hospital spokeswoman, Lynette Davis, said.

The Perth Amboy police declined to discuss the matter "because it's now a homicide investigation," Ms. Johnson of Perth Amboy said.

Relatives and friends of Ms. Contreras said yesterday that she had been upset since the weekend, when she confronted a woman they said was seeing her daughter's father.
514 2006-06-17 The last known capture of an American soldier was that of Pfc. Keith Maupin, who was taken from an ambushed convoy in 2004 near Falluja, west of Baghdad. Al Jazeera, an Arab satellite television channel, reported that it had received a videotape of his killing. But the victim's face was not shown in the tape, and the American military has not confirmed the death.

Yusifiya, a mostly Sunni Arab town, has for months been a stronghold for Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. The group's leader, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, was killed in an American raid last week, and information about his network was found in safe houses in and around Yusifiya. The American military has conducted extensive sweeps of the area in the past two months.

The military said it had found a "treasure trove" of information in the raids, including outtakes of a video it found in late April that showed Mr. Zarqawi fumbling with a jammed gun.

Fighters have put up a fierce resistance, shooting down an American helicopter in the area. In April, the military said raids in the area had led to the killing of about 20 people it identified as foreign fighters of Al Qaeda.

The area southwest of Yusifiya is largely desert. A small road runs north to Falluja and south to Musayyib, the town where a large fuel tanker was blown up last year, killing about 70 people.

Aside from Al Qaeda, two militant groups operate there: the Islamic Army and Taifa al-Mansoura, according to a resident in Yusifiya.

The bombing on Friday in the Buratha mosque in northern Baghdad was precisely the kind that had been advocated by Mr. Zarqawi. The ease with which it was carried out, and its timing, shortly after a government-imposed curfew took effect, underscored just how difficult it would be to stop the insurgency, even without its top leader.

The Iraqi capital had been relatively quiet in the week since Mr. Zarqawi's death. The bombing, which stopped the mosque's clock at 12:17 p.m., took Iraqis by surprise.

"We thought the killing would be less," said Muhammad Hussein, a mosque worker who was helping with the cleanup. "But as you see," he said, his voice trailing off as he gestured toward a room where walls and high ceilings were speckled with blood. A man's head lay in the wreckage.

In an audio posting on a Web site on Friday, the Mujahedeen Shura, or Council of Holy Warriors, a group that says it oversees Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and other militant groups, promised more killings and said Mr. Zarqawi's death had strengthened it.

"The jihad will continue until the day of judgment," the message said, according to a translation by SITE, a group that tracks militant Web sites.

The imam of Buratha, Sheik Jalal al-Dien al-Sagheer, blamed Al Qaeda for the attack, though by midnight Friday, no group had claimed responsibility. "It was accomplished professionally," the sheik said. "The fingerprints are obvious."

By the guards' account, the bomber brought the explosives into the mosque in his shoes. Guards became suspicious when one of them noticed a pair of thick-soled sandals in an odd place, felt that they were heavy, and found explosives inside when he tore them apart. A search of the mosque ensued, and another pair was found in a bathroom. They had been torn open.

The guards began moving through the crowd, frisking worshipers, looking for at least two bombers, said Ali Muhammad, 29, who also works as a bodyguard for Sheik Sagheer. They did not dare to make an announcement for fear of forcing the hand of the bombers.

They had good reason to suspect that there was more than one: a triple suicide bombing killed 90 people and wounded 175 in the same mosque in April, and its guards expect attackers to come in twos and threes. Rows of photographs of the dead from that bombing still hang on the mosque's walls.

As they searched, a man who was kneeling in the center of the room blew himself up, spewing shrapnel into the crowd, according to the guards' account. They said that while in a bathroom he had transferred the explosives from his shoes into a vest he was wearing. But the devastation of the explosion suggested a larger amount of explosives than could fit inside a pair of shoes. An Interior Ministry official could not confirm the guards' account but said the man was wearing a vest.

By late afternoon, workers in rubber boots had begun cleaning the floor with squeegees. The red rugs that had absorbed the blood had been taken away. The room smelled like a butcher shop. Some workers wore masks.

Mr. Muhammad said he was bracing himself for more killing, despite Mr. Zarqawi's death.

"There are still some people, I feel sorry to say this, Iraqis, who cooperate," he said. "Iraqis who enjoyed their lives under Saddam Hussein and treated others like servants."

Just minutes after the explosion in the mosque, mortars slammed into Sab al-Bour, a residential district north of Baghdad, killing two people and wounding 16, an official said.

In the southern city of Basra, a Sunni Arab sheik, Yusuf al-Hasani, was killed when gunmen strafed his convoy. He was the leader of the Muslim Scholars Association, a hard-line Sunni Arab group.

In Karbala, another southern city, the Shiite religious party Fadhila, which has 30 of 275 seats in Parliament, held a news conference to condemn the arrest the day before of one of its members, Sheik Aqil al-Zubaidi, by the American military.

The military said Sheik Zubaidi, the leader of the Provincial Council, "commands a Karbala terrorist network," which planned attacks on Iraqi civilians and American soldiers. He provided financial support and bomb-making material that led to the deaths of at least six coalition soldiers in 2005, and a soldier and interpreter on June 8, it said.

Nadim al-Jabiri, the head of Fadhila in Karbala, denied the charges at the news conference.

Army officials have begun a criminal investigation into the deaths on May 9 of three Iraqi men while they were being held by coalition troops in the southern part of Salahaddin Province, north of Baghdad.
515 2006-06-17 "We're all students of why didn't Wang make the change," Mr. Gates said. "Why didn't Digital Equipment, which was my favorite company, make the change?"

A more fitting lesson may come from I.B.M., which dominated the mainframe computing era just as Microsoft has ruled the PC age. I.B.M. remained highly profitable in the 1980's even after the advent of the PC produced a growing array of challengers. But by the early 1990's, the eclipse of the mainframe and I.B.M.'s inability to find its way in the PC era forced the company to go through a sweeping makeover in management and culture; it has never regained its previous influence.

Now it is the age of high-speed Internet connections and new digital devices that threaten the formula that established Microsoft's primacy. But Mr. Gates argued that the rapidly increasing availability of computing power, which undid his competitors, will ultimately save Microsoft. As the cost of computing falls, giving rise to new uses and appliances, Microsoft will find new markets and grow, he said.

In that sense, technical advances have a different impact on computing than on other businesses, increasing rather than decreasing demand. "When they invented radial tires, they should have shot the guy," he said. "The whole industry went through a crisis, because it took nine years to squeeze out the extra factory capacity, because the tires lasted longer."

Microsoft's future, he said, lies in applications that will offer new capabilities. He cited an announcement planned for later this month that is intended to extend the Microsoft Office business into the telecommunications world by more tightly linking the power of PC's and telephones.

Even as he pulls back from day-to-day activities, Mr. Gates will play a prominent role as chairman as well as the company's largest shareholder. But on Thursday he said the company's technical leadership would continue to report to him for only another year before shifting to work for Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive.

It is at that point that the unusual chemistry that the two men have refined over a quarter-century — with Mr. Gates as the technical visionary and Mr. Ballmer as the sales leader — will be most thoroughly tested.

Whether Mr. Ballmer can change his role to take responsibility for both sides of the equation remains to be seen, but there is little doubt that he has the commitment to carry on as Microsoft's chief executive far into the future. Even six years ago, when Mr. Gates first said that he agreed with Mr. Ballmer to remain committed to Microsoft until he was 50 — the age they have now reached — Mr. Ballmer said he often felt that he would leave only by being carried out of the company.

His immediate challenge is to convince Wall Street that he is still the right man for the job, something that is certain to take several successful products.

At a news conference on Thursday at a Microsoft corporate television studio, he and Mr. Gates took pains to stress continuity in the company's leadership — what Mr. Ballmer referred to as the "relentless patience" underlying the company's strategy and long-term planning approach.

In the front row facing the two executives were Ray Ozzie, the veteran computer industry executive to whom Mr. Gates is handing the role of chief software architect, and Craig Mundie, a second veteran who has been the designer of the company's government and international strategy, and who will now formally head research and strategy.

At the back of the room sat the company's three divisional presidents, Jeff Raikes, Robert J. Bach and Kevin Johnson, as well as a handful of key lieutenants, including Rick Rashid, the head of research; Steven Sinofsky, now leading the technical effort in the operating systems business; and J Allard, the original designer of the Xbox video game system, who is now leading an effort to extend the software technology underlying the company's entertainment business.

The collection of executive talent represents the breadth of Microsoft's ambition. Mr. Ozzie, whose résumé includes the conception of Lotus Notes in the 1980's, has risen rapidly to his position of technical leader since he came to Microsoft last year when it acquired his company, Groove Networks.

Mr. Ozzie's ascent is interpreted by some industry executives as an acknowledgment by Mr. Gates that it is time for Microsoft to build a new foundation on the Internet. Brad Silverberg, a previous technical leader at Microsoft, left the company in the 1990's when he became convinced that Mr. Gates was not willing to move quickly enough in breaking with the past.

"Ray is the real DNA in terms of the future of Microsoft's software path," said Mark R. Anderson, an analyst at Strategic News Service, a technology consulting firm. Mr. Gates, he said, has been a "fast follower" who has been able to repeatedly change Microsoft's strategy to rapidly pursue and then overtake competitors with new technologies.

Mr. Ozzie, in contrast, has a record of innovation, first with Notes and then with Groove, a PC-based software system that allows groups of workers to collaborate — a product that is now being integrated into the next version of Office.

"It's easy when you're following the taillights," Mr. Anderson said. "It's a lot harder when you have to invent the car."

One crucial aspect of Mr. Gates's legacy at Microsoft will be its ability to salvage its Windows Vista operating system. The program has entered its second test version and is scheduled to be commercially available early next year.

In interviews during the last two days, Microsoft executives almost universally expressed caution about whether the program, the most complex software undertaking in the company's history, is certain to be on schedule for January shipment — more than five years after the current version, Windows XP.

"We're looking at these incoming bug arrival rates and feeling pretty good," Mr. Gates said. "They're working really hard, they believe they're going to make those dates, but the dates are not a sacrosanct thing."

A number of researchers who follow the company say Vista, a project born under the code name Longhorn, has left psychic wounds from which the company is still trying to recover.

"It is clear to me that Gates lost touch with the core of the company several years ago, as evidenced by the collapse of the Longhorn project and the abyss the Windows group fell into," said Michael A. Cusumano, a management professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "so this announcement is really just recognizing what already exists — his mind is elsewhere."

On Friday, Mr. Gates acknowledged that he was not following Vista on a daily basis. That job belongs to another executive, Jim Allchin, who has announced that he will leave once the troubled program is shipped successfully.
516 2006-06-17 The officials said that new state tests were used this year in place of citywide exams and that the tests were given in the winter instead of the spring. The changes, they said, made it unfair to compare year-to-year results.

Officials also cautioned that the full test results would not be issued by New York State until August and that the promotion decisions were based on a preliminary analysis of scores. But some analysts said the latest data lent credence to skeptics' assertions that last year's steep jump in test scores of fourth and fifth graders was too good to be true.

"There is some evidence here to suggest that the grade four test results last year were inflated," said Robert Tobias, the former director of testing for the city schools and now a professor at New York University's Steinhardt School of Education.

Lori Mei, the city's current testing director, disputed any notion that the new results cast any doubt on last year's success. "I am saying categorically no," she said.

Unlike the last two years in which Mr. Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein held triumphant news conferences to tout test results, this year's promotion data was e-mailed to reporters by Mr. Klein's press office yesterday. Officials said a news conference would be held when the full state test results are released in August.

City Hall referred questions to the Education Department. Mr. Klein left for the weekend yesterday afternoon without issuing any comment. Later, through his press secretary, he issued a statement thanking the State Education Department for its help in providing preliminary results.

"We look forward to receiving the official scores from the state later this year," Mr. Klein said.

The city's preliminary analysis of scores was needed because the state this year assumed responsibility for annual reading and math tests of all students in grades three to eight to comply with the federal No Child Left Behind law. In previous years, the state handled the exams in grades four and eight while the city gave the tests in grades three, five, six and seven.

Last year, the proportion of city fourth graders scoring at or above grade level in reading increased 9.9 percentage points. But that gain — by students who are this year's fifth graders — was outpaced by all of the state's large districts except Buffalo, prompting critics to ask whether the test was too easy. State officials insisted it was not.

"Given the fact that we had this meteoric rise in fourth grade last year, given the fact that it looked suspicious," Mr. Tobias said, "I was looking forward to this year's fifth-grade results to get a sense if those fourth-grade increases were real."

Of yesterday's results, Mr. Tobias said, "This is exactly what I would expect to see if there were problems with the fourth-grade test last year."

Ms. Mei suggested other reasons for the decline in fifth-grade performance, particularly the earlier administration of this year's test. Later exams had allowed many struggling students to benefit from three months more of Saturday classes for remediation and test preparation.

"We have charts that show a real connection between Saturday sessions children attended and how they performed," Ms. Mei said. "Given the fact that the test was given in January those at-risk kids attended many fewer sessions."

In third grade, the number of students failing to earn promotion declined to 5,237 or 9.2 percent from 8,244 or 13.4 percent. In seventh grade, the number failing to meet promotion criteria dropped to 3,552 or 5.3 percent from 7,329 or 11.2 percent.

But the seventh-grade data did not reflect math scores, which historically account for the majority of failures in seventh grade. The city did not use the math scores this year because of recent curriculum changes.

The city faced many logistical headaches this year as the state took full control of testing.

Because the state developed all new exams it had warned that results would not be available until late summer. The city, however, was eager to have test results to make decisions about whether students should go to summer school under the mayor's promotion rules.

At first, city officials said students would have to take two sets of exams this year, one for the state and the other for the city. But after an outcry by parents, the city and state reached a deal allowing city officials to tabulate preliminary results for use in promotion decisions.

Depending on their scores, students place in one of four performance levels, with Level 1 being far below standards and Level 3 being at or above grade level. In previous years, the city's cutoff for promotion was Level 2 — still below grade but demonstrating some mastery of skills.

It is unclear if the city's decisions about who should go to summer school will precisely match the state's criteria for Level 1.

Critics of standardized testing seized on all of these issues to yet again condemn the city's use of the exams. "It goes to prove one more time that these tests are really a sham," said Jane Hirschmann, of the Time Out From High-Stakes Testing, a leading anti-test group, accusing the city of making decisions in a way that no test expert "would validate or find reliable."
517 2006-06-17 A test of the long-range missile by North Korea would be the first since 1998, when it fired a three-stage Taepodong 1 missile over Japan, demonstrating an ability that caught American intelligence officials by surprise. That led Congress to step up its push for deployment of antimissile defenses.

North Korea declared a moratorium on its long-range missile launchings in 1999.

The current concern focuses on indications first detected five weeks ago that North Korea is preparing to test a multiple-stage Taepodong 2 missile, administration officials said.

Some Bush administration officials at first suspected that the moves were a grab for attention while Washington's focus was primarily on Iran and a way to press the United States to agree to direct talks.

"They've done prep work that is consistent with a missile launch," one senior administration official said. "What we don't know is whether they really intend to go through with this, or whether they are just saying, 'I will not be ignored.' "

But in recent days, administration officials said, they have seen more worrying signs that North Korea is accelerating its preparations. The officials would not be more specific about the information, and most would discuss the matter only after being promised anonymity, saying the sensitive diplomatic and intelligence concerns meant they could not speak for the record.

American knowledge about the Taepodong 2 is limited. The system has never been flight-tested. American intelligence has steadily increased the estimates of its range. In 2001, a National Intelligence Estimate forecast that a three-stage version of the Taepodong 2 missile could reach all of North America with a sizable payload.

A test of the missile could set off a political chain reaction on both sides of the Pacific. The Bush administration might step up financing for missile defense efforts. Japan might also increase such efforts, and hard-liners there might even push to reconsider the nation's nuclear weapons options. Both moves would alienate China.

Just two weeks ago — a day after the United States offered to hold direct talks with Iran over its nuclear program — North Korea invited Christopher R. Hill, an assistant secretary of state and chief negotiator on the North's nuclear weapons program, for direct talks in Pyongyang, the capital. That offer was immediately rebuffed by the White House, which insisted that the North return to the long-deadlocked six-nation talks instead. The other nations involved in the talks are China, South Korea, Japan and Russia.

The Taepodong 2 is believed to have three stages. The first is thought to be a cluster of No Dong missiles, according to Gary Samore, a former senior staff member of the National Security Council. The second stage is believed to be a No Dong missile. The third stage might be a solid-fueled system.

If the North Koreans were simply trying to draw attention from Iran, it is curious that they began making preparations for the test more than a month ago, because that would pre-date when the Bush administration changed course on Iran, offering to join European talks with Tehran over Iran's nuclear program.

North Korea agreed last September in the six-nation talks to abandon its nuclear program in return for energy assistance and security guarantees. But the agreement left unclear the sequence of events, and disputes arose immediately over whether disarmament or the award of benefits would come first.

Then, a few months later, North Korea boycotted the talks after the United States cracked down on financial institutions, including a bank in Macau, that dealt with the government in Pyongyang, and with North Korean companies suspected of counterfeiting American dollars and laundering money.

If North Korea goes ahead with a launching, the already floundering six-nation talks could go into the deep freeze. Critics say the Bush administration is in a tight spot of its own making, with no options beyond pressing China to press North Korea not to test.

"I think the administration was dismissive too soon regarding this North Korea invitation for Chris Hill to go to Pyongyang," said Robert J. Einhorn, assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation under President Clinton. One result, he said, is that the administration cannot now offer Mr. Hill as an inducement not to test, because the North Koreans might view that as a reward for threatening to launch the missile.

The Taepodong 2 is believed to have a substantially longer range than the first version, tested on Aug. 31, 1998. Pyongyang tried to place a small satellite in orbit by launching a three-stage Taepodong 1. Although the third stage — the part where the missile was supposed to boost the satellite into orbit — failed, the test showed that North Korea was technically capable of launching missiles with multiple stages, Mr. Samore said.
518 2006-06-17 He quoted Khaled Meshal, one of Hamas's leaders in exile, as saying that if the doors of the West were closed, those of the East would be open. "But a week later they discovered it's different," Mr. Dahlan said. "They're spinning in a circle and looking for a scapegoat — first it's Fatah, then Dahlan. They say they're besieged, but Arafat was besieged in his bedroom! We've been besieged for six years! But we in Fatah never did anything to provoke civil war, and we never stopped salaries either."

Mr. Dahlan described a meeting on Wednesday with the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, known as Abu Mazen, of Fatah, and the prime minister, Ismail Haniya, of Hamas. "Abu Mazen asked him, 'What's your program? How will you get out of this crisis? What can you tell us?' And Hamas always says, 'God will help us.' Fine. We all believe in God, but politics requires an answer."

Mr. Abbas, with the encouragement of Mr. Dahlan, has seized on a document prepared by prisoners, led by a jailed Fatah leader, Marwan Barghouti, that calls for a unified Palestinian government and program that would support a Palestinian state within the boundaries before the 1967 war, thus implicitly recognizing Israel. If Hamas does not come to an agreement with him to accept the principles set out in the document, Mr. Abbas has declared a July 26 referendum on the proposal, a vote that Hamas says is illegal.

"Marwan did a great job in the jail on the document," Mr. Dahlan said of Mr. Barghouti, getting a senior Hamas prisoner to sign what "is the first document in our lives" that all Palestinian factions managed to negotiate. "I told Abu Mazen, 'Don't even read the document, just accept it.' And Abu Mazen used the document in a good way," he said, presenting Hamas with a political conundrum.

Ghazi Hamad, the Hamas government spokesman, said in an interview that he was optimistic that the Abbas-Hamas talks would lead to a political agreement without a referendum, allowing Mr. Abbas, as head of the Palestine Liberation Organization, full authority to negotiate with Israel on the basis of the 1967 boundaries.

But Mr. Hamad conceded that the economic siege of the Hamas government by the West had put the government into crisis, unable to pay most salaries for nearly four months.

Mr. Hamad said Mr. Abbas had told Hamas that if it approved the political document, the West could be persuaded to lift the boycott.

On Friday in Brussels, the European Union said it had completed a temporary aid mechanism to provide allowances to the poorest in Gaza, ensure fuel supplies and help keep health and social services going without dealing with Hamas, which it considers a terrorist group.

The Europeans hope to get agreement from Washington and start this aid in July, with an initial European allocation of about $125 million, about the cost of one month's salary bill for the Palestinian Authority.

The Europeans also want Israel to use the mechanism and stop withholding some $50 million a month in taxes and duties it collects for the Palestinians.

Mr. Dahlan said the economic boycott hurts ordinary Palestinians and not Hamas itself, which has its own income. Despite what Hamas believes, he said, he wants it to succeed while Fatah reforms itself.

"We're not against Hamas politically," he said. "But they don't have the right to starve the people. If you want to fight the U.S. and Israel and Fatah, fine, but don't do it on the backs of the people."

Mr. Dahlan seemed to be trying to project indifference about Hamas's attacks. "They say you're corrupt, or a collaborator or an unbeliever, depending on your luck that day," he said.

As for longstanding accusations that he used his previous positions to benefit from Palestinian Authority monopolies on oil sales and cement, as well as from building contracts, exit permits and importing goods through the Karni crossing between Israel and Gaza, Mr. Dahlan scoffed.

"Hamas now has all the corruption files," he said. "I choose silence. If I wear a nice necktie, they say I'm corrupt, and if I take it off, they say it's false modesty."

The biggest problem now, he said, is that "only Israel knows what it wants." In his view, Israel wants to ensure that it has no Palestinian partner with whom to negotiate so it can continue its unilateral actions, "including the confiscation of our lands, the enlarging and deepening of the colonialism in the settlements and the assassination of innocents."

The assassination of innocents? Mr. Dahlan backtracked slightly, talking of the anger among Palestinians about the explosion on the Beit Lahiya beach that killed seven members of the Ghaliya family and the deaths four days later of eight more civilians in an attack on an Islamic Jihad rocket team.

Israel says its shells could not have caused the explosion on the beach. Mr. Dahlan scoffed again. "It's a scandal, and the Americans don't even condemn it," he said. "It wasn't the Israelis? Who was it? The Palestinian air force?"

His mood switched again. In a way, he mused, it did not matter. "Palestinians will believe Israel did it, even if it didn't," he said.
519 2006-06-17 In a population contest among the boroughs, the Bronx would rank second to last. John F. Kennedy once lived in the Bronx, but so did Lee Harvey Oswald. Until 2000, Amorphophallus titanum, otherwise known as the corpse flower because it gives off an odor similar to rotting flesh, had the distinction of being the borough's official flower.

But every year the Bronx finds something worth celebrating.

Today is the start of Bronx Week, an annual festival of civic pride organized by the Bronx Tourism Council and the borough president's office. There are plans for Latin music concerts, health fairs and a black-tie ball at Orchard Beach. The celebration culminates next Saturday with a parade on Mosholu Parkway. Details for the event can be found, naturally, on ilovethebronx.com.

The borough president, Adolfo Carrión Jr., said he was proud that his borough of 1.3 million residents has begun to shed its image as a violent, burned-out urban nightmare, but he was the first to admit that it needed more than a week of self-promotion. "We need a month, a year," Mr. Carrión said. "Or a decade."

Civic boasting, it turns out, is not new to the borough. Bronx Week is the longest-running event of its kind in the five boroughs. It started out small, in the early 1900's, as a day. Borough Day parades used to attract tens of thousands to the Grand Concourse. On June 14, 1924, schoolchildren, National Guardsmen and women's clubs marched before an estimated crowd of 200,000.

The parade no longer draws 200,000, and fostering a spirit of togetherness has not always been easy. At the 1971 parade, the first borough-pride march in decades after the tradition waned, someone mounted a placard on a fire escape that read, "Da Bronx Stinx."
520 2006-06-17 The new reserve requirement "is very modest," said Nicholas R. Lardy, a Chinese financial policy expert at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "This will be erased in one month."

China's central bank has been buying foreign currency from commercial banks as fast as foreign investment and China's trade surplus bring money into the country. The central bank has been paying for the foreign currency essentially by printing more of China's currency, the yuan.

The currency purchases are aimed at tempering a rise in the yuan's value against the dollar, a change that would make Chinese goods less competitive in overseas markets.

Awash with yuan as a result of these transactions, China's banks have gone on a lending spree. Having been told by regulators at the start of the year that they would be allowed to increase their total stock of outstanding loans by $310 billion, they proceeded to step up lending by $220 billion in just the first five months of this year.

That was an increase of 80 percent over the same period last year. "It's a complete credit blowout," Mr. Lardy said.

Liang Hong, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Goldman Sachs, said in a research note that the timing of the reserve requirement was a surprise, although many had predicted the central bank would act later this summer.

Bank regulators have already moved this spring to discourage loans for real estate ventures and factories in overheated industries like property loans and steel. The People's Bank of China also raised its benchmark lending rate on corporate loans by 27-hundredths of a percentage point on April 27, to 5.85 percent.

The question now is whether the interest rate increase in late April and now a reserve requirement increase will be enough to prevent higher inflation this year — or whether, as in the past, more drastic measures may be needed.

When the Chinese economy threatened to overheat with rising inflation in 2003 and early 2004, China raised reserve requirements by a full percentage point in August 2003 and by another half-point in April 2004.

But those steps proved ineffective and ports and railroads were still overwhelmed with goods. The government then began publicly denouncing, reprimanding and even jailing Communist officials, corporate executives and bank loan officers involved in speculative ventures that had not received all the necessary government approvals.

Those administrative measures helped slow the economy and restore order to the country's rail and road networks by late 2004.

Inflation has been much more subdued this year than in 2004. Overall consumer prices, including food and energy, were up only 1.4 percent last month in China from a year earlier. That was just one-third of the 4.2 percent increase in consumer prices over the last year in the United States.

But the People's Bank of China expressed concern in its statement on Friday that rising commodity prices as well as rapid bank lending might cause more inflation later.

Unlike in the United States, wages have been rising steeply in China in the last couple of years. It is not yet clear if the wage increases reflect productivity improvements, a long-term shift toward better pay, the beginnings of an inflationary spiral or some combination of all of these.
521 2006-06-17 Hayatullah Khan, 29, a Pakistani journalist missing for six months, was found dead outside a village in the tribal region of Waziristan. He had been shot from behind and "was wearing government handcuffs," his brother, Ihsanullah Khan Dawar, said by telephone. Mr. Dawar said he had been assured by Pakistani officials that his brother was alive but being detained for reasons relating to national security, and he blamed a Pakistani intelligence agency for the killing. The family suspects that he was picked because he released pictures of shrapnel from an American missile that had killed a senior operative of Al Qaeda, Hamza Rabia, in North Waziristan on Dec. 1. The Pakistani military had said he was killed by a bomb blast inside the house. Mr. Khan, who worked for the Urdu-language daily Ausaf and the European Pressphoto Agency, was abducted by five masked men on Dec. 5 last year. Government officials suggested that he had been relocated to the United States as a reward for pointing out Mr. Rabia's hide-out. American officials denied that and any involvement in the disappearance.
522 2006-06-17 The New York Times announced an agreement yesterday with Metro International, which publishes free daily newspapers in several cities, to carry some of the Times's classified advertising in its New York edition.

The agreement is intended to broaden the distribution of the Times's classified advertising to reach younger consumers who may not read traditional newspapers and to generate revenue for both companies. It covers classified advertising in the recruitment, real estate, automotive and general merchandise categories.

The ads will start to appear in Metro New York beginning in late summer. The two companies will share revenue from the arrangement; terms were not disclosed

The two publications have a combined readership on weekdays in the New York area of more than 2.2 million with little duplication, the companies said.

Denise Warren, chief advertising officer for The New York Times Media Group, said the arrangement would offer the Times's classified advertisers "the ease and convenience of one-stop shopping" to reach a larger audience.

The difference in readership between the two publications appears to be more in terms of reading habits than demographics. Readers of Metro New York have an average age of 36 years and household income of more than $87,000. Daily readers of The Times average 43.7 years with a household income of $88,500.

Large metropolitan newspapers, analysts say, are increasingly looking for new distribution channels for their classified ads to try to blunt the competition from free alternatives on the Web, like Craigslist.
523 2006-06-17 By The Associated Press

Shares fell slightly yesterday at the end of a week of zigzag trading that saw a substantial rebound after a steep sell-off. The major indexes finished the week mixed.

Traders paused after a two-session rally undid weeks of selling that had erased the gains in the major indexes for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 110 points on Wednesday and nearly 200 points on Thursday. It was the index's best two-day run since April 2003.

"The mentality of the market is one in which investors are looking to sell into strength," said Mike Malone, a trading analyst at Cowen & Company. "You're seeing a little bit of profit-taking today coming off yesterday's move up."

The day's economic data was robust. The deficit in the broadest measure of foreign trade showed an unexpectedly large improvement in the first three months, but soaring global oil prices are expected to limit such gains.

Traders, wary of inflation concerns, received some encouragement on Thursday when the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said record energy and commodity prices could account for some of the recent uptick in core prices but that inflation expectations had remained within historical ranges.
524 2006-06-17 "It's very disturbing," said Charles Elson, director of the University of Delaware's corporate governance center in Newark. "It's a particularly damaging disclosure vis-à-vis their relationship with shareholders."

Also yesterday, Michaels Stores Inc., the arts and crafts retailer, said it had received a grand jury subpoena requesting documents relating to the granting of stock options from 1996 to the present.

Michaels said the S.E.C. sent a letter requesting that the company preserve documents concerning the granting of stock options from 1990 to the present. The regulator intends to "request production" of the documents in the future, the company said yesterday.

In addition, Trident Microsystems Inc. said it had received a subpoena and was widening an internal review of the issue.

At least three other companies — Linear Technology Corporation, which makes semiconductors; Medarex Inc., the drug maker; and the Semtech Corporation, which makes semiconductors, received subpoenas this week seeking documents.

Home Depot said yesterday that there was "no material impact" to its previous financial statements associated with the options grants, and that the unrecorded expense was less than $10 million. The company said it did not plan to restate any earlier financial statements because of the change.

Home Depot said it reviewed its stock option grant practices and procedures going back to 1996.

The company said there were a total of five cases before December 2000 that options were approved on a date later than the one used to determine the exercise price. In two of the cases, the exercise price was higher.

Of the roughly 1.89 million grants with exercise prices lower than the share price on the date on which they were approved, 50,000 have been exercised, Mr. Shields said.

He declined to say which employees received the option grants. The net benefit to grant recipients in the five cases was about $1.96 million, according to figures provided by the company.

Another spokesman, David Sandor, declined to say if the company's treatment of the options was proper. He said none of the options in question were awarded to two founders, Arthur Blank and Bernard Marcus, or any directors.

The current chief executive, Robert L. Nardelli, took over from Mr. Blank in December 2000.
525 2006-06-17 "It's all sort of moderate," said Melvin Mack, the mayor of this city of 18,000 — grown to 24,000 with evacuees from Hurricane Katrina — in southeastern Mississippi. "You don't have all the beer drinking, the gin drinking, that they say goes along with an oil boom."

Gone is the Oil Well Lounge, with its bar the length of a city block and waitresses in short skirts and fishnet stockings. In its place is North of the Border Texmex and Cantina, with its steam-table buffet and $1 margaritas.

Angie Clark, the bartender, looked blank when asked about Laurel's oil wells, one of which was just about directly across the street. "No, I don't know about them," she said.

Nor had she ever heard of the Oil Well Lounge, though her smattering of late-afternoon customers remembered it reverently: the live bands, the bookmakers, the expense accounts.

"If you were broke, you just looked on the floor and picked up a hundred dollar bill," said Paul Swartzfager Jr., a Laurel lawyer. "They were throwing money around that crazy."

That was a time before the aging of the work force, the strict policing of drunken drivers and the rising influence of Bible Belt social mores. It was also back when the major oil companies had a presence here. But because Mississippi's reserves were small, its wells slow-flowing, the majors sold out to independents years ago.

When the price of oil goes high enough, those marginal wells, as they are called, become profitable again. By pumping Mississippi's naturally occurring carbon dioxide reserves into old wells, a process that helps free oil from the ground, one company, Denbury Resources, is expecting to leach 80 million barrels from the state's aging fields.

"The oil we're going after is oil that we left behind," said Gary Wray, an independent operator who is pouring all his available capital into reopening the old wells he amassed during lean times. This is the moment Mr. Wray and others like him have spent years waiting for. "There's no young people in this business," he said. "I'm 54, and I'm one of the youngest people in our business in the state."

Jim Moss, the owner of an oil-field services company in Laurel, scoffed when the comeback was referred to as an oil boom.

"The real boom was in the 50's, 60's and 70's," Mr. Moss said, even as he acknowledged that he was raking in more money than ever. So are the truck drivers, roustabouts, drillers and electricians. Some have come out of retirement. Others have returned to the business from different pursuits.

An experienced oil-field worker here can make as much as $22 an hour — exceptional pay for this part of the country — and a crew boss perhaps $80,000 a year.

And still employers are begging for people.

The labor shortage provokes nostalgia among those who started out as roughnecks and worked their way up. Well work is hard physical labor, involving picks and shovels and plenty of sticky black dirt. Though the pay is good and the jobs come with benefits, "most of them don't like to get dirty," said John Porter, a crew pusher who has been in the business 30 years.

Jerry Huddleston, who runs drilling operations inside Laurel's city limits for Comstock Resources, said people of his generation had grown up working. "I did — I worked on a farm," Mr. Huddleston said. "Used to be you hired 10 people, 9 of them were going to be with you for a while."

When men were out on the platform, they talked only about women, recalled Dan C. Taylor, who put himself through law school working summers on a rig. But when they were off duty, they talked only about rigs and wells.

Julius W. King, 83, an oil-field investor in a powder blue sports coat with a United Way lapel pin, lamented social welfare programs that he said provided a disincentive to work. "The government gives everybody some money now," he said. "They write you a check."

Mr. King grew up in nearby Heidelberg, where oil was discovered in 1943 and where the high school still has two wells on its grounds. "A dirt-poor whistle-stop in the red clay hills of eastern Mississippi was the proud owner of the biggest gusher east of the Mississippi," Mr. King said, quoting as best he remembered from a Time magazine article about his hometown.

Mr. King was unfamiliar, though, with the new labor problems in the field. "So the young guys aren't coming?" he asked.

Eddie Helms, the local manager of a company that provides casing to line wells, blamed crystal meth.

"It's killing us," Mr. Helms said. "We're a drug-free company. I tested eight people, and six of them failed."

Another reason for the shortage is competition from outside the industry. Hurricane Katrina has created thousands of construction and cleanup jobs in the state. Paul Broom, 47, who recently doubled his pay by returning to the petroleum business from a job driving propane trucks, said his 21-year-old son had left the oil fields to take a cleanup job.

Yet another reason labor is scarce may be self-preservation. The business is much safer than it once was, but an old saying — nothing on an oil field will hurt you, it'll kill you — can still hold true. The company that Mr. Broom's son had left lost three men in an explosion this month at a well that was being reopened in Raleigh, about 30 miles northwest of Laurel. The men were 18, 23 and 53. The lone survivor was 72.
526 2006-06-17 Americans live longer today (technically, no one has died of old age since 1951, when the government dropped that official cause). They also age more slowly, or so they say. Half the over-65 population define themselves as middle-aged or even young, though a greater proportion today are likely to be perilously overweight.

Yet the song still resonates. Julian Lennon, John's son, sang it in an Allstate Insurance commercial in 2002. When Paul Simon turned 64 last year, Mr. McCartney called and serenaded him with it.

According to most accounts, Mr. McCartney wrote the lyrics for his father (his mother had died of breast cancer when he was 13) and the song was recorded not long after the elder McCartney turned 64.

"While it may have been done tongue in cheek," said Bruce Spizer, a Beatles biographer, "life began to imitate art."

Mr. McCartney's first wife, Linda, died in 1998 at 56, of breast cancer; they had been married 29 years. "The bliss of being with a lifelong partner, as expressed in 'When I'm Sixty-Four,' was shattered by Linda's tragic death," Mr. Spizer said. "The little things expressed in the song, such as working the garden and going for a Sunday morning drive, were part of his life with Linda."

The writer Gail Sheehy, who, at 68, is still guiding readers through life's passages, said today's 64-year-olds have a "360-degree view of life." They may believe in yesterday, but they also can't stop thinking about tomorrow. Thanks to seasoning (and Viagra), males are not necessarily half the men they used to be.

Mr. McCartney, who recently appeared on the cover of AARP magazine, does not appear to be losing his hair yet, despite the song's augury. He has three grandchildren (not the song's "Vera, Chuck and Dave"). He is also the father of a 2-year-old daughter. And while he may not be living his own lyrical vision, Mr. McCartney seems closer to fulfilling Bob Dylan's "Forever Young" than Pete Townshend's "Hope I die before I get old."

Now a billionaire, he has said he has no plans to retire, either as a rock star or as an animal-rights advocate (although, at 65, he will be entitled to a basic pension from the British government, at least $156 a week, and a free transit pass).

This year, the first baby boomers turned 60. About 2.7 million other Americans observe their 64th birthdays in 2006, including Muhammad Ali, Erica Jong, Larry Flynt, Garrison Keillor, Michael Bloomberg, Harrison Ford, Ted Kaczynski and Barbra Streisand. (Ringo Starr, the only other surviving member of the Fab Four, will be 66 next month; John Lennon was murdered at 40 in 1980; George Harrison died of cancer at 58 in 2001.)

"The slogan back then was 'Never trust anyone over 30,' " recalled Jeff Greenfield, the CNN commentator, who is 63. "We thought people would be dead or in a home by their 60's."

Today, on average, 64-year-olds can expect to live more than 16 years, about 4 years longer than 64-year-olds could expect in 1967, according to government statisticians (and, hey, an editor of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Jude Rutledge, was named for another of Mr. McCartney's songs).

"The new 64," Ms. Sheehy said, "is more like 84."
527 2006-06-17 Now he's got a new perspective, and so do the many motorcyclists who will be wearing new helmets this weekend after the publicity about his accident. But their new perspective isn't entirely rational, either. Their odds haven't changed just because of one accident. Why should they start wearing helmets now?

Because they're making decisions the way most humans do — haphazardly. We're guided more by one recent horror story than by reams of statistics. Unless pressed, we tend to avoid thinking about unlikely events, like traffic accidents, or problems in the distant future, like how we'll finance our retirement.

We'll choose something simply because we think it's what most other people would do. Our decision often hinges not on the facts but on how the facts are presented: if told there's a 10 percent chance of dying from a medical procedure, we're less likely to go ahead with it than if we're told there's a 90 percent chance of living.

Given all these foibles, Sunstein and Thaler argue, it's naïve to assume that people are making fully informed choices. Since people's choices often depend on how the options are presented, authorities should practice a mild form of paternalism: point people toward what experts think is best for them, but don't force them to go there.

This might mean simply providing the public with information and advice. Or it could mean changing the options available, as was done in experiments with 401(k) plans. Instead of giving workers the traditional option to enroll in the plans, employers automatically enrolled everyone and gave them the option to withdraw. As a result, far more workers set aside money for retirement.

How would you apply this libertarian paternalism to motorcycle helmets? I consulted Sunstein and Thaler, as well as Edward Glaeser, a Harvard economist who's more skeptical about this approach. He worries that bureaucrats and politicians are prone to making their own bad decisions when they turn paternalistic. They've made it their business to stigmatize certain behaviors, like homosexuality, and they've deluged people with dubious guidance, like the changing edicts on what Americans should eat and how much they should weigh.

But Glaeser does see a role for paternalism when dealing with a problem as clear-cut and serious as motorcycle fatalities. He, Sunstein and Thaler like the idea of encouraging cyclists to wear helmets by changing the options they face. Instead of telling them that a helmet is optional — the default situation in most states — tell them a standard license comes with the requirement to wear a helmet.

If a libertarian cyclist objected, he could apply for a special license to ride without a helmet (along with a decal for the motorcycle so the police wouldn't stop him). He'd have to provide proof that he carried enough insurance to cover the costs of an accident so that taxpayers wouldn't get stuck with the bill. And he'd have to learn about the risks, perhaps by attending a short class or watching a video of it on his home computer.

The class shouldn't be an exercise in fear-mongering. It could include testimonials from intelligent motorcyclists who've weighed the risks and still want the joy of the wind on their faces. But before anyone gets this license, he ought to see a good analysis of the injury statistics and hear about the benefits of helmets — including that new perspective from the Steelers' quarterback.
528 2006-06-17 AS the housing market cools, buyers and sellers should be more sensitive than ever to the real estate brokerage fees they pay. Although average commissions have fallen over the last decade, the typical seller pays more than 5 percent of the sales price in broker fees, which for many middle-class families will easily exceed $15,000.

The industry is doing its to best to hang onto its revenues, which hit roughly $61 billion in 2004, in the face of growing competition from discount and online brokers. At the urging of traditional local brokers, states have passed statutes preventing the use of customer rebates and outlawing cut-rate, limited-service packages, which many home sellers would rather have.

Now such protectionist tactics are beginning to attract the government's attention. In late 2005, the Justice Department sued the National Association of Realtors for orchestrating a conspiracy enabling brokers to withhold their listings from other brokers' Web sites. And next month, hearings on the changing real estate market will be held by the House Financial Services Committee, whose chairman, Representative Michael G. Oxley, Republican of Ohio, has criticized anticompetitive practices.

But if Congress wants a more competitive real estate market, it should start by rectifying the industry's fundamental problem: brokers themselves set the market's rules, with no effective oversight to protect home buyers and sellers.

A comparison with our securities markets is instructive. Ask E*Trade what I.B.M.'s stock sells for and you are likely to get the same information as if you made the request of a Merrill Lynch broker. The markets are transparent and efficient, and transaction costs are low. Some discount securities brokers now charge $7 for trades that in the early 1970's would have cost hundreds or thousands.
529 2006-06-18 Geoff Ogilvy of Australia earned his first major title, at Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y....
530 2006-06-18 Phil Mickelson and Kenneth Ferrie are tied for the lead after 3 rounds....
531 2006-06-18 BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 18 — American forces have intensified their search for two soldiers missing and reportedly held captive by insurgents, widening their pursuit to areas beyond the restive town of Yusifiya, where the missing servicemen were attacked Friday night, and drawing troops from at least three brigade combat teams.

The expanded search effort came as American troops ringed the insurgent stronghold of Ramadi with new checkpoints and outposts over the weekend in an effort to break the grip that insurgents now hold on that city. Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province, has been the scene of some of the fiercest regular battles between United States troops and insurgent fighters.

Some Sunni Arab leaders have said they fear American forces are preparing to begin an offensive in Ramadi in an effort to wipe out insurgent groups that have taken control of much of the city, similar to the Marines' November 2004 assault on Falluja.

An American military official in Baghdad said today that no such offensive is planned. "We're trying to separate the insurgents from the rest of the people," the official said. "There are a lot of rumors flying around that people think it's another Falluja. It's not."

A spokesman for the Marines, Lt. Col. Bryan F. Salas, described the activity as "part of a long-term plan to restore stability to Ramadi" and said it involved Marines and soldiers from one American brigade and soldiers from two Iraqi brigades.
532 2006-06-18 Moreover, a launch would have enormous importance for American security because it would would be North Korea's first flight test of a new long-range missile that might eventually have the capability to strike the United States, which has technically remained in a state of war with the North since the armistice that ended the Korean War 53 years ago.

A launch could also ignite a political chain reaction in Japan, the United States, Japan and China, which have been attempting to re-engage North Korea in stalled talks about its nuclear weapons program. The Bush administration might step up financing for missile defense efforts; Japan might increase its missile defense efforts as well while militant Japanese politicians might even push to reconsider the nation's nuclear weapons options. Both moves would likely alienate China.

The reported fueling of the missile has set off a flurry of diplomatic activity, as officials from the United States, Japan and China worked furiously to try to forestall a launch. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice spoke to her Japanese and Chinese counterparts this weekend, urging the Chinese, in particular, to try to pressure North Korea.

Officials at the State Department recently telephoned North Korean diplomats at that country's permanent mission to the United Nations in New York, warning them directly against going ahead with a launch. Such direct contact is highly unusual, since American officials limit their direct talks with their North Korean counterparts. But "we needed to make sure there was no misunderstanding," a senior American official said.

American intelligence believes the system is a Tapeodong 2 missile and has said that a three-stage version of the system could strike all of the United States. One administration official said he believed the missile at the launch pad was a two-stage version.

While North Korea claims to have developed nuclear weapons, it has never allowed outsiders to see them. American experts believe that North Korea has enough plutonium for at least half a dozen nuclear weapons and has produced a small but growing nuclear arsenal. It is not known if the North Koreans can build a nuclear warhead that is small enough to fit on a missile but experts say it seems plausible that they could eventually do so.

"Assuming the missile is a Taepodong 2 and assuming the missile test is successful, North Korea would demonstrate that they have made important progress toward the ability to hit targets in the continental United States with a missile large enough to carry a nuclear weapon," said Gary Samore, a former senior aide on the National Security Council and a vice president of the MacArthur Foundation. It remained unclear late Sunday how long the North Koreans might wait before launching a fueled missile, the diplomatic prospects for averting it, where the missile's intended landing spot might be or its projected range.

But in Japan, Foreign Minister Taro Aso warned that a miscalculation could result in the missile landing on Japanese territory. "If it is dropped on Japan, it will complicate the story," he told Japanese television on Sunday. "It will be regarded as an attack."

Mr. Aso later toned down his language, saying "we will not right away view it as a military act," but said Japan would seek an immediate meeting of the Security Council if the missile were launched.

In its last flight test of a long-range missile, in 1998, North Korea fired a Taepodong 1 missile over Japan - a launch that the Clinton administration had warned against to no avail. American intelligence was surprised to learn when the missile was launched that it had three stages although the solid-fueled third stage exploded in flight. That led Congress to step up its push for deployment of anti-missile defenses.

A year later, in 1999, North Korea agreed to a moratorium on long-range missile testing, and has not fired one since.

But five weeks ago American officials received satellite images that showed North Korea preparing to test a multiple-stage Taepodong 2 missile. Some Bush administration officials at first suspected that the moves were a grab for attention while Washington's focus was primarily on Iran's nuclear intentions and a way to press the United States to agree to direct talks. But since then, diplomats on both sides of the Pacific have become increasingly concerned that North Korea indeed planned to go ahead with a launch.

"Why they are doing this, you will have to ask them," one senior Bush administration official said Sunday. "It is not in anyone's interest; certainly not theirs. For our part we will not be derailed by their temper tantrums nor have any of our own."

Referring to long-deadlocked six-party talks about North Korea's nuclear program, the official said: "We'll continue to be guided by our policy of protecting our people and of working closely, very closely with our partners in the six parties. It is important in times like this not to give any mixed signals and to be firm and clear. We support the six-party process as the best means to solve what should be clear to all is a multilateral problem."

American knowledge about the Taepodong 2 is limited. In 2001, a National Intelligence Estimate forecast that a three-stage version of the Taepodong 2 missile could reach all of North America with a sizable payload.

The first stage of the Taepodong 2 is thought to consist of a cluster of No Dong missiles; the second stage is believed to be a No Dong missile. If a third stage is added it would likely be a a solid-fueled system, according to experts who have studied what a Taepodong might look like.

There was no mention of a missile in a report from North Korea's official media on a national meeting Sunday, according to news service reports from the region. At the meeting, officials talked about increasing the North's "military deterrent" - a phrase commonly used by the country to refer to its nuclear program. North Korea contends it needs the program for a defense to a possible American attack; the Unites States, for its part, says it has no intention of invading.

American experts say that if a missile launch occurs it is possible North Korea will describe it as part of a peaceful program to put satellites in orbit.

North Korea, is a secretive Stalinist state, and figuring out the motives of its leader, Kim Jong Il, has stymied diplomats for years.

"It may well be that Kim Jong Il is getting a lot of pressure from his generals to verify the design" of the Taepodong 2 missile, said Robert Einhorn, a senior advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and former assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation under President Clinton.

But, he added, "whenever the North Koreans act up one has to assume in part at least that they are trying to get the world's attention."

Just two weeks ago - a day after the United States offered to hold direct talks with Iran over its nuclear program - North Korea invited Christopher R. Hill, an assistant secretary of state and chief negotiator on the North's nuclear weapons program, for direct talks in Pyongyang. That offer was immediately rebuffed by the White House, which insisted that the North return to the long-deadlocked six-nation talks instead. The other nations involved in the talks are China, South Korea, Japan and Russia.

North Korea has boycotted the talks in recent months after the United States cracked down on financial institutions, including a bank in Macau, that dealt with the government in Pyongyang, and with North Korean companies suspected of counterfeiting American dollars and laundering money. If North Korea goes ahead with a launching, the already floundering talks would go into the deep freeze.
533 2006-06-18 "There were very different viewpoints on the issue of whether we were ready to fly or not," he said. "I can't possibly accept every recommendation given to me by every member of my staff, especially when they all don't agree."

The concern centers on pieces of insulating foam that cover 34 brackets on the tank that secure pipes and wiring. These so-called ice-frost ramps prevent the buildup of ice, another form of hazardous debris that could fall off during launching and damage the shuttle's heat shield. The ramps are being redesigned to reduce their size and hazard potential, but any changes cannot be adapted until at least next spring, said N. Wayne Hale Jr., director of the shuttle program.

Mr. Hale said the largest falling foam hazards had been eliminated from the fuel tank, and although the ice-frost ramps remained a high-risk problem, flight experience suggested they could remain unchanged for a few flights without significantly increasing their chances of causing crucial damage to a shuttle.

Reducing fuel tank debris has been a priority for NASA since the loss of the shuttle Columbia on Feb. 1, 2003. Foam insulation falling from the tank during launching damaged Columbia's heat shield, causing the destruction of the craft and the deaths of seven astronauts as the ship tried to return through the atmosphere from a mission.

NASA spent two years and hundreds of millions of dollars redesigning the tank to reduce foam shedding. However, when Discovery flew last July on the first mission since Columbia, a greatly reduced but hazardous amount of foam still fell from its redesigned tank, including a large, potentially damaging piece.

NASA grounded the fleet, and tank engineers removed more than 37 pounds of foam that formed two air deflectors that protected pressurized fuel lines and cables down the side of the tank, places from which the biggest pieces of foam fell during the last mission.

Mr. Griffin said he wanted shuttles flying soon to get in 16 or 17 missions to finish construction of the International Space Station and service the Hubble Space Telescope before the orbiters are retired in 2010. Delays, he said, will add pressure to rush flights to stay on schedule, which increases safety risks.

If a shuttle is critically damaged during launching, Mr. Griffin said, the crew could make it to the space station to await rescue by another shuttle or a Russian spacecraft. Such an accident would not unduly threaten crew safety, he said, but it probably would end the shuttle program.

"I would be moving to shut the program down," Mr. Griffin said of the loss of another shuttle. "I think, at that point, we're done."
534 2006-06-18 TOKYO, June 17 (AP) — The United States and Japan urged North Korea on Saturday not to proceed with reported plans to test-fire a long-range missile that could reach the American mainland, saying that a launching would be dangerous and provocative.

But North Korean officials later denied such preparations, the Kyodo News agency reported, quoting a South Korean official whom it did not identify.

The American ambassador to Japan, J. Thomas Schieffer, and the Japanese foreign minister, Taro Aso, met Saturday night as speculation mounted that the North could soon test a Taepodong-2 missile capable of reaching the United States with a light payload.

South Korean media reports said the North had loaded booster rockets onto a launching pad in preparation for the test.

After the meeting, Mr. Schieffer reiterated Washington's stance that the test would be a dangerous act that would hurt North Korean interests. The North has been under a self-imposed moratorium on long-range missile tests since 1999.

"We hope that the North Koreans will not take this provocative action. We hope that they will return to the six-party talks," Mr. Schieffer said, referring to international talks aiming to get North Korea to give up its nuclear program.

Those talks — involving the United States, North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan and Russia — have been stalled by a North Korean boycott.
535 2006-06-18 Hassan Abdul Hadi was tending to his date palms and apple trees near the village of Karagol when he heard gunfire and explosions. When he walked to the road, he spotted an American Humvee, he said.

"I was shocked to see the Humvee — nothing seemed to be wrong with it," Mr. Hadi said. "Then I heard the men shouting 'God is great!' and I saw that they had taken the Americans with them. The gunmen took them and drove away."

At the time of the attack, the American soldiers were at a traffic control checkpoint on the edge of Karagol. According to the Iraqis, the checkpoint was guarded by about a dozen American soldiers who had arrived in three Humvees.

The checkpoint came under fire from insurgents operating from the fruit groves that line the road. The Americans in two of the Humvees took off in pursuit as the insurgents retreated into the groves, possibly to lure them in, the Iraqis said, leaving one Humvee and only three or four American soldiers at the checkpoint.

The checkpoint then came under attack from another direction by a group of seven or eight guerrillas, wearing kaffiyehs over their faces and black track suits, the Iraqis said. At least one of them carried a heavy machine gun, and two of them carried rocket-propelled grenades.

Minutes after the two Americans were taken away, a team of Americans arrived and began searching door to door in the area, the Iraqis said. By Saturday morning, the search had intensified, with soldiers scouring the area, helicopters surveying the landscape from above and divers going into canals, the American military said in a statement.

"The Americans are going house to house, detaining any men they find," said Yusef Abdul Nasir, who lives in Jurf Al Sakhar, a village next to Karagol. He said he had heard rumors that the soldiers were being held in Jurf Al Sakhar.

Mr. Nasir said the Americans were threatening to hold the men they had detained unless the two soldiers were turned over. There was no way to independently verify Mr. Nasir's report.

The American military in Iraq goes to extraordinary lengths to keep its men out of enemy hands. Soldiers never travel alone, nor do individual vehicles; it is not clear whether leaving the lone Humvee behind defied engagement guidelines.

"Make no mistake: we never stop looking for our service members until their status is definitively determined," General Caldwell said.

The apparent capture of the two Americans raises the specter of their public exploitation at the hands of insurgents. Other Americans, including civilian contractors, have been videotaped while they were mistreated, tortured or killed.

The last American soldier known to have been taken prisoner was Specialist Keith Maupin, who was captured by insurgents during an ambush of his convoy in April 2004 near Falluja, west of Baghdad. The Arabic news network Al Jazeera broadcast a videotape that purported to show Specialist Maupin being shot from behind. But the victim's face was not shown in the tape, and the American military has not confirmed his death.

The area around Yusufiya, where the two soldiers disappeared, has been the scene of heavy fighting between American troops — many of them Special Operations commandos — and insurgents believed to be connected to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. That group's founder, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, was killed in an American airstrike last week, and the American military said that information about his network had been found in safe houses in and around Yusufiya.

In May, a huge gun battle unfolded when American Special Operations commandos stormed a suspected insurgent safe house in Yusufiya. The Americans said they had killed 25 insurgents and had also lost two airmen when insurgents shot down their MH-47E Night Stalker transport, a sophisticated variant of the Chinook helicopter that is used in Special Operations missions.

In interviews conducted earlier this year, Iraqi insurgent leaders told The New York Times that Karagol, the village near where the two Americans appear to have been captured, was under the control of Al Qaeda.

The search for the Americans came on a day of widespread violence across the capital, with most of the attacks apparently carried out by insurgents. There were seven attacks in all: one suicide bombing, a mortar attack, three car bombings and the explosions of a bomb placed under a pushcart and a bomb placed inside a minibus. Thirty-eight Iraqis were killed and 75 wounded, the Interior Ministry said.

The attacks broke a spell of relative calm in the capital after the beginning on Wednesday of a citywide security crackdown by American soldiers and Iraqi security forces in the aftermath of Mr. Zarqawi's death.

The pushcart bomb exploded in the Haraj market, near the Tigris River in central Baghdad. The bomb went off in the middle of a line of pushcarts, which impoverished Iraqis use to hawk mainly secondhand clothing. The explosion, which killed 5 civilians and wounded 25, scattered human bodies, broken carts and burned clothing up and down the street and against the shop windows that line the street.

On many days, the violence here seems to unfold without pattern or reason. It struck the local Iraqis who gathered at the Haraj market as senseless, too.

"Only the poor people work here," said Tariq Abd Zein, 35, who sells secondhand shoes. "I don't understand the meaning of bombing this market."
536 2006-06-18 Last week's stabbings fit the pattern of other multiple attacks that, because of their apparent randomness and short duration, briefly gripped the public's imagination.

In January 2005, Jesse Nettles, 58, stabbed five strangers, including a man pushing his two children in a stroller in Times Square, during a two-day rampage in Manhattan. Mr. Nettles, who was homeless, pleaded guilty to assault charges and was sentenced to 30 years in prison. In 1974, he had killed a man at the Port Authority bus terminal.

On an afternoon in May 2004, Jose Rodriguez-DeJesus, 29, used a 13-inch kitchen knife to stab three people in Greeley Square, just south of Herald Square in Manhattan, before being shot by the police. He is now serving a 25-year sentence.

Mr. Rodriguez-DeJesus had served 30 months in a Massachusetts prison for stabbing an uncle and was committed in 2000 for a psychiatric evaluation but was not found to be insane. He was described as distraught and volatile, and a relative said he "was into violence; he liked talking about killing."

In some cases, bizarre behavior came seemingly without warning.

Ronald J. Popadich, 39, of Garfield, N.J., was arrested in 2002 for injuring 18 people whom he tried to run down with a car on Feb. 12, and 7 more people two days later in a second hit-and-run spree in Midtown. One pedestrian died.

In between the attacks, the police said, he shot a cabdriver in the East Village. The police said that Mr. Popadich told them later he wanted to kill as many people as he could. Two days before the first attacks, he had shot a woman who had refused his sexual advances. She later died.

In 1996, John Royster, 22, a drifter with a minor criminal record, was charged in an eight-day rampage that included the murder of a woman outside her dry-cleaning shop on Park Avenue, a sexual attack on a woman in Central Park and a vicious attack on a woman who was jogging.

At his sentencing two years later, he said, "It should be apparent to anyone with common sense that I'm mentally disturbed." Defense lawyers said the spree began when Mr. Royster was spurned by a tourist with whom he had had a brief affair.

While they declined to elaborate on specifics of the latest case, several criminologists said it did not seem atypical.

"It's probably the end result of a series of disappointments or stresses this guy has had over the past several years," said N. G. Berrill, a forensic psychologist who teaches at John Jay College of Criminal Justice of the City University of New York.

"He could be mentally ill. He feels angry that a girl just dropped him, or he didn't get a job, or his parents kicked him out of the house," Dr. Berrill continued. "This is more like, 'I'm going to take my little knife and show people how angry I am.' "

On June 8, Mr. Alexis was released on bail in Boston after a court hearing on vandalism charges.

Last Tuesday afternoon, the police said, he was stopped for fare-beating at a subway station near the Port Authority bus terminal in Midtown. He was issued a summons after officers found that he was not wanted on any outstanding warrants.

At 3:41 p.m., the authorities say, Mr. Alexis stabbed a 21-year-old tourist from Texas on a southbound C train in Harlem, saying later that the man was in his way.

About 12 hours later, the police said, Mr. Alexis stabbed a 30-year-old Brooklyn man on a subway platform at Rockefeller Center after the victim refused to give up his cellphone.

Then Mr. Alexis stabbed two students from Montreal, one 22 years old and the other 25, who were standing on a traffic island in Times Square, after he unsuccessfully tried to engage the two women in conversation, the police said.

He was arrested after witnesses to the last attack followed the assailant to a McDonald's in Times Square and called the police.

All four victims were recovering. "In all likelihood," Professor Levin said of the attacker, "he sought revenge for his miseries, not against any particular individual, but against an entire group of people — all New Yorkers, all Americans, all of humankind."

Another criminologist at Northeastern, James Alan Fox, said that sometimes there was method to the madness. "Most people who go on crime sprees like this don't necessarily attack randomly," he said. "It may look random — they may not be targets they know — but certain kinds of targets. Those are people who 'just snap,' but who have a longstanding grudge.

"The more random the event, the more likely it's a case of mental illness where the person is delusional in some way," Professor Fox said. "Alexis is a homeless man. There's a good possibility he is suffering from some undiagnosed mental disorders that play into his decision to attack and his decision whom to attack. Then, there's no pattern to victims except unfortunately for them being in the wrong place at the wrong time."

The rampage ends, Professor Fox said, "when he is caught, killed, or the voices stop talking to him."

When the moon set Tuesday morning, it was almost full.

But Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly did not resort to folklore to explain the string of stabbings that began in the city's subways.

"When you get four and a half million people a day into the system," Mr. Kelly said, "every once in a while a really bizarre thing can happen."
537 2006-06-18 Most of the Guard members will be unarmed unless they are in a hazardous area. Much of their time will be spent in Border Patrol offices watching monitors and handling other equipment, while those in the field will alert Border Patrol agents if they see someone crossing the border illegally.

"The National Guard is not going to be involved in any law enforcement mission," Mr. Martinez said. "Actual arrests, seizures, custodial — none of that stuff. The Border Patrol agents are the ones trained to determine probable cause, effect arrests, and it is impossible to bring the National Guard up to speed on that."

He added, "You should not look for a motorcade of trucks headed to the border, because that is not how the deployment is going to work out."

The Guard, in much smaller numbers, has worked with the Border Patrol for more than two decades on various assignments, including one in which about 55 Utah National Guard members have been helping to build a fence here for the past two weeks. After some deliberation, Guard officials in Washington said Friday that they would not count those members toward the new mission, though the work they are doing is similar to what some of the new arrivals will do.

Whether part of the mission or not, the Utah Guard soldiers pressed on this week in the 100-plus-degree heat, talking of satisfaction in helping the Border Patrol but wondering how much the fence might help.

"I think it's just going to slow them down," Sgt. Colby Warner of Santequin, Utah, said Thursday of illegal immigrants. "But I don't think it's going to stop them."

Opponents of the plan have called it a political move by Mr. Bush that will do little but help appease voters urging a harder line on immigration law enforcement.

The Rev. Robin Hoover of Human Borders, a migrant advocacy group in Tucson, called the deployment a "stunning lack of imagination" in confronting illegal immigration. He said sending more personnel to the border had not proved effective, pointing out that border arrests peaked at 1.6 million in 2000, when the Border Patrol was much smaller. Last year, it made 1.2 million arrests.

"Putting the National Guard on the border is like betting on a tape-delayed football game and expecting a different result," Mr. Hoover said.

The bulk of the troops, 40 percent, will go to Arizona, which became the busiest crossing point after Border Patrol clampdowns on urban areas pushed smugglers into the vast, forbidding desert. The remaining three states will get 20 percent each.

California does not expect to have Guard troops at Border Patrol stations until mid-July, though commanders and administrative staff have begun arriving to work out logistics, housing and other issues, said Maj. Jon Seipmann, a spokesman for the California National Guard.
538 2006-06-18 BEIJING, June 17 (AP) — An explosion at a chemical plant in eastern China killed 14 people and injured 30, the government said Saturday, in the third major industrial disaster in China this week.

The official New China News Agency said the death toll rose to 14 from 10 on Saturday but did not say whether more bodies had been found or whether some of the injured had died. The report cited information from Chen Shuo, deputy director of the Anhui Provincial Work Safety Administration.

The agency said it was still not known how many people were in the factory at the time.

Nor was it clear what caused the explosion, which struck a chemical explosives factory owned by the Dunan Chemical Group Company in Anhui on Friday, said a statement posted on the Maanshan city government Web site. Maanshan oversees Dangtu County, where the plant is.

The news agency said an initial investigation showed that the blast occurred while powder for making explosives was being emulsified. The factory's two-story workshop was razed, and firefighters were still working Saturday to put out the fire.

The Maanshan statement said an investigation into the cause of the blast had begun.

On Thursday, several explosions at the Longxing Chemical Company plant in Zhejiang Province left one person injured and two missing. On Monday a truck loaded with coal tar crashed and dumped its cargo into the Dasha River in Shanxi Province.
539 2006-06-18 "It wasn't like we invented the wheel," said the Rockies assistant video coordinator Brian Jones, who came up with the idea after the video iPod was released last November. "We're using Apple's technology as best we can. We figured if you can watch music videos by rock 'n' roll and by country, why can't you watch at-bats by San Francisco and pitches by Jason Schmidt?"

Over the past two decades, video has become common throughout the major leagues, as it is with the N.F.L. Teams have an abundance of film to help players study their opponents and their own technique. In the last few years, players have been able to take home DVD's to watch on their laptops.

Now all that information is in the palm of their hands.

"They can do it on their time," the Rockies' video coach, Mike Hamilton, said. "They don't have to be here or they don't have to be behind a desk watching a laptop. They can be at home, on the airplane or even in their locker."

Boston Red Sox reliever Mike Timlin said he wasn't sure the trend was a good one.

"Improved the game for us pitchers? No," he said, laughing. "There's only so much you can do to get the guys out. These guys have a better idea and a better understanding. You have to rely on your catchers."

Mets Manager Willie Randolph does not have a problem with a player analyzing video, but it would not have been for him. Randolph, a former All-Star, preferred extra batting practice to extra film sessions.

"I think it's overrated, personally, but that's just me," Randolph said. "I'm from a different school."

The Rockies have downloaded video clips into the iPods of 14 players. For the hitters, they will store every at-bat and download performances of upcoming pitchers. A 60-gigabyte iPod, made by Apple Computer, can hold roughly five seasons' worth of a player's at-bats. Pitchers can get all their performances, along with opponents' at-bats.

Jones has permission to take iPods from players' lockers to update them, and when the Rockies are on the road, he compiles DVD's of their play and loads video onto the iPods when they return home.

"I take care of it all," Jones said. "It just takes a few minutes. It's like putting a song on from iTunes."

The club does not buy the iPods for the players. It's a $399 investment for the 60-gigabyte model (the 30-gigabyte version costs $299). The Rockies have, however, purchased iPods for General Manager Dan O'Dowd and several scouts.

Colorado's minor league hitting coordinator, Jimmy Johnson, has an iPod filled with video of players in the farm system. If a player is struggling, Johnson can compare his swing from the past with his current swing.

The iPods came in handy before June's baseball draft.

"That way the scouts could compare a prospective draft pick in North Carolina with one in California," Hamilton said. "You'd have a real good comparison. The game is so visual now. This helps."

The small screen size — two and a half inches — has not been a problem.

"Six or seven guys can't sit around and watch it," Hamilton said. "But if you watch it yourself, it's not that much different from watching a large screen."
540 2006-06-18 WASHINGTON, June 17 (AP) — Wedding plans have been delayed for 10,000 American citizens seeking visas for their foreign brides and grooms as the Homeland Security Department works on new paperwork for their applications.

The form change was required as part of a law, enacted in March, to protect foreign mail-order brides from abusive American spouses. But Homeland Security missed a deadline three months ago, putting the visa applications of thousands of law-abiding couples in limbo.

The department said this week that it would send out additional forms to the visa seekers for more information that should satisfy the new law's protections.

But the bureaucratic entanglement has halted wedding plans for many couples.

"We were ready to get married this year, but I can't really make a date until we get the approval," said Bill Hall, 41, a construction foreman from Burlington, Vt. He applied two months ago for a visa for his fiancée, to emigrate from Canada with her two sons.

"We're just kind of here, in limbo," Mr. Hall said. "And it's kind of aggravating — it's a real simple thing they have to do, and they're making more of it than they need to."
541 2006-06-18 During the 1991 Persian Gulf war, the United States' ability to carry out time-sensitive attacks was embryonic. Over the next decade or so, however, a new generation of military technology entered the American arsenal. The military acquired satellite-guided bombs, an important complement to laser-guided bombs, which can be impaired by clouds or bad weather. It fielded Predator drones. It also institutionalized the procedures at its command centers for rapidly carrying out airstrikes.

"We train to it in exercises," said Charles R. Heflebower, a retired lieutenant general, who served as the top Air Force commander in Korea. "For example, almost every Red Flag has a T.S.T. element to it," he added, referring to the exercises carried out at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada.

Carrying out timely airstrikes to kill enemy commanders and destroy other vital targets remains a complex undertaking against adversaries who, unlike Iraq, have formidable air defenses.

That recognition, and the calculation that there may be some terrorist targets that are beyond the immediate reach of American aircraft, had led the Pentagon to propose the development of an ultimate T.S.T. system: submarine-launched Trident II missiles that would be equipped with a non-nuclear warhead. The Pentagon argues that the system would give it a global capability to take out a target within an hour.

In the case of Iraq, the United States anticipated the need to carry out rapid airstrikes.

The war, in fact, began with a frantic effort to attack a time-sensitive target: a suspected underground bunker at the Dora Farms complex near Baghdad, where the C.I.A. reported that Saddam Hussein was staying. F-117 fighters were dispatched to bomb the site. Only after the fall of Baghdad did the American military learn that the Iraqi leader had not been near Dora Farms and that there was no bunker at the site.

The United States had no more luck several weeks later when a B-1 bomber dropped four satellite-guided bombs at a suspected refuge for the Iraqi leader in the Mansour district of Baghdad. Pentagon officials said it took no more than 45 minutes to carry out the strike from the time the first intelligence was received that Mr. Hussein had entered the building.

As it happened, Mr. Hussein was not there, but 18 civilians were killed in the attack, according to Human Rights Watch. That is precisely the sort of outcome that breeds ill will among the Iraqis and makes it more difficult to obtain useful intelligence about insurgents.

Considering the importance of timely intelligence, some Air Force officers have argued that the service should spend more on aircraft equipped with electronic surveillance and imaging capabilities and less on the aircraft needed to carry out the strikes.

The American military's superior technology, rigorous training and command of the skies give it the means to deliver pinpoint strikes with devastating effect. Surveillance by aircraft and even satellites in space can be used to find new targets. But there will always be a risk of error since commanders often cannot wait for perfect intelligence if a strike is to be effective.

In the sort of counterinsurgency campaign the United States is conducting in Iraq, however, obtaining reliable intelligence from operatives in the field, enemy turncoats and ordinary Iraqis is vital. There is no high-tech fix for Iraq. When it comes to delivering thunderbolts from on high, success will still depend mightily on the intelligence gathered by the boots on the ground.
542 2006-06-18 The stock market surged on Thursday after Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that rising energy prices had not had a major effect on inflation. But on Friday, after another Fed official said that inflation was a real concern, the market dropped again.

As a result, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had a losing week, although the Dow Jones industrial average managed a gain of more than 1 percent.

Markets around the world have plunged in recent weeks on concerns about inflation, so Mr. Bernanke's calming words on Thursday acted as a tonic, propelling stocks upward. But on Friday, William Poole, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, warned that inflation had moved above his "comfort zone" — a comment that clearly discomfited many investors.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 122.63 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 11,014.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 0.76 point, or 0.01 percent, to close at 1,251.54. The Nasdaq composite index fell 5.11 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 2,129.95.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 5.13 percent from 4.97 percent the previous week.
543 2006-06-18 In a democratic society, everybody benefits from other people's risk-taking. But must everyone pay for it as well? The question goes back to the founding of the country and continues to shape who Americans are as a society.

"America more than European countries prizes entrepreneurial spirit and the freedom of individuals to run risks, even if they might not turn out well," said Cass R. Sunstein, a law professor at the University of Chicago. "One reason the economy does so well is that people take gambles. And sometimes they work out badly."

But society — or a football team — has an interest in managing risk, trying to maximize individual liberty while minimizing the harm to others when one person's gamble doesn't pay off. Policy debates over seatbelt laws, cigarettes, gun locks, steroids, environmental safeguards, employee savings plans and storm evacuation orders all arise from this conflict of interest.

The policy debates pit competing schools of altruism, or concern for others, said James K. Hammitt, director of the Center for Risk Analysis at Harvard.

When weighing risks against personal liberties, "a 'pure' altruist cares about others' well-being as whatever they define it to be," he said. "A 'paternalistic' altruist cares only about some aspect of other people's well-being, like their health."

In the case of cigarette smokers, he said, a paternalistic altruist sees only irrational risk-taking and tries to change it. "Whereas a pure altruist would say, 'If they understand what the risks are and get pleasure, I'm happy that they smoke,'" he said.

In this script, "pure" Steeler fans would be happy that their quarterback rides a motorcycle without a helmet because he says it relaxes him, even though it has health consequences that could affect them.

Yet this model assumes that we perceive risk consistently, as a rational calculation of odds. We don't, said Paul Slovic, president of Decision Research, a nonprofit organization that studies decision-making.

Instead we perceive it as a feeling of comfort or discomfort, shaped by our past experience, Dr. Slovic said. If we have ridden a motorcycle many times without an accident, we consider that a safe activity. Or if our athletic reflexes have protected us from defensive linemen, we expect them to protect us from turning cars.

Wearing a helmet is a cost, measured in comfort, and perhaps liberty, but provides a benefit only if there is a crash. After a number of safe rides, Dr. Slovic said, "you feel you're rewarded for not wearing one and punished for wearing one."

Big-money sports, of course, exerts its own Darwinian pressures on behavior, selecting for athletes who accept outsize levels of physical risk. But the leagues and teams also pay for this risk-taking. In a rational economic system, teams could reduce risk by giving players monetary incentives to avoid activity that had low ratios of reward to liability, like riding without a helmet. Society could change behavior by changing incentives.

But people or organizations often don't assess risk in their best interests. They overestimate some risks and underestimate others, and give up their liberties where there is little payoff, said Julie S. Downs, director of the Center for Risk Perception and Communication at Carnegie Mellon University.

"If you ask people the benefit of preventing a terrorist attack on a plane, they will pay a lot in terms of their liberties, but not for preventing a regular plane crash, even though that's more likely," she said.

A football team might impose a penalty for riding a motorcycle while ignoring more likely risks. Roethlisberger's accident will likely push teams toward such contracts, said Kenneth L. Shropshire, director of the sports business initiative at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Many contracts already ban sky diving, skiing and motorcycling, he said.

But the biggest encroachments on player liberties often come from the coach. "The coach says: 'I don't care what the union says, these are the rules. Don't ride a motorcycle, period, or don't go to certain bars,' " Dr. Shropshire said. "And who is it that decides how much you play, or how many passes are thrown to you?"

This involves an assessment not of risk but of authority. In Roethlisberger's case, the Steelers' coach, Bill Cowher, had no influence. And so the Steel City is an unhappy place — but one where debates about life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness fill the public square, if only on sports call-in shows.
544 2006-06-18 Some of the groups are well-known and generously financed outfits like the Middle East Media Research Institute, or Memri, whose primary function is to translate Arabic and Muslim media.

But among the best informed are one-person shows — a driven Arabist with a bedside computer. They gain access to terrorist Web sites, sometimes by posing as terrorists themselves, and translate jihadist communiqués and chatter that would not otherwise be available. Others write blogs, translating and commenting on terrorism and politics in general.

Most of these analysts are unknown to the reading public. But that is changing. Last month, Rita Katz, founder of the SITE Institute, was profiled in The New Yorker. (A terrorist Web site that her group monitors promptly posted a link to the article.)

And Juan Cole, a University of Michigan historian with a blog about Iraq and the Middle East, became involved in a dispute about a translation of a comment by Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Many felt the comment was a direct threat to Israel, but Mr. Cole did not.

For reporters, all this freelance sleuthing and interpreting is a welcome new resource. But like the 17th-century dragomans who were the first official translators between the Islamic world and the West, the analysts often disagree among themselves, leaving the journalists with their own interpretive challenges.

"Now the problem is almost one of information overload," said Gregory Gause, the director of the Middle East Studies program at the University of Vermont. "How does one choose among such a variety of interpreters?"

While differences in translation can be an issue, the main disagreement among the interpreters is usually about selection: Which texts are worth highlighting? Which are significant?

On this front, Memri, the largest translation service, may have drawn the most criticism. It was founded in 1998 by Col. Yigal Carmon, who had spent more than 20 years in Israeli military intelligence and later advised two Israeli prime ministers. Its 60 staff members scan Arab and Muslim media and send translations by e-mail to 100,000 subscribers, including journalists and officials. Critics have long said it focuses on translating the most dangerous-sounding material.

"They say they highlight liberal voices along with the dangerous radicals, which is fine," said Marc Lynch, a scholar of Arab politics at Williams College who has criticized Memri on his own blog, Abu Aardvark. "But what that conceals is the entire middle ground, where most of the political debate goes on in the Arab world."

Mr. Carmon, in a telephone interview, dismissed this criticism, noting that Memri has expanded its translations immensely over the years, and now highlights Arab reformist views. Some other analyst groups focus almost exclusively on terrorism. They include the Project for the Research of Islamist Movements, founded in 2002 by Reuven Paz, who is also an Israeli; the Virginia-based Terrorism Research Center, founded in 1996; and the Jamestown Foundation, founded during the cold war to study totalitarian societies but now focused on terrorism.

Others are newer to the field — insurgents, if you will. Ms. Katz, a former protégé of the terrorism researcher Steven Emerson, founded the SITE Institute after the Sept. 11 attacks. In the last two years, as Iraqi insurgent groups increasingly relied on the Internet, she was often the first to locate and translate their communiqués. Other researchers followed suit: Evan F. Kohlmann, who had worked for Ms. Katz, broke off and created globalterroralert.com. He also contributes to the Counterterrorism Blog, a site started in 2005 where other experts also post items.

While some older Middle East analysts say these freelance terrorist hunters can be alarmist and attach too much importance to chat rooms, the newer Internet analysts often say the government was not alarmist enough before Sept. 11.

Some of the sharpest disputes take place among bloggers, who tend to do less translation and more political analysis. Mr. Cole, a strong critic of the Iraq war and of the administration's grasp of the Middle East, has inspired a range of ferocious critics. Some, like the bloggers Martin Kramer and Tony Badran, maintain at times a virtual running account of their differences with Mr. Cole, under headines like "Making Cole-Slaw of History" and "Juan-Cology."

Another influential Middle East blog, Syria Comment, has drawn similar criticism from bloggers who claim that its author, Joshua Landis, is too soft on the regime of Bashar al-Assad. Mr. Badran now writes a blog, Syria Monitor, that highlights the Syrian opposition and portrays Mr. Assad as a cruel autocrat.

How much does all this Babel of punditry affect the way the Middle East is perceived? It is hard to say. But some argue that more voices can only be a good thing. "You can question what they choose to translate, or their politics," Mr. Gause said. "But I think ultimately the more that gets put into the public realm, the better."
545 2006-06-18 Trading in the big Cadillacs resembled, in a way, the Dutch tulip mania of the 17th century. Some buyers bought multiple Eldorados so that they would be assured of having a fresh convertible for the rest of their lives — or at least having an extra chip to play when prices ultimately hit the stratosphere.

The interest in '76 Eldorados was not entirely driven by buyers. General Motors, which did not miss a lot of marketing opportunities in the 1970's, did nothing to discourage the speculation. As sales of Eldorado convertibles jumped 64 percent in 1976, diluting the exclusivity of these "last ever" cars, Cadillac responded by marketing a more distinctive version. This car, the Bicentennial Edition, came only in white with red and blue pinstripes. Just 200 were built, making this a true limited edition in an era when such labels usually meant little.

Ultimately, the biggest strike against the Eldorado convertible was the fact that the body style didn't disappear for long. The new rollover rules were not as draconian as anticipated, and by 1982 Chrysler was selling a regular-production convertible, the LeBaron, again.

In the 1980's, J. P. Van De Bundt, owner of the Victory Cars dealership in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., bought more than a dozen 1976 Eldorados, many of them from the original owners. "Some of them felt betrayed by G.M.," he said. "They thought they had bought the last American convertible."

When he tried to resell the cars, Mr. Van De Bundt found willing buyers for low-mileage convertibles in Europe as well as North America. "Most of the Eldorados I sold outside the U.S. went to Germany or to the Netherlands," his native country, he said. "Most of the European owners would convert their cars to run on propane; they would have a switch under the dash to shift back and forth between the cheaper propane and gas."

Mr. Van De Bundt owned an Eldorado in the 1970's before leaving Europe for South Florida. "I was a musician then, and I always drove big American cars," he said. "I would get pulled over by the Dutch police, what with the big convertible and long hair."

Today, Eldorado convertibles are frequently seen at collector car auctions. At a February sale by RM Auctions in Boca Raton, Fla., a 1976 convertible showing just 13,928 miles brought $25,680 including commissions. According to the Black Book Cars of Particular Interest Value Guide, a 1976 Eldorado convertible in good "weekend driver" condition is worth $14,750, a slight increase from the sticker price when new (albeit in much less valuable 2006 dollars).

Other instant collectibles of the era include several Corvettes, notably two '78 models: the Silver Anniversary coupe, built to commemorate the 25th year of Corvette production, and the Pace Car coupe, a replica of that year's Indianapolis 500 pace car.

In 1982, the first of the Collector Edition Corvettes appeared, followed by, among others, the 35th anniversary, 40th anniversary and 50th anniversary editions, and by pace cars for both 1995 and 1998.

Donnie Gould, a partner in RM Classic Auctions, has seen a lot of Pace Car and Collector Editions cross the block. "The majority are low-miles cars, parked when new and only used for special occasions like Sunday drives," he said. "Lots of the first owners treated them more like art than cars." Prices of these Corvettes have only recently spiked, particularly the 1978 Pace Car and 1982 Collector Edition.

"Occasionally you can make some quick money by buying the right car and getting in — and out — quickly," Mr Gould said. But he warned: "Don't assume that low production and the latest thing will last forever. The smart investors wait for the first owners to take the financial hit, and then buy the one they want when they are no longer this year's hot ticket."

Looking ahead, Mr. Gould singled out the 1987 Buick GNX as a car likely to rise in value — in contrast to the 1988-91 Buick Reattas that were also tucked away, like Eldorados, as collectibles. The product of a collaboration between Buick and ASC/McLaren, the GNX had a sticker price of $29,290; only 547 were built. "They were a true 1980's supercar," Mr. Gould said. "Nearly every piece on those cars was unique to it."

Price guides currently estimate the value of a GNX in excellent condition at $55,000, which Mr. Gould says is low. "Try more like $75,000 to $100,000," he said.

Among recent production vehicles, Mr. Gould sees appreciation potential for the Ford GT, which has a list price of $150,000. "They did sell for up to $50,000 over list when they first came out," he said, but added that GT's are now selling at sticker price or slightly above it. Prices are higher, he noted, for Heritage Edition cars painted orange and light blue — the racing colors of Gulf Oil, which sponsored the Ford GT40's that famously raced at LeMans in the 1960's.

As for other new cars that may seem to have investment potential, speculators would do well to remember the 1976 Eldorado and heed the lessons of the past. While a few limited-production models will appreciate in value, prices of most hot new cars quickly drop when the initial demand is sated — or when that model is superseded by the next flavor of the month.
546 2006-06-18 Ilissa Beth Weisblack, a daughter of Robin and Abraham Weisblack of Melville, N.Y., was married last evening to Robert Eric Zimmerman, a son of Marcia G. Zimmerman of Wynnewood, Pa., and the late Harris S. Zimmerman. Rabbi Ronald N. Brown officiated at the Tribeca Rooftop in New York.

Mrs. Zimmerman, 34, is the manager of Sweats Appeal, a Plainview, N.Y., clothing store owned by her father. She graduated from Ohio State.

Mr. Zimmerman, 40, is a senior vice president at Dan Klores Communications, a public relations company in New York, where his clients include Howard Stern. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.

His mother retired as an adjunct professor of art at the Philadelphia College of Textiles and Science. His father was a vice president for investments at the Philadelphia branch of UBS, the Swiss bank.
547 2006-06-18 Emily Fair Oster, the daughter of Sharon M. Oster and Ray C. Fair of New Haven, was married there at the Yale School of Management yesterday to Jesse Morgan Shapiro, the son of Joyce and Arvin L. Shapiro of Brooklyn. James A. Carmichael, a Universal Life minister and a friend of the couple, legally officiated, and Christopher L. Park, another friend of theirs, led a ceremony that included Jewish wedding traditions.

The bride and bridegroom, both 26, are fellows at the Becker Center on Chicago Price Theory, a research center at the University of Chicago. She is studying economic development and health, and he studies advertising and children's exposure to television. They met at Harvard, from which they graduated, she magna cum laude and he summa cum laude, and where each received a doctoral degree in economics.

Dr. Oster will keep her name. Her parents are professors of economics at Yale.

Dr. Shapiro's mother is a special education teacher at Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn. His father is a college counselor at Kew-Forest, a private school in Kew Gardens, Queens.
548 2006-06-18 Melissa Giuca and Andrew Kandel were married last evening at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. The Rev. Dave Mendo, a nondenominational minister, officiated.

Mrs. Kandel, 27, is a manager specializing in internal audits at the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche in New York. She graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton.

She is a daughter of Elizabeth and Ralph Giuca of Sea Cliff, N.Y. Her father retired as a deputy general manager of accounting at Mitsui & Company, a Japanese commodities firm in Manhattan. Her mother teaches English and French at Public School 125 in Woodside, Queens.

Mr. Kandel, 28, works in Manhattan as the senior manager of industry marketing at Nascar, the stock car automobile racing association in Daytona Beach, Fla. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.

He is the son of Valerie Marchese of Greenwich, Conn., and Ned Kandel of Manhattan. His mother and stepfather, John Marchese, own Marchese Communications, a marketing and communications consulting firm in Greenwich. His father retired as the general manager of WNYE-TV, an independent station in New York. The bridegroom is also the stepson of Arlene Weltman. She was until January the executive director of the After-School All-Stars of New York, a nonprofit organization at St. John's University, which operates educational and recreational programs for elementary school students.
549 2006-06-18 In your June 4 editorial "People Get Ready," you mentioned my homeland security report and the defensive reply by Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive. Missing from the editorial is what happened next.

Since my report was issued in January, both Suffolk and Nassau Counties rolled up their sleeves, assessed their capabilities, saw their gaps and shortcomings, and asked for help. The state responded, and I, along with the other eight senators from Long Island, won $5 million for shelter preparedness in the 2006-07 state budget, the largest appropriation of its kind in the state.

While issues still need to be addressed — including whether the responsibility of sheltering Long Islanders during a hurricane should be placed on a 95 percent volunteer organization that is currently experiencing a shortage of volunteers — great strides have been made to improve the safety of our citizens.

As we stand here today, Long Island is much better prepared for a major storm in comparison to just last year. The fact that we are even focusing on hurricane preparedness as a priority is a win for all of us.

Michael Balboni

Garden City Park

The writer is chairman of the State Senate's homeland security committee.
550 2006-06-18 IN one scene in the new movie "The Devil Wears Prada," the heroine, Andy Sachs, who serves as slave and coat rack for her boss, Miranda Priestly, receives a visit from her concerned Midwestern father. He arrives in New York and pummels his daughter with questions: he wants to know why she is often stuck at the office until 2 a.m., even though she is just an assistant; why her boss calls during dinner; why, given her acceptance to Stanford Law School, she chose to pursue a career in journalism; and why now she isn't even doing that, because Runway magazine, where she works, isn't, after all, The American Prospect.

"The Devil Wears Prada," which is set to open June 30, is based on the best-selling novel of the same name, written by Lauren Weisberger, who worked as an assistant at Vogue and mined the experience to depict fashion magazines as cauldrons of Peronist management style and self-enchantment. Andy (played by Anne Hathaway) was once an earnest young woman who might have invoked the word "crisis" to describe wars and car accidents. But she is so ensorcelled by Miranda, Runway's harridan editor (Meryl Streep), that she now uses it when harm befalls a set of accessories. In all of this her father finds great cause for lament.

From 1999 to 2004 I wrote about fashion as a reporter and critic for this newspaper. When I called my mother to tell her that her only child was going to earn a living analyzing the meaning of clothes, I think she considered adoption. I defended my decision on the grounds that it was an opportunity to think instructively about gender and class and produce the sort of broad cultural criticism I had come to admire most. Another opportunity the fashion beat affords is plenty of time spent in the company of fashion people, something variously dreadful and exhilarating. Disciples of the fashion tribe will surely say "The Devil Wears Prada" exaggerates their manners and proclivities. It doesn't. The movie is easily the truest portrayal of fashion culture since "Unzipped," the 1995 documentary about Isaac Mizrahi.

But that film depicted fashion in what amounts to another era, the twilight moment before it was dominated by a handful of multibillion dollar brands with little appreciation for whimsy. "The Devil Wears Prada" is the first film to take a 21st-century view of fashion, moving beyond the myth of its practitioners as visionaries, revealing them instead as the exacting functionaries they are: those who live and dress and think according to the seasonal edicts of global conglomerates.

In the mainstream fashion world the movie depicts, no one wears square-toed shoes in the presence of someone who might disapprove of square-toed shoes. A fashion editor might not genuinely crave the new pump of the hour, but she worries how devalued she'll be if she doesn't get it. The filmmakers understand that fashion people don't possess artistic souls but actuarial ones, that they are energized more by fear than by desire.
551 2006-06-18 I'm a critical-care physician. An elderly Jehovah's Witness, unable to make decisions for himself, was admitted to my hospital with multiple organ dysfunction. A blood transfusion was indicated, but his family refused for religious reasons. One evening the on-call resident, unaware of the patient's faith, ordered a transfusion. The next morning, the I.C.U. team noticed the blood hanging and immediately discontinued the transfusion. There were no clinical consequences. Disclosure would likely cause the family significant emotional distress. Must we tell them? Anonymous

You must. Is there a medical error that would not cause some emotional distress? Alas, a physician's duty to be honest is not limited to good news. It is tough for any of us to admit errors and tough for patients and their families to forgive them. But if patients are to trust their medical teams, honesty is essential.

There are errors too trivial to mention, the medical equivalent of putting a tiny dink into a parked car: no note on the windshield required. That said, an error's significance is measured not only by its clinical consequences but also by its importance to the patient and his family. Here the family is apt to regard the matter as serious. A bioethicist friend adds, "If their beliefs were true and the patient never made it to heaven because of the blood transfusion but the rest of the family did, don't you think they would be upset?" She's right: you don't want them flinging down lightning bolts or harps or whatever it is people can do from up there.

The question isn't if you should tell but how. It might help to talk to a Jehovah's Witness minister about the religious implications of an inadvertent transfusion or even to have this person join you in speaking to the family.

UPDATE: The patient subsequently died. The I.C.U. team referred this question to the hospital's ethics board. Before getting a decision, which in any case is not binding, they decided not to tell, fearing that doing so would only add to the family's unhappiness and noting that nothing could be done now.

After I worked for months as a management consultant, my client became increasingly hard to pin down for payments due. I then withdrew, halfway through the project, for lack of funds. May I recoup some of my costs by using material I produced for him for future clients? May I share documents he provided, even if they might contain confidential information? (We have no nondisclosure agreement.) Anonymous, Montreal
552 2006-06-18 Like his characters, Alan Furst is a consummate professional, a veteran of the spy-writing business who knows the darkest recesses of Paris and Berlin. He and his creations communicate with glances, leave much unsaid, whisper when they must speak at all.

In Furst's new novel, "The Foreign Correspondent," the time is 1939, the place Europe, with conflagration approaching as inevitably as a bomb falling from a Stuka. "There will surely be war," Carlo Weisz, a Reuters reporter who is the correspondent of the title, thinks after attending the signing of the "pact of steel" between Hitler and Mussolini at the Reich Chancellery in Berlin. "The people in the street would demand it, would kill relentlessly and, in time, would have to be killed. These children would not surrender."

The killing has not yet begun, of course, but Weisz's concerns about fascism are more than theoretical. An Italian, but no fan of Mussolini, he lives in exile in Paris. There he and other Italian émigrés put together Liberazione, an underground Italian newspaper that has attracted the attention of the OVRA, Mussolini's secret police.

In the novel's delicious opening scene, OVRA operatives murder Enrico Bottini, Liberazione's editor, during his weekly tryst with the wife of a French politician. Liberazione must go on, so Arturo Salamone, a leader of the émigrés, asks Weisz to fill the vacancy. Weisz accepts, unhappily: "Eager barely says it," he tells Salamone, deflecting his fear with sarcasm.

By rights, Weisz is now in mortal danger, and much of the rest of the novel concerns the cat-and-mouse game played by the émigrés and the secret police. Yet Weisz hardly seems terrified, and why should he be? Furst never bothers to make the OVRA much more than an acronym. Bottini's murder is overseen by a man named Ettore, an unlovely OVRA commander who during World War I "served with distinction — officially recognized — in the purchasing office of the Ministry of War, in Rome." A suitable villain. But after the opening Ettore disappears, turning up just once more.

Meanwhile, Weisz scrapes along in Paris, the archetypal foreign correspondent, single, middle-aged and lonely, watching the world through a smoked-glass window. The love of his life, the chestnut-haired Christa Zameny, has married a German aristocrat and lives in Berlin, forever lost. Or maybe not. For when Reuters sends Weisz to Berlin on a two-week assignment, he and Christa fall together so quickly and easily that the reader wonders why they would ever have allowed themselves to be apart.
553 2006-06-18 On 'Munich'

To the Editor:

In his review of PhillipLopate's anthology "AmericanMovie Critics" (June 4), CliveJames, wanting to demonstrateto critics how to "take down" afilm they don't like, pans "Munich."He accuses the film'swriters of not knowing "halfenough about politics." No instancesof our semi-ignoranceare provided; not one line of thescript is cited. Instead, a singlescene is mentioned: a meeting ofGolda Meir's "cabinet" — it obviouslywasn't a cabinet meeting,but never mind — which,James writes, "went for nothing."And that's it. I know filmcritics everywhere will profitfrom James's instruction. Hemay even enlighten the manywho wrote admiringly of "Munich,"including the three filmcritics of The New York Times.

I, having been taken down,will run for cover in a moment,but first I would like to respondto James's devastating analysis.I do so know more than halfenough! And, furthermore,that scene went for something!Since "Munich" isn't mentionedin the anthology, his attackisn't merely vague, it's utterlygratuitous. After using upan awful lot of paper and inksharing his opinions of realfilm critics, James exposeshimself as the sort of writerwho slags the people behind theart because he can't summonthe substance or wit to articulatehis unhappiness with theart itself — or, I suspect, in thecase of "Munich," with the politicshe feels the art expresses.That's the difference betweena critic and a crank.

TONY KUSHNER

New York

On Food

To the Editor:

Jay Jennings begins his reviewof my book, "Horsemen ofthe Esophagus: CompetitiveEating and the Big Fat AmericanDream" (May 28), by notingthat my surname sounds"like pasta" — a cheap ethnicjoke that I'm surprised got pasta phalanx of editors at the nation'spaper of record. Jenningseven hits the joke twice, referringto my book as the onethat's written "by the pasta." IfColson Whitehead had written abook about Southern cuisine,would you have let Jenningswrite that his name remindshim of a bowl of chitlins

Apart from being snide, thereview doesn't begin to coverthe bases. My book — whichwas excerpted in The AtlanticMonthly — is paired with anotherabout eating conteststhat was written with very differentintentions, even if bothbooks did feature pictures ofhot dogs on the cover. Theproblem with pairing the twobooks is that the generalizationsthat follow are baffling.Jennings knocks both of us for"mostly" avoiding questions of"nationalism, racism, psychologyand physiology" becausewe don't have the requisite"chops." I won't speak for theother book, but the middlethird of "Horsemen" beginswith a four-page interview witha prominent psychologist fromthe University of Pennsylvaniaand goes on, over the next hundredpages, to discuss the nationalisticovertones and classimplications of a specific eatingcontest in Philadelphia. Ialso have an entire chapter onthe physiology of eaters, featuringinterviews with topgastroenterologists at StanfordUniversity, Thomas JeffersonUniversity and the ClevelandClinic. The chapter is 20 pageslong. It should have been prettyhard for Jennings to miss

My book centers on peoplewho eat hot dogs for a living,but that doesn't mean it needsto be reviewed in the spirit ofan especially boorish drivetimeD.J. In assigning thereview to a writer moreinterested in making smugjokes than engaging what Iactually wrote, it appears thatThe Times was judging thebook by its cover.

JASON FAGONE

Philadelphia

To the Editor:

In her review of Bill Buford's"Heat" (May 28), Julia Reedrefers to the Mississippi Deltadisparagingly as "a placewhere Italian red sauce is invariablyreferred to as'spaghetti gravy.' " Indeed,"gravy," a more accuratetranslation than "sauce" of theItalian "salsa," is the word ofchoice of Italian-Americanseverywhere in the UnitedStates for pasta sauces, mosttypically, but not exclusively,tomato-meat sauce, knownwidely as "Sunday gravy."

JUDITH BERGOFFEN

New York
554 2006-06-18 Dr. Jaime Christine Chu, a daughter of Clara and Joseph Chu of Manhasset Hills, N.Y., was married yesterday to Richard Arthur McCormack, the son of Patricia and John A. McCormack of Milford, N.H. The Rev. Bruce Curry Page, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at the Swan Club in Glenwood Landing, N.Y.

The bride and bridegroom graduated magna cum laude from Harvard, where they met.

The bride, 28, completed a residency in pediatrics at Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago last week and is to begin a fellowship in pediatric gastroenterology there in July. She received her medical degree from New York University.

Her father is the president and chief executive of United Heritage Bank in Edison, N.J. Her mother is the senior recruiting specialist at the Uniondale, N.Y., office of Ameriprise Financial, financial advisers.

The bridegroom, 26, is in his final year as a student in the joint medical and M.B.A. program at the University of Chicago.

His mother retired as a nurse practitioner in adult primary care at St. Vincent Charity/University Hospital Cleveland. His father retired as the president of the aluminum oxide division, in Cleveland, of Alcan, the Canadian aluminum producer.
555 2006-06-18 Maybe Mickelson has a wild side — who really knows? — but spectators were, as ever, loony about Lefty yesterday as he loped from hole to hole during the United States Open at Winged Foot Golf Club.

Mickelson slashed drives to Pound Ridge and bounced around the leader board and swung a timid putter at one point and failed to handle the moment in another.

Then, suddenly, he finessed a flop shot inches from the hole on the 10th green, placing the ball down as gently as a vase. That triggered one delicate marvel and one precision rip after another.

The grind ended with a remarkable round of 69 for Mickelson, with his spot secured in the final paring today, with a crowd elated over his resilience.

Not one beer-sodden, Wall Street spectator — some of the same types who stumble around the good seats at Yankee Stadium — turned on him for failing to perform early in his round.

"Man, I was all over the place," said Mickelson, with himself as his only critic. There were no saucy variations of "overrated" or "overpaid" by fans. No A-Rod treatment at all.

So why has one player been offered a mulligan for any obsequiousness while the other's questionable authenticity leaves him no room to fail?

The difference is not about performance under pressure, about Mickelson's three major titles and Rodriguez's zero World Series rings. This is about earning a margin for error when nothing in sports unleashes more public venom like unaccountable wealth.

Rodriguez's defining moments in baseball are not his Most Valuable Player awards or his pristine lifetime statistics. He is defined by his $252 million deal — one that laps the contracts of his peers, is ultimately paid by baseball fans and is a burden to his image. Swing or miss, Rodriguez will pocket $25.7 million in salary this year.

Society has been conditioned by chief-executive excess to abhor extreme gluttony, to sneer at $6,000 shower curtains, to balk at private-plane perks.

Folks may taunt Lee R. Raymond, Exxon's former chief, if they could spot him in a luxury suite. If you knew what Raymond looked like, if Exxon had forced its prized executive to wear its gas-station attendant uniform for identification purposes, wouldn't you boo him from the pump?

You could tap into your inner bleacher maniac and jeer the $144,573 a day The Times reported that Raymond once made by putting up M.V.P. numbers as the oil industry's A-Rod.

Once surreal excess defines a player — or chief executive — it is hard to gain separation from the cash pile even based on grand performance figures.

This is why Mickelson is a liberated man. True, his wealth is vast, and, according to real estate records, he owns plenty of luxury-estate properties, but Mickelson has to earn his paycheck every week.

Golf is known as a dignified land — hence the reason David Duval is labeled as feisty instead of a jerk — but Mickelson is forced to work for his hugs in each round.

Without victories, there is no prize money for Mickelson or lucrative endorsements or celebrity friends or "Go get 'em, Phil" from his fans. Mickelson is guaranteed nothing at each Tour stop.

No matter how outsized a pro athlete's income — or how warped the amount may seem compared to the earnings of a teacher — Mickelson makes money within the moral limits of his sport, in amounts reflective of his work.

This makes all the difference. So fans continue to harass Rodriguez for trying too hard at perfection, for never daring to produce a clutch slap single with an ungraceful swing, for always having a scripted response to his failings.

The affection for Mickelson is unconditional. He keeps pressing on that smile and fist-bumping those fans and living life as a human happy-gram. Yesterday, Mickelson made sure to mention how exciting the final day is going to be, how he relished the challenge of a United States Open and how his wife, Amy, "was in the gallery and says how much fun it was."

He may be every bit as specious as Rodriguez, but Mickelson remains unburdened by questions of his authenticity. Every week, every round, he earns the benefit of the doubt.
556 2006-06-18 The village planning board is in the process of reviewing two large development projects. One is a proposal for about 20 homes on the 150-acre former estate of Ogden Phipps, the thoroughbred owner who died in 2002, in the northwest corner of the village. The other calls for 16 houses on the 40-acre property once home to the Entenmann family, of bakery fame, just north of the Long Island Expressway. That land was bought in 1997 by the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County and High School of Long Island but was resold to a developer.

"It's a shame to see all these old places go, but it's the highest and best use of the land," said Louise P. Brooks, director of sales at Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate in Locust Valley. "The village has low density, but you still have all the green space being absorbed by developers."

To help stem the development tide, Nassau County plans to buy and preserve most of the Boegner estate, a 50-acre property adjacent to the village's best-known landmark, the Old Westbury Gardens, once the estate of the financier John S. Phipps, which has been open to the public as a museum and arboretum since 1958. Old Westbury Gardens would maintain the Boegner property for the county and use part of it to highlight the village's Quaker history, which predates its Gold Coast renown by some 200 years. "Not only will the land be preserved," Ms. Ott said, "but Old Westbury Gardens will bring people into it as public space."

All but a few of the original Gold Coast estates have already been subdivided and developed. The more densely populated areas can be found along the western and southern borders of the village, but even there, homes are relatively secluded. Old Westbury for the most part is defined by its winding, scenic roads and semi-hidden architecture.

"All you see is trees and iconic beauty," said Jeff Halper, who has lived in Old Westbury for 20 years. "You're not on top of your neighbor, but with a short ride in the car, you could be anywhere you want."

In 1929, as the Northern State Parkway was being developed, Old Westbury's estate owners gave the state $175,000 toward building costs, in exchange for which Robert Moses agreed to create a five-mile-long bulge in the road to avoid the village. No such measures were taken when the Long Island Expressway was built in the 1950's, although village officials did persuade the state to build the road below grade and to place exits at the village's eastern and western boundaries.

Old Westbury's eight square miles have no commercial district to speak of. In fact there are only two businesses: a diner and a gas station, built in the southwestern corner of the village just as the Northern State Parkway was completed.

For shopping, residents tend to go to Wheatley Plaza in East Hills and the American Mall in Manhasset, each about 15 minutes away by car. Another nearby option is Roosevelt Field in Garden City.

"Old Westbury has a certain panache," said Wendy Osinoff-Sutton, manager of Daniel Gale Sotheby's International Realty in East Hills. "It has that name and Gold Coast history that people come looking for when they come to Long Island."

Homes on the market range from a five-bedroom 1970 colonial on one acre, selling for $1.289 million, to a newly built seven-bedroom colonial built on eight acres, for $9.8 million.

According to Shawn Elliott, owner of Shawn Elliott Luxury Homes and Estates, the less expensive homes in Old Westbury typically have four or five bedrooms and range from $1.2 million to $1.9 million, with property taxes as high as $25,000 a year. In recent years, he added, many homes in this price range have been bought by developers who have replaced them with much larger houses.

Midlevel homes have five to six bedrooms, typically on two to four acres. They range in price from $2 million to $3 million, and owners pay property taxes as high as $35,000 a year. The priciest homes have six to eight bedrooms and start at $3 million; taxes start at $35,000.

The median sale price of a home in Old Westbury so far this year is $1.8 million, down from $2.38 million at the end of last year but considerably higher than at the end of 2000, when it was $1.22 million, according to Ms. Brooks of Prudential.

By comparison, the median sale price countywide at the end of the fourth quarter last year was $445,000; in 2000 it was $252,500.

The median family income for Old Westbury, according to census data, was $184,298 a year, compared with $81,246 for the county as a whole. Last year, American Demographics magazine identified Old Westbury's ZIP code, 11568, as the 10th most affluent in the United States.

What to Do

Roughly half the village is owned by large institutions, including schools and colleges, houses of worship and country clubs.

Old Westbury Golf and Country Club sits on part of the 530-acre former estate of William C. Whitney, which also provided land for the New York Institute of Technology. The only other private golf club in the village is the Glen Oaks Club. The 650-acre estate of F. M. Ambrose Clark, a millionaire sportsman, is now State University College at Old Westbury.

Old Westbury Gardens has 160 acres of formal gardens, landscaped grounds and woodlands. It also has an extensive calendar of events, including concerts and lectures.

The village is known for its more than 30 miles of developed horse trails, which are maintained by the Old Westbury Horsemen's Foundation. Builders are required to provide the foundation with a 10-foot-wide easement for horse trails around any newly developed property.

"The village has a very strong interest in maintaining the old equestrian tradition," said John Shalam, the foundation's director. "And the trails are so gorgeous and peaceful, you'd think you were up in Maine someplace, not just 20 miles from Manhattan." He says the foundation has about 165 members; many use the trails regularly.

And then, of course, there is polo. The Meadowbrook Polo Club plays on Whitney Lane and Polo Drive throughout the summer.

Old Westbury is served by three school districts: Jericho Union Free School District; East Williston Union Free School District; and Westbury Union Free School District.

Jericho has about 3,200 students in three elementary schools, a middle school and a high school. Of the 219 seniors who graduated from Jericho Senior High School last year, 218 passed the Regents exam, a state accreditation test, and 210 went on to four-year colleges.

East Williston has 1,800 students in an elementary school, a middle school and a high school. Of the 123 students who graduated from Wheatley School, the high school, 118 graduated with Regents diplomas and 107 went on to four-year colleges.

Westbury has about 3,800 students in four elementary schools, one middle school and one high school. Of the 149 students who graduated from Westbury High School, 100 graduated with Regents diplomas and 72 went on to four-year colleges.

In the academic year ended in 2005, students at Jericho High School scored an average of 590 on the verbal section of the SAT and 635 on the math. Wheatley averages were 560 on the verbal and 593 on the math. Officials at Westbury, whose students are largely from the less affluent village of Westbury, provided only a combined average. According to Donna Dannenfelser, director of guidance, that number was 925. The state averages were 497 for verbal and 511 for math.

It can take as little as 30 minutes to drive from Old Westbury to Manhattan, or as long as an hour and a half, depending on Long Island Expressway traffic. There is no Long Island Rail Road station in the village, so residents often take the express train from the Manhasset station. Getting to the city that way takes about 25 minutes, but parking in Manhasset is limited and can be expensive. From the Westbury and Hicksville stations, the ride can take up to 45 minutes, but there is more parking.

Old Westbury's origins go back to a modest time in the 1670's when Long Island's first settlers, English Quakers, established farms in the area. Westbury is the name of a town in Wiltshire, England. Between 1880 and 1920, the open farmland and rolling hills attracted industrialists looking for space to build country houses. Many of the grand North Shore estates were built during that period.

What We Like

Old Westbury is beautiful, with a variety of architectural styles and gently winding roads defined by a lush tree canopy.

The challenge for the village will be to balance the demand for development with the desire to maintain its character.

"The most attractive part about living here is the space and the beauty of the land," said Marcia Kaufman, a resident of Old Westbury for about eight years. "You can't stand in the way of progress and change, but you hope that it's done with the best intentions and outcomes."
557 2006-06-18 The rumble of off-road vehicles -- and the vandalism, like litter and graffiti, that officials blame on the vehicles' users -- has long been a problem at Shoreham Beach, one of 12 town beaches in Brookhaven. But illegal off-road traffic cut utilit...
558 2006-06-18 To the Editor:     ''Short Circuits,'' by Tim Mount (Op-Ed, June 11), asserts that deregulation is unsuccessful in achieving both lower electricity prices and higher prices to attract investment....
559 2006-06-18 A FORMER executive with Goldman Sachs and J. P. Morgan Chase paid $5.8 million this month for two adjoining apartments at 1 Main Street in Dumbo, Brooklyn. The two units, with a combined 4,790 square feet, have views of the East River and Manhatta...
560 2006-06-18 Ilissa Beth Weisblack, a daughter of Robin and Abraham Weisblack of Melville, N.Y., was married last evening to Robert Eric Zimmerman, a son of Marcia G. Zimmerman of Wynnewood, Pa., and the late Harris S. Zimmerman. Rabbi Ronald N. Brown officiat...
561 2006-06-18 General managers, team presidents and other senior executives for the Knicks, the Liberty and the Rangers keep two offices: one at Madison Square Garden and the other at the Madison Square Garden Training Center in Greenburgh. In 2004, Madison Squ...
562 2006-06-18 The state's top education official was hired last week as superintendent of the Greenwich School District, a position she said would allow her to see some of the direct effects of her policies.     Betty J. Sternberg, the commissioner of the State...
563 2006-06-18 Melissa Giuca and Andrew Kandel were married last evening at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. The Rev. Dave Mendo, a nondenominational minister, officiated.      Mrs. Kandel, 27, is a manager specializing in internal audits at the accounting firm Delo...
564 2006-06-18 A few days after the Boys and Girls Club of Northern Westchester announced that it was shutting a summer program for hundreds of children from low-income families, Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester County executive, announced on Thursday that the c...
565 2006-06-19 A Boston real estate blog has spotted what could be the beginnings of a new trend. The Boston-area market was the first to peak, so, if its analysis is correct, there is a good chance that selling homes for below the assessed value is a trend. Acc...
566 2006-06-19 Holding an open house? Ilyce Glink of Inman News (subscription needed) suggests you can garner more viewers in the morning or evening. She writes: Everyone is busy all the time, and if you have kids, weekends can be a tough time to look for a home...
567 2006-06-19 Readers respond to Bob Herbert's June 19 column, "On the Killing Floor" Pam Grundy, South Bend, Ind.: I haven't been able to eat meat since I read your essay on the Smithfield plant. I never thought eating meat was wrong, but if this is the way it...
568 2006-06-19 Its stock has lost nearly half its value since its stock started trading last month. It faces a slew of shareholder lawsuits over its initial public offering. Yet the headaches are not over for Vonage. The Internet telephone company said Monday it...
569 2006-06-19 South Korea's Board of Audit and Inspection on Monday cleared Dallas-based private equity firm Lone Star Funds of any wrongdoing in its 2003 acquisition of Korea Exchange Bank, which is still facing a separate investigation into the deal. However,...
570 2006-06-19 What looked to be a contentious and protracted Chapter 11 case brought by a hedge fund and bank against a Virgin Islands communications goliath, Innovative Communications last February is about to vanish without a trace. The parties had been litig...
571 2006-06-19 With the revelation Friday that Microsoft routinely priced workers' stock options at the low for the month through much of the 1990's, investors now have a new worry: If one of the nation's biggest companies helped employees get a head start on pr...
572 2006-06-19 Home Depot, the world's largest home-improvement retailer, said some options awards for its executives were granted at below-market prices. The company said in a statement today that in five cases before December 2000, options were approved on dat...
573 2006-06-19 Companies listed on Canada's S&P/TSX Venture Exchange raised a record $1-billion during May, the highest level of financings ever completed during a single month, said Martin Gagel, an analyst with Canaccord Capital. Natural resource companies rai...
574 2006-06-19 The revolt by Arcelor shareholders over the company's merger with the Russian steel group Severstal is spreading to core loyalists in Luxembourg, Belgium, and Spain. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which holds a 5.6 percent stake in the pan-Europea...
575 2006-06-19 The NYSE Group would consider creating a new London exchange to compete with the London Stock Exchange if its acquisition of Paris-based Euronext does not deliver the international share listings business it expects, the chief executive, John Thai...
576 2006-06-19 The nonprofit group that cares for homeless and unwanted animals in New York City has improved the conditions at its shelters, but it has not done an adequate job at cleaning cages and adoption wards, looking for missing animals, isolating sick animals or walking the dogs in its care, according to an audit released today.

The group, Animal Care and Control of New York City, has had exclusive responsibility for the care of the city's stray animals since 1995, under a contract with the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. The contract expires on June 30; the city and the group are negotiating a three-year renewal. The group is being paid $7.8 million this fiscal year, but the city also provides free space and pays for utilities and vehicles.

The audit was conducted by City Comptroller William C. Thompson, whose office in June 2002 issued a scathing review of Animal Care and Control that documented instances of animal maltreatment and unsanitary conditions. In contrast, the audit released today concluded that "shelter conditions are adequate" and that "staff is generally responsive to the needs of both the animals and the public." However, it made 13 critical findings and recommendations, most of which were accepted by Mary F. Martin, the interim executive director of Animal Care and Control, in a written response.

During 20 unannounced visits to the group's three full-service shelters between October and March, 6 percent of the 320 cat and dog wards and 9 percent of the 3,749 cat and dog cages were not clean. Several adoption wards were not cleaned by noon, as the group's protocols require. "Therefore, it is possible that potential adopters may be discouraged by the unclean conditions," the auditors wrote, noting that several filthy cages were also observed.

Wards and cages are thoroughly cleaned at least once a day, and spot cleaning occurs as necessary and is recorded on log sheets, said Richard P. Gentles, the group's director of administrative services. He acknowledged that cleaning policies were not always effectively enforced and promised to do better.
577 2006-06-19 Vonage, the Internet telephone startup, said today that it was being sued by Verizon Communications in a dispute over the underlying technology that allows voice calls to be delivered over the Internet.

The lawsuit adds a new challenge for Vonage, which has seen its stock price slide precipitously since it went public last month.

Vonage's shares, which were initially sold for $17, fell $1.12, or 11.7 percent, to close at $8.48 this afternoon on the New York Stock Exchange.

In its latest challenge, Vonage is being accused by Verizon of violating "at least" seven patents, according to the complaint, which was filed June 12 in Federal District Court in the Eastern District of Virginia.

Among its claims, Verizon alleged that Vonage was using some of its technology that enables voice calls to be transferred from the Internet onto the conventional telephone network.
578 2006-06-19 Ms. Rice, appearing with Mr. Zoellick at the briefing today, said Mr. Zoellick had been perfect for the job that required "someone who would take American diplomacy on the road with a vigorous will to travel and who would serve as my alter ego here in Washington."

"And of course, we needed a deputy who would get up his courage and roll up his sleeves and occasionally even hug a panda," she said.

Mr. Zoellick's resignation from his State Department job had been expected. From his first days there, he has chafed at his subordinate position, frequently remarking that he was finding the adjustment difficult after running his own office during four years as United States trade representative, which is a cabinet position.

Mr. Zoellick's friends said last month that he had at times felt marginalized at the State Department, where his subordinates, including R. Nicholas Burns, an under secretary of state, manage most of the major issues, including matters related to Iran, Iraq, the rest of the Middle East and North Korea.

An aide to Mr. Zoellick disagreed with the perception that he had felt he was on the sidelines as deputy, and said instead that he knew his job was to be the secretary's "alter ego." Commenting on the timing of today's announcement, the aide said that Mr. Zoellick started the process of potentially moving on earlier this year but he felt he wanted to stay through the visit of China's president, Hu Jintao, to the White House in April and to help push forward the peace process in Darfur.

"That's what pushed this process into this month," the aide said.

Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, when asked by reporters today for a reaction to the resignation, said that it was known that Mr. Zoellick had been wanting to pursue options in the private sector for some time.

Mr. Zoellick had previously worked for Goldman Sachs as an international adviser, a part-time consultant, when Bill Clinton was president. A Goldman Sachs statement said Mr. Zoellick would return to the company as a managing director, a full-time position, with the title of Vice Chairman, International. In that capacity he will head the firm's group of international advisers.

"His extensive knowledge of international affairs will be of great importance to the firm as we continue to expand our business around the world," said Lloyd C. Blankfein, president and chief operating officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

Before his current job at the State Department, where he was sworn in on Feb. 22, 2005, Mr. Zoellick completed negotiations to bring China and Taiwan into the World Trade Organization.

As deputy secretary, Mr. Zoellick was the primary architect of the Bush administration's policy toward Sudan, and particularly the response to Darfur. In May, he flew to Abuja, Nigeria, where the peace negotiations were being held and pushed Darfur's rebel leaders to sign a peace accord.

In Sudan, a mission he pursued with persistence, Mr. Zoellick was known for understanding the many facets of the country and its people, reciting tribal names, affiliations and political leanings and able to recount the nation's blood-spattered history.

During one trip to a Sudanese refugee camp in 2005, he wore a plastic bracelet bearing the slogan "Not on our watch."

"I am persistent," he said. "I didn't start out starry-eyed about this." Mr. Zoellick was also asked last year to be the American representative at what China and the United States called "strategic dialogue" meetings. He publicly urged China in September to become a "responsible stakeholder" in its business dealings around the world.

Mr. Zoellick served during the presidency of George H.W. Bush as the under secretary of state for economic and agricultural affairs, as well as counselor. From 1985 to 1988, Mr. Zoellick served at the Department of the Treasury in various positions.

In the announcement today that he was leaving his job, he recalled his colleagues in the diplomatic sector, saying he often visits the United States embassies when he travels around the world to thank the staff.
579 2006-06-19 A launching could also ignite a political chain reaction in Japan, the United States and China, which have been trying to re-engage North Korea in stalled talks about its nuclear weapons program. The Bush administration might step up financing for missile defense; Japan might increase its missile defense efforts as well, while militant Japanese politicians might push to reconsider the nation's nuclear weapons options. Such moves would most likely alienate China.

The reported fueling of the missile has set off a flurry of diplomatic activity, as officials from the United States, Japan and China worked furiously to try to forestall a launching. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice spoke to her Japanese and Chinese counterparts this weekend, urging the Chinese, in particular, to try to press North Korea. Officials at the State Department recently telephoned North Korean diplomats at that country's permanent mission to the United Nations in New York, warning them directly against going ahead with a launching. Such direct contact is highly unusual, since American officials limit their direct talks with their North Korean counterparts. But "we needed to make sure there was no misunderstanding," a senior American official said.

American intelligence officials say they believe that the system is a Taepodong 2 missile and that a three-stage version could strike all of the United States. One administration official said the missile at the launching pad was a two-stage version.

While North Korea claims to have developed nuclear weapons, it has never allowed outsiders to see them. American experts believe that North Korea has enough plutonium for at least half a dozen nuclear weapons and has produced a small but growing nuclear arsenal. It is not known if the North Koreans can build a nuclear warhead small enough to fit on a missile, but experts say it seems plausible that they could do so.

"Assuming the missile is a Taepodong 2 and assuming the missile test is successful, North Korea would demonstrate that they have made important progress toward the ability to hit targets in the continental United States with a missile large enough to carry a nuclear weapon," said Gary Samore, a former senior aide on the National Security Council and a vice president of the MacArthur Foundation.

It remained unclear late on Sunday how long North Korea might wait before launching a fueled missile, what the diplomatic prospects were for averting a launching, or what the missile's intended landing spot or projected range might be.

In Japan, Foreign Minister Taro Aso warned that a miscalculation could result in the missile landing on Japanese territory. "If it is dropped on Japan, it will complicate the story," he told Japanese TV on Sunday. "It will be regarded as an attack." Mr. Aso later toned down his language, saying, "We will not right away view it as a military act," but adding that Japan would seek an immediate meeting of the Security Council if the missile were launched.

In its last test of a long-range missile, in 1998, North Korea fired a Taepodong 1 missile over Japan — a launching that the Clinton administration had warned against to no avail. American intelligence was surprised to learn when the missile was launched that it had three stages, although the solid-fueled third stage exploded in flight. That led Congress to step up its push for deployment of antimissile defenses. In 1999, North Korea agreed to a moratorium on long-range missile testing, and has not fired one since.

But five weeks ago American officials received satellite images that showed North Korea preparing to test a multiple-stage Taepodong 2 missile. Some Bush administration officials suspected that the moves were a grab for attention while Washington's focus was primarily on Iran's nuclear intentions, and a way to press the United States to agree to direct talks. But since then, diplomats have become increasingly concerned that North Korea indeed planned to conduct a launching.

"Why they are doing this, you will have to ask them," one senior Bush administration official said Sunday. "It is not in anyone's interest; certainly not theirs. For our part, we will not be derailed by their temper tantrums, nor have any of our own."

Referring to the deadlocked six-party talks about North Korea's nuclear program, the official said: "We'll continue to be guided by our policy of protecting our people and of working closely, very closely with our partners in the six parties. It is important in times like this not to give any mixed signals and to be firm and clear. We support the six-party process as the best means to solve what should be clear to all is a multilateral problem."

American knowledge about the Taepodong 2 is limited. In 2001, a National Intelligence Estimate forecast that a three-stage version of it could reach North America with a sizable payload. The first stage of the Taepodong 2 is thought to consist of a cluster of Nodong missiles, which are single-stage, shorter-range rockets; the second stage is believed to be a Nodong missile. A third stage would probably be a solid-fueled system.

There was no mention of a missile in a report from North Korea's official media on a national meeting on Sunday, according to news service reports from the region. At the meeting, officials talked about increasing the North's "military deterrent" — a phrase used by the country to refer to its nuclear program. North Korea contends it needs the program for a defense against a possible American attack; the United States says it has no intention of invading.

American analysts say that if a missile launching occurs it is possible that North Korea will describe it as part of a peaceful program to put satellites in orbit. North Korea is a secretive Stalinist state, and figuring out the motives of its leader, Kim Jong Il, has stymied diplomats for years. "It may well be that Kim Jong Il is getting a lot of pressure from his generals to verify the design" of the Taepodong 2 missile, said Robert J. Einhorn, a former assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation under President Bill Clinton.

But, he added, "Whenever the North Koreans act up, one has to assume in part at least that they are trying to get the world's attention."

Just two weeks ago — a day after the United States offered to hold direct talks with Iran over its nuclear program — North Korea invited Christopher R. Hill, an assistant secretary of state and chief negotiator on the North's nuclear weapons program, for direct talks in Pyongyang. That offer was rebuffed by the White House, which insisted that the North return to the long-deadlocked six-nation talks. The other nations involved in the talks are China, South Korea, Japan and Russia.

North Korea has boycotted the talks in recent months after the United States cracked down on financial institutions that dealt with the government in Pyongyang, and with North Korean companies suspected of counterfeiting American dollars and laundering money. If North Korea goes ahead with a launching, the already floundering talks would go into the deep freeze.
580 2006-06-19 Not surprisingly, Washington's school system is being eaten alive by soaring special education costs. This problem was underscored in an eye-opening investigation by The Washington Post, which recently reported that the District of Columbia is spending 15 percent of its public school budget to send about 4 percent of the student body to private schools.

Poor management and budgetary practices are partly to blame. But special education costs are inevitably connected to a school system's failure to teach struggling readers effectively. These children, who arrive at school unprepared to learn, make up a significant part of any urban system's enrollment. Nearly all of them can learn to read when given teachers who have been trained to reach readers who do not catch on automatically.

Yet many of these struggling children end up labeled "learning disabled" even when there is nothing clinically wrong with them.

National reading scores suggest that Washington is a prime place for this kind of problem. When judged in terms of fourth grade reading scores on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, for example, the city ranks last among the big urban districts — with three-quarters of its low-income students reading below the basic level.

This can't be explained by poverty alone, since low-income children in Washington lag well behind similarly situated students in places like New York and Boston. The obvious conclusion is that other cities know something about teaching disadvantaged children that Washington does not.

The District of Columbia's reading deficit is surprising given that the city played a central role in the large federally backed research program carried out during the 1990's that is widely credited with laying out the blueprint for reaching struggling readers. Financed by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the early intervention study followed students at nine high-poverty schools in the District for five years, while experimenting with reading instruction.

The study debunked the widely held view that children learn to read "automatically." On the contrary, researchers found that struggling and poorly prepared children needed direct and intensive instruction to learn the sounds associated with the letters of the alphabet and the syllables in words.

The most successful program included extensive teacher training — and gave the children a great deal of work on vocabulary, writing and reading comprehension.

The early intervention study was so successful that it later became a partial basis of the sound reading provision written into the No Child Left Behind law. But researchers who worked in Washington at the time now say that they could barely get an audience with the school system's leadership, which appears to have been invested in unproved strategies and business as usual.

Some severely disabled children will always need be educated outside the public system. But many of the so-called learning-disabled children who flee public schools for private education are victims of disastrous reading instruction.

Nearly all of these children could be reached through methods like those that have been used for decades at specialized schools or that have recently been touted in the research literature. It won't be easy to put these programs in place. But with the dollar costs of special education spiraling upward — and the dangers of mass illiteracy painfully clear — there's no time like the present to get started.
581 2006-06-19 "And if I had the opportunity to go out and play at minimal risk, and if the risk is going to be with me next year and the year after that, I'm willing to take the chance to go out there and play hard and do everything I can to help our team win."

As for the possibility of becoming paralyzed, Cole said: "This is my life. I've always wanted to be a hockey player. This is what I chose to do with my life.

"I couldn't be more thankful for the opportunity that I have to be a professional hockey player, and I wouldn't exchange it for anything."

Until recently, Carolina Coach Peter Laviolette did not agree with that position. Early last week, he would have nothing to do with Cole's repeated requests to seek medical clearance to play in the finals; Laviolette said he did not want to bear any responsibility if Cole came back too soon and was reinjured.

After the Hurricanes lost the veteran center Doug Weight for the remainder of the finals in Game 5 on Wednesday, when he severely sprained his right shoulder, Cole again asked Laviolette to reconsider.

With his team needing one more victory to clinch its first Cup, Laviolette relented. After a whirlwind trip to Denver on Friday for a C.T. scan, Cole was back in the Carolina lineup Saturday night after he was cleared to play.

Willis Reed limping onto the Madison Square Garden court, it was not, because the Oilers thrashed the Hurricanes to tie the series at 3-3.

But Laviolette said Cole was probably the Hurricanes' best player for the first two periods of Game 6. That might speak more about the Hurricanes' condition — Carolina captain Rod Brind'Amour looked spent — than Cole's freshness.

Cole, who has always been a physical player, gave as well as he took after Edmonton's Ethan Moreau checked Cole during his second shift.

"It's not hits to the side of the head that I think I have to worry about," said Cole, noting that he felt Moreau had caught him high and got away with an unpenalized elbow. "It's about getting run from behind into the boards again. I looked for a hit on my first shift and I didn't find it, and then one found me on my second shift. But it was good. I felt comfortable from then on."

Edmonton forward Raffi Torres, who played like a wrecking ball in Games 5 and 6, said it was probably better for Cole to be hit hard early.

"That kind of hit can get you back in the game, back into the swing of things," Torres said.

Cole will be looking to reciprocate Monday, even though his neck will never be much better than it is now.

"Honestly, I think I might start skating around the ice and jumping into guys and see if I can catch anybody in the head," Cole said. "It seems to be their M.O. So we might as well play that way, too."
582 2006-06-19 The spot where the Wagner group met yesterday did not appear to be designated as much of anything, in the bureaucratic sense of the word, but was clearly a favorite for fishing the East River or for hard-luck men resting beneath the Triborough Bridge. It is officially part of the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway, but a detour for bridge repairs instructs pedestrians and bicyclists away. With the children playing yesterday, and a young couple laughing as they leaned on the iron fence at the river, it could have been the backyard of a fine country estate.

"Boats come by all day," Mr. Bryant said, his wistfulness accelerated by sips of cognac chased with cold Heineken. "New York City is a beautiful city. People don't realize that."

The legality of the celebration, and of others nearby, was unclear yesterday. Inquiries to the Parks Department Web site and calls to transportation and police officials were inconclusive, in part, perhaps, because of a deliberate vagueness in the description of the locations visited for this article, so as to not risk spoiling the parties. Suffice it to say that drinking cognac and beer in a public area violates open container laws, and the rest seems open to interpretation.

A woman cooking out with her brother and nephews on a sidewalk off the Harlem River Drive identified herself only as Val, for fear of being identified as some sort of troublemaker.

"The traffic doesn't bother us. Just the police. They drive by, stop, pull over, tell us to move this or that," she said. "It's just something that New Yorkers do in Harlem.

"It's easier than loading up a caravan of cars and going to, say, Van Cortlandt Park," she added. "With gas prices, who wants to drive? I feel sorry for them. I got on the bus, got off at 155th Street, cut through the projects, and I'm here."

About 40 blocks south, Louise Wigfall flipped a rack of ribs on her little grill on the sidewalk outside the Woodrow Wilson Houses, where she lives. The southbound lanes of the F.D.R. loomed over her shoulder.

"For 30-something years, I've been looking at that traffic," she said. "It doesn't bother me."

Nearby, Cassandra Stewart, 41, was more enthusiastic about the highway: "Actually, it makes a breeze."

Back at the East River, fathers old and young sat in garden chairs. Mr. Bryant wrote a rap song about two lovers talking dirty on their two-way radios, called "Bleep Bleep Freak," but the D.J. for the party was not expected until later in the afternoon. It was just the men and women, the children, the grills and the highway.

"I don't mind traffic," he said. "I was living upstate. The peace and quiet drove me crazy."
583 2006-06-19 "It's really the last polishing," said Ullrich, who rode himself into shape in May after injuring his knee in late winter. "Now I already feel that I'm at 90 percent, and I can work on the last 10 before the Tour de France."

Since winning the Tour in 1997, Ullrich has been runner-up in the race five times. Indisputably talented, he has been dogged by a reputation for off-season dissipation.

A thunderstorm descended on Bern, the Swiss capital, just as the top-ranked riders approached it during the 19-mile time trial — a race in which riders start in intervals and race against the clock, rather than in a bunch. Ullrich said the winds got so heavy that he needed to concentrate to stay on his bike.

"I thought if I fall here I risk the Tour," he said. "It wasn't worth risking the Tour de France for the Tour de Suisse."

All told, the race covered 933 miles, and riders endured a total of 65,833 feet of ascension — more than the height of two Mount Everests — over Switzerland's high mountain passes.

One of the race's most outstanding teams was also its most embattled. The Spanish team Astana-Wurth, implicated in a doping scandal last month, had two of its young riders win stages in the last week and another, Jaksche, finish third over all.

Jaksche wore a jersey with a white space on the front — a blank spot where the logo of the team's primary sponsor had been until last month. That company, Liberty Seguros, canceled its brand association with the team after the Spanish police detained the team's sport director, Manolo Saiz, reportedly catching him in a doping transaction.

In support of the team's top rider, Alexander Vinokourov, a contingent of businesses in Kazakhstan has stepped in to support the team, naming it after the country's capital. But it is not yet clear whether the relabeled team will be allowed to compete in France.

Should Vinokourov be on the sideline next month, then Ullrich and Ivan Basso will be the favorites in the Tour de France.

Among the five or six other leading challengers are the Americans Levi Leipheimer and Floyd Landis, who have won prestigious stage races this spring.

Ullrich will be the only former winner in this year's Tour. Armstrong retired last summer after winning his seventh consecutive Tour, and the 1998 winner, Marco Pantani of Italy, died of an apparent cocaine overdose in 2004.
584 2006-06-19 Nearly five years later, Deloitte reversed its opinion and urged Micrel to restate its financial reports. The Internal Revenue Service came banging on its door. And today, Micrel and Deloitte are passing blame back and forth in court.

Micrel is hardly the only firm ensnared in such a mess. What began as a creative solution among a handful of technology firms to address recruitment issues soon became common practice in Silicon Valley. It appears the practice also became a way to enrich chief executives and other top managers.

The result is a nationwide scandal with major accounting, corporate governance, tax and disclosure ramifications. Dozens, perhaps hundreds, of companies are caught up in a giant civil and criminal law enforcement sweep by the Justice Department, the I.R.S. and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

It is no coincidence that stock option abuses are once again taking center stage in an unfolding scandal. The easy money that options can rain down on recipients motivated many of the numbers games that companies played with their quarterly earnings during the stock market boom, leading to numerous accounting fraud prosecutions at Enron, WorldCom and others.

In the latest scandal, companies seem to have handed out stock options that were already "in the money" on the date of grant, undermining the idea of using options as a pay-for-performance tool. The practice appears to have been widespread from the early 1990's to 2002, and possibly beyond.

Handing out in-the-money options is not illegal as long as the grants are disclosed to shareholders. At the time, in-the-money options had to be counted as an expense on the company's books. (New rules now require companies to routinely deduct options as an expense.) Failure to disclose or to deduct in-the-money options from income could lead to securities fraud charges. And because such options do not qualify for tax breaks once they are exercised, such grants raise tax fraud issues, too.

The Micrel case and others raise troubling questions about how companies that were pushing the envelope of accounting and tax practice were able to get the blessings of auditors and lawyers. And the widening scandal reveals the extent to which boards of directors, especially the compensation committees that approve option grants, may have failed to do their jobs.

"It appears, from the S.E.C. and a number of reports that are coming up daily, that there was a systemic problem at a lot of companies," said Bradley E. Beckworth, a plaintiffs' attorney who has filed one of the first class-action lawsuits against Brocade Communications and KPMG, its auditor, for options backdating. "If these accounts turn out to be true, you have to ask the question, Who was the gatekeeper here?"

Micrel, by most accounts, is one of the last technology companies where one might expect to find problems. While the chip manufacturer was one of the high-flying growth businesses of the 1990's, it was different in several respects from most of the era's fledgling public companies.

Its founder and longtime chief executive, Raymond D. Zinn, a 68-year-old engineer, is a Mormon who calls honesty his guiding rule. And unlike many of its technology rivals, Micrel's own profits, not venture financing, fueled its growth until it went public in 1994.

But like many high-tech firms in the mid-1990's, Micrel went on a hiring binge. The Bay Area was booming with opportunities for ambitious people. Companies were growing at astronomical rates and desperately needed talent to fill new jobs. And instead of higher salaries, companies preferred to grant stock options to lure new employees.

Micrel, a company that had a few hundred employees but was adding two or three new people a week, began facing a fairness problem in its options awards in mid-1996.

A hypothetical employee who was granted stock options on July 1 that year, when Micrel shares were trading at $2.08, would have stock options that were "under water," or worthless, by July 15, when Micrel's shares were trading at $1.56. But someone who started on July 15 would have received options granted at the $1.56 price, and would soon be in the money as the stock rose. Both employees would be better off than someone who was granted options at the end of the month, when Micrel shares closed at $2.15.

"We had some complaints from newly hired employees," said J. Vincent Tortolano, Micrel's general counsel, though he was unable to provide specific examples. Someone, he said, came up with the idea of trying to make the option grants a little more equitable.

The solution, Mr. Tortolano said, was the 30-day low pricing method for new employees. But when it was subsequently extended across the company, the plan particularly benefited Micrel's top executives, enriching them by millions of dollars.

While its origins remain murky, the practice was not unfamiliar to many Silicon Valley insiders. Many companies were rumored to have similar programs.

Microsoft acknowledged that it had a similar options pricing method going back several years, which it ended in 1999. Company inquiries about such plans were common at the time, compensation experts said.

Prospects reported that Microsoft waited until the end of the month and picked the date with the lowest stock price — and did so without taking an accounting charge. "I heard it over and over and over again," recalled one compensation lawyer, who requested anonymity because he still had several technology companies as clients.

Micrel had similar goals for its plan. According to court filings, the company's concerns about the pricing method were twofold: First, it wanted to gain assurance that the proposal would not cause the options to be taken as an expense, which would lower earnings and could depress the stock price. Second, it wanted to make sure the plan complied with generally accepted accounting principles.

In court filings, Micrel said it raised those issues with Roy M. Avondet, a top partner in the Northern California practice of Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Avondet, who was in charge of the Micrel account, agreed that his firm would provide advice, the filings say. Mr. Avondet could not be reached for comment.

Deloitte, of course, was the longtime auditor for Microsoft and one of the leading accounting firms in Silicon Valley at the time. Its auditors often charted new territory on many accounting issues. Lucrative fees were also at stake.

"The technology companies were not looking for the low-cost provider," said Allan D. Koltin, the president of PDI Global, a Chicago-based consulting company that works with many large accounting firms. "They were looking for the provider who could interpret complex tax and accounting issues the same way the technology world thought they should be interpreted."

For all the major accounting firms, "the pressure was enormous to win at all costs," he added. "If you think there was pressure to please Ken Lay at Enron, this was a whole other level."

Deloitte reviewed the proposal and, through Mr. Avondet, advised Micrel that its 30-day pricing method followed the rules and would not have adverse accounting consequences, court documents state. But the carefully worded Micrel complaint stops short of saying that Deloitte gave its written assurance.

According to a company memo obtained by The New York Times, Micrel's plan worked by permitting the stock option strike price to "automatically be 'reset' to the new lower, fair market price" in the 30 days after a new employee's start date.

Accounting experts said that the practice appeared to conflict with an S.E.C. accounting bulletin, which provided for favorable treatment for stock options only if they were awarded at fair market value on the date of grant. Micrel's plan, compensation specialists said, implied a loose interpretation of the term "grant date."

The S.E.C. rule, which allowed companies to forgo counting those option grants as an expense on the income statement, was changed years later over the strong objections of many technology companies, which argued that the options were a crucial pay-for-performance tool.

The 30-day pricing method also raises disclosure issues. In August 1996, Micrel submitted to the S.E.C., as the rules required, a plan for issuing new shares under an existing stock option program. It spelled out many terms, including that "the exercise price of each option shall not be less than the fair market value of the shares" on the date of grant.

Mr. Zinn and his two top lieutenants at the time — Robert J. Barker and Warren H. Muller — signed off on the plan. So did the three members of its board.

Morrison & Foerster, the San Francisco law firm hired as Micrel's outside counsel, affirmed the terms of the plan in an opinion letter.

But when Micrel adopted the 30-day pricing method, it did not alert shareholders to the changes.

Mr. Tortolano, the Micrel general counsel, said there was no reason to do so, denying that the 30-day method ever modified the plan's terms. "That is a legal determination," he said. "We fully believe that our practices were in keeping and in full compliance with the option plans we had in place at the time." Mr. Zinn and the other top executives, as well as Morrison & Foerster, were not available to comment.

Micrel, which has dismissed Deloitte as its auditor, now casts itself as the victim of bad advice. The company contends that Deloitte's decision to reverse its view of the 30-day pricing method in December 2001, after almost five years of audits, caught it completely off guard.

The company was forced to restate earnings downward. And in its lawsuit against Deloitte, Micrel claims the total price of the flawed option plan could reach $58.6 million. Micrel was more successful with the I.R.S., which backed off an attempt in 2002 to collect $51 million in taxes.

Robert A. Meyer, the lawyer representing Deloitte, denied the company did anything wrong and declined further comment.

Deloitte's recommendations "led us to the wrong conclusion," said Larry L. Hansen, a former Micrel director who stepped down in 2005. "Because that conclusion was then changed, it caused the company a lot of pain and heartburn."

One former Micrel employee, however, compared the shock of Deloitte's reversal to believing "this guy was your cousin your whole life and then you found out he was really your brother."

Today, Micrel and dozens of companies are left to argue that regulations governing a stock grant's date are murky and open to interpretation. But others say the rules were always clear. "The goalposts were clear to anybody who bothered to look at them," said James F. Reda, a compensation consultant.
585 2006-06-19 When not reminding runners to breathe deeply and relax their arms, for instance, trainers also guide listeners through weight-training routines or Pilates exercises. For cardiovascular exercises like running or aerobics, trainers say, video is of little use. But for weight-training, yoga and other routines, visual cues can be much more helpful.

Four months ago, Kimberly Fowler, who owns the YAS Yoga and Spinning Studio in Venice, Calif., uploaded a 53-minute workout video to iAmplify.com, the first of what she said would be a video series that could be viewed online or on devices like iPods.

"It's hard to just listen to a yoga class or a fitness class," Ms. Fowler said. "Sometimes you need to see it, and some people are just very visual anyway."

"And yes, my voice is one thing," Ms. Fowler added. "But with video they get to see you and they get more involved with you, so it's a more personal connection."

Better connection with remote clients, Ms. Fowler said, leads to better workout results and more repeat sales. "I get, quote, 'a lot of money' for private sessions, but there are only so many hours in a day to do them," she said. "I'm trying to make money while I sleep."

Ms. Fowler sells downloads of her video for $20, compared with $25 for the DVD, and although she would not give specific sales figures, she said the downloadable format was going well, particularly in cultivating foreign audiences.

"Shipping a DVD to Japan costs more than the DVD itself," Ms. Fowler said. "This can be a huge avenue for me."

Perhaps it will eventually. But industry executives and analysts noted that while there are hundreds of millions of digital audio players in the hands of consumers, video iPods and other potentially workout-friendly devices have only recently begun to penetrate the mass market.

"Video is much newer, but it's a transition that will definitely happen," said Murray Hidary, chief executive of iAmplify, which is based in New York.

Mr. Hidary's business arose from the idea that personal trainers would need an easy way to offer and sell workout clips online, but the site has since expanded to include self-help advice, walking tours narrated by celebrities and poker tutorials, among other topics. The company currently recruits specialists from various categories to star in the clips, but Mr. Hidary said he might expand the service in the future to allow anyone to upload videos or audio files and start charging subscriptions or fees for individual downloads. (iAmplify keeps at least half the revenue from each sale on the site.)

As Web sites catering to the online fitness category wait for a significant market to materialize, some are taking small steps to help insure profitability in the short term. ITrain, for one, is relying on a so-called micropayments company to help it sell downloads for around $1, without having credit card processing companies eat too much of the revenue from each sale.

The company, Peppercoin, processes iTrain's payments in batches, according to Sebastien Reant, iTrain's chief executive. "So I end up keeping 50 percent of what I would give up through the other process," Mr. Reant said. "With small payments, that's a huge savings."

Web sites like iTrain and others may need to watch their pennies in the future, because health clubs could start competing heavily with independent fitness trainers. According to Pamela Kufahl, editor of Club Industry's Fitness Business Pro, a trade publication, in-house personal trainers generate more income for clubs than any other add-on service.

Clubs could distribute multimedia workout clips as a way to keep members from straying to the online workout sites, Ms. Kufahl said, or they could see online workout clips as an opportunity to get more people interested in their services. Just 14 percent of the United States population belongs to a club, she said.

"A lot of people could be turning to these iPod workouts because clubs seem intimidating," Ms. Kufahl said. "But once people purchased a video and became familiar with the personal trainer, maybe they'd come in. It's probably still too new for a lot of clubs to be doing, but it's something they're going to have to look at in the near future."
586 2006-06-19 Evidence of trouble started growing last November after Microsoft introduced the Xbox 360, marking the transition to a new generation of game consoles more powerful and graphics-rich than previous models.

Production delays left Microsoft unable to meet demand, leaving some customers unable to buy an Xbox and, in turn, the publishers' games. Highlighting the troubles, Electronic Arts said in early May that its 2007 fiscal earnings could be as much as 70 percent lower than analysts had projected.

Several days later, the industry convened in Los Angeles for its annual convention, the Electronic Entertainment Expo, a neon-lighted extravaganza of self-promotion.

But rather than providing momentum, it seemed only to complicate matters. Sony said it would release its own next-generation console, the PlayStation 3, in November and sell it for $499, the highest price ever for a console.

Since January, Wall Street analysts have dropped their estimates of the industry's total revenues for 2006 by 60 percent, said Daniel Ernst, an analyst with Soleil-Hudson Square Research. Many analysts now say that publishers will not see significant growth until well into 2007.

Mr. Ernst said the most optimistic view is that by the end of this year, consumers will own 15 million consoles of the new generation — 12 million Xbox 360 consoles and the rest PlayStation 3 and Wii machines. There are about 150 million machines of the preceding generation.

Past transitions have been painful, too; consumers, awaiting new systems, tend to hold off on purchases of games for the old systems. The video game industry is highly unusual in that every three or four years, in sync with new consoles, publishers hit a trough of earnings but one historically followed by a boom.

That is what the game executives are expecting this time.

"More people are playing games than ever before," said Bobby Kotick, chief executive of Activision, whose franchises have included Doom, Quake and Tony Hawk. "People who were in their teens in the 80's are now playing games with their kids. When I look at the next 10 years as compared to the past 10 years, I just see better prospects."

He said that the powerful new consoles and richer games would attract consumers, that publishers had a chance to profit by making games for a range of different machines (not just consoles, but also hand-held devices, like the Sony PSP), and that a consolidation of smaller publishers in recent years could leave greater shares for those remaining.

But Mr. Kotick acknowledged that there were challenges, including a growing need to produce games more efficiently. He said the industry would probably also focus more narrowly on games with hit potential (selling several million copies) as opposed to a scattershot approach of creating numerous games that sell one million copies or less.

What is becoming clear to analysts, they said, is that this transition includes some particular facets complicating how soon the industry rebounds and how far. One aggravating factor is a 30 percent to 50 percent increase in the cost of making top-tier games — now $10 million to $15 million to make games for the new consoles and their more powerful processors.

The expense is expected to cut into profit margins, which may have hit their peak at some companies, notably at Electronic Arts, analysts said.

A potentially counterbalancing force is the emergence of revenue from gamers playing over the Internet — which the Xbox 360 allows and the PlayStation 3 is also expected to allow — and using the consoles to download games. If so, that could allow publishers to markedly cut the cost of distribution.

On the other hand, that prospect may be one reason for the fall in the share price of GameStop, a game retailer, analysts said. Since early May its stock has fallen to $39.43, from above $48. Mr. Kotick, for one, says he does not think that players will be routinely downloading games any time soon, given bandwidth and hard-drive limitations.

"The idea of full downloadable games is so far in the future that it's almost incomprehensible as an opportunity," Mr. Kotick said. But he added that there were more immediately plausible revenue opportunities from selling downloads of supplemental game levels or "characters, new weapons, new missions, or auctioning off places" in a virtual world.

The wariness of game industry investors is heightened by concerns that inflation will drive up interest rates, cutting into consumer spending. "People go to Wal-Mart less, and fewer video games are sold," said Evan Wilson, a video game industry analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. "There's a pall cast over every stock that touches consumer spending."

But Michael Pachter, an analyst with Wedbush Morgan Securities, says that a retrenchment in consumer spending could assist game makers if people abandon higher-cost entertainment in favor of stay-at-home entertainment. "A bad economy is good for video games," he said.

Over the long term, analysts said they were bullish, citing the increasing popularity of games and the growing ranks of adults who have been playing video games for years.

"I would be buying these stocks with both hands," Mr. Wilson said. Within the industry, he ranks Activision and THQ as the better current opportunities, seeing them as having a chance of winning market share away from rivals like Take-Two Interactive and Electronic Arts.

To be sure, the analysts see these stocks as a group only to a point, advising that investors look at the long-term prospects for each company. Since May, Electronic Arts' shares have fallen to $42.30, from $56.80; Activision to $11.58, from $14.19; THQ to $21.49, from $25.63; and Take-Two to $13.10, from $17.05.

Particularly rough news came two weeks ago for Take-Two, which announced that in its second quarter it had losses of $50 million, compared with a loss of $8 million in the same period a year earlier. Mr. Pachter of Wedbush Morgan said some analysts continued to be skeptical of the company as possibly a "one-hit wonder" supported by its wildly successful Grand Theft Auto franchise.

The publishers' stocks were up slightly on Thursday and Friday, but analysts did not see the beginnings of a turnaround. "The move the last two days doesn't do anything to offset the material decline of the stocks," Mr. Wilson said. "Relative to the total move that's happened since the beginning of May, it's not that big."

Mr. Ernst, from Soleil-Hudson, said there might be one upside to continued investor disappointment this year.

"If 2006 stinks, 2007 on a comparable basis is going to look pretty incredible," he said.
587 2006-06-19 The first official baby photos of Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt, daughter of Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt, were published in People magazine earlier this month after fierce bidding for their exclusive — and expensive — rights. But People may have nearly recouped much of that investment, not just through newsstand sales at a higher price but also by selling the rights to adjacent advertising.

People, which sells an average of 1.5 million newsstand copies a week, was on track to sell about 2.2 million copies of the June 19 baby photo issue, according to sources within People's publisher, Time Inc. The company would not divulge what it paid for the exclusive American rights to the photos, saying only that it was not the $4.1 million figure reported by The New York Post.

People's usual newsstand price is $3.49, but for the special issue with the baby photos, the magazine increased its cover price to $3.99. That extra 50 cents and the estimated additional sales raised the issue's projected newsstand revenue by about $3.5 million.

The benefits of the initial investment may extend to the issue's advertising. The only four ad pages within the 14-page Shiloh spread are for the Dodge Caliber S.U.V. from Chrysler, in a campaign that effectively — but coincidentally — plays off the baby photos. In contrast to the softly lighted images of the newborn, the ads show a black Caliber parked in a tattoo parlor, waiting outside a principal's office and lifting its rear end onto a photocopier. Each ad bears the slogan, "It's anything but cute." Although it sounds like it was meant to contrast with the heart-melting pictures of the infant, it is actually the tagline of a campaign that began in March.

People approached Chrysler, a longtime advertiser in People and other Time Warner properties, said Mark T. Spencer, who handles communications for the Dodge brand. Dodge had already agreed to buy a certain number of ads, he said. "We paid our negotiated, contract rate" rather than any elevated fees for the placement in the highly anticipated issue, said Mr. Spencer, who declined to specify that amount.

People's exclusive initially seemed compromised when Web sites like Gawker.com posted the baby photos online before the magazine was released. But the higher-than-average newsstand sales seem to indicate that the online exposure could have been helpful, letting People recoup its investment. And in the continuing saga of her child's media debut, Ms. Jolie's first post-Shiloh television interview will be broadcast on "Anderson Cooper 360" tomorrow night on CNN, providing yet another exclusive for a Time Warner property.
588 2006-06-19 Congress should not pass an environmental bill masquerading as a security bill, which is what would happen if language is inserted mandating new chemical processes.

Hundreds of thousands of Americans are employed in the chemistry sector. Their products are relied upon by industries and by the communities in which they live and work.

Chemical security is a national issue that requires a uniform national response and not a patchwork of state-level solutions.

Since 9/11, without any federal prompting, the 133 American Chemistry Council member companies have voluntarily invested nearly $3 billion in security.

Security is good business, and we will continue to work with legislators of both parties to obtain a bill that achieves the nation's security goals.
589 2006-06-19 The thinking about how to deal with the soreness has changed as well. In "The Complete Book of Running," published in 1977, the author and marathoner Jim Fixx said that soreness was "pretty much unavoidable," and recommended "a hot bath followed by a massage with some liniment." In the book, a best seller generally credited with helping to spark the running boom, the author, who died in 1984, went on to write that, "once you have sore muscles, there isn't much you can do about them except take a sauna and wait for the pain to go away."

Wait? In today's impatient culture, athletes and trainers take a more active approach to soreness. National Football League players, for example, may be some of the sorest athletes in the world. Every Sunday during their season, their muscles, to use the exercise physiologists term, suffer "insult" to a degree most of us could not withstand. "It takes these guys sometimes until Wednesday or Thursday to feel human again," said Todd Durkin, a licensed massage therapist and strength and conditioning coach in San Diego, who works with many N.F.L. players. "Recovery is a real important part of their training regimen."

Repairing these well-paid muscles is a high priority for both the team and their trainers. Typically, it starts with a postgame "ice plunge," five minutes immersed in a tub filled with ice. "The cold is one of the best things you can do to reduce inflammation," Mr. Durkin said. "Cold constricts the cells, basically closing them down, and gets rid of any toxicity or inflammation through trauma."

One of Mr. Durkin's clients is LaDanian Tomlinson, the San Diego Chargers' star running back, who gets tackled about 30 times a game. On Mondays during the season, Mr. Tomlinson spends much of the day with Mr. Durkin trying to minimize soreness, reduce inflammation and speed what Mr. Durkin calls "the regeneration process." To do so, more ice will be applied, and Mr. Tomlinson gets 60 minutes of deep massage and body work. But he also does light exercises — walking on a treadmill and weight-training movements — which may sound counterintuitive, but are basic to most treatments of sore bodies.

Although research has been unable to prove its value, "keep it moving" is a principle long prescribed by trainers and therapists. "The day after a race, you bike or swim or walk, something to just loosen yourself up," said David Balsley, a physical therapist in Manhattan who is also a competitive runner and triathlete. In the past, the reason for moving was often described as being to work the lactic acid out of muscles and reduce soreness. We know better now. Lactic acid isn't the problem, but soreness still is. Can the microtrauma and inflammation that are fingered as its causes be prevented? To some extent, the experts say yes.

"First off, try not to get damaged," Dr. Goldfarb said. "When you increase your workload, you should be doing it gradually." The rule of thumb is no more than 10 to 15 percent increases a week. For example, if you walk three miles this week, you should be doing no more than about three and a half next week.

Still, said Jeffrey A. Potteiger, a professor of exercise science at Miami University in Ohio, Mr. Fixx might have been partly correct when he wrote of the inevitability of mild soreness. "If you run a marathon, you're going to get sore, and there's not a whole lot you can do about it," Dr. Potteiger said. "If you do almost anything you're not accustomed to doing, you'll get some soreness. The good news is that if you continue to do that activity, the soreness will not be as prevalent and in some instances will go away. The body will adapt to that workload."

In the meantime, ice, stretch and perform light activity to help work the soreness from your muscles. Just be clear that it's not lactic acid you are working out. That soreness, Dr. Thomas Fahey of Chico said, "is completely due to muscle injury and inflammation." And yet, he added, "even today, massage therapists talk about getting rid of the lactic acid after a race or hard workout. This is just completely false."
590 2006-06-19 "Photosensitivity can trigger the whole darn disease, including full systemic flare and joint pain and kidney failure," Dr. Connolly said. "The younger patients sometimes say, 'The heck with this, I'm tired of carrying sun block,' and they'll stay out there, and it's not just that they are going to give themselves a bad rash. This is something to take seriously."

The link between the sun and lupus flare-ups is thought to be a set of inflammatory protein molecules called cytokines, which are activated when ultraviolet light hits the skin. The skin inflammation that results can create a chain reaction of other symptoms.

Julianne Lewis, 35, of Santa Rosa, Calif., said she began to show symptoms that were referred to generically as undifferentiated connective tissue disease 13 years ago. When her second son was born four years ago, Ms. Lewis became so sick with stiff, swollen joints, aching skin and lumps on her feet that she couldn't get out of bed. Lupus was confirmed, she said, and since then Ms. Lewis has undergone chemotherapy treatment and taken immunosuppressant drugs to prevent kidney failure. She also takes blood pressure medicine, an antimalarial drug and occasional steroids to keep her symptoms in check.

"I have to avoid the sun because I developed the butterfly rash," Ms. Lewis said, referring to the telltale rash that afflicts 40 percent of lupus patients. "It develops across my nose and cheeks. I get it pretty severely, and mine will go on my chest and arms. I have scars on my arms where the rash blistered so badly my skin was burned."

Ms. Lewis said she had suffered flulike aches and fatigue from even a short time in the sun. She has given up swimming outside with her younger child, she said. Reading a book on the grass is also out of the question. And while Ms. Lewis says she still plays softball occasionally, she wears a hat, long sleeves and wraps a handkerchief around her face.

"It freaks people out because I look so funny trying to cover up," she said. "I have been slow to come around to the hat and sunscreen thing. And I've probably made myself sicker longer because I don't want to accept it."

Doctors say a UVA and UVB sunscreen is just one component of a multiprong approach to limit the extent of her symptoms. Other strategies include sun-protection clothing, applying a sun-protection coating to car windows and staying indoors from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.

But for patients with scleroderma and its most common symptom, Raynaud's phenomenon, the solution can sometimes be as painful as the problem.

Scleroderma is a chronic autoimmune disease of the connective tissue that causes the skin to become so thick and leathery from inflammation that hair stops growing and sweat glands strangulate and die. The disease often begins in the fingertips before it works up the arms and throughout the rest of the body. In 90 percent of patients, it is accompanied by Raynaud's phenomenon, where blood vessels become thickened, too, shutting off the flow to the extremities.

The Scleroderma Foundation estimates that of the 300,000 Americans with the disease, nearly a third have the systemic, or diffused, form. The rest have a form limited to a certain place on the body.

That is how the disease began in Dolores McCausland of Cape May, N.J. Two years ago, Mrs. McCausland, 75, had a biopsy taken of a sore on her arm. Doctors confirmed scleroderma as well as pulmonary hypertension, a common result of the disease's affect on the kidneys, she said. She takes a combination of medicines to treat her blood pressure as well as an antihistamine and gabapentin to treat the pain and itching. She is also treated with oral chemotherapy and an immunosuppressant.

Mrs. McCausland said that covering her arms while driving to avoid exposure to sunlight or using her backyard pool was nearly impossible because the sores on her arms make them sensitive to touching.

"If you saw my arms, you would say, 'Oh, my God, there's something wrong with her,' " Mrs. McCausland said. "You know when you put a blood pressure cuff on your arm? My arms look like they have been squeezed, and it's forcing the muscle out to my elbow and shoulder. It's very painful and itchy."

Covering the entire body, even in the heat, is critical for scleroderma patients because they have greater susceptibility to skin cancer. And since the blood vessels can also become sclerotic, or thickened, full coverage helps protect people from the shock of entering an air-conditioned environment.

"The problem is that in the summer these patients go from dramatic warm to cold, and they can become very symptomatic from that," said Dr. Chris T. Derk, an assistant professor of medicine in the rheumatology division at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia. "It's exceedingly rare, but we have people with Raynaud's of the heart vessels, and they can go into spasms and give you a small heart attack. You have to cover the whole body because if they can't rewarm the hand, they can break it."

Mrs. McCausland said she coped by keeping her house temperature warm and wearing Isotoner gloves to the grocery store, even during the summer months.

"People think I'm some kind of nut," she said. "I have never been sick a day in my life, and I had to come up with this. "
591 2006-06-19 NESTLÉ SET TO BUY JENNY CRAIG -- Nestlé, the Swiss food company, is planning to announce today that it has agreed to acquire Jenny Craig, the weight-loss company, for about $600 million. [Page C1.]    QUESTIONS ON OPTIONS -- A case involving Mic...
592 2006-06-19 SUMMERTIME is not so easy for people living with certain autoimmune diseases. The sun, heat and even air-conditioning can intensify symptoms and cause problems that linger for months, if not years.      For doctors who manage those diseases, prima...
593 2006-06-19 THE comedian Kathy Griffin is perhaps best known for her self-mocking reality series ''My Life on the D-List.'' Now, an advertiser is promoting her to the A-list -- but as she might be quick to point out, the ''A'' stands for that most prestigious...
594 2006-06-19 WHILE joggers, weightlifters, recreational softball players and other fitness enthusiasts will surely be delighted to hear that exercise science now sees lactic acid as a force of good and not evil, the fact remains that people are sore. What can ...
595 2006-06-19 NOBLE--Anne Zabriskie Citron. On the 80th anniversary of your birth. We miss your beauty and grace....
596 2006-06-19 WHILE joggers, weightlifters, recreational softball players and other fitness enthusiasts will surely be delighted to hear that exercise science now sees lactic acid as a force of good and not evil, the fact remains that people are sore. What can ...
597 2006-06-19 To the Editor:      Re ''Worse Than Nothing'' (editorial, June 14):...
598 2006-06-20 Viewed over the long run, the recently announced joint venture between telecommunications giants Nokia and Siemens is winning praise from many observers. But two analysts on Tuesday cut their ratings on Nokia's stock, citing concerns about the sho...
599 2006-06-20 The New York Stock Exchange's head of regulation, Richard Ketchum, said Monday he was concerned about potentially improper short-selling practices surrounding stock offerings, Reuters reported. The issue relates to secondary offerings, rather than...
600 2006-06-20 As European governments make noises about imposing stiff regulations on hedge funds, the industry is talking more about regulating itself, according to Bill Barnhart, a columnist with the Chicago Tribune. "Reining in such a profitable enterprise w...
601 2006-06-20 The Federal Communications Commission has approved the merger of Intelsat and PanAmSat Holding, removing one of the final hurdles to the deal, which will create the world's largest satellite operator. The two companies, which announced their $3.2 ...
602 2006-06-20 Noting that "more than 500 prominent economists, including five Nobel laureates" have signed an open letter to President Bush and Congress stating that "immigration has been a net gain for American citizens," [$] the Wall Street Journal editorial ...
603 2006-06-20 Three former natural gas energy traders pleaded guilty to price manipulation charges Monday, authorities said. The three, Christopher Joseph McDonald, Paul Atha, both traders for Mirant and Michael Whalen, a trader for Cinergy, entered their pleas...
604 2006-06-20 The Apollo Group, a for-profit education company whose schools include the University of Phoenix, said yesterday that it had received a subpoena from the United States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, related to stock optio...
605 2006-06-20 Intelsat, the satellite provider to the United States military, cut the size of its planned sale of junk bonds on Tuesday by $600 million, to $2.9 billion, in a reflection of waning investor demand for high-yield, high-risk debt. The biggest porti...
606 2006-06-20 A magazine publisher, Emap is to return 285 million pounds ($524 million) to shareholders after agreeing on Tuesday to sell its French business to an Italian media group, Mondadori. Emap secured the 550 million euro ($690 million) cash deal a week...
607 2006-06-20 Refinancing applicants, then, will retrace the steps of their previous mortgage loan experience as they arrange an appraisal, shop for lenders and rates, and sit for the closing.

If the borrowers plan to stay in the home long enough to recoup the entire cost of refinancing, then refinancing is likely to be worth the work. (Online refinance calculators, like the one at www.hsh.com/usnrcalc.html, can speed the number-crunching process.)

If borrowers want to stay in the house for the long term but are uncomfortable with their current mortgage — say, if their ARM is about to enter its adjustment period and interest rates will push their monthly payments higher — the process requires more planning.

Those looking to escape the risk of an adjustable mortgage as rates rise, financial advisors say, should have an idea of how much they could afford for a fixed-rate loan, and start considering the switch when interest rates approach that level.

The other option, of course, is to wait and hope rates drop again. That is the dilemma for many buyers who relied on ARM's when interest rates were low so they could afford more expensive homes.

Should interest rates rise after the fixed-rate period of their ARM ends, those consumers may not be able to afford either their ARM payments or a fixed-rate loan. For them, the only option may be to refinance to an "interest-only" loan, where owners pay no principle for a fixed period, and hope rates come down (and the value of the home goes up) before the bank starts collecting principle again.

"There's no easy solution," Mr. Beriss said. "If you have to refinance but you can't afford the payment, you may well have to just sell the house and buy something you can afford."

Not all homeowners use refinancing just to get a lower monthly payment. For some, the objective is to shorten the term of the loan and thereby reduce the interest paid over the life of the loan. Indeed, financial advisors point out that too many borrowers overlook their total interest payments when considering refinancing.

For some, though, such long-term considerations give way to more immediate concerns. In those cases, the primary aim of a refinancing is to cash in on the increased value of their home and pay off bills, remodel the kitchen or take a vacation.

In many instances, homeowners believe that whatever money they receive from a cash-out refinancing is tax deductible. But that may not be the case. Mr. Beriss said federal tax rules state that if you borrow money against the value of your house for "substantial improvements," the interest you pay on that part of the debt is fully tax deductible, as long as the debt does not exceed $1 million.

If you use the cash to buy cars, vacations and to pay off credit card bills, though, only the interest you pay on the first $100,000 of the debt is tax deductible, and none of the interest is tax deductible if you must file under the so-called alternative minimum tax.

"It still might be worthwhile," Mr. Beriss said. "If you're paying 20 percent interest on your credit card bills and you can bring it down to 6 percent, even if that's not tax deductible it's worth doing."

As for how to refinance, Mr. Beriss and other said to approach the process as you would a primary mortgage. Namely, shop around, and do not necessarily start with the company that holds your current mortgage, as they may be not be eager to move you into a less profitable loan. "The nature of the business is that some brokers are excellent at getting good rates for you," he said. "Some are excellent at getting great returns for themselves."
608 2006-06-20 Kommersant said that Mr. Chaika was a skilled and loyal bureaucrat, who had "no personal political ambitions." His appointment will "bring the prosecutor's office back into the control of Vladimir Putin," Kommersant wrote, echoing the suggestions of many papers that Mr. Ustinov had been wielding too much political weight to stay in his role.

Gazeta wrote that the change of leadership in the prosecutor's office was "enacted first and foremost to alter the public image of that organization." It noted that under Mr. Ustinov's tenure, several criminal cases were opened against "businessmen who had gone into opposition," including most famously, perhaps, the campaign waged against YUKOS and its chief, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky. "Now, while there is no real opposition power to be seen in the country," Gazeta concluded, "the prosecutor's office has been lent a more civilized appearance."

SCHROEDER PORTRAYED AS 'RUSSIAN PATRIOT: "The former Chancellor of Germany has become a defender of our national interests," Izvestia writes, after Gerhard Schroeder appeared at a Renaissance Capital conference in Moscow on Monday. Mr. Schroeder is in charge of the North European Pipeline project, which will transport Russian gas to Germany directly, under the Baltic Sea, thereby bypassing former Soviet states that would otherwise charge for the transit. Mr. Schroeder said that Europe had "no alternatives to Russia" as an energy partner; that markets should trust Russia; that businesses should invest in Russia; and that Ukraine was responsible for any gas shortages in Europe. He received "prolonged applause," the paper writes. Izvestia — which is owned by Gazprom-Media — does not mention, however, that Mr. Schroeder was appointed to his post by Gazprom, the state gas monopoly.

GEORGIA TRIES TO HALT RUSSIAN 'MACHINE': In remarks Izvestia takes from interviews shown on Georgian television Sunday, President Mikheil Saakashvili comments on his meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin in St. Petersburg last week. "My meeting with Vladimir Putin was up-front, and the conversation was very comfortable," the Georgian president is quoted as saying. "But personal relations are one thing, and reality is another. In Russia a machine has been set in motion to destroy Georgia from the inside, a machine of provocation and propaganda. You can familiarize yourself with this machine very easily, if you switch over to our neighbor's television channels. Our duty is to stop this machine."

MORE OPTIMISM ON RUSSIAN ECONOMY: The official government newspaper writes that "the cabinet is closer than ever before to creating an ideal macroeconomic situation in the country," since price rises have been slowed as GDP continues to rise. "If everything carries on at this rate, then the country will live well," the paper said. Inflation over the first six months of this year is down 2 percent on the same period in 2005, while GDP has been growing at a rate of 6.2 percent, which is "higher than predicted," according to Economics Minister German Gref.

Meanwhile, President Vladimir V. Putin asked his cabinet to start working on the budget for 2008 as soon as the 2007 budget is completed later this year, in order to "move them further away from the elections" in 2008. Otherwise, Mr. Putin said, "instead of adopting a budget, we'll just have an election campaign."

ABRAMOVICH MOVES INTO STEEL: Roman Abramovich, the Russian businessman and appointed Governor of Chukotka, in eastern Siberia, who earned over 13 billion dollars last year by selling his Sibneft oil company back to Russia, "has decided to return a quarter of those assets to the country." Mr. Abramovich's Millhouse group is acquiring a 41 percent stake in Evraz Group, for an estimated 3.2 billion dollars. The paper writes that Mr. Abramovich may now "begin to consolidate assets in the Russian iron and steel industry," and that this move might be made with "the interests of the state" in mind.

TIGHTER RULES ON CONTRABAND RESALE: German Gref, the Economics and Trade Minister, has proposed a series of legal changes that would limit the authority of various government structures to confiscate property. The move follows "a series of scandals, involving the Interior Ministry and the Customs Service, which began in August 2005," the paper writes. The "loudest" of recent scandals involved a seizure of 167,500 mobile phones that Motorola had shipped into Russia — as reported in The New York Times earlier this month - — worth a total value of around 20 million dollars. Products such as these, declared contraband, are often then sold within the internal market by Russian government agencies. The changes would empower the Russian Federal Property Fund alone to "confiscate material and convert it into government assets."

PREMIER FIRES STATE LIQUOR COMPANY DIRECTOR: Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov ordered the dismissal on Friday of Pyotr Myasoyedov, the director of the country's largest alcohol holding company, Rosspirtprom. Rosspirtprom controls more than half of the country's alcohol production. The dismissal was officially ordered on the director's "personal volition," but unnamed sources in the government tell Vedomosti that Mr. Myasoyedov was the latest high-level manager to be fired for having "confused the state's harvest with his own pocket."
609 2006-06-20 Apollo Group Inc., a for-profit education company whose schools include the University of Phoenix, said yesterday that it had received a subpoena from the United States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, related to stock option grants.

Apollo Group, which is based in Phoenix, said it would cooperate with the request. Last week, the company said it had hired an independent firm to review its stock option grants from 2000 to 2004, after a report from Lehman Brothers questioned Apollo's practices.

Ayla Dickey, an Apollo spokeswoman, did not immediately return a telephone message to her office after business hours today.

Also yesterday, The Associated Press reported that the Delta Petroleum Corporation, a natural gas and oil producer based in Denver, said that it had received a subpoena from the same United States attorney's office, requesting records back to 1996 over its granting of stock options.

The company said it believed the request occurred because it was identified May 16 in a "third-party report" as being at risk for having backdated stock options for executives. On May 22, the company said its board had formed a special committee to review Delta's option-granting practices and related accounting.

Fifty companies now face investigations, and lawsuits have soared to at least 70 amid more allegations that top executives tried to backdate or time their stock option grants to inflate their value.
610 2006-06-20 A battle royale like the one that doomed the Jets stadium on the Far West Side last year seems unlikely. The Regional Plan Association and Community Board 4, which opposed the stadium, both like the Roth-Ross plan. And six of the city's business organizations heartily endorsed it at a public hearing on May 30, even though it was not on the agenda and has yet to have a formal public debut.

Transportation advocates say the Roth-Ross plan provides a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to reconfigure and expand the busiest rail station in the country, where 550,000 passengers struggle through a maze of underground passageways each day. Under the current Moynihan Station plan, 80 percent of passengers would still use the old, crowded quarters.

To win approval, the project would have to run a gantlet from City Hall to Albany to Amtrak, which operates Penn Station. The state preservation commission would have to approve the Garden's move to the rear of the Farley post office in order for the developers to get valuable tax credits. Finally, it is unclear who would pay for the estimated $1 billion cost of renovating Penn Station.

There are political obstacles. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is displeased with the owners of the Garden, who ran a multimillion-dollar ad campaign against him last year that helped kill his plan for the $2.2 billion football stadium on the Far West Side. And state officials are moving quickly with the simpler Moynihan Station plan, because Gov. George E. Pataki wants a groundbreaking before he leaves office.

If the larger project is approved, it would mean billions for Mr. Roth and Mr. Ross — the two Steves, as they have become known. It would enormously enhance Mr. Roth's holdings, which include the skyscraper at 1 Penn Plaza and the Pennsylvania Hotel. He would also solidify his hold on an area where his company already owns or controls seven million square feet and plans to double that figure.

"We are about making money here on a grand scale," said Mr. Roth, who has a reputation for refreshing boldness, at an investors' conference earlier this month.

But some say the Roth-Ross plan would serve the public, too. "It's actually a real convergence of public benefits and private interests, assuming the Garden fits without breaching the grand historic space," said Lynne B. Sagalyn, a professor of real estate development and planning at the University of Pennsylvania. "There's the potential for another high-density cluster of commercial activity connected to transportation, like Times Square and Grand Central."

Not everyone is a fan. The Farley post office was designed by McKim, Mead & White, the architects of the original Penn Station, which was torn down in 1963 to make way for the current Garden. Now some fear that history is repeating itself.

Peg Breen, the president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, called the proposal to move the Garden into the Farley building akin to "Cinderella's stepsisters trying to jam their feet into the glass slipper."

Mr. Roth and Mr. Ross were selected last year to build Moynihan Station and a major block of space for retail, office or residential use. The developers, who would pay the state $313.8 million and a yet-to-be negotiated annual fee, would also transfer about 1 million square feet of unused development rights from the Farley building across Eighth Avenue to the northeast corner of 33rd Street for two residential towers.

Then, earlier this year, the two men struck a tentative deal with James L. Dolan, whose family controls Cablevision, the Garden, the Knicks and the Rangers. By moving the Garden, the developers would gain the enormously valuable right to build three new skyscrapers above Penn Station, with a mix of apartments, offices, a hotel and stores, while generating up to $75 million a year in property taxes for the city. The Garden, which has considered renovating, would get a modern, egg-shaped arena with many more luxury boxes.

There is no final design for the Roth-Ross proposal, but the developers' current models show two buildings bordering Eighth Avenue — Moynihan West, in the Farley building, and Moynihan East, a sunny, rebuilt Penn Station with a monumental, glass-walled entrance and grand staircase at 31st Street. A commuter would be able to look up the stairs, through the glass entrance and across Eighth Avenue to see the 20 Corinthian columns, each 53 feet high, across the two-block front of the Farley building.

A soaring multistory glass canopy would stretch diagonally to 33rd Street, near Seventh Avenue, bringing sunlight to a hall leading to transit and subway platforms. The new towers would be built atop a retail building at street level.

The relocated Madison Square Garden, on Ninth Avenue, would take up as much as two-thirds of the Farley building, eliminating an intermodal hall in the current plan. The glass-topped great hall, which is slightly larger than the comparable space at Grand Central Terminal, would still be renovated as a public space. The Garden would rise 50 feet, or nearly five stories, above the roof. The post office would move its remaining operations, and the historic stamp windows would be used to sell tickets to Garden events.

The owners of the Garden want a major presence on Eighth Avenue — perhaps banners hanging among the columns, similar to those at the Metropolitan Museum, or an expensive set of electronic signs.

That is an image sure to stir up the critics and even alienate supporters. Opponents placed an ad in The New York Times last week with the headline: "Don't let it happen again," a reference to the demolition of the original Penn Station.

The issue has gotten so heated in landmark and preservation circles that critics have chastised the senator's daughter, Maura Moynihan, who has championed her father's vision for the Farley, for narrating a media presentation of the new proposal. The developers have quietly shown the presentation to Mayor Bloomberg and various business, civic and news media figures.

"We've got to be open-minded, because chances like this don't come along very often," Ms. Moynihan said in an interview. "The only thing I've ever cared about is a bigger, better train station that liberates New Yorkers from the horror of the pit, Penn Station."

The developers contend that their plan would accelerate what has been a slow transformation of a dowdy area south of the garment district. "The larger Moynihan plan would serve as the catalyst for the transformation of Manhattan's West Side, ease overcrowding at Penn Station and create a much more functional and architecturally distinct gateway to New York City," Mr. Roth said.

Critics do not see it that way. "Clearly, from the developer's point of view, this is about mega-development and mega-bucks," said Ms. Breen of the Landmarks Conservancy. "But we all started with the notion of a great train station for New York City. That's gotten lost in the shuffle."

But Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said that an intermodal hall at a reconfigured Penn Station would provide for far more efficient transfers among subways, Amtrak, New Jersey Transit and the Long Island Rail Road. With the Garden suddenly willing to move, Mr. Yaro said the city should not pass up the chance.

And city officials are clearly intrigued. Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said: "It's undeniably a good idea, in terms of generating tax revenues, creating a train station and its impact on the development of the West Side. The question is whether we can make it work financially."

In all likelihood, the government officials would ask the developers to pay for at least part of rebuilding Penn Station in return for approving what is potentially a very lucrative project.

Despite his dislike for the Dolans, Mr. Bloomberg has indicated that he would not block the move, although he will not let the Garden keep a $10 million a year property tax exemption, Mr. Doctoroff said: "It doesn't automatically travel to a new site."

The biggest obstacle may be the governor, whose appointees are moving fast to approve the simpler Moynihan Station plan as early as next month, after 14 years of stops and starts. The money is in place, and the post office has agreed to move. The prime tenant, New Jersey Transit, has agreed to operate the public spaces.

State officials want Mr. Roth and Mr. Ross to wrap up the negotiations on the Moynihan Station plan, put up an initial $150 million and break ground in the fall. A separate deal with the Garden and the city would mean delays for public hearings and an environmental review.

"Moynihan Station is critical to improving and enlarging the gateway to New York," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Moynihan Station Development Corporation. "While a new sports arena would be a vast improvement, the building of Moynihan Station is more important than whether Madison Square Garden moves, or new high-rise buildings are built."
611 2006-06-20 WASHINGTON, June 19 — Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warned North Korea again on Monday to refrain from testing a long-range ballistic missile, even as reports indicated that the North had taken the penultimate step of fueling the missile.

Continuing diplomatic efforts that have gathered force around the world, Ms. Rice, who had been on the telephone over the weekend with her counterparts in Asia and Europe on the issue, said it would be a "provocative act should North Korea decide to launch that missile."

"We will obviously consult on next steps, but I can assure everyone that it would be taken with utmost seriousness," Ms. Rice said. "It would once again show North Korea determined to deepen its isolation, determined not to take a path that is a path of compromise and a path of peace, but rather instead to once again saber rattle."

Her comments came after Japan warned earlier in the day that it would take "stern actions" against North Korea if it proceeded with what would be its first important test launching since 1998, when North Korea fired a missile over northern Japan.

"I'm still hoping that North Korea won't do it," said Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi at a news conference. "But if they launch a missile, Japan will consult with the United States and others and will have to take stern actions in response."
612 2006-06-20 In a sport in which young talent has often burned hot and flamed out, the progression of Ogilvy to the realm of major champion had been forecast by many observers in recent years. He is no accidental tourist.

Before the conclusion of the United States Open and the Match Play Championship in February — which Ogilvy also won — Peter Oosterhuis, a six-time Ryder Cup player and a television analyst, said the 29-year-old Ogilvy would defeat several more-heralded players.

Davis Love III, Ogilvy's victim in the final round of the Match Play, said in February that Ogilvy possessed great hands and a dependable putting stroke. Those were the skills he exhibited over the final stretch at Winged Foot, the skills that make major champions.

"It just shows you how many good players are out on tour these days," Love said at the time.

If a renaissance in South Korean golf has taken over the L.P.G.A. Tour, Australia may be making the biggest inroads on the PGA Tour. With his second victory of the season — and third over all — Ogilvy joined Stuart Appleby (twice), Aaron Baddeley and Rod Pampling in raising a trophy in 2006.

Ogilvy's United States Open title was the first in a major for an Australian in 11 years.

"The whole golf community in Australia was thirsty for something like this to happen," Ogilvy said. "We have more good golfers than we've ever had, we just haven't had that Greg Norman or Steve Elkington winning majors or big tournaments recently. Hopefully, this will give all of us Australian guys some breathing room, and someone else can sneak another one soon and it's the first of a few. It's going to be fun for Australia."

A day after the Open, Ogilvy was making the rounds in Manhattan in a stretch limousine. His stops included "Late Show with David Letterman," CNN, ESPN, an Australian morning show, PGA Tour Productions and Fox News, where Ogilvy gave putting tips to the anchor Martha MacCallum on a makeshift green (she missed).

Over and over, Ogilvy recounted the tale of Winged Foot's final hole, where Mickelson and Colin Montgomerie made double bogey, Jim Furyk and Padraig Harrington took bogeys, and he made par.

Ogilvy's wife, Juli, who is due to give birth to their first child in the fall, had her own view of the final day. After Ogilvy rolled in his final putt, he walked into Winged Foot's locker room, and she tried to follow him inside.

"The cops wouldn't let me in," she said. "I was like, 'I'm his wife, I'm his wife!' I had so many emotions, I was just trying to calm down."

The guards shifted the couple to the scorer's hut, where they watched Mickelson's collapse on television.

"I was like, 'This is a big deal,' " Juli said.

Mickelson's shots on the 18th hole Sunday will be recalled for a long time — the drive way to the left, the second shot hitting a tree branch, the third into a greenside bunker, the fourth off the side of the green and the fifth wide right of the hole.

"Sad way for it to end," Ogilvy said. "You want to win golf tournaments, but you don't necessarily want to win them that way, with a guy doing that."
613 2006-06-20 In fact, the only ingredient that is not French, paradoxically, is the cheese on the cheeseburgers. That is because McDonald's relies on cheddar — the one kind that the French do not make very well. So, when McDonald's France promotes a one-month special of large burgers with cheese each winter, the cheese comes from the Netherlands or Austria.

And now, the French operation is a McDonald's cash cow. Mr. Hennequin's skill lies in his selling something quintessentially American to a people who purport to be against American culture. That has helped him climb to the highest rung for a non-American in this distinctly American company, one not noted for advancing foreigners.

His secret is that he follows the McDonald's playbook: careful choice of locations and personnel, training of personnel and indoctrination of the McDonald's credo. And he says that, frankly, he has relied on the quirkiness of his own people, the French: an overt distaste for Americana in concept, mixed with a kind of admiration for American food, films, music and television programming.

McDonald's success in Europe comes amid its resurgence in the United States. As in Europe, McDonald's in the United States attracted attention by introducing healthy food items, like salad and fruit. But unlike Europe, McDonald's revival in the United States came in recent months partly because of the enormous success of the Dollar Menu, where all items, like double cheeseburgers and fried chicken sandwiches, cost $1.

France and the rest of Europe did not suffer as harsh a slump as did McDonald's in the United States. In fact, the strength of the French and other European restaurants helped the parent company get through the rough patch. In several quarters last year McDonald's noted that the company got a boost from its European restaurants, its second-biggest market.

As the president of McDonald's Europe, Mr. Hennequin, 47, is responsible for 41 countries and is the first European to hold the job at McDonald's. That put him in a tough spot last fall during student protests against changes in the youth labor law, for McDonald's has also become a symbol for precarious employment, as the French call it — that is, jobs that are easy come and easy go.

So it is not surprising that even Mr. Hennequin's own family believed his career at McDonald's lacked an element of respectability, much less cachet. Haute cuisine, yes, but McDonald's? "My grandmother thought I was selling French fries on the Boulevard Saint-Michel," he said.

Mr. Hennequin joined McDonald's after obtaining degrees in law and economics and then working for a short time for a consulting firm. After training at a McDonald's in Mulhouse, in the east of France, he quickly climbed the corporate ladder from restaurant manager to field consultant to president of McDonald's France, and then, last year, to president of McDonald's Europe, with its 6,276 restaurants. There are now 1,035 McDonald's restaurants in France, making it the third-largest European market after Britain and Germany.

In some ways, he admits, McDonald's reflects the contradictions of French society. France has opened to the world, and its companies have long adapted to global rules for selling their products. Yet for many French patrons, McDonald's remains that little piece of America. "We are an icon of the United States, and also, when you enter a McDonald's restaurant, you enter America," he said.

"It's one of the French paradoxes," he went on. "The French like to be a little disruptive, provocative. Yet at the same time they vote with their feet. We serve one million customers every year."

Mr. Hennequin was born into a French family in the heart of Paris. Both parents are lawyers, and the family's apartment overlooked the Sorbonne. He attended the tradition-laden Henri IV lycée before his university studies.

Last year, in an event that echoed the bulldozing by José Bové, a farmer who campaigns against globalization, the police in northern Lille found a plastic figure of Ronald McDonald, which had been stolen from a McDonald's, dangling beneath a city bridge with a ball and chain attached to one foot.

Mr. Hennequin played down the incident, noting that Ronald was ready prey for pranksters. "He's an easy target," he said.

But of the bulldozer incident, he said: "Suddenly there was this wake-up call. What are we doing? We started explaining what's behind the arches, how we deal with ingredients, employees. Without any cynicism, I thank Mr. Bové for helping us grow into that role." He compared it to judo, in which an opponent's thrust is turned to an advantage.

"The French have a way of protesting by struggling," he said, picking out the lessons he learned. "Don't forget, we killed our king; in Britain, they still have the queen.

"We have a culture of confrontation. You can say it's bad or good, but that's what it is."

As for the ticklish question of youth unemployment in France, it is a subject on which Mr. Hennequin has clear views. If France is not generating jobs for the young, it is not the fault of McDonald's France alone.

When he joined McDonald's in 1984, the average employee age was 22 to 23; today it is 26 to 27. Every year, McDonald's fills 40,000 jobs in France, yielding an 80 percent turnover rate. "It's an easy-access job," he said, "but for those who want careers, there are real career opportunities."

He says the French took so quickly to McDonald's, despite their own sophisticated cuisine, because it was fast, convenient and affordable. And it was child-friendly, not a characteristic of the traditional French restaurant.

"If you had kids and tried to go to a traditional restaurant," he said, "it was a nightmare, not a pleasant experience."

Also crucial, he says, was a French "fascination with America."

"It's love and hate," he said. "And there are so many Americas. The America of George Bush and that of Bill Clinton. New York is not San Francisco."

The recent student protests, he says, made him recall the unrest that roiled France in May 1968, when he watched the demonstrations as a 10-year-old from the window of his parents' apartment. "What bothers me is that what they are doing today, in a sense, is protesting in favor of the establishment; they are scared of the future," and hence against change. "I understand where they're coming from," he said. "At the same time, what a waste."

But as ever, Mr. Hennequin searches for the silver lining. "At the end of the day, having said all this, sometimes a crisis is a good thing," he said. "It has opened debate more than it would otherwise have been."

And the French social model? "It's no longer a model," he said, "if you have three million people unemployed."
614 2006-06-20 It is unclear whether the technology covered by those patents is being used in Verizon's consumer Internet phone service, called VoiceWing.

Significantly, the lawsuit — as is sometimes the case in patent suits — does not ask the court to halt Vonage's operations immediately, but does ask the court to do so if the matter is resolved in Verizon's favor. Legal experts said it could take more than a year for the case to work its way through the system.

In a news release, Vonage said it respected the valid intellectual property rights of others and that it believed that its services were built on technology it developed itself or licensed from other companies.

Vonage "intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit," the statement said. Brooke Schulz, a Vonage spokeswoman, declined to comment further.

Vonage executives have declined to make comments since their public offering, citing a quiet period mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission; that period expired yesterday.

Vonage, despite being the early leader in the Internet phone market and enjoying relatively strong name recognition, faces growing pressures from much larger competitors. In particular, cable companies like Time Warner and Comcast and telephone companies like Verizon are investing more heavily in developing and marketing services that deliver voice traffic over Internet lines.

Telecommunications industry analysts have said that the steep slide in Vonage's stock price reflects not just rough market conditions but also a perception by investors that Vonage will be unable to fend off competition from larger companies with deeper pockets and longer-standing customer relationships.

"I'm getting more and more concerned," said Richard S. Greenfield, a media industry analyst at Pali Research. "It increasingly feels like the competitive dynamics are getting more severe."

Last Friday Mr. Greenfield issued a 12-month target price of $5 for Vonage. He said he believed that the growing competition would put continued price pressure on Internet phone providers, and that, in turn, would cut into Vonage's revenues.

Analysts who are more optimistic about Vonage's prospects argue that the company's early market lead, coupled with the strength of its brand name — which to some consumers has become synonymous with the new technology — will enable the company to hold onto a meaningful chunk of the growing Internet telephone market.
615 2006-06-20 WASHINGTON, June 19 (Reuters) — A former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Roger W. Ferguson Jr., is joining the global reinsurance company Swiss Re, the company announced on Monday.

Mr. Ferguson, who left the central bank in April, was appointed chairman of the Swiss Re America Holding Corporation and will be a member of Swiss Re's executive board. He will also serve as Swiss Re's financial market strategist.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Ferguson said that as market strategist he would "identify long-term trends that allow Swiss Re to avoid the downside" of risks.

Mr. Ferguson, a lawyer and an economist, served eight and a half years at the Federal Reserve.

Also on Monday, the Senate approved the nomination of a Fed governor, Donald L. Kohn, to succeed Mr. Ferguson as vice chairman.
616 2006-06-20 A woman who jumped off the Victory Bridge on Friday, clutching her 1-year-old daughter, died early Sunday, the authorities said yesterday.

The woman, Jerlisa Contreras, 24, had been in critical condition at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick since the fall.

An autopsy revealed that her baby, Alyssa Scott, was killed by beating and asphyxiation before the plunge into the Raritan River, prosecutors said.

Nicholas Sewitch, an assistant Middlesex County prosecutor, said investigators believed that Ms. Contreras killed the child before jumping from the bridge.
617 2006-06-20 •Miller disagreed with Mickelson's club selection on the 17th and 18th tees. On No. 17, the choice of a driver — that sent the ball into a garbage can, requiring a drop — prompted Miller to say that Mickelson should have used a 4-wood. Miller carped similarly at No. 18 — "This better be a 4-wood" — and was vindicated when Mickelson used his driver to hit an errant shot, which bounced off a hospitality tent and into the rough.

"Right now," Miller said of the tee shot on No. 18, "Ben Hogan has officially turned over in his grave." Mickelson still had a one-stroke lead over Geoff Ogilvy at that point, so Hogan's subterranean revolutions could have still been delayed until the next time Mickelson wilted.

As Mickelson assessed his second shot on No. 18, Miller grumbled, "I always thought precision golf was the key to winning U.S. Opens, but I guess I'm getting old." That grumpy vantage point could have applied to Colin Montgomerie, who also imploded in the final round.

Then came that miserable second shot by Mickelson. "You know he's hit a horrendous shot," Miller said, "He looks like he aged five years."

As Mickelson ruminated over his third shot, Miller suggested that he play it safe and settle for a playoff, but when the ball sailed into a bunker, Miller headed into a minisoliloquy: "This is a nightmare, right here, absolutely. He could not have made worse decisions than he has had on this hole. I know you love Phil, but come on, you just have to make par on this hole." He added, "You don't have to run down the last stretch on a white stallion, you know, you could limp in there and say, 'Thanks for the trophy.' "

•Miller soon invoked the living spirit of an uninterred legend.

"I'm sure Jack Nicklaus is there in Florida," he said, "thinking, 'Man, Phil.' "

A faint Mickelson grin, flashed as he walked to the bunker, caused Miller to say, "I admire your smiling, but I don't know how you're doing it."

Then, "I want to see the look on his face when he sees where the ball is."

Miller was not offering much mercy. Mickelson's chip shot skittered well past the hole; then, having officially ceded the victory to Ogilvy, he lined up a putt for double bogey, and Miller piled on with a bit of coldbloodedness.

"Watch out," Miller said, "he could make a triple here."

ABC Sports' viewership through the first five games of the N.B.A. finals between Dallas and Miami is up 9 percent to an average of 12.2 million a game, with Sunday's overtime victory by Miami drawing 14.2 million viewers, up 8 percent from last year. It is still in line to be one of the least-viewed finals. ... NBC will add four N.H.L. regular-season games and three playoff games next season.
618 2006-06-20 A driver on probation would be required to install an alcohol sensor on the dashboard that prevents a car from starting if the driver's alcohol level is too high. The legislation would also lengthen the amount of time a repeat offender's driver's license could be revoked.

In some circumstances, the measure would permanently revoke the license of anyone who has been convicted of drunken driving or who refuses to take a Breathalyzer test several times. And drivers who agree to plead guilty to driving while ability impaired, a lesser charge than driving while intoxicated, would be required to complete an alcohol and drug rehabilitation program.

Mr. Pataki called the legislation "a significant step forward," but said it was "weaker than it should be."

But he also said that a "whole long list" of issues still remained unresolved, including how to allocate federal aid to needy families and how to allocate environmental protection funds. He has also been pushing to create a center where sexual predators could be confined after their prison terms expired, and to increase the number of charter schools in the state from 100 to 250, a proposal that has dim prospects in the Assembly.

The Legislature is supposed to end its session on Thursday. Because of laws requiring that bills be printed three days before they are voted on, bills would have had to be completed by Monday evening to be acted upon. But extra days are common in Legislative sessions, and the governor can effectively waive the three-day period, though lawmakers are often hesitant to ask him for help.

The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, is pushing to end the session on time, while the Assembly appears in no particular hurry.

"I don't know anybody who seriously thinks we're not going to be here on Friday," said Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried, a Manhattan Democrat, during a Medicaid hearing in the afternoon.

Senator Dale M. Volker, a Republican from Western New York, replied, "I do; his name is Bruno."

"Whether or not we reach agreement on these things, I can't say," he said. "Today is obviously crunch day."

Mr. Pataki also has still not agreed to sign the Legislature's billion-dollar-a-year property tax rebate package, saying there are "technical things we can do better" on the measure. But he focused his press conference on criticizing the Assembly for its legislation on expanding the state's DNA database. The Assembly's legislation would leave out many criminals convicted of misdemeanors, while Mr. Pataki has pushed for their inclusion. The Senate has passed legislation closer to what he wants, and he indicated that he would call a special session if the Assembly did not follow suit.

"Quite simply it's not good enough," Mr. Pataki said of the Assembly's DNA bill. "I am going to continue to work to see that we get the all-crimes bill. If it means coming back, it means coming back."

In a possible peacemaking bid, the governor invited the entire Legislature to a lunchtime barbecue at the executive mansion on Tuesday. After a half-year of contentious relations between the governor and the Legislature, the invitation was met with skepticism even from some Republicans.

"The irony here is delicious," said Senator Michael A. L. Balboni, a Long Island Republican, noting that he and his colleagues would be in session Tuesday afternoon. " 'I'll have hot dogs and hamburgers, but you won't be able to come.' I hate to break this to you, but we work afternoons."
619 2006-06-20 The United States Supreme Court issued a decision on wetlands yesterday whose main virtue is that it could have been much worse. It sided with two developers who want to build on endangered wetlands, but the court's conservatives could not muster the fifth vote they needed for a very restricted view of the Clean Water Act. Still, the signs are ominous. Right now, Justice Anthony Kennedy, the swing vote in the case, is all that appears to stand in the way of gutting critical environmental protections.

The court ruled on a case arising out of Michigan, where developers filled in wetlands without a permit. The issue is whether these particular wetlands — which are not directly adjacent to navigable waters, but are adjacent to tributaries to those waters — are protected by the Clean Water Act. The Army Corps of Engineers, the administrative body charged by Congress with making these decisions, ruled that they are.

Four justices — including Chief Justice John Roberts and Samuel Alito, the two newest appointees — wanted to apply a dangerously difficult, and largely invented, test for what constitutes a wetland. The court's four most liberal members voted, rightly, to uphold the Army Corps' decision. Justice Kennedy sided with the conservatives on overturning the corps, but set out his own standard for which waters are covered. His test is a moderate one, and there is every reason to believe the corps will meet it when this case continues on remand.

Congress, though, should clear up any confusion by passing the Clean Water Authority Restoration Act. By doing so, it will reiterate that it wants extremely broad protection for the nation's waterways, and that it, not the judiciary, should decide which ones are protected.

For all the talk of liberal judicial activists, it was Justice Antonin Scalia and his fellow conservatives who voted to substitute their own preferences for a decision made by the executive branch, in the form of the Army Corps, interpreting a statute passed by Congress. It was the liberals who were "judicially modest," to use a favorite phrase of Chief Justice Roberts, deferring to the elected branches.

Justice Kennedy's role is especially notable. He wrote a careful opinion, much in the tradition of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, that refused to go along with any large-scale assault on ecologically fragile lands. His opinion suggests that in this sharply divided court, at least in environmental law, the precarious center can hold.
620 2006-06-20 The team had the only two-boat entry and, along with the Australian entrant Brunel, the two ABN boats were the only ones to use a yacht designer other than Bruce Farr, a prominent designer of America's Cup yachts.

The Volvo 70 class has a "box" rule, meaning that boats must not exceed a specific length, sail area and overall weight. They basically have to fit within a measured box.

ABN tested a "wider is better" theory, adding more drag but also more stability, allowing its boats to carry more sail.

This concept paid off when both boats, designed by Juan Kouyoumdjian of Argentina, proved noticeably faster in windy conditions. ABN Amro Two set the monohull 24-hour speed record during the race, averaging 23.4 knots.

"Their designer did a great job," Paul Cayard, skipper of an American entry, Pirates of the Caribbean, said in a telephone interview from Sweden on Sunday. "They more accurately assessed the sail forces on the boat. They realized that the extra drag of the extra width would be more than compensated for with extra speed."

Cayard, whose team won the final 500-mile leg from Rotterdam to Goteborg, said he watched in disbelief several times during the race as "Black Betty," the nickname given to Sanderson's dark-hulled vessel, sailed around Pirates of the Caribbean.

"They were just a lot faster than all of us," Cayard said.

In addition to giving the sailors a chance to celebrate with champagne and an opportunity for Prince Carl Philip of Sweden to hand out awards, the gathering Sunday was also used to address the future of the race and discuss the structural problems that led to the sinking of Movistar, a Spanish entry.

"We'll try and give them an incentive to build more robust boats," Glenn Bourke, the race's chief executive, said in a telephone interview yesterday from Sweden.

He said one possibility was to limit the weight of the lead bulb that hangs from the end of the keel for stability. Designers now tend to put every pound they save in the construction of the hull directly into the bulb. In the extreme, this compromises the strength of the joint where the keel is attached.

Movistar's crew abandoned the boat because of such a failure.

Bourke also said that the event would be held every three years, rather than four, for more continuity in brand exposure. He also said that for the first time since the event began in the 1970's, there would be stopovers in the Pacific Ocean, in Asia and the West Coast of the United States, as well as in the Middle East and India.

"Many of the current sponsors told us they'd be happy to participate again but that they needed new markets," he said. "The boats are fast enough to go anywhere, and there's a lot of money in that part of the world. At the moment, we have teams champing at the bit to get in."

On Sunday, few skippers in this year's competition were willing to throw their hats in the ring for 2008.

Winning one of the yachting world's top prizes was Sanderson's childhood dream. But he also said he was not quite ready to talk about next time.

"I have to make sure I evaluate this one," Sanderson said. "If I started to think about the next one, I'd get stuck right back on that worry horse."
621 2006-06-20 ZURICH, June 19 (Reuters) — Nestlé, the Swiss food giant, said on Monday that it was buying the weight-loss company Jenny Craig for around $600 million.

Nestlé said it had agreed to buy Jenny Craig from the private equity firms ACI Capital and MidOcean Partners. The price was about five times what the investors paid in 2002 to acquire the company, which sells prepackaged meals and offers personalized weight-loss programs at more than 600 centers.

A diet program promoted by the actress Kirstie Alley has given a big lift to Jenny Craig sales in the United States.

Nestlé said weight management would form a new part of its nutrition business, a high-margin area that already provides infant, health care and performance nutrition.

"This acquisition will also reinforce Nestlé Nutrition's presence in the U.S.A., the world's largest nutrition and weight management market," Nestlé said in a statement, adding that the deal would not dilute its earnings.

Federal government statistics show that about 65 percent of Americans are either overweight or obese, with that figure doubling in the last 25 years.
622 2006-06-20 Bill Lamb, a key member of the team that founded New York's public television station Channel 13 and the station's director of production for programs that included "Nature" and "Great Performances," died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 76.

The cause was complications after a stroke, said Marcie Setlow, Mr. Lamb's companion.

In 1962, when a group of philanthropists and business leaders took over what had been a commercial station showing mostly cartoons and westerns, Mr. Lamb was a member of a small team of executives recruited to transform it into a nonprofit educational channel. Until 1972, he was a senior vice president, a member of the board and the station's director of production, responsible for bringing together the artistic and business sides.

From 1975 to 1981, Mr. Lamb played a similar role as vice president of production and business affairs and then chief operating officer at KCET, the public television station in Los Angeles, where he oversaw the production of programs including "Cosmos" with Carl Sagan and "The Cousteau Odyssey."

"Bill was an exceedingly important figure in the formative years of what we now know as public broadcasting," said John Jay Iselin, the president of Channel 13 from 1972 to 1987. "He helped guide the critical early years of Channel 13. He put the money together and helped direct it toward fruitful productions."

After Mr. Lamb moved to KCET, Mr. Iselin said, "he certainly nurtured the connections between the two stations and, more importantly, the workings of the entire national system."

In 1981, Mr. Lamb — who had homes in Manhattan and in Santa Cruz, Calif. — rejoined Channel 13 with the title of senior vice president in charge of national and international production. Under his supervision, the station produced shows like "The Brain," segments for "American Playhouse" and Abba Eban's "Heritage: Civilization and the Jews," for which he shared a Peabody Award in 1984.

William Joseph Lamb was born in Manhattan on Oct. 29, 1929. His father, Vincent Lamb, had been an announcer in the early days of radio. He graduated from Hofstra College (now Hofstra University) and earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard.
623 2006-06-20 But from the start the council has been weakened by the opposition of the United States, among only four countries that voted against the creation of the body at a General Assembly session in March. The United States, which wanted a smaller body with fewer members, also declined to seek a seat on the council. While many countries have sent foreign ministers to Geneva for the opening sessions of the new body, the American delegation will be led by Warren W. Tichenor, the new United States representative to the United Nations in Geneva.

"This sends the wrong signal," said Mariette Grange, the advocacy director in Geneva for Human Rights Watch. "One of our regrets is the United States has not registered any high-level representatives."

The council is widely regarded as an improvement over the commission. Nations seeking election to the council in May had to meet more demanding standards than in the past, and several candidate countries accused of rights abuses, including Iran and Venezuela, were excluded.

The council will meet three times a year for a total of 10 weeks, almost double the time for the commission, and members can convene special sessions to respond quickly to crisis situations. Countries that do not abide by rights standards can be ejected from the council with a two-thirds vote in the General Assembly.

But critics say that the new body also includes countries with poor human rights records — like China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Cuba — and that their presence could undermine its effectiveness.

Hillel Neuer, executive director of the Geneva-based United Nations Watch, a private watchdog group, said Western democracies would have to fight over the next two weeks to ensure that the council was given power to police its own rules. "There is some potential to be optimistic," he said. "But my concern is we are not seeing the political will."

The United Nations resolution that created the council allows for periodic investigations into whether countries are abiding by their commitments to uphold human rights, which human rights groups say will be crucial to giving the council teeth.

The meeting here is likely to focus largely on operational issues like ways in which credible investigations of countries' rights records can be conducted.

The body is also expected to approve two draft human rights treaties, on enforced disappearances, in which governments secretly detain people without officially recording the arrest, and the rights of indigenous people.
624 2006-06-20 The nonprofit group that cares for homeless and unwanted animals in New York City has improved the conditions at its shelters, but it has not done an adequate job cleaning cages and adoption wards, looking for missing animals, isolating sick animals or walking the dogs in its care, according to an audit released yesterday.

The group, Animal Care and Control of New York City, has had exclusive responsibility for the care of the city's strays since 1995, under a contract with the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. The contract is set to expire on June 30; the city and the group are negotiating a three-year renewal. The group is being paid $7.8 million this fiscal year, but the city also provides free space and pays for utilities and vehicles.

The audit was conducted by the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., whose office issued a scathing review of Animal Care and Control in June 2002 that documented instances of animal maltreatment and unsanitary conditions. In contrast, the audit released yesterday concluded that "shelter conditions are adequate" and that "staff is generally responsive to the needs of both the animals and the public." However, it made 13 critical findings and recommendations, most of which were accepted by Mary F. Martin, the interim executive director of Animal Care and Control, in a response.

During 20 unannounced visits to the group's three full-service shelters between October and March, 6 percent of the 320 cat and dog wards and 9 percent of the 3,749 cat and dog cages were not clean. Several adoption wards were not cleaned by noon, as the group's protocols require. "Therefore, it is possible that potential adopters may be discouraged by the unclean conditions," the auditors wrote, noting that several filthy cages were also observed.

Wards and cages are supposed to be thoroughly cleaned at least once a day, and spot cleaning occurs as necessary and is recorded on log sheets, said Richard P. Gentles, the group's director of administrative services. He acknowledged that cleaning policies were not always effectively enforced and promised to do better.
625 2006-06-20 Smoking is known to cause early aging of the skin. It is also known, of course, to cause lung disease. Now a study finds that smokers with a lot of wrinkles are far more likely to have lung damage than are smokers with less-lined faces.

The study, which appears online in the journal Thorax, found that heavily wrinkled smokers were five times as likely as other smokers to have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The findings "raise the question, 'Is it possible to predict the presence of C.O.P.D. in smokers from their facial appearance?' " the authors write. The study was led by Dr. Bipen Patel, a British researcher.

The disease can occur in people who have emphysema or chronic bronchitis, but while it is common in smokers, most do not get it. Researchers believe genetics may play a role in who does. Since wrinkling and emphysema share some characteristics, the researchers say, the people who are more likely to have wrinkles caused by smoking may also be more likely to develop emphysema.

Researchers looked at 149 current and former smokers who had smoked at least one pack of cigarettes a day for five years. Independent experts assessed them for so-called crows'-feet, and their breathing capacity was tested.

More than 80 percent of the volunteers with facial wrinkling were found to have symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

As a result, the study suggested, doctors whose patients smoke may want to look for the disease in patients with a lot of wrinkles.
626 2006-06-20 The risks were the same for everyone, so there was no logical reason to recommend the vaccine in some situations but not in others. Yet the more distant the patient, the more likely people were to recommend the vaccine.

"Researchers have found these biases before," said Dr. Peter A. Ubel, the study's senior author and a professor of medicine at the University of Michigan.

"People hate the risk of bringing bad things on themselves," Dr. Ubel said, "but a sense of responsibility makes them overcome these instincts to think about what's best for others."

He added, "That may be what makes doctors feel so strongly about recommending to patients what they ought to do."

Dr. Donald A. Redelmeier, a professor of medicine at the University of Toronto who was not involved in the study, said, "What's intriguing is that these people are sometimes unaware of the extent to which their opinions can be changed by the way the question is posed."

Doctors and their patients face choices much more confusing than the fictional vaccine problem described in Dr. Ubel's study. Determining the risks and benefits of prostate cancer diagnosis and treatment, for example, presents a series of decisions that must be made with only partial information. A positive result on the P.S.A. screening test does not distinguish between a fatal cancer and one that will be asymptomatic, so the patient is left to choose either no treatment or any of a number of different procedures that have varying degrees of effectiveness and unpleasant side effects.

Should a patient get the P.S.A. screening test in the first place? If the screening test is positive, should he get a treatment that may or may not be effective, or even necessary, and that may or may not have serious side effects, like incontinence and impotence?

Even a fairly sophisticated patient with an understanding of all the risks and benefits would be hard put to reach a satisfactory answer.

In a paper published in the June issue of PLoS Medicine, Dr. Jerome R. Hoffman says using illustrations is helpful. Pie charts, dartboards and, best of all, roulette wheels, he suggests, communicate the complex information about the probability of a good outcome more understandably.

Most doctors want patients to be fully informed and then to make their own decisions — the paternalistic "doctor knows best" model no longer predominates.

Yet, said Dr. Paul Appelbaum, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia, doctors may be going too far in their zeal to present only the facts.

"Physicians who place emphasis on informed consent have mistakenly come to see this as a process in which they play only a neutral role," Dr. Appelbaum said, "and not the role of someone who gives advice as well. Yet patients who value the information often value the advice, too, and that seems to me a very proper role for a physician to play."
627 2006-06-20 But from the start the council has been weakened by the opposition of the United States, which was among only four countries that voted against the creation of the body in a session of the U.N. General Assembly in May.

The United States, which had argued for a smaller body with fewer members, also declined to seek a seat on the council. While many countries have sent foreign ministers to Geneva, the American delegation will be led by Warren W. Tichenor, the new United States representative to the United Nations in Geneva.

"This sends the wrong signal," said Mariette Grange, the advocacy director for Human Rights Watch in Geneva. "One of our regrets is the United States have not registered any high-level representatives."

The council is widely regarded as an improvement over the commission. Nations running for election in May had to meet more demanding standards than in the past, resulting in the exclusion of some of the worst rights abusers, like Iran and Venezuela.

The council will meet three times a year for a total 10 weeks, almost double the time for which the commission sat — and members can convene special sessions to respond quickly to crisis situations. Countries that do not abide by rights standards can be ejected from the council with a two-thirds vote in the General Assembly.

But critics say the presence on the council of many countries with poor human rights records — like China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Cuba — could undermine its effectiveness.

The executive director of the Geneva-based U.N. Watch, Hillel Neuer, said Western democracies will have to fight over the next two weeks to ensure the council is given adequate power to police its own rules. "There is some potential to be optimistic. But my concern is we are not seeing the political will."

The United Nations resolution in March which created the council allows for periodic investigations into whether countries are abiding by their commitments to uphold human rights — which human rights groups say will be crucial to giving the council teeth.

The meeting here is likely to focus largely on operational issues — how credible investigations of countries' rights records can be conducted, for instance. The body is expected to approve two draft human rights treaties on enforced disappearances and the rights of indigenous people. It will also decide on extending the mandates of special rapporteurs — experts who investigate human rights abuses.

The council's president, Luis de Alba of Mexico, has worked hard to keep the agenda free of political controversies. Some observers fear that such squabbles, if allowed to surface, could hobble the council before its rules are made clear. Still, Mr. Neuer said, members of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which comprises 56 Islamic states, had pushed to censure Israel

"No country can claim to have a perfect human rights record, and so I hope we are not going to see a situation where the Human Rights Council focuses on Israel," Mr. Annan said last week. "I hope we are moving away from this selectivity and politicization of the review mechanism of the commission."
628 2006-06-20 The heart is a muscle, and like any other muscle in the body, exercising it makes it stronger. It does not have to work as hard to get the job done. This is what is meant by "conditioning" the heart through moderately vigorous physical activity.

Conditioning occurs by exercising at a level that gets your heart rate within a target zone determined by your age (subtract your age from 220, then take 50 percent and 75 percent of that number to determine your zone).

A well-conditioned heart can pump in 50 beats the same amount of blood that the heart of a sedentary person would pump in 75 beats. In addition, during rest, a well-conditioned heartbeat is slower.

Among the major factors that increase a person's chance of developing coronary artery disease, the underlying cause of most heart attacks, are an elevated blood cholesterol level, high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes and undue stress.

The beauty of regular physical exercise is that it counters every one of these risk factors. Exercise also raises blood levels of HDL cholesterol, which helps to cleanse the arteries of deposits. The main risk factors exercise cannot change are family history and age. These two factors can serve as a warning.

If you have a family history of premature heart disease (heart attacks in first-degree relatives that occurred before 65), or if you are middle-aged or older and have been fairly sedentary for years, you would be wise to undergo a thorough physical exam before taking up jogging.

My father did not know this in 1967 when he tried jogging for the first time. His father and his father's brother had had heart attacks in their mid-50's. And although my father had always been physically active (brisk walking and swimming were his midlife activities), he had a heart attack about an hour after his first run.

Someone who should have known better, however, was James F. Fixx, who died of a heart attack while jogging on July 20, 1984. As the author of "The Complete Book of Running," Mr. Fixx was an international symbol of the jogging revolution. He also had a family history of heart disease; his father died of a heart attack at 43. And he himself had experienced cardiac symptoms in the weeks before his death, symptoms of one or more smaller heart attacks that he ignored.

The autopsy revealed that despite being physically active, Mr. Fixx had advanced coronary artery disease: one artery 99 percent clogged, a second 80 percent clogged and the third 70 percent clogged — in sum, a heart attack waiting to happen.

In the course of nearly every marathon, one or more runners keel over with a heart attack, and some die. Heat and dehydration are often contributing factors. In a 1987 study of heart attacks and sudden deaths in marathon runners, 81 percent of the victims had ignored warning symptoms.

The lesson here is to take reasonable precautions against sudden death:

•Make sure all cardiac risk factors — especially smoking — are absent or under control.

•If you have been sedentary for years or have any doubts about your cardiac well-being, get checked out beforehand. But keep in mind that passing an exercise stress test is not a guarantee of cardiac health.

•Establish a sensible training program, especially long before an event. All your muscles, not just your heart, need to be up to the stress.

•Run or walk at your own pace (the marathon is a race for only a few young, elite athletes).

•Stay well-hydrated with water at first, then with a sport drink if you sweat heavily or exercise for two or more hours.

•Pay attention to warning signs. If you experience upper body discomfort or pain that could be a symptom of coronary insufficiency during the activity, stop immediately and seek medical attention.

Symptoms that should not be ignored include palpitations; pain, pressure or discomfort in the chest; dizziness or lightheadedness; shortness of breath; and nausea.

In addition, if you find during your normal workout that you are getting more winded or fatigued for no apparent reason, that is a signal to get yourself examined.

People with advanced heart disease are at risk of dying suddenly whether they exercise or not. But while vigorous exercise can precipitate a heart attack during a workout and for about an hour afterward, regular physical activity is an important preventive of sudden cardiac death.

For example, a study in Seattle of all people who died suddenly in one year showed that those with undetected heart disease were more likely to die during exercise, but they lowered their overall risk of sudden death if they exercised regularly. In other words, if those with heart disease avoided all exercise, their overall risk of sudden death would increase, not decrease.

And from a study of 7,620 joggers in Rhode Island, it was calculated that a middle-aged jogger with no known heart disease who ran for one more year was considerably less likely to die suddenly than was a middle-aged nonrunner who drove during that year.

In the long run, various studies have found, jogging adds years to life. Over all, each hour spent exercising (up to 30 hours a week) adds about two hours to a person's life expectancy, according to the Harvard Alumni Study, which has tracked deaths among 17,000 men for more than two decades.

Even those who did not start exercising until midlife had a 23 percent lower risk of death over the next 20-odd years. Endurance activities like running, cycling, lap swimming, brisk walking and cross-country skiing conferred the greatest benefit, adding six years of life expectancy over that of a couch potato.
629 2006-06-20 SUMMER, in its full New York glory, officially arrives tomorrow. For those of us who will not be spending time in the Hamptons wondering if Ira Rennert has enough room in his Xanadu or hoping that Lizzie Grubman has improved her driving skills, there are a few things we can count on.

The city will smell different. The change, rest assured, will not be inspiring.

Tens of thousands of New Yorkers will walk through the streets each day wearing what looks suspiciously like their underwear. We will continue, however, to read about how this city is the capital of chic.

More gun-toting dolts than usual will put holes in other people because it is hot and they think the normal rules don't apply. Some of them got a jump on the season over the weekend, creating mayhem on a sultry night in central Brooklyn.

Con Edison will assure us that it should be able to get us through the summer without a blackout. It may even prove to be right. But Con Ed also anticipates that the demand for electricity will reach record levels, surpassing the old record set just last summer. Don't be surprised if an overload lands some neighborhoods in the dark.

Subway platforms will become unbearable. A rule of thumb among subway workers is that if it is 90 degrees on the street, it will be at least 95 degrees on the platform. Motors and brakes produce much of the heat. But air-conditioning, welcome as it may be inside the cars, adds to the misery for those outside.
630 2006-06-20 CHANGE AT HOME -- Executives from major cities have transformed Bentonville, Ark., Wal-Mart's hometown, into a mini-metropolis populated by Hindus, Muslims and Jews. The Jewish families in Benton County have become increasingly vocal proponents of...
631 2006-06-20 Smoking is known to cause early aging of the skin. It is also known, of course, to cause lung disease. Now a study finds that smokers with a lot of wrinkles are far more likely to have lung damage than are smokers with less-lined faces.     The st...
632 2006-06-21 How are open houses doing in north central Illinois? They get mixed reviews from brokers there, as reported in an article by Tammie Sloup in the local paper, the Times of Ottawa and Streator. Nancy Getson of First Real Estate Professionals in Mars...
633 2006-06-21 The markets' recent volatility does not seem to be keeping hedge fund heavyweights from paying enormous sums for New York City real estate. The New York Observer reports that Glenn Dubin, a co-founder and managing partner of $8-billion-plus hedge ...
634 2006-06-21 It took third place last year, but Goldman Sachs Asset Management has jumped to the top of the heap in Alpha magazine's latest Hedge Fund 100 list, which ranks funds by assets. A tidy $21 billion under management was enough to put Goldman Sachs' h...
635 2006-06-21 The Federal Communications Commission will try again on Wednesday to revamp media ownership restrictions and possibly clear the way for more consolidation in the industry. Reuters reports that the F.C.C. on Wednesday is expected to ask for public ...
636 2006-06-21 A group of financial-services companies including Goldman Sachs have agreed to invest a total of $20 million for a minority stake in CHX Holdings, which operates the Chicago Stock Exchange, CHX said Wednesday. The investors also include Bank of Am...
637 2006-06-21 Dutch group Philips Electronics said on Wednesday it will float or sell its semiconductors business by the end of the year, keeping only a minority stake. Philips, which announced in December that it would separate its semiconductors division and ...
638 2006-06-21 Microsoft said Martin Taylor, a vice president appointed in March to revamp marketing for the MSN Web sites and Windows Live services, has left the company. "We've made the difficult decision to part ways with Martin Taylor but we don't comment on...
639 2006-06-21 Citigroup was approached by more than 30 banks last month, three times the number it was seeking, as it lined up lenders to finance Kohlberg Kravis Roberts's first leveraged buyout in India. "Every bank is trying to chip in on these deals to tap t...
640 2006-06-21 Strong earnings and an upbeat forecast from a corporate bellwether sent the stock market up broadly today, helping it recover much of the ground it had lost in the last two weeks.

Investors turned their attention from fears of inflation, an economic slowdown and higher interest rate to a data point that remains far more positive — profits.

The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.08 points, or 1 percent, to close at 1,252.20, and the Nasdaq composite gained 34.14 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,141.20. The Dow Jones industrial average picked up 104.62 points, or 1 percent, to 11,079.46.

Federal Express, whose breadth has made its performance an indicator of the health of the overall economy, reported a 27 percent jump in earnings and said strong global demand would propel profits even higher in its 2007 fiscal year. And Morgan Stanley, like other investment banks who have gone before it, also posted strong earnings.

The surge today and late last week may also reflect "the extent of the pessimism we had," said Bruce Bittles, a market strategist for Robert W. Baird & Company. "The stock market had nowhere to go" but up.

After reaching annual or cycle highs in early May, many global stock indexes have fallen on a variety of concerns, including whether the Federal Reserve might strain an already slowing American economy by raising interest rates more than necessary to control inflation.
641 2006-06-21 WASHINGTON, June 20 — House Republican leaders today abruptly canceled a planned vote to renew the Voting Rights Act after a rank-and-file rebellion by lawmakers who say the civil rights measure unfairly singles out Southern states and promotes multi-lingual ballots.

The reversal represented a significant embarrassment for the party leadership, which has promised a vote on the landmark anti-discrimination law and hailed its imminent approval in a rare bipartisan press event on the steps of the Capitol last month.

But lawmakers critical of the bill mutinied in a closed meeting of House Republicans this morning just hours before the vote was expected to occur and several said it was uncertain whether a majority of Republicans would back the legislation at this point.

"A lot of it looks as if these are some old boys from the South who are trying to do away with it," said Representative Lynn A. Westmoreland of Georgia, who said it would be unfair to keep Georgia under the confines of the law when his state has cleaned up its voting rights record. "But these old boys are trying to make it Constitutional enough that it will withstand the scrutiny of the Supreme Court."

Despite what appears to be mounting Republican resistance, the leadership issued a statement declaring that once the concerns of lawmakers are addressed, it will move ahead with a vote on what the leaders described as one of the nation's most important civil rights laws.

"While the bill will not be considered today, the House G.O.P. leadership is committed to passing the Voting Rights Act legislation as soon as possible," the statement said.
642 2006-06-21 Compounding the challenge, the local mental health system has suffered a near total collapse, heaping a great deal of the work to be done with emotionally disturbed residents onto the Police Department and people like Sergeant Glaudi, who has sharp crisis management skills but no medical background. He says his unit handles 150 to 180 such distress calls a month.

Dr. Jeffrey Rouse, the deputy New Orleans coroner dealing with psychiatric cases, said the suicide rate in the city was less than nine a year per 100,000 residents before the storm and increased to an annualized rate of more than 26 per 100,000 in the four months afterward, to the end of 2005.

While there have been 12 deaths officially classified as suicides so far this year, Dr. Rouse and Dr. Kathleen Crapanzano, director of the Louisiana Office of Mental Health, said the real number was almost certainly far higher, with many self-inflicted deaths remaining officially unclassified or wrongly described as accidents.

Charles G. Curie, the administrator of the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, said the scope of the disaster that the hurricane inflicted had been "unprecedented," and added, "We've had great concerns about the level of substance abuse and mental health needs being at levels we had not seen before."

This is a city where thousands of people are living amid ruins that stretch for miles on end, where the vibrancy of life can be found only along the slivers of land next to the Mississippi. Garbage is piled up, the crime rate has soared, and as of Tuesday the National Guard and the state police were back in the city, patrolling streets that the Police Department has admitted it cannot handle on its own. The reminders of death are everywhere, and the emotional toll is now becoming clear.

Gina Barbe rode out the storm at her mother's house near Lake Pontchartrain, and says she has been crying almost every day since.

"I thought I could weather the storm, and I did — it's the aftermath that's killing me," said Ms. Barbe, who worked in tourism sales before the disaster. "When I'm driving through the city, I have to pull to the side of the street and sob. I can't drive around this city without crying."

Many people who are not at serious risk of suicide are nonetheless seeing their lives eroded by low-grade but persistent feelings of sadness, hopelessness and stress-related illnesses, doctors and researchers say. All this goes beyond the effects of 9/11 and the Oklahoma City bombing, Mr. Curie said. Beyond those of Hurricanes Andrew, Hugo and Ivan.

"We've been engaged much longer and with much more intensity in this disaster than in previous disasters," he said.

At the end of each day, Sergeant Glaudi returns to his own wrecked neighborhood and sleeps in a government-issued trailer outside what used to be home.

"You ride around and all you see is debris, debris, debris," he said.

And that is a major part of the problem, experts agree: the people of New Orleans are traumatized again every time they look around.

"This is a trauma that didn't last 24 hours, then go away," said Dr. Crapanzano, the Louisiana mental health official. "It goes on and on."

"If I could do anything," said Dr. Howard J. Osofsky, the chairman of the psychiatry department at Louisiana State University, "it would be to have a quicker pace of recovery for the community at large. The mental health needs are related to this."

The state estimates that the city has lost more than half its psychiatrists, social workers, psychologists and other mental health workers, many of whom relocated after the storm. And according to the Louisiana Hospital Association, there are little more than 60 hospital beds for psychiatric patients in the seven hospitals that remain open here.

Because of a lack of mental heath clinics and related services, severely disturbed patients end up in hospital emergency rooms, where they often languish. Many poorer patients were dependent on a large public institution, Charity Hospital, but it has been closed since the storm despite the protests of many medical professionals who say the building is in good condition. Big Charity, as the locals called it, had room for 100 psychiatric patients and could have used more capacity.

"When you don't have a place to send that wandering schizophrenic directing traffic, guess what? Law enforcement is going to wind up taking care of that," said Dr. Rouse, the deputy coroner. "When the Police Department is forced to do the job of the mental health system, it's a lose-lose situation for everyone."

"When the family comes to see me at the coroner's office," he added, "it's a defeat. The state has a moral obligation to reinstitute this care."

Sergeant Glaudi and others said some people struggling with emotional issues had no prior history of mental illness or depression.

The symptoms cut across economic and racial lines; life in New Orleans is difficult and inconvenient for everyone.

Susan Howell, a political scientist at the University of New Orleans, conducted a recent study with researchers from Louisiana State to see how people were coping with everyday life in the city and neighboring Jefferson Parish. Ms. Howell managed a similar survey in 2003.

"The symptoms of depression have, at minimum, doubled since Katrina," she said. "These are classic post-trauma symptoms. People can't sleep, they're irritable, feeling that everything's an effort and sad."

The new survey was conducted in March and April, and canvassed 470 respondents who were living in houses or apartments. Since they were not living in government-issued trailers, it is likely that they were among the more fortunate.

Jennifer Lindsley, a gallery owner, also feels the sting of missing her friends.

"When you can't get ahold of people you used to know, it leaves you feeling kind of empty," Ms. Lindsley said. "When you try to explain it to people in other cities, they say: 'The whole world is over it, so you've got to get over it. Sorry that happened, but too bad. Move on.' "

Some people have decided to leave solely because of the mood of the city.

"I'm really aware of the air of mild depression that pervades this entire area," said Gayle Falgoust, a retired teacher. "I'm leaving after this month. I worry about living with this level of depression all the time. I worry that it might affect my health. I know the move will improve my mood."
643 2006-06-21 "The moratorium was to be in effect only so long as the two sides were engaged in missile talks," Mr. Kartman said in an interview. "The Bush administration's disinterest in continuing the missile negotiations would have, of course, canceled out the 1999 moratorium."

[Because of the current tensions, former President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, who orchestrated an unprecedented summit meeting with Kim Jong Il in 2000, cancelled a trip to Pyongyang planned for next week, Jeong Fe Hyun, the former reunification minister, said Wednesday in Seoul, Reuters reported. Mr. Kim had hoped to use the meeting to reopen six-party talks.]

As part of the separate 2002 understanding with the Japanese, the North Koreans agreed to extend the moratorium on missile tests. In a joint declaration with Japan, North Korea "expressed its will to extend its moratorium on missile tests beyond 2003 in the spirit of the declaration," according to an English-language translation of the declaration.

The Bush administration has taken the position that both moratoriums are still in effect. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Monday that the United States would regard a missile launching as an "abrogation of obligations that North Korea undertook in the moratorium that they signed on to in 1999, that they reiterated in 2002."

The issue of the moratorium emerged along with reports that the United States has raised the alert status of its ground-based missile defense system. The Pentagon has deployed 11 missile interceptors in a test status in Alaska and California and has not conducted a successful interception test in four years.

Nonetheless, the Pentagon has asserted that the missiles could be activated if international events warranted and noted that several tests in which a target is to be intercepted are scheduled for this year and early next year.

Pentagon officials refused to discuss the current status of the system. "We have a limited missile-defense system," said Eric Ruff, the Pentagon spokesman. "We don't discuss the alert status or the specific capabilities." The Washington Times reported Tuesday that the system had been activated.

Missile defense proponents said North Korea's missile preparations would strengthen the case for building more robust missile defenses. "I think the activity by North Korea clearly makes the case that a missile defense is necessary for American security," said Representative Duncan Hunter, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Armed Service Committee.

Critics asserted that the missile defense was an illusory shield against a threat that had yet to materialize. "The system being declared operational is no more than a scarecrow, incapable of fooling anyone except perhaps some members of the administration who want to pretend to be defending the country against a North Korean missile attack," said Robert G. Gard, a retired Army lieutenant general and a senior fellow at the Center for Arms Control and Nonproliferation.

Diplomatic efforts to stop North Korea from launching what American officials believe is a two-stage Taepodong 2 missile continued on Tuesday. Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations called for a halt to test preparations. "I hope that the leaders of North Korea will listen to and hear what the world is saying," he said. "We are all worried."

[A top North Korean official has offered talks with the United States on the plans for a missile test, indicating that a launching could be put off, Agence France-Presse reported in Seoul, South Korea, on Wednesday. "The United States says it is concerned about our missile test launch," Han Song Ryol, the deputy chief of North Korea's mission to the United Nations, told the Yonhap news agency, according to A.F.P. "Our position is, O.K., then, let's talk about it."]

There has been some concern in the United States that North Korea might seek to justify the missile firing as part of a civilian space program. But American officials say that even such a launching would violate the 2002 moratorium, since the technology used to put satellites into orbit is easily transferable to intercontinental missiles. The North Koreans described their last significant test in 1998 as an effort to launch a satellite.
644 2006-06-21 Microsoft said yesterday that Martin Taylor, a vice president appointed in March to revamp marketing for the MSN Web sites and Windows Live services, had left the company.

"We've made the difficult decision to part ways with Martin Taylor but we don't comment on personnel matters," the company said in an e-mailed statement that did not disclose the reason for his departure. Adam Sohn, a director in the group that reported to Mr. Taylor, declined to comment. Mr. Taylor could not be reached for comment.

Mr. Taylor, 36, had worked at Microsoft for 13 years. A protégé of Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, he was credited with helping Microsoft beat back the threat posed by the free Linux operating system when he was head of platform strategy for the Windows group.

Mr. Taylor was quoted in a Microsoft news release Monday about the new Windows Live instant messaging service and was scheduled to talk with reporters about it. Interviews were instead handled by Mr. Sohn because of what the company said yesterday was a scheduling conflict.
645 2006-06-21 On touching down, the crew of Flight 1248 had a delay, still unexplained, in using the thrust reversers.

It was not clear at the hearing whether the delay would have made much difference. The laptop computer, when programmed with the level of friction, the tailwind, the plane's weight and other factors, showed that the runway, which is laid out diagonally across the airport, was simply not long enough.

But the Federal Aviation Administration does not have a numerically precise system for measuring runway friction and relaying that information to pilots. Canada does, according to testimony given Tuesday, but American officials disputed such a system's accuracy.

An airline captain who was a witness from the Air Line Pilots Association, William DeGroh, said pilots did not have enough information to calculate their stopping distances. "It turns out to be more of an art than a science," Captain DeGroh said.

Since the accident, the F.A.A. has proposed adding a 15 percent safety margin to calculate stopping distances.

A transcript of the cockpit voice recorder released Tuesday showed that the two pilots were concerned about the weather but hardly anxious.

"Beautiful day," said Capt. Bruce R. Sutherland, evidently in irony, after a delayed takeoff, on a day when planes were taking turns with snowplows on the runway. The first officer, Steven T. Oliver, remarking on how difficult the landing would be, said, "Picked the wrong day to stop sniffin' glue." The comment is a line from the 1980 movie "Airplane," in which the air traffic controller character, faced with various challenges, first says he has picked the wrong week to quit drinking, then that it was the wrong week to quit smoking, and then, to stop sniffing glue.

The men also discussed using the autobrake, a system that applies the brakes once the wheels are hard on the runway and that they believed would do so faster than human reflexes would allow. Southwest had decided to make the use of the autobrake mandatory in some circumstances.

"No procedure if that sucker fails when you touch down?" Mr. Oliver said. "We just go through the fence? We never talk about any of that stuff."

When the Boeing 737 came to rest at the intersection of 55th Street and Central Avenue on the southwest side of the city, a man from one of the cars they hit approached them, face bloody, child in his arms, cursing. The child was Jake Woods, brother of Joshua Woods, of Leroy, Ind., who had been pinned inside and killed.

The Woods family and some of the airplane passengers have lawsuits pending against Southwest.
646 2006-06-21 Statins, the cholesterol-lowering drugs taken by millions of Americans, may reduce the risk of cataracts, a preliminary study suggests. The study, being published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, followed 1,299 residents of Beaver Dam, Wis., for five years. Adults who took statins were found to be 45 percent less likely to develop the most common type of age-related cataracts. Some researchers warned that something other than statins might explain the results.
647 2006-06-21 Commercial insurers, which are offering the drug insurance plans under Medicare's auspices, do have negotiating power. And they say that by switching to generic drugs, consumers can avoid most of the price increases.

The surveys measured manufacturers' wholesale prices, which would not necessarily reflect any discounts insurers might be able to negotiate.

But even so, the price increases in the Medicare drug plans since they began were identical in many cases with the jump in wholesale prices, Families USA said.

Some health care economists said the price increases, if they continued, could have a devastating effect on the new Medicare drug program.

"Higher drug prices may lead to higher premiums next year, which may discourage enrollees from joining or staying in the program, and fewer enrollees could drive premiums even higher," said Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a University of Minnesota economist who specializes in drug industry issues.

Mr. Schondelmeyer said one clear indication of the inflation's impact could be seen among the six million low-income elderly and disabled people who previously received drug coverage through Medicaid but were automatically switched to the Part D program when it began in January.

That shift was a windfall for drug makers, he said. "Medicaid would have paid 25 to 30 percent less under the old system, including rebates from the manufacturers, than the new Medicare Part D program is paying."

Ron Pollock, the executive director of Families USA, offered another way to gauge the federal impact. The federal Department of Veterans Affairs, which is able to negotiate prices with pharmaceutical makers, is paying 46 percent less for the most popular brand-name drugs than the average prices posted by the Medicare plans for the same drugs, Mr. Pollack said.

Peter Ashkenaz, a Medicare spokesman, said enrollees in the Part D program could obtain a broad range of drugs as well as "personalized help in finding less costly drugs." He said many enrollees were in drug plans with "flat co-pays, which protects them from changes in pricing."

The first quarter of the year is typically the time when drug makers make many of their annual price increases. The industry did not comment on this year's increases, other than to question the accuracy of the AARP survey.

The drug industry's trade group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association, said in a statement that the AARP conclusions were "erroneous," because consumer drug prices had increased less than 2 percent since Jan. 1. The group, though, was citing a federal Bureau of Labor Statistics report that combines prices for brand-name and lower-priced generic drugs, as well as various "medical supplies."

Paul Fitzhenry, a spokesman for Pfizer, which makes Lipitor, pointed the finger at health insurers, which he said were increasing their drug payment charges to members faster than drug makers were raising their prices.

"There has been a huge disconnect between changes to our prices and increases to consumers' out-of-pocket costs for medicines," he said. "Between 2001 and 2005, our compound annual average net price increase was 3.3 percent per year. During that same time, the average co-payment charged by insurers for brand-name pharmaceuticals has increased at an annual rate of 11.1 to 15.5 percent," he said, citing a Kaiser Family Foundation 2005 survey.

Mohit Ghose, a spokesman for the American Association of Health Plans, a insurance trade group, said the insurers were actually reducing drug spending increases by promoting lower-cost generics instead of brand-name drugs.

Mark Green, a spokesman for Sanofi-Aventis, which makes Ambien, said the drug was "priced more competitively than some other products in the sleep category." He added, "We make every effort to price our prices competitively, relative to the value they provide to patients."
648 2006-06-21 City officials formally reopened the Crotona Park Tennis House in the south-central Bronx yesterday after a $1.6 million renovation that included electrical and ventilation upgrades, bathroom enlargements and a new meeting room. The building will be a rest area for tennis and baseball players and will also provide space for parks officials and community groups.
649 2006-06-21 A Brooklyn teenager was convicted of murder yesterday in State Supreme Court for taking part in a robbery that caused the death of a 15-year-old in East Flatbush last summer. The defendant, Darran Samuel, 17, was convicted of second-degree murder and robbery for the July 2 attack on Christopher Rose, said Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney. Prosecutors said that Mr. Samuel and three other young men demanded an iPod that one of Mr. Rose's friends was carrying. In the resulting struggle, prosecutors said, Mr. Rose was fatally stabbed. One man, Quaison Fraser, 18, has pleaded guilty to gang assault, prosecutors said, and two other defendants are awaiting trial. Mr. Samuel faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life, prosecutors said.
650 2006-06-21 Giving such valuable space to advertisers has been controversial within the newspaper industry. But as more newspapers put ads on their section fronts, and most newspaper Web sites run ads on their virtual front pages, the practice may be losing some of its stigma.

"It's a competitive world out there," Mr. Keller said in response to a question from a staff member. He said he was hesitant about the practice, but if given the choice between running such ads and losing reporting positions, he would keep the reporters.

He also said The Times was considering shrinking the width of the paper, as other dailies — including The Los Angeles Times, The Washington Post and USA Today — have done. Because of the escalating costs of newsprint, reducing the width can save millions of dollars.

Mr. Keller said The Times began considering such a move after The Wall Street Journal, The Times's chief competitor on the national stage, announced in October that it would shrink its pages starting next year.

"My gut says that it will be unavoidable that we follow suit," Mr. Keller said. Such a change, if it took place, would not go into effect until at least 2008, because it would require new equipment, he said.

The Journal, owned by Dow Jones, has said that when it produces its narrower paper, it expects to add two or four pages to its average daily run of 54 pages, but will still lose about 10 percent of the space it devotes to news. The company said the changes would save $18 million a year in newsprint costs.

The New York Times Company said yesterday that it was already expecting to save $12 million in newsprint costs this year by using lighter-weight paper at its newspapers and by eliminating the Television section at The Times and daily stock tables at The Times and The Boston Globe.

Mr. Keller said an internal team was also looking at redesigning The Times's first section, which contains national and international news. In anticipation of the possible shrinking of the paper's width, he said, he had also asked the team to consider how to configure a narrower front page.
651 2006-06-21 The final round of the United States Open on NBC generated a 4.7 rating Sunday, the lowest since 1991, when the tournament was won by Payne Stewart. The round, in which Geoff Ogilvy won after Phil Mickelson double-bogeyed the 18th hole, was viewed by an average of seven million people, down from eight million last year. The weekend average rating of a 4.0 (with an average of 5.7 million viewers) was off 17 percent from a 4.8 (6.7 million viewers) last year.
652 2006-06-21 The new theme is "Guarantees for the If in Life," which is being abbreviated on the sides of the blimps as "For the If in Life" — presumably because the word "Guarantees" is long enough to require a blimp or two of its own.

Beth Hirschhorn, chief marketing officer at MetLife in New York, said the theme was intended to address an important change in the market for life and health insurance that was uncovered by consumer research.

"Pretty much at the heart of this campaign is that Americans are feeling a greater financial burden on themselves," Ms. Hirschhorn said. "Even when the 'macro' indicators don't look too bad, consumers are feeling worse than they have been."

The reason is that "they are very aware of the erosion of traditional safety nets," she said. "They know they can't rely in retirement on government, employers or the stock market the way they used to.""MetLife is playing the part of a partner to help people create their own personal safety nets."

That argument is made pointedly in the initial elements of the campaign. "Let's bring today's financial uncertainties down to size," says the headline of one ad. The headline of another ad says reassuringly, "Replace today's uncertainties with guarantees."

The narrator in the first television commercial, which runs 60 seconds, declares: "If. For such a small word, it packs a wallop. We all have our personal ifs." Among them, she says, is wondering "if Social Security isn't enough" for a retirement nest egg.

" 'If' can hold you back," the narrator asserts, then pivots in a positive direction, adding: "Or 'if' can propel you forward. We believe 'if' should never hold you back."

Thomas Ordahl, a partner at Group 1066 in New York, a corporate identity consulting company, said the focus on uncertainty made sense.

"The insurance industry was built on the promise of mitigating the risks in life, although in the past it was mostly the everyday, ordinary risks of death, house burning down, being laid up in the hospital for months," Mr. Ordahl said.

"This campaign targets more abstract modern fears: being laid off, taking care of older parents, living to 100," he added. "What was the promise of protecting you from life's catastrophes has now becoming protecting you from life's anxieties."

In other words, Mr. Ordahl said, "postmodernism hits the insurance industry."

Foote Cone, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, shares the MetLife agency roster with Y&R Advertising in New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group. Y&R Advertising typically creates campaigns aimed at consumers and Foote Cone typically creates business-to-business campaigns, centered on employee benefits. The Foote Cone interactive unit, FCBi, works on Web sites for MetLife and the MetLife Bank. (metlifebank.com).

"We're close to this issue because on employee benefits, consumers ask, 'What can I expect from my employer?' " after retiring, said Kim Corrigan, executive vice president and director for client services at Foote Cone.

The campaign is not only aimed at baby boomers who are nearing retirement, Ms. Corrigan said, but also is "casting a much wider net" to reach "the younger generation that knows they don't have the safety net and can't count on others for the future."

Bringing up the ifs in life, as in the daunting risks, could be counterproductive for MetLife because it may stimulate fear in consumers that leads to inertia rather than action, like learning more about MetLife policies and products.

To address that, Ms. Corrigan said, the campaign takes the approach that "there will always be an 'if' in 'life,' some wonderful, some challenging, and in today's world, managing the 'ifs' in life is more important than ever."

"It's not to say Met Life is going to solve every if," she added, but by working with customers to design their safety nets, "the value proposition is that Met Life is helping you manage through the uncertainties with guarantees."

Snoopy and Woodstock, the Peanuts characters that have appeared in MetLife ads for decades, are part of the new campaign.

For instance, Snoopy, dressed as his alter ego, the World War I flying ace who chases the Red Baron over the skies of Europe, appears on the blimps.

Another Peanuts connection is made in the television commercials, which use a new orchestral arrangement of "Linus and Lucy," music written by Vince Guaraldi for the 1965 animated TV show "A Charlie Brown Christmas."

In addition to consumers getting a look at the campaign on television, in newspapers and online, "there is an internal component" for MetLife employees, Ms. Hirschhorn said, meant to inform them about and build their enthusiasm for the new approach.

Among the elements still to come, she added, are the cartoons, which will appear as ads in The New Yorker magazine; ads aimed at Congress and so-called thought leaders, which will run in publications like The Hill, Roll Call and The Washington Post; and promotions like contests and sweepstakes.
653 2006-06-21 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China pledged to forge closer ties with Angola, the focal point of a seven-nation African tour aimed at cementing Beijing's links to the oil-rich continent. Mr. Wen's visit to Angola, which recently supplanted Saudi Arabia as China's top crude-oil supplier, is the first by a senior Chinese leader, and it is very likely to yield more deals and highlight what Angola's state news media calls the country's "turn toward the East." For its part, Angola wants access to Chinese capital to help rebuild an economy shattered by a long civil war that ended in 2002. China has provided Angola a $3 billion oil-backed credit line to help with reconstruction. The Chinese credit came without many of the requirements that would have been demanded under loans from such lenders as the International Monetary Fund, and analysts say more such deals could be in the offing.
654 2006-06-21 A French court found Bob Denard, left, France's best-known mercenary, guilty of mounting a coup in the Comoro Islands off southeast Africa in 1995 and gave him a five-year suspended sentence. Twenty-six accomplices drew lesser sentences. The coup was ended after two weeks when the mercenaries surrendered to the French Army and freed the president they had taken hostage. Mr. Denard, 77, who was born Gilbert Bourgeaud before he gave himself the rank of colonel and a new name, was excused from testifying because doctors said he had Alzheimer's disease. He is said to be the model for the lead character in Frederick Forsyth's 1974 novel "The Dogs of War," about a coup staged by mercenaries in a West African country, and he took part in conflicts in Benin, Nigeria, Yemen, Zimbabwe and Congo, formerly Zaire.
655 2006-06-21 Higher gasoline prices increased Canada's inflation rate to 2.8 percent in May from 2.4 percent a month earlier, Statistics Canada reported. More surprising to economists, however, was a rise in the country's core inflation rate — a measure that excludes volatile costs like energy — to 2 percent from 1.6 percent in April. Most economists had expected that rate to increase to 1.7 percent. The rise in core inflation, combined with solid job growth in May, has again fueled speculation that the Bank of Canada will increase lending rates.

The French retailer PPR said it had entered exclusive talks to sell its Printemps department store chain to a consortium comprising Rreef, a real estate arm of Deutsche Bank, and the Borletti Group of Italy. Les Echos quoted Maurizio Borletti, left, chairman of the Rinascente department store chain, as saying that the deal valued the business at 1.075 billion euros ($1.35 billion). Printemps consists of 17 stores throughout France but is best known for its flagship Paris store, which dates to 1865. (REUTERS)

The Fortress Investment Group, a buyout and hedge-fund firm based in New York, agreed to buy Telent, the telecommunications equipment maker formerly known as Marconi P.L.C., for about £346 million ($638 million). Telent agreed to sell most of itself to Ericsson in October for £1.2 billion. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

The international media group Emap said it had agreed to sell its struggling French consumer magazine division to Arnoldo Mondadori Editori in a cash deal worth £550 million ($1 billion). Emap said it would return £285 million to shareholders after the sale, which it expected to be completed in the first half of fiscal 2007. The French magazine portfolio includes more than 40 publications including television listings and lifestyle and special interest magazines. The TV listing titles were particularly hard hit by new rivals in the market. Mondadori is controlled by Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian prime minister. (AP)

General Electric agreed to buy Biacore International, a maker of medical research instruments, based in Uppsala, Sweden, for 3.22 billion kronor ($436 million) to add products used to identify drug candidates faster. G.E. said that Pfizer, the drug maker, which owns 41 percent of Biacore, supported the bid. The transaction is expected to close in August. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Japan agreed to lift its ban on beef imports from the United States, which was imposed early this year amid concerns over mad cow disease, the agriculture ministry said on Wednesday. The breakthrough resolves a long-running trade dispute and gives American ranchers access to what was once their most lucrative export market, worth $1.4 billion in 2003. "Japan agreed to resume U.S. beef imports on the condition that we find no further problems during onsite inspections," an agriculture ministry official, Hiroaki Ogura, said. Beef shipments were halted in January after Japan found a veal shipment that contained backbone, which Asian countries consider at risk for mad cow disease. (AP)

Japan's central bank chief, Toshihiko Fukui, apologized to the nation and said he would take a pay cut for an investment scandal that has set off calls for his resignation. He also said he would not step down. Mr. Fukui, governor of the Bank of Japan, has come under fire since stating last week that he invested 10 million yen ($86,000) seven years ago in a fund managed by Yoshiaki Murakami, who was arrested June 5 on suspicion of insider trading. Mr. Fukui said he would donate the profits to charity and would return 30 percent of his salary for six months. While Mr. Fukui has broken no law, the incident has raised questions about ethical standards for Japan's financial officials. (AP)
656 2006-06-21 The session — the regularly scheduled Tuesday hearing with Mr. de Villepin and other ministers — came to an abrupt end.

Mr. de Villepin's outburst followed an accusation by Mr. Hollande about the growing scandal involving the newest super-jumbo jet from Airbus and the controversy over suspected insider trading by the French co-chief executive officer of its parent company, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, known as EADS.

Mr. Hollande asked whether the French government, a major stakeholder in EADS, continued to support the executive, Noël Forgeard.

Mr. Hollande also charged that Mr. de Villepin lacked the trust of the French people and would not regain it by filing a libel suit against three journalists. On Monday, Mr. de Villepin took the unusual step of suing the journalists, who wrote two books on a complicated financial scandal known as the Clearstream affair. It was considered a politically risky move, in that it could force him to testify about the case in court.

Mr. de Villepin has been accused — he insists wrongly — of ordering an undercover investigation in 2004 of Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, his political rival, in connection with the Clearstream affair. Mr. Sarkozy has been cleared of any wrongdoing.

After Tuesday's parliamentary session was cut short, Mr. Hollande demanded a formal apology from Mr. de Villepin. "It is he who must bring serenity back to the chamber," Mr. Hollande said. He added that Mr. de Villepin "has lost his head."

Calls for Mr. de Villepin's resignation have increased in recent months, even within his own UMP party, following the failure of his initiative to create jobs for young people. Opposition to the law sparked huge demonstrations.

An opinion poll last weekend in a weekly newspaper, Le Journal du Dimanche, indicated that his approval rating stood at 23 percent, compared with 28 percent a month ago.

In recent weeks, Mr. de Villepin, who had been considered a possible center-right candidate for the presidency, has been savaged by his critics. Le Monde's cartoonist has drawn the impeccably tailored Mr. de Villepin as a homeless man in a cardboard box, and as a disheveled bureaucrat.

An editorial in Monday's Le Monde, titled "End of a Reign," referred to the "angry powerlessness of the prime minister," adding that President Jacques Chirac had a clear choice to "change the prime minister or step down himself."

By contrast, Ségolène Royal, Mr. Hollande's longtime partner, the mother of his four children and a Socialist deputy, has for months been the most popular politician on the left in opinion polls on the election for president next year..
657 2006-06-21 After more than 135 years, Tiffany & Company is taking some of its diamonds, silver and robin's-egg-blue boxes and opening a second store — downtown on Wall Street.

Tiffany plans to open its second shop in New York City around the corner from the New York Stock Exchange, at 37 Wall Street, a 25-story Beaux Arts building that once was the home for the Trust Company of America. Gold earrings and platinum necklaces will be on discrete display beneath 35-foot ceilings, 10 feet higher than those at Tiffany's famous flagship store on Fifth Avenue at 57th Street.

Downtown may be the citadel of capitalism, but the shopping has long been a bit dowdy, especially in the financial district. Until now, that is.

Earlier this year, Hermès, the French leather goods retailer, announced plans for a store at 15 Broad Street, practically next door to Tiffany. Hickey Freeman, the fancy men's haberdashery, is over at 111 Broadway. And BMW opened a showroom at 67 Wall Street.

"When three Fifth Avenue retailers sign leases below Chambers Street within a year, you know downtown's retail renaissance has begun," said an elated Eric Deutsch, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York.
658 2006-06-21 VERONA, Italy, June 20 — At the World Bridge Championships on Tuesday, even before play began, Americans were sure to win the McConnell Cup; the only question was which Americans. The 60-board final was between Hansa Narasimhan, Jill Levin, Irina Levitina, Jill Meyers, Debbie Rosenberg and JoAnna Stansby, all from the United States; and Carlyn Steiner, Marinesa Letizia, Janice Seamon-Molson and Tobi Sokolow from the United States and Victoria Gromova and Tatiana Ponomareva from Russia.

It started as a runaway for Narasimhan, who won the first session 50 international match points to 8. But then the tide turned. Steiner won the second session 37 imps to 5, reducing the deficit to 10 imps, then took the lead in the third quarter and increased the margin in the fourth, winning the gold medals 140-90.

In the semifinals of the Rosenblum Cup, Rose Meltzer, Roger Bates, Kyle Larsen and Alan Sontag from the United States and Geir Helgemo and Tor Helness from Norway cruised past Roy Welland, Bjorn Fallenius, Bobby Levin, Steve Weinstein, Chip Martel and Lew Stansby from the United States 171 imps to 83, aided in particular by a second-quarter blowout of 61-0.

In the final Meltzer appeared headed for a match against Eldad Ginossar, Avi Kalish, Leonid Podgur, Doran Yadlin and Israel Yadlin from Israel and Melih Ozdil from Turkey. The Yadlin team had the upper hand for three quarters in its semifinal against Christal Henner-Welland and Marc Jacobus from the United States and Peter Bertheau, Peter Fredin, Magnus Lindqvist and Fredrik Nystrom from Sweden. But in the fourth quarter, Henner-Welland was dominant, winning it 45-5 to gain a narrow victory, 113-107.

The Senior Teams winners, decided Monday, had one American resident, Victor Markowicz of Boca Raton, Fla. His teammates were Aleksander Jezioro, Julian Klukowski, Victor Melman and Jerzy Zaremba from Poland and Shalom Zeligman from Israel.

They defeated an American team, Lew Finkel, Gaylor Kasle, John Mohan and John Sutherlin, by 6 imps. The score was tied with two boards to go, but the Markowicz team gained those 6 imps on the penultimate deal to win the gold medals.
659 2006-06-21 If there were a Shakespearean household where it might actually be fun to live, Olivia's in "Twelfth Night" would be the place. Olivia, a countess, has only glamorous problems: a sexy young duke wants her for his bride, but she's not interested. Her relatives and staff seem to spend their time happily drinking, sometimes until the wee hours, and devising elaborate practical jokes.

This also makes it fun to watch, even when the cast's skills range from seasoned and sure to valiantly, endearingly amateurish (only 5 actors in the 15-person cast are members of Actors' Equity), as they do in this production by the Kings County Shakespeare Company.

Indeed, it is a tribute to the magic of theater that when the lights go down, even a second-floor studio in Fort Greene with a few rows of folding chairs can turn into Illyria.

The heroine of "Twelfth Night" is Viola (Brie Eley), a shipwreck survivor mourning her brother, lost at sea. She loves Orsino (Neimah Djourabchi), who has eyes only for Olivia (Rachel Alt). To get closer to him, Viola pulls her hair back, puts on men's clothing, calls herself Cesario and becomes his servant. Complications arise when Olivia decides that Cesario is the man of her dreams.

Meanwhile, Olivia's lively old uncle, Sir Toby Belch (a distinguished and devilish Ronald Cohen), is hanging out with Sir Andrew Aguecheek (Ian Gould, who has a Will Ferrell-like comic quality), a cheerfully oblivious young man. With the help of Olivia's servant Maria (Nicole Potter), they decide to trick Malvolio (Joseph Small), Olivia's pompous, puritanical steward, into believing that Olivia is in love with him.

Much of the humor in "Twelfth Night" is nonverbal, which is helpful to Shakespeare novices, and there is a good bit of music. The 18th-century-style costumes by Deborah Wright Houston, who directed, and Lucie Chin are lovely, designed with elegant silhouettes in rich fabrics.
660 2006-06-21 1 pound sheep's or goats' milk feta cheese, broken into pieces

2 red bell peppers, roasted, peeled, seeded and coarsely chopped

2 teaspoons dried Aleppo chilies, more to taste (see note)

1 teaspoon dried Urfa chilies (see note)

½ teaspoon smoked paprika, more to taste

1 teaspoon lemon juice

¼ cup olive oil.

Combine ingredients in a food processor and purée until very smooth, about 2 minutes. Taste for seasonings; for more heat, add Aleppo chilies; for more smokiness, add paprika. Scrape into a serving bowl and chill at least 30 minutes or up to 2 days. Sprinkle with more Aleppo and Urfa chili pepper and serve with celery sticks and crusty bread.

Note: Aleppo and Urfa chili peppers are available at Kalustyan's, 123 Lexington Avenue (28th Street); (212) 685-3451 and at globalpalate.com.
661 2006-06-21 A recipe for Thick Yogurt With Beets, Garlic and Dill (Tzatziki), adapted from "Spice: Flavors of the Eastern Mediterranean" by Ana Sortun....
662 2006-06-21 Higher gasoline prices increased Canada's inflation rate to 2.8 percent in May from 2.4 percent a month earlier, Statistics Canada reported. More surprising to economists, however, was a rise in the country's core inflation rate -- a measure that ...
663 2006-06-21 UNIVISION AUCTION The auction for Univision, the nation's largest Spanish-language media company, was sent into chaos as a consortium led by Grupo Televisa, which was tipped to win the bidding, missed a deadline to submit its offer. [Page C1.]    ...
664 2006-06-22 After Country got a three-star review, prices went up....
665 2006-06-22 The Securities and Exchange Commission may take action against several hedge funds for giving preferential treatment to certain investors, according to two recent reports. At issue are so-called "side letters," or agreements with particular invest...
666 2006-06-22 Credit Suisse has tapped David M. Platter as its head of financial institutions investment banking for the Americas. Previously, Mr. Platter led the financial institutions group at Sagent Advisors, a boutique mergers and acquisitions advisory firm...
667 2006-06-22 British Airways, Europe's third-largest airline, said on Thursday that it and other carriers were being investigated by competition authorities in both the United States and Britain over ticket prices and fuel surcharges. The Office of Fair Tradin...
668 2006-06-22 Intel Capital has increased its stake in a mobile WiMax equipment vendor, Navini Networks, a key supplier for the burgeoning wireless standard that could one day dramaticaly expand the use of Intel chips for wireless data and voice services. Intel...
669 2006-06-22 Siemens may get at least 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) from the sale of its enterprise telecommunications business with the likely buyer being Avaya of the United States or Nortel Networks of Canada. "Considering the size of the business, I jus...
670 2006-06-22 The Federal Communications Commission on Wednesday restarted its controversial effort to draft new media-ownership rules – and critics assailed the complicated process as soon as it began. Among other things, the new rules would determine how ma...
671 2006-06-22 New shows in New York include "Single Black Female" and "Satellites."...
672 2006-06-22 "Apple will need to change the way they do business in France," said Christian Vanneste, a deputy in the French National Assembly and the spokesman for the committee that finalized the text. "Apple's business philosophy runs counter to the philosophy of this law and the direction of technology."

Apple, which has offered few public hints of its position other than a statement in March calling the bill a form of "state-sponsored piracy," offered a single sentence of comment today.

"We are awaiting the final result of France's legislative process, and hope they let the extremely competitive marketplace driven by customer choice decide which music players and online music stores are offered to consumers," Alan Hely, a London-based spokesman for Apple, wrote in an e-mail message.

While many Internet music sites sell files in a widely used format licensed from Microsoft, two leading companies — Apple and Sony sell their online music in proprietary formats that only work on their own hardware.

The law calls for the creation of an authority to balance the interests of companies that sell music in proprietary formats and rival companies that may wish to use those formats.

The principle, known as interoperability, affects all companies using copy protection measures on digital music, but it would have the greatest impact on the market leader, Apple, and on Sony.

Many younger consumers have been calling for interoperability and fewer restrictions on the way downloaded music can be used. Some of them said the final version of the bill was disappointing.

"Interoperability was key to the text of this law, but they have killed it," said Christian Paul, a French deputy from the Socialist party who on Thursday led a walkout of opposition members from the committee in protest.

The new authority to be created by the bill will have to tackle issues like patent law that will undermine the goal of interoperability, said Dominique Menard, a lawyer specializing in intellectual property issues and a partner in the Lovells firm.

"Even if the principle behind the law is clear and simple, there are many, many levels of complexity," Mr. Menard said. "Apple has not yet lost its ability to defend use of their unique format."

Apple, Sony and others will have a number of strong legal arguments to use against being forced to open their format to rivals, Mr. Menard and others said.

"Protection of patents is a very powerful defense," he said. "To force interoperability over a patent, you must show that a particular format is essential to entering the market."

In addition, Mr. Vanneste, the deputy who served as spokesman for the committee working on the bill, said that Apple could arrange for recording artists to insist that their music sold over iTunes may not be converted to other formats.

"The overarching intention is to protect the authors' rights, so if the author says it should only appear in Apple's format, then that must be respected," Mr. Vanneste said. "Authors have absolute rights over their works."

The final version of the bill may have been watered down from what proponents originally hoped, but it nonetheless raised important issues, said David Assouline, a Socialist senator on the legislative committee.

"We walked out because it was clear the government wanted to force through something that did not discuss digital civilization," Mr. Assouline said. "We might not have won, but at the very least I hope we have launched some new ideas."

Other governments in Europe, including Norway, Sweden and Denmark, have demanded that Apple justify the restrictions it places on customers, preventing them from playing music bought through iTunes on non-Apple devices.
673 2006-06-22 The blacked-out passages mostly summarize and quote from e-mail messages between Mr. Fainaru-Wada and one of his sources, and they suggest that the government views the conduct of both with disdain. The source, Victor Conte Jr., was the president of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative, which distributed performance-enhancing drugs to athletes.

In recent remarks at a Berkeley book store, the filing says, Mr. Fainaru-Wada called Mr. Conte a "tempestuous source" with whom he had a "love-hate relationship."

After Mr. Conte's indictment for distributing steroids in February 2004 but before he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to four months in prison last year, Mr. Conte, other defendants in the case and their lawyers were provided with grand jury transcripts so they could prepare their defense. Judge Susan Illston of the Federal District Court in San Francisco issued a protective order that forbade them to disseminating the transcripts. The defendants and their lawyers all signed the order.

The e-mail messages between Mr. Fainaru-Wada and Mr. Conte indicate that the government believes that Mr. Conte provided the transcripts to The Chronicle. Mr. Fainaru-Wada, the filing says, "repeatedly discussed with Conte secret grand jury information and emailed Conte in an attempt to gain access to the grand jury transcripts." The messages were obtained by the government in January 2005 when Federal Bureau of Investigation agents searched Mr. Conte's home.

In a June 18, 2004 e-mail message, Mr. Conte wrote, according to the filing: "I would say at this point the only way the athletes' grand jury testimonies will come out is at trial. Unless I give you a copy of the indexed CD-ROM that contains all 30 thousand pages. How would you like that? Just kidding."

Mr. Fainaru-Wada pursued the matter in a series of email messages over the next several days. "I'm still waiting for that CD-ROM," he wrote on June 20, adding that he was "somewhat reticent to be terribly overt on the e-mail front." The next day, Mr. Fainaru-Wada suggested communicating by "pay phone or cell or even meeting." He added: "As with the CD-ROM, waiting, waiting, waiting."

On June 23, Mr. Fainaru-Wada told Mr. Conte that articles would be published soon. "Hope you like them," he wrote.

The next day, The Chronicle published an article quoting at length from the grand jury testimony of Tim Montgomery, the former Olympic sprinter.

After the article was published, the reporter and his source discussed the legality of the disclosure and whether their earlier e-mail messages contained incriminating information. "If I find something," Mr. Fainaru-Wada wrote on July, "how should I let you know, given your concerns about being watched?"

Ms. Burton, the Hearst lawyer, declined to address the e-mail messages. "We don't comment in any regard on our newsgathering processes," she said.

For his part, Mr. Conte has signed a sworn statement denying he was the source and allowed his lawyers to file papers seeking to dismiss the indictment based on supposed government misconduct. That motion, Wednesday's filing says, may have been "a fraud on the court."

Wednesday's filing contends that the reporters are needed to testify in light of Mr. Conte's denial.

Mary McNamara, a lawyer for Mr. Conte, reiterated his denial, saying: "It is unclear why the government's submission discusses e-mails that plainly prove no breach of the law by Mr. Conte. The government admits that the leaker could be anyone, government personnel included. Indeed, recent disclosures in the Bonds grand jury matter raise serious questions about the government's ability to protect the secrecy that it is charged with maintaining. Mr. Conte is confident that he will ultimately be vindicated in this matter.

A Justice Department spokesman said today that they had no immediate comment on the Wednesday's filing.

The leak investigation in the San Francisco case bears some similarities to that of I. Lewis Libby, Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief of staff. In both cases, the investigation of a possibly unlawful disclosure of sensitive information changed its focus to include inquiries into potentially false statements made by a subject of the investigation.

The Chronicle has said that its reporting brought an important issue to public attention. Wednesday's filing disputed that, saying the leaked information added nothing of substance to the indictment in the case and "served only titillate and hold up to public ridicule those athletes who admitted using steroids before the grand jury."

Mr. Bronstein disagreed. "It's very clear that it was not the indictment but the reporting itself that created the national dialogue," he said.
674 2006-06-22 LONDON, June 22 — British and American regulators are investigating major airlines that operate long-distance flights to and from Britain, suspecting that they may have illegally conspired to fix the amounts of fuel surcharges they impose on passengers.

Most major carriers flying between the United States and Heathrow, London's main international airport, charge passengers about 35 British pounds ($64) each way in fuel surcharges.

The United States Department of Justice and Britain's Office of Fair Trade have contacted British Airways, Virgin Atlantic Airways, United Airways, American Airlines and possibly other airlines in connection with the investigation, which could lead to criminal charges, civil penalties or both.

The Office of Fair Trade announced the investigation in a statement today, but said it was "at an early stage," and that "no assumption should be made that there has been an infringement of competition law."

British Airways acknowledged the investigation in a statement and said it was assisting in the investigation. The airline also said that two senior executives — Martin George, the commercial director, and Iain Burns, the chief of communications — had been placed on a leave of absence during the investigation, but it did not elaborate.
675 2006-06-22 The indictment said that starting in 2003, five of the six guards — Mr. Hill, Alfred Barnes, Gregory Dixon, Alan Moore and E. Lavon Spence — traded contraband for sex with at least 10 inmates. At other times, it said, they sold contraband to inmates or used it to bribe them to keep silent.

Federal officials would not say what kind of contraband was involved, but the indictment suggested it could have included alcohol, drugs, food or anything else not available at the prison commissary.

To further keep the inmates from telling anyone, the guards also monitored their phone calls and threatened to have them sent to other prisons farther from their families, according to the indictment.

The sixth guard, Vincent Johnson, is said to have conveyed messages between inmates and one of the other five guards, and showed inmates the Bureau of Prisons computer system, presumably as a threat that they could be tracked once they were released.

Michael Folmar, the special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation office in Jacksonville, said the guards had been unaware of the indictments and had no advance warning of the arrests.

But Timothy Jansen, a lawyer for Mr. Hill, said the guard hired him last fall after hearing rumors of an investigation. Mr. Jansen said that Mr. Hill had submitted a saliva sample for DNA testing in January, but had not heard anything from federal investigators since then.

Mr. Folmar said it was standard procedure for agents from the inspector general's office to make arrests.

"These agents were out just trying to do their jobs," he said. "They were trying to make arrests in a very controlled situation, and it just didn't come down as planned."

Mr. Folmar said guards were not allowed to bring personal weapons into the prison. He would not provide details about the deaths, saying that a review team from Washington would start to "piece all this together" Thursday morning. He also would not identify the Bureau of Prisons lieutenant injured in the shootout, but said the lieutenant was expected to recover fully.

Each of the five surviving guards pleaded not guilty during an early afternoon arraignment in federal court here. Still dressed in their uniforms of white shirts and gray pants, they showed no emotion as they sat beside their court-appointed lawyers.

The defendants were ordered held in federal custody at an undisclosed location pending a hearing Thursday.

Trial was set for Aug. 21 before Chief Judge Robert L. Hinkle of the Federal District Court for the Northern District of Florida.

Mr. Jansen, the lawyer hired by Mr. Hill, said he had never had "any indication that my client was a violent person." Mr. Hill received an honorable discharge from the Air Force, he said, and had worked at the federal prison for 12 years.

Mr. Dixon's lawyer, Thomas Findley, suggested that some inmates might have made false accusations about the guards in the hope of getting their sentences reduced.

Teri Donaldson, the lawyer for Mr. Spence, said his client was "not anywhere near the shooting and had absolutely nothing to do with those events."

Several family members of the surviving guards, meanwhile, said they were surprised by the charges and could not imagine the men capable of such acts.

"We wouldn't expect anything like this from him," said Vincent Johnson Jr., 22, Mr. Johnson's son, adding that his father had worked at the prison for at least six years. "He was a good guy for the most part, or so we thought."

Mr. Moore's sister, Angela Moore of Conyers, Ga., said her brother was a deacon at his Baptist church and had never before been in trouble. He is married, has a son in college and has worked at the prison for at least a decade, she added.

"My brother is a good person, and I know him well enough to know he would never do anything like that," Ms. Moore said in a telephone interview. "He counsels people to do right. All those accusations are false."

Armando Garcia, the lawyer representing Mr. Barnes, described him as a "family man" from Thomasville, Ga., about 35 miles north of Tallahassee. He said his client was not guilty.

"He's a god-fearing, churchgoing married man with children who works hard," Mr. Garcia said. "He owns his home. He drives back and forth to work every day. He does what he's supposed to do."
676 2006-06-22 White House officials including the national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, outlined ways in which Republican lawmakers could speak more forcefully about the war. Participants also included Mr. Bush's top political and communications advisers: his deputy chief of staff, Karl Rove; his political director, Sara Taylor; and the White House counselor, Dan Bartlett. Mr. Rove is newly freed from the threat of indictment in the C.I.A. leak case, and leaders of both parties see his reinvigorated hand in the strategy.

The meetings were followed by the distribution of a 74-page briefing book to Congressional offices from the Pentagon to provide ammunition for what White House officials say will be a central line of attack against Democrats from now through the midterm elections: that the withdrawal being advocated by Democrats would mean thousands of troops would have died for nothing, would give extremists a launching pad from which to build an Islamo-fascist empire and would hand the United States its must humiliating defeat since Vietnam.

Republicans say the cumulative effect would be to send a message of weakness to the world at a time of new threats from Iran and North Korea and would leave enemies controlling Iraq's vast oil reserves, the third largest in the world. (The book, including a chapter entitled "Rapid Response" with answers to frequent Democratic charges, was sent via e-mail to Republican lawmakers but, in an apparent mistake, also to some Democrats.)

A senior adviser to Mr. Bush said the White House had concluded that it was better to plunge aggressively into the debate on Iraq than to let Democrats play upon clear, public misgivings about the war. "This is going to be a big issue in this election," said the adviser, who was granted anonymity in exchange for agreeing to describe strategic considerations about the war. "Better to shape and fight it — as good and strongly as you can — than to try to run away from it."

In a telephone interview, Ken Mehlman, the Republican chairman, disputed the notion that the latest difficulties in Iraq would set back the effort to push the debate onto newly favorable terms for Republicans.

"The fundamental question," Mr. Mehlman said, "is if you think the enemy is more brutal than before, is the answer that you should surrender?"

Officials at the White House say they had always planned to use the formation of a new, permanent Iraqi government as a lever to seize control of a debate that had been slipping away from them. The killing of the top terrorist in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, provided another useful lift. And, they said, Democratic calls for speedy troop withdrawal provided an opening for them to use a "cut and run" argument against Democrats, which Mr. Rove used last week in a speech in New Hampshire.

Ron Bonjean, a spokesman for the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, said House Republicans had been planning to introduce a resolution emphasizing the need to complete the mission in Iraq. But, he said, the House leaders worked in consultation with the White House to hone the final language of the resolution, which read in part that "the terrorists have declared Iraq to be the central front in their war against all who oppose their ideology."

The strategy still required calming some uneasy Republicans,administration officials said. A participant in one White House meeting, who would discuss the intraparty debate only after being promised anonymity, said Mr. Bush's aides sought to convince lawmakers that the political situation was not so dire because polls had also shown dissatisfaction with progress in Iraq in 2004. Democrats say the climate is far different now, with a higher American death tally and fresh acknowledgments from even the administration that crucial mistakes were made.

"Two-thousand-six is not 2004," said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who is running the Senate Democrats' campaign effort. "The American people recognize that the commander in chief got us into Iraq and it is his job to get us out of Iraq."

But Republicans who have expressed nervousness about the war earlier this month seemed less so by the time of this week's Senate debate. In a telephone interview on Wednesday, Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, a Republican who has frequently expressed concern about the war's effect on his prospects this year, said he favored a path that could be called "staying the course, or learning from our mistakes and now doing it right."

Mr. Shays echoed other Republicans by saying, "I would strongly oppose any premature departure from Iraq to help me or anyone else win election."
677 2006-06-22 WASHINGTON, June 21 — Federal regulators adopted a rule on Wednesday that would require providers of Internet-based telephone service to help subsidize services in rural and low-income areas.

A rule adopted by the Federal Communications Commission requires providers of Voice-over-Internet Protocol, or VoIP, service to contribute 10.5 percent of their long-distance revenue to the Universal Service Fund if the calls pass through traditional phone networks. Mobile phone companies like Cingular Wireless may have to pay more as well.

"We take these actions because we recognize the changing telecommunications marketplace," the chairman of the F.C.C., Kevin Martin, said during Wednesday's meeting. The rule is an interim measure that will help maintain the stability of the fund while the commission works to create a long-term "technology-neutral" contribution system, Mr. Martin said after the meeting.

The rule, approved unanimously, is part of an effort to restructure the Universal Service program. It is financed by a surcharge on carriers' long-distance revenue, which has declined as calling costs dropped. That has forced the F.C.C. to raise the fee to maintain the program, which also finances Internet access in schools and libraries.

The agency now requires established carriers like AT&T, Verizon Communications and mobile service companies including Cingular to pay 10.9 percent of long-distance revenue into the fund.

Carriers typically pass the fees on to subscribers through monthly surcharges. The contribution for all carriers is scheduled to drop to 10.5 percent on July 1.
678 2006-06-22 Despite the resistance, the Republican leadership issued a statement pledging to move ahead quickly with a vote once Republicans were given additional time to work out their differences.

"While the bill will not be considered today, the House G.O.P. leadership is committed to passing the Voting Rights Act legislation as soon as possible," the leadership said in the statement.

Democrats and civil rights groups expressed strong disappointment in the change of plans, particularly given what appeared to be a bipartisan consensus to push ahead before major elements of the law expire in the middle of next year. The renewal would be for 25 years.

"We fear that pulling the bill could send the wrong message about whether the bill enjoys broad bipartisan support and that delaying consideration until after the July 4 recess could give those with partisan intentions space and time to politicize the issue," said Representative Melvin Watt, a North Carolina Democrat who is the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.

Democrats said they were holding their political fire to some degree in the interests of winning passage of the measure, but they predicted it could become a significant political issue if the fight dragged on too long.

The delay marked the second time in days that House Republicans had pulled back on legislation. On Tuesday, the leadership announced it would hold hearings this summer on immigration policy before trying to negotiate legislation that differs from the Senate.

President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law in August 1965 after a string of violence in Southern states resulting from deep resistance to voting by blacks. The law instituted a nationwide prohibition against voting discrimination based on race, eliminated poll taxes and literacy tests, and put added safeguards in regions where discrimination had been especially pronounced. Those included a requirement for the Justice Department to review any proposed changes to voting procedures to judge if they would be discriminatory.

That "preclearance" requirement would be retained for the nine states entirely covered by the law, most of them in the South, and parts of seven others. But Mr. Westmoreland and other Southern Republicans said their states have made great strides in voting access for members of minority groups, while some of the most recent irregularities have taken place in places exempt from the requirement.

"The hanging chads down in Florida, that jurisdiction is not covered," he said.

Advocates of the act say the history of discrimination in the covered states justifies their special status and that leaders who believe their jurisdictions should be exempt can apply to "bail out" through a federal review.

"The fact of the matter is that you have a small group of members who have hijacked this bill, and many of these individuals represent states that have been in violation for a long time," said Nancy M. Zirkin, deputy director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. "We believe these individuals do not want the Voting Rights Act reauthorized."

The Republican leadership of the House and the Senate decided earlier this year to proceed speedily with the renewal to put to rest fears that Republicans intended to let it expire next year, and to try to make political inroads with minority groups. If the act is allowed to expire, Democrats will almost certainly accuse Republicans of trying to turn the clock back on civil rights.

But Southern lawmakers, mainly from Georgia and Texas, continued to push their objections, with some suggesting the House hold off action pending a Supreme Court ruling on a Texas redistricting case.

A new problem arose as some Republicans, already caught up in a fight over immigration policy, began raising questions about a requirement for bilingual ballots in cases where political jurisdictions meet a certain threshold for citizens who struggle with English.

Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, has pushed a proposal to eliminate that plan, arguing that naturalized citizens should have had to prove English proficiency as part of their citizenship test and that American-born speakers of other languages are entitled to assistance at the polls.

"There is no need to print ballots in any language other than English," Mr. King said Wednesday.

But the leadership did not allow him to offer the provision, angering some Republicans. Lawmakers and aides said that Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the Wisconsin Republican who is the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, also left Wednesday's meeting without answering questions about the bill, angering others. In the resulting tumult, the leadership decided to delay the vote.
679 2006-06-22 "And the newspaper reader is still a primary target for pharmaceutical advertisers," he added, particularly those that market prescription drugs directly to consumers and need the print media to disclose and describe side effects.

Executives at USA Weekend initially considered the issue to be a test. But after seeing the results — more than 16 advertising pages, from marketers like AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer, bringing in more than $3 million in revenue, Mr. Gabrielson said — they are already looking at publishing HealthSmart again, perhaps as soon as the fourth quarter.

Additional spinoffs on other subjects are also being considered, said Rob Harrison, senior vice president for advertising at USA Weekend, including food, the other most popular reader interest.

Through the first five months of 2006, publishers brought out 338 new magazines, compared with 395 for the period a year ago, according to Samir Husni, chairman of the journalism department at the University of Mississippi, who tracks start-ups on his Web site (mrmagazine.com). But this May brought the first increase from the year-ago period, he reported, 78 compared with 64.

"The first time I heard print was dead was 1980, when I was a student," Mr. Husni said in a telephone interview yesterday.

The difficulty confronting the print media as online media grow in popularity "is not a problem of ink on paper," Mr. Husni said. "It's a problem of creating relevant content."

"As long as the content is compelling, the readers will follow," he said.

The magazines introduced this year include Travel & Romance, from American Express Publishing and The Knot Inc., which operates an online wedding-information portal (theknot.com). Five hundred thousand copies were distributed, carrying ads from marketers like Fairmont Hotels and Resorts, Lancôme and Liberty Travel; a second issue is planned for next year.

"Our Web sites do well, but it all starts with the respect the brand has from the magazines," said Ellen Asmodeo-Giglio, publisher at Travel & Leisure in New York and its extensions. They are, in addition to Travel & Romance, Travel & Leisure Family, which is soon increasing its frequency to six issues a year from three; and Travel & Leisure Golf.

Just as radio did not bring the death of newspapers, and television did not bring the death of radio, the online media will not kill off the print media, said Ms. Asmodeo-Giglio, whose magazines are owned by the American Express Company and managed by the Time Inc. division of Time Warner.

That opinion was echoed by an executive of a new-media company, Flytxt, which specializes in mobile marketing services and works for advertisers like Procter & Gamble and Target.

"It's a changing world, but the classical media are crucial still," said Carsten Boers, president at Flytxt in New York, which includes Time Inc. as a client. "You want to create the critical awareness to drive the interactive channels through the broad reach of magazines, TV, even posters."

USA Weekend competes against magazine supplements distributed each week through newspapers that include American Profile, owned by the Publishing Group of America; Life, from Time Inc.; and Parade, part of Advance Publications.

Mr. Husni noted that the Publishing Group of America recently introduced a sibling for American Profile, called Relish, a monthly that covers food and is also distributed through newspapers.

Ad pages for USA Weekend through the first five months of the year totaled 300, the Publishers Information Bureau reported, up 6.4 percent from 282 in the period a year ago. The trade publication Mediaweek, which maintains its own database, reported that ad pages for USA Weekend through the issue dated June 16-18 totaled 339.5, up 4.9 percent from 323.6 in the period the year before.

Health is the No. 2 ad category for USA Weekend, Mr. Harrison said, trailing only direct-response marketers. Two such direct-response advertisers, Bose and Dell, also appear in USA Weekend HealthSmart, he added.

The spinoff was named after HealthSmart, a weekly column in USA Weekend written by Dr. Tedd Mitchell. The title USA Weekend HealthSmart may be confusing in that the issue is being distributed not during the weekend but in newspapers coming out Monday through today. "We wanted to reinforce the brand" of USA Weekend, Mr. Gabrielson said, rather than use a reference like "midweek."

It is not unlike the problem faced by another Gannett publication when its readers ask each other, "Did you see USA Today yesterday?"
680 2006-06-22 The Senate rejected a proposed increase in the minimum wage by a vote of 52 to 46. Democrats had said it was past time to increase the rate of $5.15 an hour, in effect for nearly a decade. This was the ninth time since 1997 that Senate Democrats have proposed and Republicans have blocked a stand-alone increase in the minimum wage. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, proposed the bill, which would have increased the rate to $5.85 beginning 60 days after enactment, to $6.55 a year later and to $7.25 a year after that.
681 2006-06-22 Carter Dillard, director of farm-animal litigation at the Humane Society, based in Washington, said in a telephone interview that the petition "doesn't speak to whether there's a health risk or not" in foie gras itself.

"We're going by the letter of the law," he said. "And the weird thing about foie gras is we have three world experts, 10 veterinarians, 4 independent studies and 12 published articles that will tell you this is a diseased product."

Eric Ripert, executive chef and co-owner of Le Bernardin, the acclaimed French restaurant in Manhattan, uttered a long sigh in an interview. "We can criticize how foie gras is produced," he said, "and be concerned about the health of the duck and blah, blah, blah, O.K., fine."

But many food processes are cruel, Mr. Ripert said, including the farming of chicken and fish. "To me, it's more cruel to chew on an oyster, which is live, because it must have feelings," he said. "Still, I am not ready to become a vegan."

In California, where vandals have attacked restaurants serving pâté de foie gras and declared it a "delicacy of despair," a 2004 law is set to eliminate the production and sale of foie gras by 2012. In April, the Chicago City Council banned foie gras within city limits. The ban began this month.

New York State is the largest producer of foie gras in North America (France is the world's largest producer). Animal-rights activists have been unsuccessful in persuading the Legislature to ban the sale and production of it.

The Humane Society argues that the production of foie gras results in "hypertrophied livers" that are "pathological," citing, among others, a 1998 study by the European Union Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare.

A spokeswoman for the agriculture department in Albany, Jessica A. Chittenden, said the department had not yet formally received the petition and could not comment on it.

But as an example of one of the most common adulterated food products, she cited misleadingly labeled hamburger that contained added soy or fat. "Rodent-defiled" meat is another example, she said.

Ariane Daguin, owner of D'Artagnan, a leading distributor of foie gras products based in Newark, reviewed the Humane Society's petition after it was e-mailed to her. She said she was familiar with research criticizing foie gras production, including research cited by the society. For example, in one cited study hepatic lipidosis, or fatty liver, is not a disease of ducks but of cats, she argued.

"I am infuriated by such research," she said.

Like Ms. Daguin, Michael Ginor, founder of Hudson Valley Foie Gras, in Ferndale, N.Y., argues that engorging the liver is a hastening of a natural process whereby fowl store calories before a long migration. At 7,000 ducks a week, Hudson Valley is the leading producer of foie gras products in North America.

Mr. Ginor likened force-feeding to the treatment of confined cattle, which reach 400 pounds after two years, he said, compared with grass-fed cattle, which reach that weight after four years. He also said that foie gras ducks were 16 weeks old at the time of slaughter, compared with 8 weeks or less for ducks roasted or grilled in restaurants.

But Mr. Ginor acknowledged that it was unlikely that the liver of a duck in the wild or on a free-range farm, which typically has a liver weighing three ounces, would grow to restaurant-quality levels of 19 ounces or more without force-feeding.

"To me, the issues are, one, are the ducks sick?" Mr. Ginor said. "And the U.S.D.A. looks at every duck pre- and post-mortem, so it's not a diseased product. And, two, can it make people sick? Foie gras has been eaten by people for 5,000 years, and if it caused any disease we'd probably know it by now."

The ancient Greeks mention fattened geese in the fifth century B.C.
682 2006-06-22 TOKYO, June 21 — Japan said on Wednesday that it would resume imports of American beef after an agreement was struck that would allow Japanese inspectors into packing plants in the United States.

The agreement, reached by Japanese and American agricultural officials during a trans-Pacific teleconference early Wednesday, could end a dispute that has marred strong ties between Washington and Tokyo. It also comes a week before Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's final visit to the United States before he steps down in September.

The agreement is expected to reopen the largest overseas market for American ranchers. It was closed in December 2003 after the discovery of one case of mad cow disease in Washington State. Before the ban, Japan had imported $1.4 billion worth of beef from the United States in 2003.

Japan resumed imports last December, but then shut its market again a few weeks later when an exporter based in Brooklyn, included parts of a backbone in a shipment. Spinal cords, brains and surrounding body parts were banned under the December agreement, because they carry mad cow disease.

On Wednesday, Japan agreed to resume beef imports from the United States on the condition that Japanese officials be allowed to monitor American compliance, a spokesman for Japan's agriculture ministry said. He said the agreement allowed Japanese health and agricultural officials to inspect packing plants. Japanese officials will also be able to accompany American health officials during spot inspections, the spokesman said.
683 2006-06-22 Mr. Zell underwrites the $150,000 to $200,000 annual cost of Mr. Watts's relationship-building and his seven months of travel each year in coffee-growing countries because he expects these investments to pay off as quality increases and customers learn to appreciate artisanal coffees from around the world.

To speed this development, Intelligentsia has devised a plan that offers farmers financial incentives for improving growing methods and producing superior beans. Mr. Watts was in Nicaragua to introduce this new approach, which mandates direct dealings with farmers and limits the role of the cooperatives that currently market most Nicaraguan coffee.

Some in the specialty coffee business have had their doubts about Intelligentsia's business model and its highflying ways. "Intelligentsia was known as this stupid and naïve company that overpaid farmers and carried too much debt," said a coffee buyer, Peter Giuliano, a principal of Counter Culture Coffee in Durham, N.C., one of a handful of top-quality roasters that pay a premium for quality. Stumptown, based in Portland, Ore., is another.

Mr. Watts acknowledges that in the past the company had sometimes overemphasized altruism and underemphasized business. Recently, however, the tut-tutting has been silenced as Mr. Zell has turned Intelligentsia into a profit-making venture, with 2005 sales of $9.4 million and a 2006 growth rate of 21 percent, according to company figures.

Coffee matters in Nicaragua, and all the important people were gathered for the Cup of Excellence ceremony: government officials, mill owners, exporters and representatives from the cooperatives that represent the country's 27,000 small coffee growers.

As darkness fell and the speeches dragged on, Mr. Watts, milling about in the relative cool of the church's loggia, greeted a coffee grower, Norman Canales. He is the son of the 2004 Cup of Excellence first-place winner, Daniel Canales, who was the first organic grower to win. Norman and his brothers Milton and Donald also grow organic coffee recognized by Cup of Excellence. Intelligentsia is the sole buyer of the Canales family's coffee.

"My family thanks God for Cup of Excellence," Norman Canales said, giving Mr. Watts an exuberant hug. "Cup of Excellence helped Geoff Watts and Intelligentsia find us. Now we get a high price for our coffee and we consider Geoff to be our guardian angel."

The morning after the Cup of Excellence ceremony, Mr. Watts rose early in preparation for the real business at hand. He was to meet the growers of the Las Brumas coffee cooperative, four hours from Granada in the hills above Matagalpa. In 2003, these farmers walked away with many Cup of Excellence honors. Since then, Mr. Watts has been buying much of their coffee.

As the driver, who had arrived hours late, played pothole hopscotch on the rutted highway, Mr. Watts and his companions — Mr. Giuliano of Counter Culture Coffee and K. C. O'Keefe, an Intelligentsia consultant based in Lima, Peru — talked coffee. Time and again, they returned to the financial differential between ordinary and extraordinary coffee. Farmers growing the best beans earn only pennies more than those whose crop is ordinary, though they work much harder, the men agreed.

While others recognized the problem, Intelligentsia was instituting a policy for changing this. But to do so, it would have to alter the way the cooperative system works, because all coffee growers within the co-op would no longer be paid the same. Like the growers of estate-quality wines, some would be paid a premium for excellence. Mr. Watts was going to Las Brumas to explain the new pricing structure.

A fiesta, paid for by Intelligentsia, was already under way at Las Brumas — 4,400 feet above sea level, with no electricity — when the group arrived. After socializing, 35 coffee growers and their families crowded into an outbuilding to hear Mr. Watts. Speaking in somewhat tortured Spanish, he began his presentation by praising the growers of Las Brumas and offering to underwrite several capital improvements.

With Mr. O'Keefe, the consultant, translating, Mr. Watts then addressed the purpose of the meeting. He told the farmers that from now on he would pay $1.60 a pound for AA coffee that earned a cupping score of 84 to 87 (on a scale of 100); $1.85 a pound for AAA coffees that earned scores of 88-93; and an unheard-of $3 a pound for extraordinary coffee that scored 94 and above. Furthermore, Mr. Watts said, these rates would never decline, they would only increase.

The response was muted, perhaps fearful. Growers in Las Brumas had never before been offered direct payment: in the past, the co-op received payment, and all farmers were paid the same price for their coffee.

The growers wanted to know how much Cecocafen, the huge cooperative that includes the small Las Brumas co-op as a member, would skim off the top.

None, Mr. Watts, answered. "Cecocafen would be paid a separate fee of around 26 cents per pound."

But why should Cecocafen take money, any money from Las Brumas growers? Mr. Watts was asked. Cecocafen, he answered, was paid for performing "essential services," like dry-milling the beans, prefinancing the crop and providing technical assistance.

And then the question that went to the heart of the matter: How could Las Brumas farmers be sure that the judging of their coffees — on which their pay rate would depend — would be fair, impartial and consistent?

Mr. Watts tried to reassure the farmers, telling them that Intelligentsia would build a cupping lab in the village and teach Las Brumas growers to judge their own coffee.

Then the sun began to set and Mr. Watts departed, leaving the mountain cool for the heat and humidity of Managua, where another flight awaited him. Nothing was settled. But Mr. Watts would be back in the fall, and he was relying on the relationship of trust he had established with Las Brumas to persuade farmers to accept his offer for next year's crop.

Mr. Giuliano, who is sometimes a partner with Mr. Watts in buying beans at auction, praised Intelligentsia's direct trade program, calling the promise never to reduce rates "unprecedented." The current Fair Trade price for coffee is $1.26 a pound for nonorganic beans and $1.41 for organic. What many do not understand is that Fair Trade relates to working conditions, not the quality of coffee beans.

In the meantime, on June 22, the top 10 Cup of Excellence coffees will be auctioned online. Buyers from the United States, Europe and Japan are expected to bid on this year's top coffees. The winning growers are traveling to Managua to watch the monitor as bids are placed and the prices for their coffees rise. The rates paid for Cup of Excellence coffees have risen wildly in the last few years. Intelligentsia and other buyers have paid $40 a pound and more for microlots of estate-quality coffees — they incur these costs for their promotional value.

Because chance and the weather play such a role in growing coffee, winners change every year. If they are lucky, this year's auction winners will get a once-in-a-lifetime cash infusion large enough to buy another piece of land or upgrade equipment. And if they are luckier still, their victory may lead to a visit from Mr. Watts of Intelligentsia or someone like him offering not just a sales agreement, but a relationship.
684 2006-06-22 "In the beginning," Ms. James said, "they were pretty much helpful. And now it seems that they don't really care."

Ms. James said that after the notice, she received another letter saying she was eligible for rental assistance — although few rental units were available— and still another letter saying that she was eligible for a trailer after all.

In Mississippi, nearly 40,000 families live in FEMA trailers or mobile homes. Agency officials said that in most disasters trailers were used just for long-term shelter, but that after Hurricane Katrina they were also provided for short-term emergency housing, which has looser eligibility requirements.

Since March, the agency has been reviewing evacuees to ensure that they meet the stricter long-term requirements. An evacuee who had insurance that covers interim housing would not be eligible for a trailer or an agency-financed apartment. Nor would a resident whose primary home was not damaged be eligible. Several families said they had been told that they could stay in their trailers for 18 months and did not know that they risked eviction.

An agency official who was granted anonymity because he is a policy expert and not an authorized spokesman, said the difference between emergency and long-term requirements had not been explained, because the agency's experience had been that shell-shocked storm victims could not comprehend such distinctions.

Mr. Walker said halting evictions was not a policy change but a delay for cases to be reviewed.

"We want to make sure that the people who have been determined ineligible are actually ineligible," he said. "So what we're doing is allowing them to stay in their trailers while we go through and dot all the i's and cross the t's to make sure that the case file is absolutely accurate."

Reilly Morse, a senior lawyer at the Mississippi Center for Justice, which helped evacuees fight eviction notices, said the move was a sign that advocates were becoming swifter and more effective at combating a system that sometimes seemed intended to discourage storm victims from obtaining the benefits that they were entitled to.

"But," Mr. Morse added, "it's still just a small piece of a very huge broken system, and it just lumbers on endlessly and leaves people in misery."

Heather Walden, manager of the End of the Rainbow trailer park in D'Iberville, Miss., said she suspected that some families in FEMA trailers did not need or deserve one. But there were others, Ms. Walden said, who were being unfairly evicted.

She was given an eviction notice, Ms. Walden said, because she had failed to provide proof that she had paid rent before the storm. After she was featured on a television report, she was moved into a larger mobile home, she said.

Mr. Walker of FEMA said the review did not indicate that mistakes had been made.
685 2006-06-22 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 12.08 points, or 0.97 percent, to 1,252.20, and the Nasdaq composite rose 34.14, or 1.62 percent, to 2,141.20. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 104.62 points, or 0.95 percent, to 11,079.46.

After appearing to top out in early May, stock indexes worldwide fell sharply in the last six weeks on a variety of concerns, including the possibility that the Federal Reserve might strain an already slowing American economy by raising short-term interest rates, now at 5 percent, more than needed to control inflation.

In Brussels, Jean-Claude Trichet, the European Central Bank governor, told a committee of the European Parliament that policy makers might have to raise interest rates to rein in inflation. Most European stock markets closed little changed and the euro rose modestly against the dollar.

But interest rate worries, which just a few days ago were rattling investors, seemed to be sidelined for the moment.

The market's surge yesterday and late last week may also reflect "the extent of the pessimism we had," said Bruce Bittles, a market strategist for Robert W. Baird & Company. "The stock market had nowhere to go" but up.

Optimists note that in spite of higher interest rates, corporate profits continue to climb to record levels. Companies in the S.& P. are expected to increase profits by 11.7 percent in the second quarter, 15.6 percent in the third quarter and 14.7 percent for the fourth quarter, according to Thompson Financial, the research firm.

Companies will start reporting earnings for the second quarter in mid-July. So far, 27 percent of the companies in the S.& P. issuing pre-announcements have increased their earnings projection, up from 23 percent from the same time last year; 59 percent lowered forecasts, down from 61 percent; and the rest said they were on target.

John Butters, a research analyst for Thompson, said a majority of the preannouncements were typically negative. "At least right now, things are in a fairly good position," he said.

As far as stocks are concerned, though, the S.& P. index is up just 0.3 percent for the year, the Dow is up 3.4 percent and the Nasdaq is down 2.9 percent.

Mr. Bittles said that in spite of the current rally, many on Wall Street were concerned that corporate profits would start to slow in 2007 as the economy slowed. "I agree that earnings are supportive, but I am worried that we are looking at peak earnings," Mr. Butters said.

Most economists expect some slowdown, especially as the housing market cools. The Commerce Department reported Tuesday that builders began construction on 5 percent more homes in May than they did in April, though starts fell almost 4 percent from May 2004.

The 10-year Treasury note fell slightly, losing 1/32, to 9925/32, and the yield was steady at 5.15 percent.
686 2006-06-22 WASHINGTON, June 21 — President Bush's nominee to run the Small Business Administration moved closer to confirmation Wednesday after he promised to reinvigorate the agency, which has come under fire for its delayed response in processing disaster loans after last year's Gulf Coast hurricanes.

The nominee, Steven C. Preston, is a former executive vice president at ServiceMaster, which owns several large companies including Terminix. He told members of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship that his first task would be to fix problems in the disaster loan program, which provides money to homeowners and businesses affected by natural disasters.

Nearly a year after the hurricanes, the S.B.A. says that 99 percent of the loans have been processed, but the committee noted that only 20 percent of the money had been disbursed.

"This has got to be job No. 1," Mr. Preston said. "We have to serve those in dire times of need."

Mr. Preston would come to an agency in flux after its previous administrator, Hector V. Barreto, resigned in April.

The agency budget has been reduced 37 percent since 1999, according to Congressional reports. The agency is short on staff and a survey taken last year found that its employees had the lowest morale of any federal agency.
687 2006-06-22 The ADMDLL.DLL file is often associated with several Trojan horses as well. A Trojan horse is a malicious program disguised as something harmless, like a game. Once a Trojan horse installs itself on a computer, it can do things like transmit passwords back to its creator or allow someone to control the system remotely.

If you do use any of the commercial programs available for remotely controlling your computer from another machine, you might want to check the manufacturer's Web site for troubleshooting information about reinstalling the ADMDLL.DLL file or other program components to fix the error.

If you do not use any of these programs, run a full antivirus scan on your PC to check for Trojan horses, viruses and worms — and remove them. Be sure to download the latest updates for your antivirus program before you scan your computer to make sure you have the latest antidotes.

If you do not have an antivirus program, you can get a free virus scan online at security software sites like www.pandasoftware.com/products/activescan or housecall.trendmicro.com. If you find you do have an infected machine, you can buy antivirus software right there or get a free program like AVG Anti-Virus Free Edition at free.grisoft.com.

Q. Is there a way to make folders for sorting messages in Gmail?

A. The Gmail system does not let you create your own folders to store and sort messages, but you can create labels for your messages. Once you have applied labels, you can sort your mail with them — effectively grouping that batch of tagged messages into one list in your Gmail Inbox, much the way a folder does.

To create a label in Gmail, click the Edit Labels link on the left side of your Gmail Inbox page. On the next screen, go to the "Create a new label" box and type in a name that describes the messages you want to label, like Book Club or Significant Other. Click on the Create button.

Now, when you want to stick a label on an open message so you can find it later, click on the More Actions menu at the top. In the Apply Label area, select the name of the label you want to use.

The names of all the labels you create are listed in green on the left side of the Gmail Inbox screen. Once you have tagged messages with specific labels, click the name of the label to show only those messages.

Gmail can also automatically apply labels to incoming mail if you set up a filter. Click the "Create a filter" link at the top of the Inbox page. On the next screen, enter the information you want Gmail to use to identify messages, like a particular e-mail address. Click the Next Step button and on the next screen, check the box next to "Apply the label" and choose a label from the menu before clicking Create Filter.
688 2006-06-22 DIABETES DRUGS Even as diabetes rates reach epidemic levels worldwide, four new drugs are generating optimism among doctors who specialize in treating the disease, as well as Wall Street analysts who view diabetes care as a huge and growing market...
689 2006-06-23 A non-working fireplace is for the dogs....
690 2006-06-23 There is nothing like a huge premium to get Wall Street's attention. Anadarko Petroleum's announcement on Friday that it would buy two energy companies for a total of $21.1 billion - at premiums of 40 percent, in the case of Kerr-McGee, and 49 per...
691 2006-06-23 Shares of Univision crept higher on Friday after Grupo Televisa and its fellow bidders - or what remains of them - submitted an offer for the Spanish-language broadcasting company. The takeover bid may have been tardy, missing Univision's supposed...
692 2006-06-23 The mere suggestion of a union between Microsoft and Yahoo – a potential combination that has been reported upon, praised, derided, refuted and generally tossed around for months - was enough to lift Yahoo's shares as much as 3 percent on Friday...
693 2006-06-23 The push to regulate hedge funds was dealt a major setback on Friday when a federal appeals court threw out a rule that forced thousands of United States-based funds to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In its opinion published...
694 2006-06-23 The founder and former chief executive of Homestore, an online real estate listings company, was found guilty Thursday of insider trading, lying to company accountants and federal regulators, and conspiring in a scheme to defraud investors by infl...
695 2006-06-23 One of the nation's most prominent hedge funds, Pequot Capital Management, is under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission for possible insider trading, The New York Times reported Friday. The S.E.C. declined to confirm or deny th...
696 2006-06-23 Yoshiaki Murakami, the fund manager whose clients included the governor of the Bank of Japan, Toshihiko Fukui, was indicted on Friday for insider trading, prosecutors said. Mr. Murakami obtained advance knowledge of Livedoor's planned bid for a Ja...
697 2006-06-23 Americans are looking for all sorts of new ways to power their cars and trucks, from ethanol to biodiesel to hydrogen. Now, a Seattle startup has attracted $20.2 million in equity financing and a $25 million line of credit that it will use to tran...
698 2006-06-23 Info Edge India, the Indian company behind jobs site Naukri.com, may be the first venture-backed Internet start-up to go public on the Bombay Stock Exchange. The company has filed to raise $29 million in an initial public offering, though the curr...
699 2006-06-23 As private equity companies eagerly await the return of optimal market conditions which would allow them to file an I.P.O. and secure the holy grail of money management, permanent capital, they will not be alone. Hedge funds are also eager to soak...
700 2006-06-23 Keith Ince has been appointed executive vice chairman and acting head of asset management for Credit Suisse in Australia while the firm looks for a new person to head the division permanently. Mr. Ince will manage the business over the next six mo...
701 2006-06-23 The Justice Department has cleared McClatchy to buy Knight Ridder, after McClatchy agreed to sign a guarantee that it will sell the St. Paul Pioneer Press, according to people familiar with the process. The Justice Department was concerned about M...
702 2006-06-23 A group of investors led by the Mexican entertainment giant Grupo Televisa inched closer late Thursday to bidding $11.2 billion for Univision Communications, the largest Spanish-language media company in the United States, according to the Los Ang...
703 2006-06-23 After two weeks of nonstop soccer, with all the passion, controversy and histrionics that go with it, the first phase of the World Cup is finally complete. With Switzerland's 2-0 defeat of South Korea this afternoon, the final slots were filled in the Round of 16. So before the second phase begins, we have a break of exactly, let's see, 20 hours to take stock of what has transpired at Germany 2006 so far.

Forty-eight matches were needed to whittle a field of 32 entrants down to 16, and after all that, the surprise is that there were practically no surprises. All the top seeds advanced with little trouble, leaving the usual big fish — Brazil, Italy, Argentina, Germany, England and so on — still very much in the thick of it and almost all the minnows going home.

This is in marked contrast to Korea/Japan 2002, when several unfancied and untraditional teams, like South Korea, Turkey and the United States, went far.

But back in one of soccer's European homelands, almost everything has proceeded according to form, and the 16 remaining teams make up pretty much the same field you would have seen starting a World Cup in 1970: the usual contingent from Europe and South America; a surprise package or two from Africa and Oceania; and one team from the North and Central American region: Mexico, and definitely not the United States.

The only teams' presence that might be termed something of a surprise is that of Ecuador, which beat out Poland to advance to the Round of 16, and Ghana, which surged past the Czech Republic to go forward.
704 2006-06-23 The ruling does not leave hedge funds totally above the law. They are treated like any other investor when it comes to conduct. As a result, the appeals court decision does not affect the commission's investigation into possible insider trading by a major hedge fund manager, Pequot Capital Management, which was disclosed in The New York Times today.

Christopher Cox, who became chairman of the commission after the rule was adopted, said in a statement: "The S.E.C. takes seriously its responsibility to make rules in accordance with our governing laws. The court's finding, that despite the commission's investor protection objective its rule is arbitrary and in violation of law, requires that going forward we re-evaluate the agency's approach to hedge fund activity."

He said the commission would "use the court's decision as a spur to improvement in both our rulemaking process and the effectiveness of our programs to protect investors, maintain fair and orderly markets, and promote capital formation."After the 1998 near-collapse of Long-Term Capital Management, a hedge fund so large that it threatened to send many of the nation's largest financial institutions into disarray if it failed, the commission attempted to impose some controls on the funds. It issued new regulations for them in late 2004, and required them to comply by Feb. 1, 2006.

Phillip Goldstein, a hedge fund adviser from Pleasantville, N.Y., sued the commission to block the new rules, along with Opportunity Partners, a hedge-fund partnership, and its general partner, Kimball & Winthrop.

They had argued that the commission had exceeded its authority, and that only Congress had the power to make the changes in regulation that the commission tried to impose.

To justify its new rules, the commission changed its interpretation of the word "client" in an investment law dating from 1940, which exempts from regulation any fund adviser with fewer than 15 clients. In the past, a hedge fund was treated as a single client for this purpose; the new interpretation counted each investor in the fund as a separate client, a change that would bring more than 1,000 hedge fund advisers under the law's scrutiny for the first time.

A three-judge panel, led by Judge Randolph, ruled unanimously today that the commission exceeded its authority by treating investors in a hedge fund as "clients" of the fund manager.

Unless overturned on further appeal, the ruling would deny the commission any authority over hedge funds unless Congress acts to revise the law. Any effort at congressional action would be strongly opposed by many funds.
705 2006-06-23 MOSCOW, June 23 — President Vladimir V. Putin today appointed the chief prosecutor he dismissed three weeks ago to be Russia's new justice minister. The decision suggested that the prosecutor's removal was less dramatic a shakeup than officials close to the Kremlin initially claimed.

The former prosecutor, Vladimir V. Ustinov, was abruptly removed from office on June 3 in the midst of a wave of arrests and dismissals that officials and commentators described as a vigorous new assault on corruption — one Mr. Ustinov was accused both of hindering and of leading.

His post as prosecutor, announced earlier this week, went to Yuri Y. Chaika, the justice minister he is now replacing. An independent Internet news site, Gazeta.ru, called the revolving appointments "a cotillion of the nomenclature."

Mr. Putin announced Mr. Ustinov's appointment in a decree that, as with his removal, shed no light on the motives behind the decision. Given the relatively few significant personnel changes during his presidency, Mr. Putin's decision prompted much speculation about the internal Kremlin struggles for influence ahead of the presidential elections in 2008.

Mr. Ustinov, a burly, pugnacious prosecutor, oversaw some of Russia's most prominent prosecutions, including those against wealthy tycoons like Boris A. Berezovsky, Vladimir A. Gusinsky and, most recently, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former chairman of Yukos who is now serving an eight-year sentence in a Siberian jail.
706 2006-06-23 Verizon Airfone, whose handsets have graced the backs of airline seats for more than two decades, will shut down its phone service on commercial airliners before the end of the year.

Verizon Communications, Airfone's parent company, has decided instead to focus on its faster-growing broadband, cellular and television businesses, Jim Pilcher, the director of marketing at Verizon Airfone, said today.

Airfone, which Verizon acquired when it bought GTE in 2000, has phones in about 1,000 planes operated by Continental, Delta, United Airlines and US Airways. The company will work with the airlines to figure out how to remove the phones and other equipment from the planes.

Airfone, which began service 21 years ago, will continue to provide telecommunications services on about 3,400 corporate and government planes. It is still exploring the possibility of selling the commercial-flight part of its business.

The company, based in Oak Brook, Ill., has 140 employees; it has not decided yet whether some of them will be transferred to other parts of Verizon, Mr. Pilcher said.

The company's decision to stop selling phone service on commercial airlines is not a complete surprise. Last month, it dropped out of an auction for two licenses to provide in-flight broadband Internet services.

Airfone had bid in early rounds, but two other bidders — a division of JetBlue Airways and AirCell, a company based in Louisville, Col., — , ultimately won the licenses. Those companies are expected to develop wireless "hot spots" on planes that will allow passengers to check e-mail and potentially make Internet-based phone calls.
707 2006-06-23 A former member of Mensa, the organization for people with high I.Q.'s, was sentenced yesterday in State Supreme Court to one to three years in prison for welfare fraud, prosecutors said. The man, Steven Finkelstein, 58, of the Bronx, was convicted in February, said Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney. Mr. Brown said evidence showed that Mr. Finkelstein forced a girlfriend, whom he had met through Mensa, to allow him to use her apartment address to improperly receive city housing benefits.
708 2006-06-23 Mr. Aguirre, 66, told Congress that he was fired on Sept. 1 while on vacation, after losing an argument with superiors over whether he could take the executive's testimony.

Senate investigators want to know, among other things, whether political considerations played a role in the S.E.C.'s firing of Mr. Aguirre only 11 days after awarding him a two-step merit pay increase and after his supervisor had praised his work on the Pequot investigation.

"His efforts have uncovered evidence of potential insider trading and possible manipulative trading by the fund," his supervisor, Robert Hanson, wrote in a performance evaluation before the firing, documents show. "He has consistently gone the extra mile, and then some."

Mr. Aguirre made his allegations in an 18-page letter to Senator Chuck Hagel, the Republican chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Securities and Investment, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the panel's ranking Democrat. His complaints to the chairmen of two Senate committees, Richard C. Shelby and Charles E. Grassley, prompted them to ask S.E.C. officials for a confidential briefing on Mr. Aguirre's allegations about the Pequot investigation.

One of the Oldest Hedge Funds

The investigation brings the S.E.C. to the door of one of the oldest and most powerful hedge funds in America. While the S.E.C. has filed suit against several hedge funds in recent years, it is not known to have focused on a fund as large or as widely known as Pequot.

It is unclear to what extent Mr. Aguirre's firing may have interrupted the inquiry, but government officials who have been briefed on the investigation say it is continuing.

Asked to comment, Jonathan Gasthalter, a Pequot spokesman said, "At all times, Pequot's securities trading has been entirely proper and not based on insider information."

Mr. Aguirre's letter to Congress did not specifically identify any of the trades. But according to government officials, the trades Mr. Aguirre said had made the fund $18 million involved one of the biggest mergers in 2001: the General Electric Capital Corporation's $5.25 billion buyout of Heller Financial, a Chicago-based lender to businesses. Heller's stock rose 50 percent the day the acquisition was announced.

Mr. Gasthalter said the fund's trades were made in "the ordinary course of the firm's business." He added that, "Nobody at Pequot was tipped by anyone regarding the Heller acquisition or any other corporate events."

The S.E.C.'s investigation and the questions surrounding it come at a time of growing concern on Capitol Hill about the power of hedge funds, which are lightly regulated investment pools that cater to wealthy individuals, as well as institutional investors, pension funds and foundations. Hedge funds now account for about 30 percent of all trades in the nation's stock exchanges.

Mr. Aguirre, a former California trial lawyer who worked at the S.E.C. for just shy of a year, declined to elaborate on the letter or to provide a copy. The New York Times obtained it from a government official who released it without authorization and asked not to be identified.

In the letter, Mr. Aguirre said the investigation was halted last summer when S.E.C. officials, bowing to political considerations, stopped him from taking testimony from the person he identified only as a former head of an investment bank.

Government officials with knowledge of the allegations say he was referring to John J. Mack, chief executive of Morgan Stanley, who was being considered to run the investment firm at the time and who had previously been chief executive of Credit Suisse First Boston. Mr. Mack, a long-time acquaintance of Pequot's founder and a major fund-raiser for President Bush, was chairman of Pequot briefly during June 2005; his family foundation has invested in Pequot funds, public records show.

Mary Jo White, the former New York federal prosecutor now at the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, said Morgan Stanley's board hired her to help vet Mr. Mack before he was named to head the company last June 30. Ms. White said she gave him a clean bill of health. "We never asked or suggested to anyone at the S.E.C. that any investigation be closed down," Ms. White said.

Morgan Stanley said in a statement: "Mr. Mack has never been contacted on this matter by the S.E.C., and we have no reason to believe that the S.E.C. has any interest in Mr. Mack in connection with this matter. During more than 30 years on Wall Street, Mr. Mack has had an unblemished record of personal integrity."

According to his written account, Mr. Aguirre said his supervisor told him that getting authorization to subpoena the Wall Street executive would be difficult because of the executive's "powerful political connections."

But Walter G. Ricciardi, the S.E.C.'s deputy director of enforcement, said that while he could not confirm or deny the existence of an investigation, no one had tried to exert improper influence. "Integrity is the foremost core value of the enforcement division and we welcome any Congressional interest," Mr. Ricciardi said.

S.E.C. officials did not believe Mr. Aguirre made a strong enough case for taking Mr. Mack's deposition, according to people with knowledge of the agency's position. There are no hard and fast rules about when S.E.C. investigators can subpoena someone's testimony, law enforcement officials say.

Mr. Aguirre's letter to Congress includes no underlying documentation for why he wanted to interview Mr. Mack. But in the letter Mr. Aguirre said that he provided a 42-page sworn statement outlining his allegations, along with 46 supporting exhibits, to Kathleen L. Casey, a lawyer on the Senate Banking Committee. Ms. Casey has since been nominated by President Bush to be an S.E.C. commissioner.

A spokesman for the Banking Committee said it was continuing to work with the Finance Committee, headed by Senator Grassley, "in their ongoing investigation" of Mr. Aguirre's firing.

While declining to comment on even the existence of a Pequot investigation, the S.E.C. refused to provide documents on the circumstances leading to Mr. Aguirre's firing, requested under the federal Freedom of Information Act, stating that to do so "could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement activities."

Mr. Ricciardi said, "As a matter of fairness, we conduct our investigations in private because often investigations conclude with no enforcement action being brought."

Insider trading cases are difficult to prove because they are often based on circumstantial evidence.

Pequot began in 1986 as Dawson-Samberg, named for its founders, Mr. Samberg, a former securities analyst, and Jonathan T. Dawson, a money manager. The fund was hurt badly by the stock market crash of 1987 but recovered and by 1992 had $100 million in assets under management.

The next year, Mr. Samberg hired Daniel C. Benton, a respected technology stock analyst at Goldman Sachs, to run a new technology portfolio. In 1998, Mr. Samberg and Mr. Dawson dissolved their partnership.

During the 1990's, the fund profited handsomely from its technology bets; but the technology boom ended in early 2000. In 2001, Mr. Benton left the firm to set up his own shop. He and Mr. Samberg split the $15 billion fund in two.

From 1994 through the end of last year, Pequot's flagship fund has returned an average 16.5 percent each year. Mr. Samberg last month gave $25 million to Columbia Business School, his alma mater.

Pequot's rise to prominence came during a time of explosive growth in hedge funds. These investment pools buy and sell a wide array of securities and count as their clients wealthy individuals and institutional investors like pension funds, corporations and endowments.

The hedge fund world is highly secretive and has, until recently, operated relatively free of regulatory scrutiny. Because these funds offer their services to sophisticated investors, who are presumed to be able to do their own policing, hedge funds are not required to make the same kind of extensive filings of their activities with regulators as do mutual funds.

Hedge funds control an estimated $1.2 trillion in assets currently, almost 3,000 percent more than they did 16 years ago. Last year, almost 2,100 hedge funds opened for business. Despite their growth, hedge fund assets total much less than the $9.2 trillion invested in mutual funds domestically.

But while hedge fund represent only 5 percent of assets under management in the United States, they account for 30 percent of stock trading volume nationwide. As a result, hedge funds can have an enormous impact on the nation's securities markets.

The S.E.C. filed 78 enforcement actions against hedge funds from 2002 through 2005. Most involved fraud by hedge funds against their own investors or cases in which hedge funds profited from advance knowledge that a company was going to raise money issuing additional shares, known as Public Investments in Private Equity, or P.I.P.E., cases.

Mr. Aguirre wrote to Congress that his investigation had begun when he was assigned to look into trades by a hedge fund, according to his letter. He said he discovered that the fund had been the subject of 13 insider-trading referrals that "had been gathering dust" at the S.E.C. Market surveillance officials made several other referrals. Mr. Aguirre's letter did not name the fund, but government officials said it was Pequot.

Mr. Aguirre wrote that he wanted to know whether some of the fund's profits might have resulted from trading on nonpublic information. Of the 18 referrals the S.E.C. received from stock exchanges, Mr. Aguirre wrote, in each case "the hedge fund traded shortly before a public announcement sharply increased the value of its new holding."

He further contended that in all but two cases, the fund made at least $1 million. But it was one series of trades in July 2001 that attracted the most regulatory attention. Mr. Aguirre has told Congress that the fund bought some $44 million in Heller Financial before the public announcement that G.E. was buying it. Heller's stock rose 50 percent after the announcement.

That document also contends that Pequot shorted $36 million in G.E. stock, which is a bet that the stock price will fall. As is typical in buyouts, the acquirer's stock did drop, in this case, 2.3 percent on July 30, 2001, the day the deal was announced, records show. By the end of the following month, G.E.'s shares had lost 7.8 percent more, as investors absorbed other G.E. news, like the collapse of its proposed merger with Honeywell.

Pequot's version of events, according to a person close to the fund, is that its trades in Heller Financial were typical of its investing activities. The Heller position was small relative to other holdings in the fund, this person said, and was amassed over the course of a month, beginning on July 2, 2001. Moreover, this person said, Mr. Samberg had told investors in April 2001 that he intended to increase his stake in financial services stocks from 4 percent of the portfolio to 14 percent.

Because Pequot trades so frequently, the person said, it is not surprising that some of its investments would have been made before a public announcement that made those holdings more valuable. Pequot's frequent trading, this person said, could also have attracted the attention of stock exchange officials while still being entirely proper.

Mr. Aguirre states that the investigation was proceeding, and that he had obtained a voluminous number of e-mail messages and other records by issuing scores of subpoenas. He had also taken the testimony of Mr. Samberg.

By June of last year, Mr. Aguirre wrote, he decided that he needed testimony from Mr. Mack, who had left his position as chief executive at Credit Suisse in June 2004 after three years running the firm. Mr. Aguirre said his supervisors did not let him take Mr. Mack's testimony. Mr. Aguirre vigorously protested, stating that he sent more than 30 complaints to his supervisors, all the way up to Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman.

The S.E.C. fired him even though his supervisor had said in an undated evaluation that Mr. Aguirre had shown "an unmatched dedication" to the hedge fund investigation. Another evaluation showed that he had received passing marks in all categories of performance.

John Nester, the S.E.C. spokesman, said that while he could not speak to the specifics of Mr. Aguirre's firing, as a general rule probationary employees can be fired after a positive evaluation if the quality of their work suddenly slips.

A lawyer for Mr. Aguirre, Joanne Royce of the Government Accountability Project, said, "Until he spoke out, his supervisors officially and unofficially praised his performance and found it exceeded all applicable S.E.C. standards."

Michael Clampitt, an S.E.C. lawyer and accountant who runs a union chapter of S.E.C. employees, said he knew of no one who got a pay increase, particularly one so significant, and was then fired with no written warnings. "Never happened before," Mr. Clampitt said. "He's doing great because of the merit increase, then suddenly — boom, he's gone."

Mr. Clampitt said that as far as he knew the agency had given Mr. Aguirre no written documentation of his shortcomings, as is its custom, before he was fired.

Mr. Clampitt said that according to 2004 figures, the most recent year available, there were 108 S.E.C. lawyers at Mr. Aguirre's pay grade and that just 31 of them got bigger pay increases. "It's incomprehensible the way this came down, totally bewildering," Mr. Clampitt said.

Mr. Aguirre had been at odds from time to time with the S.E.C. When there was a delay in his hiring, he suspected that his age — he was then in his 60's — was the reason and he filed an administrative complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

After he joined the S.E.C., the complaint was eventually dismissed.

Before joining the S.E.C., Mr. Aguirre had a reputation as an innovative plaintiffs' lawyer in Southern California, representing victims of shoddy home construction. A 1992 article in California Lawyer magazine said he used "aggressive — some say temperamental" courtroom tactics to win several big cases.

The S.E.C.'s inspector general, Walter J. Stachnik, reviewed Mr. Aguirre's complaint, a Congressional investigator said. A spokeswoman for the inspector general declined to comment.
709 2006-06-23 LOS ANGELES, June 22 (AP) — The founder and former chief executive of Homestore, an online real estate listings company, was found guilty Thursday of insider trading, lying to company accountants and federal regulators, and conspiring in a scheme to defraud investors by inflating revenue.

A United States District Court jury in Los Angeles found Stuart Wolff guilty on all counts. He was taken into custody to await sentencing, which could bring a prison term of up to 35 years in prison. His lawyer said he planned to appeal the verdict.

Mr. Wolff headed the company from 1997 until he resigned in January 2002. Homestore has since changed its name to Move Inc.

Prosecutors filed charges against Mr. Wolff and other former executives last year after an investigation into what authorities said were a series of fraudulent transactions in 2001 intended to inflate the company's online ad revenue.

Prosecutors said that Homestore would pay some vendors extra for their products or services and that the vendors would then use the money to buy advertising from two media companies.

The media companies, in turn, would buy advertising from Homestore, whose officials would improperly list the revenue on the company's financial statements in order to exceed Wall Street analysts' expectations, prosecutors said.
710 2006-06-23 MOSCOW, June 22 — Yulia V. Tymoshenko, who is poised to return as Ukraine's prime minister, vowed Thursday to review a disputed deal with Russia on natural gas imports, setting the stage for a new confrontation that could disrupt her country's economy and threaten supplies of Russian gas to Europe.

She spoke as three political parties once closely allied with President Viktor A. Yushchenko — and then deeply divided — formally signed an agreement to create a parliamentary coalition and, eventually, a new government that would follow the pro-Western course he set. The agreement ended nearly three months of political paralysis, but did not address many of the issues that split Mr. Yushchenko's supporters after he took office in January 2005.

Ms. Tymoshenko, who was Mr. Yushchenko's first prime minister for eight months last year, returned Thursday to the political oratory that made her hugely popular, even as it worried foreign investors and angered her allies in what became known as the Orange Revolution.

She vowed to fight corruption, judicial machinations and shadowy privatization deals made under Mr. Yushchenko's predecessor, Leonid D. Kuchma. Her policies as prime minister provoked internal battles and mutual accusations of corruption, and she was fired last September.

Her bloc of candidates won the largest number of seats in the March parliamentary election among the three blocs that formed the new coalition. The lengthy new coalition agreement positions her to become prime minister, though she must still face a vote in Parliament in the next month before taking office and creating a new government.
711 2006-06-23 Rather than having to raise funds every five years or so and give back all the profits, the public buyout fund provided the managers a steady stream of money to invest; profits would be reinvested (minus management and performance fees to be paid to managers), allowing the fund to grow and pursue ever larger deals (or shrink and have the stock price suffer).

For KKR Private Equity, 25 percent of the fund was cordoned off for "opportunistic" investments, allowing that portion to act more like a hedge fund.

Hedge funds, if the markets obliged them, could use the money the opposite way, deploying capital to longer-term investments. Private equity thus gets to be a little more flexible, like a hedge fund, while hedge funds get to take part in longer term, more illiquid deals in private markets. In Wall Street parlance, this is convergence at work.

While every fund may wish to do this, only established brands will get a shot at raising significant sums because they will have a track record. The catch is that they will not want to raise money unless they can raise a lot. And institutional investors — mutual funds and pension funds — who liked KKR because such investors do not invest in private equity — might be loath to buy a publicly traded share of a hedge fund that did exactly what the mutual fund manager did.

It is not clear whether demand for publicly traded hedge funds will enable them to come to market: shares in KKR Private Equity Partners closed at $21.75 Thursday, down from the offering price of $25. Hedge funds have had a painful recent history.

But discussions abound nonetheless, with structures ranging from taking the management company public, which allows investors to invest in the stream of income — management and performance fees — as well as offering the possibility of taking the hedge fund itself public. Initial offerings of the management company could stay in the United States; the funds would most definitely go abroad because of the 1940 Act, say people involved in the negotiations, who cannot talk freely because the deals are not public.

It would not be the first publicly traded hedge fund. Man Group, listed in Britain, currently manages $12.7 billion, making it the eighth-largest hedge fund by assets, according to Institutional Investor's Alpha ranking of the top 100 hedge funds. RAB Capital went public in 2004 and is also listed on the London Stock Exchange.

But hedge funds are considering a different route: taking the fund public rather than the management company.

On May 26, Close AllBlue Fund raised $263.8 million on the Alternative Investment Market, a division of the London Stock Exchange, which says it has a "flexible regulatory regime." According to the company's prospectus, all funds raised will be used to invest, via another legal entity (AllBlue Limited), in seven strategies managed by BlueCrest Capital Management, a hedge fund.

It is possible no deals will happen. But KKR was a compelling example of the virtues of being first. The deal was scheduled to be $1.5 billion, but rumors swirled that it could reach $3 billion and in the end it raised $5 billion. Apollo followed suit, hoping to raise $2.5 billion but ultimately attracting only $1.5 billion.

It will all come down to whether investors' appetite for alternatives has been dampened by turbulent markets. It has never been clear whether publicly traded alternative investment vehicles are for the benefit of the end-investor or the managers, who seek permanent, flexible, fee-generating capital. In which case, let the games begin.
712 2006-06-23 The Bush administration was right to hold out for high principle when the ground rules for membership on the new United Nations Human Rights Council were being debated earlier this year.

Unfortunately, the United States lost that fight, and the council's opening session this week was tarnished by the participation of Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Cuba, all flagrant abusers themselves and poorly suited to judge the human-rights performance of other nations. Other questionable members include China and Russia, which not only circumscribe the rights of their own citizens but also use their clout regularly to defend the indefensible behavior of allies like Uzbekistan or Sudan.

Iran, a nonmember, flaunted its contempt for human rights by sending Saeed Mortazavi, the fearsome public prosecutor of Tehran, as an observer to the opening session. Mr. Mortazavi has been implicated in torture, and Canada holds him personally responsible for the death in custody of an Iranian-Canadian photojournalist, Zahra Kazemi.

Despite losing the fight over membership rules, Washington has pledged to help the new council succeed. Regrettably, it passed up an obvious chance to do so by choosing not to seek a seat itself this year. An American voice on the council would have been a spur toward greater candor and understanding. While it is hard to feel optimistic about a human-rights group that includes Saudi Arabia, where women's rights are virtually nonexistent, or Pakistan, where possible sentences include stoning and judicial gang rape, the problematic members only make up a fraction of the 47-member group.

The United Nations did struggle to create a council that would be an improvement upon its discredited predecessor, and many human-rights experts have expressed some optimism and hope. The secretary general, Kofi Annan, spelled out the challenge clearly: "This council represents a great new chance for the United Nations, and for humanity, to renew the struggle for human rights. I implore you, do not let the opportunity be squandered."
713 2006-06-23 PARIS, June 22 (AP) — Leading French lawmakers voted Thursday to water down a draft copyright law that could force Apple Computer to make its iPod music player and iTunes online store compatible with rivals' offerings.

But the changes did not appear to go far enough to satisfy Apple, which dropped the strongest hint yet that it might withdraw from the French downloading market rather than comply.

Currently, music bought on Apple iTunes can be played only on iPods, and an iPod cannot play songs bought from rival stores, like the Sony store Connect. Critics have called the restrictions anticompetitive and anticonsumer.

The National Assembly, France's lower house, voted in March to force companies like Apple and Sony to hand over exclusive copy-protection technologies to any rival that wanted to offer compatible music players and online stores.

While the compromise adopted Thursday still asserts that companies should share the technical data essential to such "interoperability," it tones down many of the tougher measures backed by the lower house.
714 2006-06-23 The falling price of Zocor will save insurers and patients billions of dollars a year — and cost Merck a similar amount. But it may have even more impact on Pfizer, the world's largest drug company, analysts say.

Pfizer's Lipitor, which has been comparably priced with Zocor and had United States sales alone of $8 billion, is the most profitable medicine yet invented.

Lipitor, whose patent runs until 2011, and Zocor are both statins, drugs that slow the liver's ability to produce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, often called bad cholesterol because it can build up in blood vessels and lead to heart attacks and strokes. In clinical trials, both drugs substantially reduce bad cholesterol, though Lipitor is more potent than Zocor. At its highest dose, Lipitor lowers bad cholesterol by 57 percent, compared with 47 percent for Zocor.

But because most patients on statins do not require the highest doses, many doctors consider Zocor comparable to Lipitor.

And anticipating the arrival of inexpensive generic versions of Zocor, many insurers in recent months have given Zocor a preferred position, enabling patients to get a month's supply for a co-payment of only $10, while moving Lipitor to a second- or third-tier status, with co-payments of $20 to $35.

That strategy by insurers appears to have had an impact on Lipitor's market dominance.

In the first quarter, United States sales of Lipitor rose to $1.97 billion, up 3 percent from the period in 2005. But sales of Zocor jumped 13 percent, to $830 million, even though Merck has largely stopped promoting Zocor in advance of the patent expiration.

And in terms of new prescriptions, Lipitor's market share has eroded since the beginning of the year, down 4 percentage points of market share, to 35 percent. Meanwhile Zocor has gained 2 points, to 16 percent, according to prescription data from Salomon Smith Barney.

That trend may now accelerate, analysts say.

"Lipitor is poorly positioned strategically," said Albert Rauch, an industry analyst at A. G. Edwards, a regional brokerage firm based in St. Louis.

The challenges go beyond generic Zocor. For years, Pfizer tried to promote Lipitor as the most potent statin, arguing that patients should use the drug that lowered their cholesterol the most, Mr. Rauch said. But now Lipitor faces competition from two drugs that lower cholesterol even more than Lipitor.

One is Vytorin, made by Merck and Schering-Plough, which combines Zocor and Zetia, another cholesterol-lowering drug that has a different mechanism of action than statins. Merck is now heavily promoting Vytorin, which had sales of $378 million in the first quarter — about double its sales for the period last year.

The other Lipitor challenger is Crestor, a drug from AstraZeneca that is generally considered the most potent statin.

As a result, Lipitor is being squeezed between cheap simvastatin and the new, stronger alternatives, Mr. Rauch said. "Some people may want lower cost, some may want higher potency."

David S. Moskowitz, an industry analyst at Friedman, Billings Ramsey & Company, said Lipitor would continue to lead the cholesterol-lowering market because it works well and doctors and patients are very familiar with it. But Lipitor will probably lose another 5 to 6 percentage points in market share, Mr. Moskowitz said.

Concerns about Lipitor's shrinking share have hit Pfizer's stock, which is down 3 percent this year and near an eight-year low, while the average drug company stock is up 3 percent. Pfizer closed yesterday at $22.65, down 4 cents. Meanwhile, Merck has risen 11 percent this year. To fight back, Pfizer is pointing to data that shows Lipitor's effectiveness in cutting heart attacks and strokes. Since introducing Lipitor a decade ago, Pfizer has conducted more than 400 clinical trials on the drug, said Dr. Michael Berelowitz, a senior vice president at Pfizer. Crestor and Vytorin, the newer statins, have not yet shown that they can reduce heart disease as effectively as Lipitor, Dr. Berelowitz said.

"Other agents come in and all they can talk about is that they lower cholesterol and LDL," he said. "They have none of the evidence of cardiovascular risk reduction and mortality risk reduction."

And Zocor is simply not as potent as Lipitor, Dr. Berelowitz said.

But health insurers argue that most patients do not need the 57 percent reduction in cholesterol that the 80-milligram dose of Lipitor provides.

At Blue Cross of Northeastern Pennsylvania, which covers about 600,000 people, 81 percent of people taking Lipitor are taking 20 milligrams or less a day. Only 4 percent are taking 80 milligrams, said Frank Koronkiewicz, director of pharmacy management for Blue Cross of Northeastern Pennsylvania.

Patients on lower Lipitor doses can easily be switched to Zocor, Mr. Koronkiewicz said.

"We believe they're very similar," he said. "Zocor has innumerable studies proving its effectiveness and its safety."

At the beginning of 2006, Blue Cross of Northeastern Pennsylvania put Zocor on its first tier of preferred drugs, while switching Lipitor to its third tier. Zocor, as a result, costs patients $10 a month, compared with $35 for Lipitor. The insurer mailed letters to patients taking Lipitor to inform them of the change and encourage them to try Zocor.

The results have been striking, Mr. Koronkiewicz said. Since January at the insurer, Lipitor's market share has fallen to 34 percent, down from 55 percent. Zocor's has almost doubled, to 31 percent.

"I think there's further room for movement," he said.
715 2006-06-23 British Airways confirmed the investigation and said it was cooperating. The airline also said that its commercial director, Martin George, and its head of communications, Iain Burns, had been given leaves of absence during the investigation but did not elaborate.

American Airlines, a unit of AMR, said it had received a "federal grand jury subpoena in connection with a government investigation into alleged price-fixing in the air passenger industry" but said it was not the target of the inquiry.

United Airlines, owned by UAL, said it had received an inquiry and was cooperating with investigators but that it also was not a target. Virgin Atlantic said it was "aware of the investigation" and was "assisting."

Airlines, struggling to make profits because of high oil prices, have been adding fuel surcharges to passenger tickets in recent years. The price of jet fuel has increased 21.3 percent over the last year, the International Air Transport Association said on June 16.

So far in 2006, the fuel bill for airlines is estimated to be $22 billion higher than it was last year, the association said, and double what it was in 2004.

Consumer advocates say fuel surcharges can be a deceptive way for airlines to increase their fares beyond what they are paying for fuel.

Price-fixing occurs when companies combine or conspire to raise, lower or stabilize prices. Officials would need concrete evidence that airlines discussed keeping their fuel surcharges at a similar level to prove price-fixing.

Fuel surcharges for some large airlines that fly between the United States and Britain are similar. In April, British Airways increased the fuel surcharge for its long-haul flights to £35, a £5 increase, for each one-way ticket. Virgin Atlantic's fuel surcharge for flights in and out of Britain is also £35 each way.

United Airlines' fuel surcharges from Britain vary from flight to flight and by day, a reservation agent said.

A one-way flight to Kennedy International Airport in New York on July 6 carries a £37 fuel surcharge, for example. American Airlines charges £37 in fuel surcharges each way between Britain and the United States.

Continental Airlines, which said it had not been contacted in the investigation, charges a £37.50 fuel surcharge for each flight in and out of Britain.

Though the surcharges seem high to many passengers, industry groups say they are still not enough to cover the cost of fuel increases. In 2005, "only 50 percent of the increase in fuel charges was passed through" into higher ticket prices, said Brian Pearce, chief economist for the transport association.

Airlines made up the difference by cutting costs, including increasing their self-service check-in and online ticketing facilities to trim labor costs.

Established carriers like British Airways and American Airlines have been losing customers on short-haul flights to new, cheaper upstarts like EasyJet and Ryanair in Europe, putting even more pressure on them to make up the difference in long-distance air fares.

The European Commission, which started an air cargo price-fixing investigation earlier this year with the Justice Department, said it was not involved in this investigation.
716 2006-06-23 BECKET, Mass., June 22 — It was an auspicious start for summer at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival. The trees around Becket on Wednesday evening were a dense, magical green. The light was lazy. And the dancers of CND2, the second company to Nacho Duato's popular Spanish troupe Compañía Nacional de Danza, kicked off the season with a burst of youth, impeccable training and frank love for dance.

If a second company is meant to season young dancers, then this week has also been a salty test for the 17-to-21-year-olds of CND2.

Because of a strike at the Madrid airport, it took them more than 24 hours to get here. Then their baggage was lost, necessitating a last-minute dash to Sansha in New York City for ballet slippers. Then, the day of the performance, one of the dancers, Jon Vallejo, injured his left ankle and had to be replaced. The company rehearsed until 7:15 p.m.; the curtain was at 8.

Not that any of this showed onstage.

Jonatan de Luis Mazagatos respectably filled in for Mr. Vallejo in "Remansos," a piece Mr. Duato created for American Ballet Theater in 1997 and later modified.

"Violon d'Ingres," choreographed by Tony Fabre, the co-artistic director of CND2, was the only United States premiere. An eclectic series of vignettes set to snippets of music by Bach and Vivaldi, among others, and to a Metallica song performed by the Finnish cello ensemble Apocalyptica, it was the wittiest of the evening's three dances.
717 2006-06-23 If only because museum exhibitions of dog paintings are a rare occurrence, the show now at the Bruce Museum of Arts and Science in Greenwich — which for the last couple of years has been organizing intelligent and scholarly exhibitions — should be given a chance by visitors, no matter how skeptical they may be.

For "Best in Show: Dogs in Art From the Renaissance to the Present," Robert Rosenblum, Peter Sutton and Edgar Peters Bowron, the curators, have brought together several dozen images of dogs from Europe and America created over the last 500 years. George Stubbs, Théodore Géricault and Thomas Gainsborough are on the checklist, as well as less likely figures like Giovanni Battista Tiepolo, Tracey Emin and Andy Warhol.

An anodyne painting of a sleeping pooch by the Dutch master Gerrit Dou opens the show. It is a classic, secular 17th-century Dutch interior, depicting a dog beside a terra-cotta jug, a basket, a pile of kindling and slippers. It is really just an exquisite piece of art for art's sake.

Paintings of all kinds of dogs follow, from mutts, curs, pooches and poodles, to hounds, pugs, terriers and more. There are pictures of working dogs, sporting dogs and companion dogs, dogs at rest, dogs at play and dogs engaged in gluttonous revelry. A painting by the Flemish artist Frans Snyders, on loan from the Prado Museum in Madrid, shows two dogs devouring a mutton leg and sausages and surrounded by broken china.

Dogs, much like humans, are social animals, which may account for their trainability, their gregariousness and the ease with which they have adapted to living with humans. Several paintings on display depict groups of dogs interacting, including a painting of dogs dressed up with pearl collars and ribbons around their necks, and socializing, by Paulus Potter, a 17th-century Dutch artist.
718 2006-06-23 A $500 million deal by India's largest private airline, Jet Airways, to take over a rival, Air Sahara, appeared to fall through late Wednesday after the sale agreement expired, a victim of the country's inflated stock valuations. Jet Airways backe...
719 2006-06-23 BANKING DATA EXAMINED -- Under a secret Bush administration program begun weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks, counterterrorism officials have gained access to financial records from a vast international database and examined banking transactions inv...
720 2006-06-24 The police yesterday identified a body that was found in a garbage bag on Thursday morning as that of a 16-year-old Brooklyn girl who was reported missing on Monday.

The body of the teenager, Chanel Petro-Nixon, was discovered on the sidewalk outside a building at 212 Kingston Avenue in the Crown Heights neighborhood by the building's landlady, the police said.

After trying to move the bag about 9 a.m. Thursday, the woman opened it and saw the body inside, the police said.

The police said yesterday that Ms. Petro-Nixon had been strangled. She was partially clothed, but there was no sign of sexual assault, the police said.

Ms. Petro-Nixon lived with her parents and two brothers in an apartment on Fulton Street, about a mile from where her body was found.

According to the police, she left home at 6 a.m. on Sunday. Her mother reported her missing Monday morning, after failing to reach her daughter by cellphone.
721 2006-06-24 Prime Minister Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz accepted the resignation of his finance minister, Zyta Gilowska, after a prosecutor asked a court to investigate whether she had covered up ties to the Communist-era secret police. Though past collaboration does not bring penalties for office holders, lying on so-called vetting statements meant to disclose any past cooperation requires a 10-year ban on any public service. Ms. Gilowska denied ever having lied. Ms. Gilowska, a liberal, was seen as a guarantor of fiscal responsibility in Mr. Marcinkiewicz's government, a coalition of social conservatives with two small Euro-skeptic parties.
722 2006-06-24 Turkey's top court indefinitely suspended the corruption trial of former Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz on technical grounds, a move that amounts to the case being dropped. He immediately signaled that he would return to politics, telling fans outside the courthouse, "Beginning from today, I will start making contacts."
723 2006-06-24 South Korea, which was a semifinalist in 2002 but had never won a World Cup game outside of Asia until a 2-1 victory against Togo on June 13, finished third behind France.

UKRAINE 1, TUNISIA 0 Despite a lackluster performance, Ukraine defeated Tunisia on a disputed penalty shot by Andriy Shevchenko in Berlin.

Ukraine, which lost its opener, 4-0, to Spain, is the first former Soviet republic to reach the tournament's second round and the third team since it expanded to 32 teams in 1998 to reach the second round after losing its first game.

Tunisia's chances were hurt when striker Zied Jaziri was sent off in the last minute of a scoreless first half with his second yellow card.

"The game was a bit difficult, but I'm happy about the way we played because the result was so important," Shevchenko said. "We were only thinking about the result, not about the quality of play.

"It's a hugely important achievement for Ukrainian football that we have got into the next round."

Shevchenko scored his second goal of the tournament, a penalty kick in the 70th minute, after the referee, Carlos Amarilla of Paraguay, ruled that Shevchenko had been brought down by defender Karim Haggui. On replays, it appeared that Shevchenko tripped over his own feet.

"Just like when a team does not play well, it has to go home, I hope the referee goes home, too," said Tunisian midfielder Mehdi Nafti, who was crying as he left the field.

Jaziri received his second yellow card for a late but unspectacular sliding tackle on Anatoliy Tymoschuk in injury time. As the match went to halftime, Tunisian officials ushered their players away from Amarilla and his assistants.

SPAIN 1, SAUDI ARABIA 0 Spain's coach, Luis Aragonés, rested his regular players in a victory against Saudi Arabia in Kaiserslautern, Germany.

Spain, which clinched first place in Group H, used seven men who had never played in a World Cup match.

Despite the victory, Aragonés was not pleased with his team

"In the first half, we were good, we created many chances," he said. "The Saudis played an excellent match in the second half — much better than we were.

"They deserved to score a goal. We could have, in fact, lost."

Center back Juanito scored on a header on a long free kick from José Antonio Reyes in the 36th minute.

"It was my debut and the best way to celebrate it is to score, and even better if it helps the team win," Juanito said.

THREE YELLOWS AND YOU'RE OUT? In the heated last 10 minutes of Thursday's 2-2 tie between Australia and Croatia, the English referee Graham Poll failed to send off Josip Simunic, who got a second yellow card in the 90th minute. Three minutes later, after he had blown the final whistle, Poll showed Simunic a third yellow and then the red card.

ITALIAN MIDFIELDER SUSPENDED Daniele De Rossi of Italy has been suspended for four matches, and Pablo Mastroeni of the United States has received a three-match ban after FIFA's disciplinary committee reviewed their red cards from last Saturday's 1-1 tie. De Rossi will not play again in the World Cup unless Italy reaches the final.
724 2006-06-24 SAN FRANCISCO, June 23 — A Justice Department lawyer pressed a federal judge on Friday to dismiss a lawsuit against AT&T over a government surveillance operation. But the plaintiffs maintained that the case could go forward even if some aspects were set aside on national security grounds.

The class-action lawsuit was filed in February by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties group, asking the court to stop AT&T from collaborating with surveillance by the National Security Agency. The eavesdropping effort, in which large volumes of telephone and Internet communications were monitored without court warrants, was reported in December by The New York Times.

The foundation's suit is based in part on the testimony of Mark Klein, a retired technician for AT&T, who contends that Internet data passing through an AT&T switching center in San Francisco is being diverted to a secret room. There, Mr. Klein says, the security agency has installed powerful computers to eavesdrop without warrants on the digital data and forward the information to an undisclosed location.

As it had at a hearing in April, the government said the very premise of the lawsuit could not be established without disclosing state and military secrets. "Whether AT&T is collaborating with the government is a secret of the highest order," said Peter D. Keisler, an assistant attorney general, who argued the case before Judge Vaughn R. Walker in an overflowing courtroom.

Any government acknowledgment of the use of AT&T's network to conduct surveillance would be an advantage for terrorists, he said.
725 2006-06-24 A hearing has been scheduled for July 24 that will allow the title insurers, Fidelity National Title Insurance Company and Chicago Title Insurance Company, to argue for a temporary injunction that would prevent Northwestern from releasing the funds and Mrs. Kissel from accessing them.

Because Mr. Kissel owed so much money when he died, his estate is expected to be close to insolvent, and insurance proceeds could go a long way toward satisfying the $16.35 million that the title insurers are seeking to secure to satisfy a potential judgment against Mrs. Kissel.

Erich Gaston, a Connecticut lawyer who wrote a letter to the court on Mrs. Kissel's behalf on Tuesday, did not reply to a request for comment on Friday. In his letter, he said the title insurers' complaint consists mostly of "allegations of fraud by Andrew Kissel. The allegations against Ms. Kissel are barebones legal conclusions."

A spokeswoman for Northwestern Mutual in Milwaukee said her company had not yet been served with the papers and therefore could not comment.

The crux of the title insurers' complaint rests on the notion that Mrs. Kissel learned as far back as May or June 2003 that her husband had stolen millions of dollars from their neighbors during the years he served as treasurer of their Manhattan co-op, about the same time that he assigned his half of the Vermont house to her. "He said he wanted to get everything out of his name," she explained in a deposition this year.

She also admitted in the deposition telling her sister-in-law Jane Kissel Clayton in July 2004 that her husband's business appeared to be a "Ponzi scheme" and admitted discovering that same month after "looking through his briefcase" that her husband had put a mortgage on their Vermont home that she knew nothing about.

The title insurers contend that had she notified governmental authorities or the bank that provided that mortgage in Vermont of the improprieties, banks could have avoided millions in subsequent losses. As a "sophisticated individual," who spent 11 years working as a stock analyst on Wall Street, Mrs. Kissel had little excuse for being so blind to her husband's actions, the lawsuit asserts.

But in her deposition, taken on Jan. 31 by Stewart Edelstein of Cohen & Wolf in Bridgeport, Mrs. Kissel sought to paint a picture of herself as a spouse who was constantly rebuffed by her husband. "I don't tell you how to analyze stocks," she said he told her. "Don't tell me how to run my business."

She said that the "central issue in our marriage was always money" and that she didn't approve of "the way Andrew spent the money."

Asked by Mr. Edelstein when she married Mr. Kissel, Mrs. Kissel answered 1990. But she also noted that he missed the chance to ask an even better question.

" 'Why?' should have been the question, right?" she volunteered.
726 2006-06-24 The auction for Univision, which went on the block in February, is not shaping up to be the hotly contested battle that some investors and analysts had envisioned.

When Univision first went up for sale, it signaled to the market that it hoped to receive bids worth more than $40 a share from numerous bidders including media giants like CBS, Time Warner and the News Corporation.

At the time, the attraction seemed obvious: the buyer would gain a gateway into a rapidly growing Latino market in the United States with billions in annual buying power. Univision owns the No. 1 Spanish-language television network, a radio broadcaster, a music company and online operations.

But eventually, only two bidding groups emerged — one led by Televisa and another consisting of private equity firms and the media investor Haim Saban.

On Wednesday, Univision rejected an offer worth $35.50 from the private equity group, which included Madison Dearborn Partners, Providence Equity Partners, the Texas Pacific Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners and Mr. Saban.

That left it with no offers and lots of questions until the Televisa-led group made its bid yesterday.

And now that Univision has already rejected the other offer, it has no rival bidders to play off the bid from Televisa, leaving it with only one bargaining chip: the possibility that it could call the auction off completely and not sell the company.

Calling off the sale would be a setback for its chief executive, A. Jerrold Perenchio, a onetime Hollywood talent agent who saw the potential for Spanish-language broadcasting. In 1992, he led a group to acquire Univision, and 13 Spanish-language stations from Hallmark for $500 million.

For Televisa, the opportunity to buy Univision is crucial. Televisa already provides much of Univision's top programming through a licensing arrangement that goes through 2017. And it already owns slightly more than 10 percent of Univision.

Analysts suggest that Televisa may be willing ultimately to raise its bid to more than $37 a share to clinch a deal rather than have to wait for another chance to buy the company some time in the future.

One challenge the Televisa-led group may face, however, is scrutiny from regulators. Federal regulations prevent foreign entities from owning more than 25 percent of an American broadcaster.

The offer from the Televisa-led group is structured so that Televisa will own no more than 25 percent if it wins, but the group is expected to face arguments that Televisa is still acting as a controlling shareholder because of its influence over the bidding group.

Televisa is also expected to be paying for more than half of the required equity, an issue that could also raise questions with regulators.
727 2006-06-24 "Stocks are at a level of valuation that at least since the 1960's has rewarded investors," Mr. Levkovich said. The average gain has been 20 percent within a year. This time around, Mr. Levkovich anticipates something closer to a 10 percent return in stocks over the next year.

Mr. Levkovich cited a few developments that could sucker-punch investors, although he stressed he was not predicting them: avian flu could spread worldwide; Italy, which has reverted to the fiscal imprudence of a bygone era, could be forced to stop using the single European currency; and tensions between China and Taiwan could boil over.

So there is no need to become giddy over investors' excessive gloom and to abandon caution altogether. With that in mind, Mr. Levkovich is turning his attention to big companies that have big bank balances to match. Larger companies are considered safer and less speculative than small-capitalization issues, and a strong balance sheet provides an extra cushion should the economic or political backdrop turn ugly.

"The leadership of the market is going to be large-cap, large-cash," he predicted. That is also the segment of the equity universe where value is concentrated, in his opinion.

Again it is a matter of sentiment. Investors have been seduced for years by smaller stocks, leaving shares of large businesses relatively friendless. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies carries a steep valuation premium to the Russell 200 index of larger companies, Mr. Levkovich pointed out.

Narrowing his focus further, he identified stocks that trade at very low multiples of operating profits and have little enough debt on their books that their earnings could cover their interest costs three times over. That combination gives them the ability to borrow large sums of money safely and return the proceeds to shareholders in the form of special dividends or stock buybacks.

There are 43 such companies that are in a position to return at least half their market capitalization to investors. That means that they could pay a one-time 50 percent dividend and still leave shareholders with an investment in a healthy business.

The big names on the list that also have buy ratings from Citigroup analysts include several energy companies, notably Chevron, Occidental Petroleum, Marathon Oil, ConocoPhillips and Amerada Hess. Among buy-rated stocks in other industries are Alaska Air; Reynolds American, a tobacco producer; the engineering concern Cummins; the steel maker Nucor; and three home builders, Toll Brothers, Ryland Group and Meritage Homes.

"What do I want to buy?" Mr. Levkovich asked himself, answering with a rhetorical question. "Should I be chasing stocks that are expensive and have already gone up — or should I be buying stocks that are cheap, where people are capitulating and valuations are screaming and grabbing you by the shirt lapels?"

His lapels may be fraying, not to mention his patience — large-cap value stocks have been cheap for quite a while — but with sentiment and valuation indicators so favorable for the market, he does not expect the wait to last much longer.
728 2006-06-24 ATLANTA, June 23 (Reuters) — Home Depot, the home-improvement retailer, said Friday that the Securities and Exchange Commission had begun an informal inquiry into its stock-option practices and procedures.

In a regulatory filing, Home Depot said it would cooperate with the inquiry and it expected no weakening of its consolidated financial position or results of operations, though it noted that it could not predict the outcome of the matter.

Home Depot said the inquiry related to its disclosure last week that in three cases before December 2000, stock options were awarded to some executives at below-market prices and that an internal review had showed unrecorded stock option expenses of up to $10 million.

In a June 16 statement, Home Depot said it had determined that there was no material effect on previously filed financial statements and said it would not restate any results.

The retailer also said that since December 2000, the exercise prices of stock options had been based on the market price of shares on a specified grant date. It said it had found no cases where options had been retroactively priced.

About 50 public companies are facing federal investigations into possible manipulation of options grants to increase their value to the employees receiving them.
729 2006-06-24 New York City cannot afford to build and maintain the World Trade Center memorial unless it charges an admission fee, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday.

During his weekly radio program, the mayor said he was opposed to a proposal by state lawmakers that would require the memorial, museum and visitors center to offer free admission to the public in return for state funds. Mr. Bloomberg said an admission fee would be needed to help defray the operating and security costs, and he urged Gov. George E. Pataki to veto the proposal.

"I hope the governor vetoes the bill because it's probably true, without being able to charge, we can't build the memorial," the mayor said. "I mean, it's very simple, there's an ongoing cost. Estimates are roughly $50 million a year."

Mr. Bloomberg said that charging an admission fee to a museum was "a common practice" and that "somebody's got to pay the salaries."

He said the city had enough to pay for already without footing the bill for maintaining the memorial complex. In recent weeks, the mayor and the governor have criticized the World Trade Center Foundation for not raising more in private donations to pay for the memorial.

"This is going to be a stretch to build it, and the city can't be in a position down the road where people say, 'Oh, come on, you've got to pay for all the maintenance,' " the mayor said. "We've got enough things to do. We've got to have police on the streets and firefighters ready to put out the fires or hopefully prevent them."
730 2006-06-24 Verizon Airfone, whose handsets have graced the backs of airline seats for more than two decades, will end its phone service on commercial airliners before the end of the year.

Verizon Communications, Airfone's parent company, has decided instead to focus on its faster-growing broadband, cellular and television businesses, Jim Pilcher, the director of marketing at Verizon Airfone, said yesterday.

Though Mr. Pilcher declined to say how many customers Airfone has, industry analysts said the service was rarely used. Verizon, they said, would have had to spend heavily to install newer, more compelling technology.

"The business they went after is the calling business, and the reality is no one sits on planes and makes calls," said Jonathan Schildkraut, a telecommunications analyst at Jefferies & Company. Verizon has "much bigger fish to fry," he said.

Airfone, which Verizon acquired when it bought GTE in 2000, has phones in about 1,000 planes operated by Continental, Delta, United Airlines and US Airways. The company will work with the airlines to figure out how to remove the phones and other equipment from the planes.
731 2006-06-24 The rule changes, however, should result in "a quantitative and a qualitative freshening of the pool," Mr. Leverence said.

The changes have Hollywood buzzing.

"It has been a big topic of conversation," said Michael Jelline, a talent agent at International Creative Management. "The television landscape and the types of programs being done has grown exponentially" with the addition in recent years of original series on cable networks like FX, TNT and Showtime, Mr. Jelline said. "That has brought a different realm of shows into the conversation. But the system by which shows are voted on has not changed."

Until now. In past years, the whittling of the 4,500 entries to 5 nominees in each category was a two-step process. The members of each academy peer group — performers, directors, makeup artists and the like — voted on the eligible shows, with the top five vote-getters in each category being named as nominees. The winner was then chosen by smaller panels of peer-group members.

This year an interim step has been added. The first vote narrows the eligible shows to a list of 10 or 15 potential nominees, and a specially chosen committee then screens and rates an episode of each of those shows, with the ratings used to narrow the list to five nominees. Then a larger panel of peer-group members, numbering from a dozen to several hundred depending on the category, votes to determine the winner.

Because of the academy's adding both a screening and a committee vote to the nomination process, performers and shows that might not have placed high enough in a popular vote get another chance to impress their peers.

The academy has also expanded the peer group that chooses the nominees for best actor and actress, making directors and casting executives, in addition to performers, eligible to vote. That expands by about a third the number of people voting on nominations in the acting categories, Mr. Leverence said.

"The academy's board wanted a way to open up the competition to fresh faces, to have tight races that featured some different people," Mr. Leverence said. "Because the fun thing about any awards show is the rooting factor."

One group that will be rooting hard, at least in the nominating process, consists of fans of Lauren Graham, who plays a single mother on "Gilmore Girls." Though the show has been on the air for six years, and Ms. Graham's performance has been much praised by critics, "Gilmore Girls" has not received a nomination in any major Emmy category. (In 2004 the show won an Emmy for outstanding nonprosthetic makeup for a television series.)

Disappointed viewers ascribe that slight to the fact that "Gilmore Girls" is shown on the smaller WB, rather than on one of the four major networks. Following its merger with UPN, another small broadcaster, WB will be named the CW network.

That argument appears valid, given that other shows that have won devoted followings on less-visible networks, like "Veronica Mars" on UPN, "Rescue Me" on FX and "Battlestar Galactica" on the Sci Fi Channel, have also been largely overlooked by Emmy voters.

In contrast, some shows seem to be able to book their reservations for a limo on Emmy night years in advance. "Everybody Loves Raymond," the CBS hit, was nominated for best comedy series in each of the last seven years, winning twice. From 2000 through 2004, the 25 potential spots for nominees for best actress in a comedy series were filled by only 8 different actresses.

Other quirks of the new system might also favor less mainstream candidates. Because the list of 15 performers will be whittled to 5 nominees based on the screening of a single episode of the show, some strong performances on unpopular shows could make the cut. Among them is that of Lisa Kudrow, whose turn as a scenery-chewing has-been actress on HBO's "Comeback" won plaudits but not viewers. The show was canceled after one season.

Another unusual aspect of this year's Emmy ceremony involves its scheduling. The show will be broadcast live from the Shrine Auditorium here on Sunday, Aug. 27, a week before Labor Day weekend, when much of the country is on vacation, and the number of households watching television is down about 15 percent from prime viewing months.

The Emmy ceremony has traditionally been scheduled for the second or third Sunday in September, when it served as a sort of kickoff for the new season. But because NBC, whose turn it is to televise this year's awards, has a contract to broadcast National Football League games on Sunday nights, the Emmys had to be moved to late August.

Mr. Leverence shrugged off the scheduling change, saying that this year's rule revisions could help to make up for what otherwise might be lower viewership.

"The important thing is not the night it is on, but do you have competitions that people are interested in seeing," he said. "If you have a field of nominees with tight, interesting races, people will want to see it."
732 2006-06-24 AIRBUS, which only a few years ago seemed to have won the battle with Boeing for global supremacy in the commercial aircraft business, suddenly seems vulnerable. Shares of its parent plunged this month after Airbus warned that it would have to again delay deliveries of its giant A380 plane, which will be the largest commercial jet in the sky.

But shares of EADS — the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, which owns 80 percent of Airbus — are still looking good over the life of the current programs of selling the proposed new planes.

It was 66 months ago, near the end of 2000, that Airbus announced its decision to proceed with development of the A380, sending its stock up sharply as Boeing tried to decide what to do.

In that period, Boeing salesmen have pitched three separate proposed aircraft. One was a stretched 747, which was supposed to compete with the A380 in size. The next was the Sonic Cruiser, which was supposed to fly just below the speed of sound. Neither caught on with customers, and Boeing fell behind in commercial aircraft deliveries amid forecasts of continued woes.

Just before the end of 2002, Boeing said that it would try to sell a new midsize aircraft. That plane, then called the 7E7, was supposed to be more efficient than others, but for many months it struggled to find buyers. The first order was announced in April 2004, when Airbus had orders for 120 of its planes.
733 2006-06-24 "The S.E.C. takes seriously its responsibility to make rules in accordance with our governing laws," Mr. Cox said in a statement. "The court's finding, that despite the commission's investor protection objective its rule is arbitrary and in violation of law, requires that going forward we re-evaluate the agency's approach to hedge fund activity."

He said the commission would "use the court's decision as a spur to improvement in both our rule making process and the effectiveness of our programs to protect investors, maintain fair and orderly markets, and promote capital formation."

As hedge funds have grown, and as some have collapsed amid fraud or because they took excessive risks, pressures to regulate them have grown. But fund managers have protested that the vast majority have acted responsibly and should not be subjected to what James C. McCarroll, a lawyer with Reed Smith, a New York law firm, said yesterday were "regulatory overlays and burdens" approaching those faced by mutual funds.

The S.E.C. rule, adopted in December 2004 on a 3-to-2 vote, called for fund managers with more than $30 million in assets and at least 15 investors to register with the commission. Nearly 1,000 managers did so by the deadline of Feb. 1, 2006.

The S.E.C. rule exempted funds that imposed two-year lockups on investors' money, meaning the money could not be withdrawn for at least that long, leading a number of funds to impose such lockups. Some may choose to remove or ease those rules now.

Hedge funds, as the appeals court opinion written by Judge Arthur R. Randolph noted, "are notoriously difficult to define." But they generally are open only to wealthy investors and charge fees based on a percentage of the assets under management plus a portion of the profits.

The growth of hedge funds has made some managers incredibly wealthy, with incomes dwarfing even those of high-paid corporate chief executives. Alpha, a publication of Institutional Investor, reported that two hedge fund managers earned more than $1 billion each in 2005.

The pressure for more oversight of hedge funds grew after one fund, Long-Term Capital Management, almost collapsed in 1998. The Federal Reserve, fearful that such a collapse could cause systemic risk, encouraged Wall Street firms to mount a rescue, which they did.

The emergence of activist hedge funds, which sometimes act in concert with each other and can become the largest shareholders of some companies, has also increased calls for regulation, both here and in Europe. A German politician called such funds "locusts" that plundered German companies and then fired German workers. Some European governments have pushed for international regulation of such funds.

The decision to push for S.E.C. registration was made by Mr. Cox's immediate predecessor, William H. Donaldson. Mr. Donaldson argued that the funds had grown so large they could cause systemic risk to the financial markets, and that a gradual process of "retailization," through such trends as "fund of funds" that allow relatively small investments, had made it more important for regulators to have at least some knowledge of what was going on in the funds.

The rule, besides requiring registration, also enabled the commission to make periodic inspections of a hedge fund's records. But it did not impose many other rules that apply to public funds, like disclosure of investment portfolios or a requirement for independent directors.

The S.E.C. approved the rule over the dissents of the two Republican members of the commission other than Mr. Donaldson, Cynthia A. Glassman and Paul S. Atkins, who argued the rule was unnecessary and exceeded the commission's authorization.

The S.E.C. decided to interpret the word "client" as it did because there appeared to be no other way for the commission to claim jurisdiction over hedge funds. Such funds are structured to avoid being subject to commission regulation.

The law requires investment advisers to register with the S.E.C., but it exempts "any investment adviser who during the course of the preceding 12 months has had fewer than 15 clients" unless one of those clients is a public mutual fund.

To overcome that exemption, the S.E.C. wanted to define each investor in a hedge fund as a client. But the appeals court noted that if every investor in a mutual fund were counted as a client, there would have been no need for the specific provision that required mutual fund advisers to register. And it added that the commission's rule was arbitrary because it would exempt hedge funds with fewer than 15 investors.

Under the court's ruling, hedge fund managers who registered with the commission could choose to de-register. But it is at least possible that some will choose not to withdraw their registrations, and may argue to investors that their decision to register provides an additional measure of safety, since the commission has the right to review books of anyone who is registered.

The decision was the second court rejection of a rule imposed by the commission over the dissents of Mr. Atkins and Ms. Glassman. The other rule required that at least 75 percent of directors, including the chairman, on mutual fund boards be independent from the fund sponsor.

In that case, however, the appeals court ruled that the commission had not followed proper procedures to consider the costs of the ruling, leaving the way open for the commission to still adopt it. The S.E.C. is seeking comment on what it should do.

In his confirmation hearing last year, Mr. Cox said he had no intention of revoking rules already adopted by the commission, but he has not indicated what course he will now take on the mutual fund issue. Ms. Glassman decided not to seek a new term, and Kathleen L. Casey, the staff director of the Senate Banking Committee, has been nominated by President Bush to succeed her.
734 2006-06-24 Two broadcast television networks have finished selling commercial time to advertisers before the start of the 2006-7 season. The Fox Broadcasting Company, part of the News Corporation, sold $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion in commercial time in what ...
735 2006-06-25 Another fast-selling item, as reported by the Surplus Sales Company on Pennsylvania Avenue, was pemmican, a raisin-and-nut food concentrate with 400 calories to a pocket-size can. In two days the stores sold about 900 cans at 27 cents each.

Si Amanuel, the store manager, said he had cleared his shelves of 400 cans of a five-day food ration that he had on hand Monday. Other items in unusual demand were five-gallon water cans, mess kits, halazone tablets for sterilizing water, 25-cent cans of rust-proof water, K rations and small alcohol stoves.

"You'd be surprised at how many people are buying this stuff," Mr. Amanuel said.

Not far away, at Dalmo’s Discount House, a clerk said there had been “a tremendous buy” in progress on transistor radios, especially models costing from $25 to $35. He was not sure whether the women who were the chief customers were buying radios to get the news, or whether they were planning ahead for a possible loss of electric power.An electronics shop reported the sale of six “family radiation kits” but a drug company said it had had no increase in sales of tranquilizers.

In most ways, the mood of Washington appeared to be not far from business as usual.

At the Capitol, where painters and plasterers have taken over in the absence of Congress, a guide said there had been no increase or decrease in tourists.

Yesterday, 1,053 adults and 173 children toured the building, about normal for late October, the guide said. He added that many of them had asked the guides to keep them posted on news developments.

Washington, once described as “instant rumor,” was full of information, misinformation, gossip and hot tips.A good source of rumors on troop and ship movements was the capital’s secretaries and stenographers, who were suffering an unusual run of broken dates with soldiers, sailors and marines.

Schools were another source of rumors. A father of two reported his seventh-grader had been told by her teacher that the “invasion has started,” and his ninth-grader in the same school had been informed by another teacher that the whole crisis was “just politics.”

One woman emerged from a bus near the Soviet embassy, noticed a policeman guarding it and complained:“They can get protection, but the streets aren’t safe for us.”

And at a downtown lunch counter, a skeptic put his finger on a blurred newspaper photograph purporting to show a missile installation in Cuba.

“It’ll be embarrassing if we get over there and find out it’s an orphanage,” he said.

A real estate woman reported that a client had refused to go through with buying a house, pending settlement of the crisis.

Recruiting offices said that there had been no rush of youths to enlist in the armed forces. There were a number of calls from veterans offering to re-enlist.
736 2006-06-25 Johnson & Johnson, the drug maker, is close to reaching a deal to buy the consumer product unit of Pfizer, which includes household brands like Listerine and Sudafed, for more than $16 billion, according to people involved in the deal.

The transaction could be announced later tonight or Monday morning, these people said.

The deal would add Johnson & Johnson's stable of brands — which includes Tylenol, and Neutrogena — with Pfizer's lineup including Rolaids antacid, Benadryl allergy medicine, Rogaine baldness treatment, Zantac antacid, Bengay analgesic and Lubriderm skin lotion.

Johnson & Johnson appears to have beaten a cadre of other bidder for the unit, which was put up for sale in February. The other bidders had included GlaxoSmithKline, originally tipped to win the auction, and a British household cleaning products maker, Reckitt Benckiser. .

At more than $16 billion, Johnson & Johnson would be paying a hefty price tag; when the auction had begun, most analysts had pegged the sale price at about $14 billion.

Pfizer said it wanted to sell or spin-off its consumer products unit as it tries to focus on prescription drugs, its most profitable business line.

The consumer unit had $3.9 billion in sales last year, a 10 percent increase from 2004, and an operating profit of $670 million, Pfizer said.
737 2006-06-25 Agassi surprised nearly everyone, including himself, when he won his first Grand Slam singles title here in 1992, in the tournament that, in theory, least suited his game.

At that stage, he was still considered a player with fabulous potential and questionable grit. With long hair flowing from the back of his cap, he beat Boris Becker in the quarterfinals and John McEnroe in the semifinals before defeating Goran Ivanisevic in five sets to win. No wonder he dropped to his knees with wide-eyed delight.

There have been many more major mood swings since then, none bigger than when he plummeted to No. 141 in the world rankings in 1997. But he has persevered and outlasted his peers, becoming one of five men in the history of the sport to have won singles titles at all four major tournaments.

He has refashioned his attacking baseline game, his physique and his image. He has evolved from a wisecracking, anti-establishment figure with a foul mouth and no desire to wear white into the game's premier statesman, with a charitable foundation that is one of the most successful in sports.

"From punk to paragon," the tennis historian and journalist Bud Collins said.

It has been quite a journey, even though Agassi still lives in Las Vegas, the city where he was born.

"He's a guy who has given a lot to the game and who grew up in front of all of us," his former coach Brad Gilbert said. "People remember him with the long hair and the attitude, but he grew to be an ambassador, maybe the best the game has seen."

Agassi is the last of his great generation of American players to retire. Pete Sampras, Jim Courier and Michael Chang were among the group; they all won at least one major singles title.

Agassi has won eight: four Australian Opens, two United States Opens, one French Open and one Wimbledon.

"It's the end of an era," Sampras said in a telephone interview from a California golf course. "I think in his mid- to early 20's, he was trying to find his way. He would have a good year, and the next year he would struggle a bit. And I really think when he got together with Steffi and had a relationship with her, he saw the way she did it, and I think it rubbed off on him a little bit.

"He focused hard. He was more business than flash. I also think he didn't want to look back on his career and have any regrets."

Sampras won a record 14 majors, none of them at the French Open, but Agassi, with his gift for gab and his taste for a cause, was clearly the most charismatic player of his era. By the end, however, his game was more efficient than spectacular.

"Early on in his career, he was just bullying people around and slapping winners," said Todd Martin, who lost to Agassi in five sets in the 1999 United States Open final. "The second half of his career, maybe from 1995 or 1996 on, I thought there was a lot more structure to the way he played.

"He developed a much better understanding and a good amount of discipline to play to his strengths. And I think without that evolution, I doubt he would have been able to play as long as he has."

With the help of his longtime trainer and friend Gil Reyes, Agassi became one of the fittest players on the ATP Tour in his early 30's. But he has frequently been in pain in the past two years because of a chronic back problem, which has forced him to have repeated cortisone injections.

Agassi made a stirring and unexpected run to the United States Open final last year, pushing Roger Federer before losing in four sets, but during the awards ceremony, he was clearly in discomfort because of his back.

Agassi took a break in the fall, then injured his ankle while playing racquetball, an injury that spoiled the end of his season and also his preparation for this one.

He withdrew from the year's first two Grand Slam events — the Australian Open and the French Open — and did not play any tournaments on clay.

In four events this year, he has not advanced past the quarterfinals, and he seemed particularly affected by his first-round loss to Tim Henman on June 12 at the Queen's Club tournament.

But after missing Wimbledon because of injuries in 2004 and 2005, Agassi was committed to returning once more to the place he refused to play at the start of his career because of the club's white-clothing policy.

"I grew up sort of in the public eye," Agassi said. "I had to learn some tough lessons in front of a lot of people, one of which was to respect the greatest tournament in our sport, the greatest championship there is for us.

"After the U.S. Open last year," he added, "I had a lot of reasons to be motivated to shoot for another successful year, but for many reasons, that hasn't been the case. I wanted to do everything I could just to get back here. And this is where it all started for me, my dreams."

Agassi said he was uncertain about his plans after he retires, but he intended to play a full schedule between Wimbledon and the United States Open.

"Right now, I hope it to be four tournaments," he said. "But I also want to keep myself right for what ultimately means the most, which is being ready and in a good spot for New York."

It will be the sort of farewell tour that Sampras and Courier never had. Each of them announced his retirement after playing his final match. So did Agassi's wife, Graf, who retired in 1999 after having won 22 Grand Slam singles titles.

Asked why he had taken a different tack, Agassi answered: "Because I promised you that I would tell you when I knew it. I concluded this is what I'm going to do, and I feel like I can get my teeth into these events. I feel like I still have something to bring out there."

Gilbert said he expected Agassi to play well here, now that the pressure is off and the retirement issue is resolved.

"He's in position to go out on his terms," Sampras said. "Hopefully, he'll put himself in contention and maybe win one. I'm trying to be positive but also realistic. It will be tough, especially at Wimbledon. On grass, you need to be playing well and moving well.

"But if he can get it going, he's got a ton of experience. If he can get through the first couple matches, he'll get stronger, not weaker."

His draw here is promising.

Agassi, the oldest player in the men's draw at Wimbledon, is seeded 25th and will face the 69th-ranked Boris Pashanski of Serbia and Montenegro in the first round. If the seedings hold, he will face No. 2 Rafael Nadal, the reigning French Open champion, who is still adjusting to the grass-court game, in the third round.

"I'd love to play him here," Nadal said. "But I can't get ahead of myself."

Nadal called Agassi a legend, expressing admiration for his ability to return to the highest level after tumbling out of the top 100.

But Nadal said he had no recollection of Agassi's victory here in 1992. He was, after all, only 6 at the time.

Agassi's memory serves very well, however.

"I imagine it's that way when your child goes off to college," he said. "You say, what the heck happened in all these years? It feels like yesterday for me, as vivid, as alive as ever."

Now he has given himself one last chance to make some new Wimbledon memories.
738 2006-06-25 Defender Philippe Senderos of Switzerland will miss the rest of the World Cup after dislocating his shoulder in Friday's victory over South Korea, team officials said yesterday in Germany.

Dr. Rudolf Röder said Senderos had suffered ligament damage in the incident.

"He will be out for a minimum of two weeks," Röder said. "There is a 50 percent chance he will require an operation, but the most important thing is rest for now."

Senderos was part of a Swiss defense that has yet to allow a goal at the World Cup.

"Of course, it is a big blow for us, but we have already seen his friend Johan standing in well in the defense," Coach Köbi Kuhn said, referring to Johan Djourou.

"One of our strengths is that we can replace almost everybody in the team without losing too much strength," he said.

Switzerland plays Ukraine in the second round of the World Cup tomorrow. The World Cup final is on July 9.
739 2006-06-25 "Unfortunately, we'll never know how many people were killed or exposed," said Dr. Joanne al-Talabani, who for the past three years has visited the area to study the long-term health problems of Kurdish children exposed in the attacks, including scarred lungs and eyes as well as birth defects. "There are no medical records from that time — none. Most people can't remember: they were delirious, running, in shock."

The study of chemical weapons is an arcane, imperfect corner of forensic science, where lab results and doctors' physical exams yield hints of exposure, but rarely direct legal proof. Chemical weapons break down quickly in the environment or in the body, and scientists are unsure what, if any, tracks they should look for nearly 20 years after the fact.

Mr. Hussein is already on trial in Baghdad in another case, involving the execution of 148 Shiite men and youths after an abortive assassination attempt against him in Dujail in 1982. That trial, which began eight months ago, moved into closing arguments on June 19, with the prosecution demanding the death penalty for Mr. Hussein.

Iraqi prosecutors have said they expect the so-called Anfal case — the term, meaning "spoils" in Arabic, was the code name for the Iraqi military's attacks on the Kurdish villages — to begin this summer or in early autumn. The formal indictment focuses on attacks in 1988 that are suspected of killing 50,000 Kurdish villagers, though Kurdish leaders say that perhaps three times as many Kurds died in the attacks.

The Anfal trial, which includes the chemical weapons charges, "will be the most important public reckoning, but in court you can't just say, 'I know it happened,' " said Alastair Hay, a professor of chemical pathology at the University of Leeds in England who has studied soil samples from Kurdistan. "You need solid, irrefutable scientific evidence. But it's very difficult to establish something like nerve-gas exposure at this stage. I can't tell you how frustrating this is, since nothing concrete has ever appeared."

An American-led team of forensic specialists working for the Iraqi court spent weeks examining one mass grave of victims at Hatra, near Mosul, a northern city. But those deaths, including women and children, were the result of gunfire at the grave site, not chemical weapons.

Almost all experts now contend that Mr. Hussein's armies used chemical weapons against Kurdish civilians: mustard gas and probably two nerve agents, tabun and sarin. C.I.A. documents refer to chemical weapons use, and former top Iraqi military officers have confirmed the suspicion, said Joost Hiltermann, a former senior researcher at Human Rights Watch whose exhaustive book on the topic is scheduled to appear in 2007. Mr. Hussein has repeatedly denied the allegation.

Iraq's use of chemical weapons, banned by the 1926 Geneva Convention, against Iranian soldiers during the Iran-Iraq war of 1980-88 was confirmed in a series of United Nations verification reports. Iran is still monitoring 30,000 people who were exposed.

But it is more complicated to tally the effect of such banned weapons against the Iraqi Kurds. Estimates of the number of victims range from the thousands to the hundreds of thousands.

"Twenty years later it is difficult to prove on the basis of physical evidence, but the total picture in my eyes doesn't leave any doubt that it occurred," said Dr. Jan Willems, a retired professor of environmental medicine at Erasmus Hospital in Brussels. He said he examined several Kurdish patients who had traveled to Europe shortly after gas attacks in 1988, displaying burns associated with mustard gas.

Testimonials are plentiful: Iraqi Kurds have consistently described how, in 1998, Mr. Hussein's warplanes delivered bombs filled with sweet-smelling gases to put down the Kurdish insurgency, with harrowing results.

Shorsh Haji, a researcher who now lives in London, still recalls the night of Feb. 22, 1988, when the bombardment went on for two hours near his home in the Jafati Valley; he assumed it was conventional weapons. When he emerged in the morning, he discovered otherwise. "People on the streets were coughing, vomiting, their eyes were weeping," Mr. Haji said. "Some had blisters on their legs and under their arms."

"A family of five down the road had died instantly," he said.

The United Nations did not investigate charges of chemical use against the Kurds in those early days, when it would have been far easier to prove, because it was regarded as an internal Iraqi conflict, Mr. Hiltermann said.

The world viewed with some skepticism testimonials from Kurdish guerrillas. At the time, Mr. Hussein was an ally of the United States, and the components of his chemical arms were often supplied by European businessmen.

On the medical side, proof of the attacks is scant because Kurds were afraid to go to local Iraqi hospitals, where doctors had been told not to treat them, said Dr. Talabani, who emigrated in 1977 and is now a pediatrician with the British National Health Service.

Those who slipped over the border to Iran for diagnosis and treatment often destroyed their medical records documenting chemical exposure before returning, for fear it would open them to persecution, the doctor said. Also, while Iran quickly sent hundreds of its soldiers to hospitals in Belgium and Austria, which helped prove attacks there, only a very few Kurds got out for evaluation.

In the days after an attack, mustard gas exposure is relatively easy to document. Used extensively in World War I, it causes unusual blistering burns of the skin as well as severe irritation of the eyes and lungs. Breakdown products of the gas can be detected for weeks in the urine, making recent exposure simple to prove in a sophisticated lab.

The use of nerve agents like tabun and sarin, the chemical used in the Tokyo subway attacks in 1995, is far trickier to prove because these gases are short-lived and deadlier. "Mustard leaves lots of physical evidence," Mr. Hiltermann said. "With sarin, people die or get better fast, so it's very difficult to prove."

Despite charges by Kurdish groups of mass killings by chemical weapons in 1988, the only specific physical proof is four soil samples collected in 1992, from two bomb craters near the Kurdish village of Birjinni, by a team from Middle East Watch and Physicians for Human Rights that included Mr. Hay.

After meticulous testing at the Porton Down Naval Laboratory in England, two samples were found to contain degradation products of mustard gas, and two showed breakdown products of sarin. Other attempts to analyze soil samples after the fact have all turned up negative.

"We looked in the bomb crater itself — in one case under a piece of shell — where concentrations were higher," Mr. Hay said.

The long-term health problems of patients from the area offer indirect evidence of chemical weapons use. But survivors tend to have vague conditions, like chronic bronchitis or pain, that have many other possible causes. Mustard gas causes breathing problems, but no studies have been performed to define the link between exposure to nerve gases and long-term health problems, experts said.

Dr. Talabani said that more than 300 patients she has been studying, who were exposed in childhood, seemed to have an "extremely high incidence of illness." She determined exposure according to the history patients relayed: a history of chemical burns indicated exposure to mustard gas, while lack of coordination or seizures after an airstrike indicated a nerve agent.

"Unfortunately little is known because this is the first group studied," Dr. Talabani said. "There are very severe breathing problems, skin problems and eye problems, such as corneal scarring that has already required transplants."

Over the years, a large number of former Iranian soldiers and a smaller number of Kurds who say they were exposed to chemical weapons have been seen at European hospitals with a broad range of medical complaints. There are no blood tests that serve as markers for chemical exposure, though scientists like Mr. Hay say such "tracks" could be discovered with research.

"Diagnosis was based on clinical history and signs and symptoms," Mr. Willems said.

Because of the lack of hard data and the imprecise testing, there is some disagreement about how many people were affected and what chemical compounds were used.

Dr. Heyndrickx says he believes that the Iraqi Army used cyanide and biological toxins as well as mustard gas and sarin, making him somewhat of a maverick in the field, since most other scientists feel that the evidence doesn't support this claim.

Still, he was one of the few Western experts in Halabja just after the attack, and the samples in his lab, particularly the clothing, could still provide valuable clues if they were properly sealed and stored, Mr. Hay said.

"People now tend to say it's obvious that Saddam committed crimes, but for legal and international standards we need to have evidence," said Mr. Haji, the researcher, whose testimony has been accepted by the court. "Only then can people who were exposed be compensated."
740 2006-06-25 The Fairfield case — which centers on a dispute over whether coaches and referees are employees or, as the league contends, independent contractors — is not the first time the I.R.S. has fined a nonprofit youth sports league. But the penalty is one of the largest, and it has sent worried sports officials from Connecticut and other states scrambling to review the finer points of the tax code.

"A lot of clubs are going through the same type of audit situations, and they're watching our case to see how it turns out," Mr. Skelton said.

Indeed, youth sports clubs, literally once mom-and-pop operations, have grown so large and sophisticated that they now require payrolls, registrars and 1099 forms. Some boards have hired accountants and lawyers. United States Youth Soccer, a nonprofit umbrella group, even offered a seminar on the use of independent contractors at its national convention in Houston in February, run by an I.R.S. representative.

Soccer may have run afoul of the I.R.S. partly because of its immense growth, from a pickup sport 30 years ago to a national phenomenon today, as judged by the avid interest in the World Cup this month.

In 1974, United States Youth Soccer counted 100,000 players; today it says there are over 3 million. Fairfield United, which had 350 players a decade ago, today has 800. And while many of its coaches were parent volunteers back then, today it pays $2,500 a season to 25 skills coaches.

Soccer has also become big business. The Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association estimates there is a $215 million industry for wholesale soccer goods.

The IRS has declined to comment on the Fairfield case. But the agency "has an important interest in proper classification of workers," said Bruce I. Friedland, a spokesman. He said some groups intentionally mischaracterized employees "to avoid paying employment taxes."

Generally speaking, if an organization has direct control over a person's work, he or she is considered an employee. Independent contractors, on the other hand, tend to own their own businesses, work for a variety of clients, supply their own uniforms and gear, and have the right of refusal to work any assignment.

Mr. Skelton said that many of the league's skills coaches were employed by a Long Island soccer camp and defined under the contract as independent contractors. And many of the referees in the Fairfield case are older children officiating at the games of younger ones, for $20 to $40 a game.

"Are these 10-year-old children employees of Fairfield soccer? That's what we're facing," he said. All the workers in question received the payments they were due, he added.

Tax officials have also taken a hard look at high school sports. Mike Colbrese, the executive director of the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association, the governing body for that state's high school sports, said that 10 years ago, an IRS auditor concluded that the association's referees were employees, and that it had failed to withhold taxes for them. It took the association months to get that conclusion reversed.

In California, a 1995 law declared that officials were independent contractors after the state Employment Development Department created an uproar by assessing one high school sports governing body $200,000 for back employment taxes.

Fairfield United learned of the proposed penalties in the fall of 2004, and soon requested that the case be reviewed by the auditor's supervisor. The audit became public this month after an unidentified parent sent it to The Fairfield Minuteman, a newspaper that first published details about the case. The club hopes to learn the results of the supervisor's review by the end of the year.

Mr. Skelton, who played soccer in college, first got involved with suburban soccer by coaching his eldest son, Jaime, on a recreational team. Last November, he agreed to become president of the association, saying he wanted to guide it out of its I.R.S. problems so that the youngest of his sons, Mattie, 7, could play. The volunteer job has taken a toll, he said, keeping him up some nights until 3 a.m.

And he still coaches Jaime's team. On Thursday, as the team finished its last game of the season against Westport, losing 3-2, Mr. Skelton congratulated the sweat-soaked boys.

"You did everything we asked for this year, and you're twice the team you were at the beginning of the year," he said. Then he urged them to start thinking about the fall, when they would be raising money and practicing for a trip to Barcelona, Spain.

But some parents worry that travel soccer has become too much like big business.

Howard Rubenstein, 69, the referee administrator for the Eastern New York Youth Soccer Association, based in Rockville Centre, on Long Island, volunteers about 40 hours a week doing paperwork for the youth organization and a senior soccer group. He has an accountant check his books monthly.

A former chemistry teacher who started volunteering with soccer teams 35 years ago when he took pity on a coach "surrounded by 18 screaming first graders," Mr. Rubenstein said the corporatization of soccer had taken away "the fun of it."

"I remember when the parents used to run hat sales and bake sales and you had people who were the orange juice mother," he said. "You'd pile the kids in three or four cars and take them to a game. Now the clubs come up in brand-new 18-passenger vans."

Dante Gallucci, a Little League baseball leader in Fairfield, raised another worry. More aggressive I.R.S. scrutiny, he said, might make parents afraid to sit on boards of youth sports associations, especially if members are held liable for tax penalties, as could happen with Fairfield United.

"They have to remember, this isn't the board of directors of Enron," said Mr. Gallucci, a lawyer whose daughter plays with a Fairfield United team. "This is Joey who runs the pizza place who's really good at concessions, and a carpenter who's good at getting the kids to hit in T-ball, and a guy who's great on designing uniforms."

"We want to teach kids baseball and teach them something about growing up," he said. "We don't want to be involved in 27 hours of federal inquiry."
741 2006-06-25 Is NASA slipping back into the same old bad habits that yielded two disastrous space shuttle accidents in the past? That question is inevitably raised by the agency's troubling rationale for launching the shuttle Discovery in early July despite objections from the agency's top safety officer and chief engineer, both of whom urged a delay to make further design changes lest the vehicle be lost.

The decision to proceed with the launch anyway — made by Michael Griffin, the administrator of NASA — was a gutsy call. It even seems reasonable, if you accept the constraints he was operating under. But if you believe, as we do, that the benefits to be gained from further shuttle flights are minimal, this looks like an unnecessary risk to the spacecraft and to the astronauts who will be riding in it.

Although no one is saying so publicly, this decision was primarily driven by diplomatic and budgetary considerations. The Bush administration, which has no qualms about flouting allies in other areas, has decided that it must honor commitments to our 15 international partners to complete the space station that is now circling half-finished overhead. Some 16 more shuttle flights will be needed to carry large components that cannot be lifted any other way. The administration has also decided to retire the aging shuttles for good in 2010, primarily to free up substantial sums to pursue the president's grandiose but underfinanced plan to explore the Moon and Mars in coming decades.

Given those two imperatives, Mr. Griffin concluded that it would be better to take a little risk now and send the long-grounded shuttles back into space than to delay even longer and then try to cram all 16 flights into future years. This sounds suspiciously as though Mr. Griffin has fallen into the old trap of sacrificing safety to meet his launching schedule — precisely the kind of trade-off that has been blamed for the loss of two shuttles in the past. Mr. Griffin contends that launching now will reduce future schedule pressures, but that seems a lame rationale for a mission that will be the first ever classified as an "unacceptable risk" by the agency's engineering analysis.

The red flag involves insulating foam. When 25 top managers were polled at a recent flight readiness review, NASA's lead safety officer and its chief engineer both recommended against flying until design changes were made to reduce the risk that foam would break off from the external fuel tank and hit the shuttle.
742 2006-06-25 The source is not just longtime residents repairing their houses. Newcomers have flocked to St. Tammany, too, many from St. Bernard Parish to the south, where almost every house took in floodwater.

One sign of the population shift: The Archdiocese of New Orleans is moving a high school that used to be in St. Bernard to St. Tammany, is opening another school and has even established a new parish in Covington; later this year, parishioners will worship in a building that used to house Mr. Fish Pets and Supplies.

"You follow the people," said the Rev. William Maestri, chief spokesman for the archdiocese, noting that these newcomers did not seem temporary. "They're building and buying, not renting."

St. Bernard Parish, which was damaged far more heavily in the hurricane, is, like St. Tammany, mostly white, but not nearly as wealthy. One Catholic church in the parish has reopened — out of nine. Residents have been slow to return, partly because there is little in the way of medical care or shopping (the Walgreens has reopened, but not the Super Wal-Mart).

Sales taxes are running about the same as last year, in part because taxes on new cars are paid where the vehicles are registered, not where they are bought, said David E. Peralta, the chief administrative officer for the parish. "I don't want you to think we are back and running and making more money than ever before," Mr. Peralta said.

That much is clear just from a trip down Judge Perez Drive, which is lined with heaps of rubbish, blown-out signs, white travel trailers and, on the side streets, condemned houses.

Behind the parish office building, where waterlogged papers ooze out of filing cabinets on the sidewalk, Henry Rodriguez, the parish president known to everyone as Junior, is still living and working out of a double-wide trailer. Sitting at his kitchen-table-cum-desk, Mr. Rodriguez said that about 20,000 residents, out of 67,000, had returned. And he expects many more to come back when they figure out how expensive housing is in St. Tammany.

On the other hand, one of his biggest worries stems from the thousands of ruined houses that have not been touched, and which he fears have been abandoned by people who are taking their insurance money elsewhere.

"I figure they don't give a damn," he said of these house owners. "They're walking off and saying, 'It's yours.' "
743 2006-06-25 The stock market declined modestly in a week of listless trading as investors waited for a hint from the Federal Reserve about how high interest rates might climb.

The central bank's policy makers are scheduled to meet on Thursday and are expected to raise their benchmark short-term interest rate, the federal funds rate, for the 17th consecutive time, to 5.25 percent. Whether they intend to continue to raise rates at subsequent meetings remains in doubt, and Wall Street will be scrutinizing Fed statements closely.

While it was a quiet week for the market as a whole, shares of two oil and gas companies soared on takeover bids from Anadarko Petroleum. Kerr-McGee jumped 33.7 percent for the week and Western Gas Resources climbed 41.5 percent.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 25.46 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 10,989.09. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 7.04 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,244.50. The Nasdaq Composite index dropped 8.48 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,121.47.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed to 5.22 percent from 5.13 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER
744 2006-06-25 Dangerous undocumented aliens can also be detained. An undocumented alien who commits a serious crime receives a regular criminal trial, but after he has served his time, he is supposed to be deported. Sometimes the home country will not accept him, in which case immigration law authorizes the American government to detain him indefinitely. Recently, the Supreme Court has read the law restrictively in order to avoid constitutional problems with such detentions; but precedent that the Court did not overturn sustains the possibility that a clearer and more narrowly drawn statute would permit indefinite detention, especially in the most serious cases. Again, the detainee is entitled to a civil hearing only, and thus does not benefit from a jury or other criminal trial protections.

Throughout American history, states and the federal government have criminalized speech that advocates the violent overthrow of the United States government and other subversive activities. These laws, which long survived judicial scrutiny, authorized criminal punishment of people who were dangerous but hadn't actually caused harm.

Although in 1969 the Supreme Court held that under the First Amendment governments can ban only speech that would cause "imminent" harm — like incitement to riot — it remains an open question whether this standard is workable in an age of global terrorism exemplified by the Sept. 11 attacks. Less restrictive tests applied in earlier cases could be resurrected if the United States created a similar statute to counter the modern wave of terrorism.

The detention of enemy aliens, especially enemy soldiers, during wartime is a long-established practice. Enemy aliens and soldiers are not detained because they have committed crimes; they are detained because they are dangerous. During World War II, the United States detained hundreds of thousands of enemy soldiers in prison camps on American territory and elsewhere. Because being an enemy soldier is not a crime, these soldiers did not receive trials before their internment.

However, the Bush administration has failed to persuade its allies and many Americans that these wartime rules are applicable to Al Qaeda, possibly because, unlike a conventional war, the war against foreign terrorists is fought on ambiguous territory and has no foreseeable end.

As a result, people are less willing than in previous wars to trust the government's claim that someone found on the battlefield, wherever it may be, is a continuing threat rather than a civilian or a soldier ready to lay down arms for good. But the underlying principle — that dangerous aliens may be detained even if they have not committed crimes — is the same.

Finally, even when deciding the length of ordinary criminal sentences, judges often take account not just of guilt but of a defendant's dangerousness. A sentence, in reflecting dangerousness, may be longer than is justified by the defendant's guilt.

In none of these cases is a person dangerous just because the government calls him dangerous. But the standards vary with the context. To detain a mentally ill person, the government must usually show that he has a mental disorder that prevents him from controlling himself. To detain an enemy soldier, a relatively informal military hearing must establish a connection between him and a battlefield.

The half-truth that one can be punished only for committing a crime needs to be filled out with the larger truth that the government may detain dangerous people in order to protect the public. The question of whether to close Guantánamo is a question about whether suspected members of Al Qaeda are as dangerous as people made violence-prone by mental illness, enemy soldiers during wartime, undocumented aliens who have committed serious crimes, recidivist violent criminals and traditional subversives during times of emergency.

If they are, the United States government can, without offending American legal traditions, lock up suspected Qaeda members without the protections afforded by a full- blown criminal trial. Whether doing so is wise policy depends on the extent to which Al Qaeda continues to pose a threat to American security, the extent to which traditional criminal law protections hinder necessary security measures, the moral harm that occurs when the government erroneously detains people who are harmless, and the diplomatic constraints imposed by allies. It does not depend on an appeal to general principles.
745 2006-06-25 Re "Poland's Bigoted Government" (editorial, June 11): Poland is a party to numerous international treaties and conventions that provide for strong safeguards of human rights and democratic standards.

Therefore, it is with respect and gratitude that I read the June 18 letter from the chief rabbi of Poland, Michael Schudrich, in response to your editorial.

Rabbi Schudrich gave an account of the reactions of Polish leaders to an anti-Semitic incident that he fell victim to a few weeks ago in Warsaw. This highly regrettable occurrence was unequivocally condemned by the authorities, including the president, the prime minister and the minister of foreign affairs. The police established a special task force to investigate the matter. Yet your editorial cited this incident as an example of the Polish government's seeming to be "intent on violating the rights of minority groups." Such a supposition cannot be accepted.

No country in Europe or elsewhere is completely immune from anti-Semitism. Freedom of speech and the press is being occasionally abused by people with an agenda of intolerance.

Democratic governments, as in Poland, should make sure there is no place for anti-Semitism and other racial sentiments in free societies.

This is exactly what the president and the government of Poland have done. I strongly believe that it is only fair to judge the leaders of Poland and its state institutions by their deeds.
746 2006-06-25 The Saba house may be the only eight-figure purchase in the neighborhood, but it is far from being the only multimillion-dollar teardown in this area, which has become a center of the borough's Syrian Jewish community.

Two doors down, at the corner of Avenue S and East Third Street, is a property owned by Joe Cayre, a former record company executive who was among the group of investors led by Larry A. Silverstein that leased the World Trade Center in July 2001.

City records show that Mr. Cayre paid $4.5 million for a 4,300-square-foot house on the lot in 2004. But he tore it down and according to plans on file with the city, is now building an 8,200-square-foot replacement.

A block away, Isaac S. Franco, the chief executive of the Franco Apparel Group, which manufactures children's clothing, paid $3.5 million for a house at Avenue S and East Fifth Street in 2002. Like his neighbors, he tore it down and is putting up an 8,674-square-foot house with a slate roof and custom copper downspouts.

Nearby, on East Fourth Street, Eli Gindi, a real estate developer who belongs to the family that owns the Century 21 department stores, paid $1.8 million in 2004 for a pair of houses on adjoining lots, tore them down and has submitted plans for a 12,600-square-foot house that would be one of the largest in Brooklyn.

Back on Avenue S, Manny Haber, the president of an apparel manufacturer called Fleet Street, paid $5 million last February for No. 459, an unassuming 2,500-square-foot two-story house with peeling paint. No plans for it have been filed with the city, and the house is empty.

So, this is Brooklyn?

In fact, it is a very particular part of Brooklyn, one where some of the wealthiest members of an extremely tight-knit enclave of Syrian Jews compete with one another for properties on a few coveted blocks of large homes around Avenues S, T and U, between the area's main synagogues on Ocean Parkway and its most prestigious yeshiva on McDonald Avenue.

Because devout Jews are barred from driving on the Sabbath, houses within walking distance of a synagogue carry a premium. And while that has had an impact on real estate values in other Brooklyn neighborhoods, the effect could hardly be more extreme than it is in Gravesend, where house prices have risen to astonishing heights.

"This market is not dictated by interest rates or the price of real estate as a whole," said Frank Lupi, the president of Wolf Properties, a real estate agency in Gravesend. "The houses over here, they sell very quickly, and you're almost naming your price at this point."

Elliot Betesh, the president of the Dr. Jay's clothing stores, who lives on Avenue S, said, "We're just a tight-knit Jewish Sephardic community that all lives together."

"People want to be close to the synagogues and the Jewish center," Mr. Betesh said, referring to the Sephardic Community Center at Ocean Parkway and Avenue S. "That's why the prices are so high in our area."

"We should be living in Englewood Cliffs with acres and acres of land or Long Island with the stupid prices people pay in this area," he said, laughing.

The broader Sephardic community, with roots not just in Syria but also in Egypt, Morocco and other countries, occupies a broad swath of central Brooklyn for several blocks on either side of Ocean Parkway from about Avenue H to the Belt Parkway. The families tend to be large, and when the children grow up, they often stay put, looking for homes near their parents and grandparents.

That puts further upward pressure on prices in the most sought-after blocks, according to brokers and appraisers who work in the neighborhood. Among Syrian Jews, they said, it is not uncommon for the parents of an infant or a toddler to buy an additional house that they envision will some day be a wedding gift.

Mr. Betesh said that over the last several years he had bought three additional homes, which he plans to give to his two sons and a nephew once they are married. The young men are in their late 20's or early 30's. To an outsider familiar with real estate in other parts of the city, it can be hard to make sense of the prices being paid in Gravesend. But the area may not be an aberration at all.

Instead, it may actually represent New York City real estate in one of its purest forms. It is often said of Manhattan that apartment prices are so high because it is an island. There is little vacant land, a fairly constant inventory of apartments, and the city's population keeps growing. Thus limited supply combined with rising demand equals higher prices.

A similar situation exists in the eight or so blocks that represent Gravesend's prime locale. There are only a few hundred houses on those blocks, and the wealthiest families find themselves in the real estate equivalent of a game of musical chairs, in competition with one another every time a parcel becomes available.

Houses in the prime blocks around Avenues S, T and U sell for at least twice as much as houses of comparable size and condition a few blocks away, according to Mr. Lupi, the broker. "The difference is enormous," he said.

As a result, prices are rising throughout the neighborhood and impressive new houses are beginning to spring up south of Avenue V and just off McDonald Avenue. One example is the sprawling, 10,600-square-foot Mediterranean fantasy under construction at East Fourth Street and Gravesend Neck Road, which looks as if it fell out of the sky, "Wizard of Oz" style, and landed amid a group of humble red-brick duplexes.

Jeffrey Jackson, the chairman of Mitchell, Maxwell & Jackson, a real estate appraisal firm, compares the elite section of Gravesend with ultra-high-end co-ops in Manhattan, like 740 Park Avenue and 834 Fifth Avenue.

"There's a direct parallel there, in terms of people paying absolutely astronomical prices for things and having them be somewhat irrelevant to what's going on in the rest of the world," Mr. Jackson said.

He also sees a similarity between the small pool of people with the wealth and social status who gain entree to the most elite Manhattan co-ops and the wealthy Syrian enclave in Brooklyn. "They are virtually a closed society as well," he said.

He added that the real estate value derived from proximity to a particular synagogue is comparable to amenities whose value most Manhattanites would not think to question: being close to Central Park or having a sweeping view.

"The location is the most important," said Marianne R. Sanua, an associate professor of history and Jewish studies at Florida Atlantic University, in Boca Raton, who grew up in Brooklyn in a half-Syrian Sephardic family. "They're willing to completely gut a house and rebuild it to the latest specifications rather than spend $5 million to buy a penthouse on the Upper East Side, which would mean nothing to them."

"It's very important for members of the community to live close to one another," she added. "They put tremendous emphasis on keeping their children in the community and having them socialize and marry within the community. Many parents will go to tremendous efforts to buy houses for their children. They will buy houses and give them as wedding gifts."

An early wave of Jewish immigration from Syria occurred before and after World War I, Ms. Sanua said. In New York, many of the immigrants settled on the Lower East Side and then in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, but after World War II, the families moved to the area around Ocean Parkway, in what was then known more generally as Flatbush. Once the main synagogues established themselves on Ocean Parkway, many of the wealthiest families gravitated to the large homes in the Gravesend area.

They also established a summer outpost on the Jersey Shore, and many of the same families have expansive beach homes in Deal that are worth even more than their properties in Gravesend.

The community is frequently called cohesive, but it can be very insular as well. Most people telephoned about real estate deals they participated in either never responded or refused to talk. Mr. Gindi, the developer with plans to create one of the largest homes in Brooklyn, returned a phone call from a reporter because he said he expected to be asked about his real estate projects in Manhattan. He would not say much about his Brooklyn neighborhood.

"It's beautiful," he said. "That's the Syrian community — that's where we live."

A reporter who visited the neighborhood, which has tall trees shading abbreviated lawns (the large houses tend to fill the lots), was met with a similar response from residents, many of whom refused to speak.

Although it is made up of ordinary city streets, the area has something of the flavor of a gated development in Los Angeles, with vehicles bearing the insignia of private security companies on patrol. The reporter was stopped on the street by two men in a car belonging to a company called City Investigations Security, who said residents had complained that the reporter had rung their doorbells.

There is a California flavor to some of the more expensive homes as well. Many of them have orange or green terra-cotta roofs and other Mediterranean flourishes reminiscent of Los Angeles or Palm Beach. The most exclusive blocks in the neighborhood can easily be spotted on a satellite photograph — clearly demarcated by the telltale orange roofs.

Warren Meister, an architect who has built several large homes in the area (including the Saba house going up on the $11 million property on Avenue S), said the style of architecture dates back to the houses that were built in the area and elsewhere along Ocean Parkway in the 1920's.

Contractors who work in the area said the interiors of many new homes were lavish, with custom kitchens and bathrooms, vaulted ceilings, double-height entryways and other high-end touches. One contractor said he recently saw plans for a house with a full basketball court in the basement. Another contractor said plans for another house called for a basement 22 feet deep, which would include a handball or racquetball court.

The contractors said the cost of building luxury homes in the area starts at around $300 a square foot but can climb to more than twice that much when special finishes are factored in. One builder estimated the cost of the Saba home on Avenue S at more than $4 million. Including the price paid for the land, that would bring its total cost to more than $15 million.

The Sabas, who belong to one of the wealthiest families in Mexico, are well known in the neighborhood. According to neighbors, Miriam Saba and a brother, Moisés Saba Masri, had spent time in the $11 million house before it was torn down.

The deed for the house was signed by an associate of Mr. Saba, Alberto M. Sutton, a stockbroker and a principal in Middlegate Securities who lives in the neighborhood, and has handled some of Mr. Saba's financial affairs. Mr. Sutton and Mr. Saba are the target of a civil suit filed in 2004 by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which charges them with securities fraud in connection with a series of stock market trades in 1999. The men have asked a judge to dismiss the case, but Robert B. Kaplan, an assistant director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, said the agency expected it to go to trial within the next year.

The house was held by a corporation controlled by the relatives of a woman named Mary Hidary which sold it after her death. Abraham and David Hidary, her sons who signed the deed, did not respond to numerous messages seeking information about the sale. Roger Crane, a lawyer for Mr. Saba, did not return calls after he was asked to seek comment from his client about the house.

Françoise Timoll, a vice president of Vanderbilt Appraisal, who has appraised homes in the area, said she was stunned at the $11 million price for the house, especially since it was paid three years ago, when property values in Brooklyn were not as high as they are today.

"That's crazy," she said. "In 2003, no way. That's crazy now."
747 2006-06-25 Melissa Floren, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas C. Floren of Greenwich, Conn., was married yesterday to David William Filippone, a son of Catherine E. Filippone of Paradise Valley, Ariz., and the late Charles A. Filippone. Betty M. Ralston, a deacon, officiated at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Steamboat Springs, Colo.

Mrs. Filippone, 32, graduated cum laude from Princeton and is a chartered financial analyst. She is a portfolio manager at DCF Capital, a Greenwich hedge fund of which her father is the managing partner. Her mother, Olivia R. Floren, is a Republican state representative whose district includes Greenwich, Stamford and Norwalk.

Mr. Filippone, 33, graduated from Brown. He provides financing and advisory services to media company clients of the securities unit of Bank of America in New York. His father was the founder of the Southwest Fastener Corporation, a hardware distributor in Phoenix which the bridegroom's mother later owned.
748 2006-06-25 Lindsay Vaughan Hance and Stanton Dossett McCullough were married last evening in Osterville, Mass., at the vacation home of the bride's parents. The Rev. Dr. Steven P. Eason, a Presbyterian minister, officiated.

Mrs. McCullough, 30, is an architectural designer at Kohn Pederson Fox Associates, an architecture firm in New York. She graduated from the University of Virginia, and received her master's degree in architecture from the Rhode Island School of Design.

She is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hance Jr. of Charlotte, N.C. Her father, who retired as the vice chairman and chief financial officer of Bank of America in Charlotte, is a senior adviser in financial services at the New York office of the Carlyle Group, the Washington investment firm. Her mother, Beverly Smith Hance, is the secretary of the board of Davidson College in North Carolina.

Mr. McCullough, 33, is an analyst of health care stocks at Cantillon Capital Management, an investment company in New York. He graduated from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.

He is a son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. McCullough of Houston. The bridegroom's father, who retired as a managing partner in Vaughan, Nelson, Scarborough & McCullough, an investment firm in Houston, is a trustee of Texas Children's Hospital there and the chairman of its endowment foundation.
749 2006-06-25 In "Where the Defining Lines Run Deep" (June 4), Akiko Busch says of Robert Frost: " 'Good fences make good neighbors,' the poet assured us more than 90 years ago." To the contrary, in "Mending Wall" Frost is deeply skeptical of that bit of folk wisdom, reflecting:

Before I built a wall I'd ask to know

What I was walling in or walling out,

And to whom I was like to give offence.

"Connecticut's Energy Problem" (editorial, June 11) is based on the premise that if Connecticut utilities owned and operated power plants again, consumers would be shielded from rising electricity rates.

Frustration with rising electricity costs is understandable. But regardless of who owns and operates power plants, electricity rates closely follow the prices of natural gas and oil, which fuel the majority of the region's power plants. As long as fossil fuel remains the energy source of choice in New England, we can expect continued volatility in electricity prices.

Connecticut can manage its electricity costs by siting new power resources based on wind, biomass, coal and nuclear and by becoming more energy efficient.

In addition, if Connecticut utilities own power plants, consumers will bear the full financial risk for the entire life of these facilities. Today, investors carry that risk. This issue deserves careful consideration by Connecticut policy makers.

"Connecticut's Energy Problem" is, as you say, a result of deregulation, but is also a continuing result of the greedy strategy pioneered by Enron. However, letting the utilities back into owning generation without regulation is also part of this strategy, aided and abetted by the federal Energy Policy Act of 2005, which eliminates state control over energy projects.

Our politicians don't get the picture, as abandonment of the very few viable existing waterfront generating plants, including using eminent domain in Bridgeport, makes it certain that clean, bulk-fueled energy, or even nuclear, remain unlikely. Connecticut is thought of as a nuisance obstacle on the road to regulated or unregulated energy profits, and there is nothing in our power to escape the immediate and nasty consequences.
750 2006-06-25 "North Bellport was perhaps the most blighted community of Suffolk County," said Jim Morgo, the county's commissioner of economic development and work force housing. "It had the lowest homeownership and the highest unemployment."

In the 1990's, officials from the county, the town of Brookhaven and the Long Island Housing Partnership developed a plan to start turning North Bellport around.

The linchpin of the plan was land. To combat escalating real estate costs, the county began transferring land seized in tax foreclosures to local towns. Regions of the most down-and-out areas of the towns of Brookhaven and Islip had the highest number of these parcels.

To recycle the land, the towns contracted with two groups and local builders to build homes that residents could afford.

Since then, Habitat for Humanity of Suffolk County has built 50 homes in North Bellport, and the Long Island Housing Partnership has built 67 homes. A new 20-home subdivision is in the planning stage, and nine additional homes on scattered sites are currently under construction.

The aggressive use of foreclosed properties as a site for affordable housing is a trend that is found more often in declining cities than in the suburbs, according to Robert Puentes, a fellow at the Brookings Institution Metropolitan Policy Program, and author of a report in February on America's first suburbs, including some on Long Island.

"The institutional infrastructure for something like this doesn't usually exist in most suburbs because the recognition doesn't exist that the problem is there," Mr. Puentes said.

The most recently completed Housing Partnership development is on Meade Avenue, a block from the Habitat for Humanity homes on Provost Avenue. It's a new subdivision of 16 tidy three-bedroom colonials with front porches and windows with shutters, and four other homes on scattered lots.

The Housing Partnership has built more affordable homes in North Bellport and Bay Shore, in the town of Islip, than in any other areas of Long Island, said Diana Weir, the vice president of the Partnership.

The ideal is that homes spark revitalization of neighboring homes, she said. "You put a beautiful home in an area and the neighbors say, 'I better fix up my property and mow my lawn,' " Ms. Weir said.

After federal and state subsidies to offset some of the cost of construction, the Meade Avenue houses sold for $116,405, Ms. Weir said. Eligible buyers, mostly local residents chosen in a lottery, can earn no more than 80 percent of the median income for the area, or $72,800 for a family of four.

The Habitat homes are for buyers with much lower incomes; an eligible family of four would earn $28,000 to $48,000 a year. Buyers also help to build other Habitat homes, which usually take five or six months each.

There were 600 volunteers in all for the five-day home building event. A sponsor for each home — the Orenstein Leyton Company, Crystal Bay Construction, AvalonBay Communities, Emanon and Long Island Homebuilders Care — brought in the subcontractors and volunteers.

As for the Housing Partnership, it taps a stable of builders who are experienced in building below-market-value homes, Ms. Weir said, as getting funds from state and federal agencies can take up to two years. "A lot of builders don't want to deal with it," she said.

To qualify for subsidies, builders must limit their profits to 10 percent over the cost of each home. Daytree Custom Builders built most of the Meade Avenue homes and those of a similar 19-unit subdivision on nearby Scherger Avenue in early 2002.

An additional nine homes are under construction on scattered sites in the neighborhood, and the Housing Partnership and Habitat for Humanity are working together in the planning stages of another 20-home subdivision on nearby Ecke Avenue.

The new homes have sparked other grass-roots efforts in North Bellport. For example, the South Country Community Land Trust was set up last year within the South Country School District to raise funds to buy more parcels of land for housing and for open space preservation.

To prevent profiteering by those who are selected to buy the affordable homes, the Partnership's properties have restrictions on resale, requiring sellers to repay grants and subsidies if they sell within 10 years.

Habitat owners repay a 20-year $75,000 no-interest loan held by Habitat for Humanity, about $750 a month including property taxes and home insurance.

To discourage buyers from reselling the homes quickly at market prices, Habitat also puts a second lien on the house equal to the appraised value. No actual payments are made on that loan, and the balance is decreased each time a payment on the first loan is made. But if the house is sold before the first mortgage is paid off, the balances on both loans must be paid.

Dominique Ray, 20, and Timothy Scruggs, 27, and their sons — Davante, 5, and Timothy Jr., 16 months — listened as builders and other volunteers stopped by to give the couple instructions about various parts of the house.

One woman gave Ms. Ray a hug. Many who had helped build the home wished the family well as they left after the dedication ceremony.

Mr. Scruggs and Ms. Ray were clearly moved by the good will. "They made us feel like family, which is really dear to my heart," Mr. Scruggs said of the volunteers. "I'm not going to sit back and let this fall apart."
751 2006-06-25 "I'm no mathematician," Mr. Krumholtz said recently over lunch at an Italian cafe near the new home he has purchased in the Larchmont Village neighborhood here. "I think it's more important that I learn who a mathematician is and how he sees the world than it is to actually learn the math."

"The mathematics community has embraced us because the character is a great representation of their passion," he continued. Mathematicians are typically portrayed on screen "as mad or emotionally unstable or socially retarded," he said, "and that's not something we wanted to do at all."

As a result Mr. Krumholtz has been invited to three math conventions this year. And Texas Instruments, in association with the National Council for the Teachers of Mathematics and CBS, has developed a program of math education activities for teachers geared to the crime-solving techniques used on the show.

In "Numbers" Mr. Krumholtz has been reunited with Mr. Hirsch, who plays his father (again), and with his friend Peter MacNichol, who plays the meddling colleague Fleinhardt.

"Most procedural shows don't go into the characters that much," Mr. Hirsch said, suggesting that Charlie and his family have been an exception to the rule among crime investigation series. When Charlie's mother died, for example, Mr. Krumholtz's character buried himself in a famously unsolvable math problem known as "P versus NP."

It is a matter of pride to Mr. Krumholtz, 28, that he has won acceptance for his role in "Numbers" after being stuck for years in a Hollywood niche he found frustrating. "I was doing the whole New York neurotic schlub thing for a really long time," he said. "That or the nerd."

While he earned praise for small roles in films like "The Slums of Beverly Hills," "The Santa Clause" and "Liberty Heights," he was worried that he was becoming a "show killer" in television after acting in five series (including "The Trouble With Normal") that failed in their first seasons, as well as in five more pilots that never made it to the air. "That was very upsetting," he said.

When he was rejected for a comedy series three years ago, he began to take stock. "The comedy thing wasn't working out," he said, even though he said people have found him funny since grade school in Queens. (His father, a postal worker, and his mother, a dental assistant, divorced when he was 2.)

A turning point came in 2002, when he was cast in a guest role on "ER" as a deranged patient who stabbed two doctors. "Even that guy was a schlub," Mr. Krumholtz said, "but it was the first dramatic thing I'd done since the first play I did on Broadway. It opened up a whole new thing for me. People realized that I could do drama, that I could scream and be pretty serious and frightening."

But a stint on the ill-fated NBC legal drama "Lyon's Den" brought more disappointment. "It was an ensemble drama that didn't become an ensemble," Mr. Krumholtz said. One night, driving home from the set, he glanced at the next day's script and saw that his two scenes in the episode had been cut to one. He hurled the script out the window.

"I'm a nice guy," he said, as if to suggest he would not normally do such a thing.

"Numbers" has proved to be an altogether different experience. "I knew after the pilot that if this thing went it would be the best thing I'd ever done," he said. "And that it had the chance to influence people."

Mr. Krumholtz has never studied acting, although he said that working alongside Mr. Hirsch on Broadway at a young age taught him a lot. "Here I was, assisting this brilliant Tony Award-winning performance every night with this guy who I just loved as a man."

Mr. Hirsch, who earned a degree in physics at the City College of New York before becoming an actor, said there were two reasons he was eager to join the "Numbers" cast: "I knew it was about math and that David was in it."

Mr. Krumholtz described Mr. Hirsch as his "acting father," a term of endearment that lends some subtext to their relationship in the show. "It's hard to do scenes with him now only because it's so real you don't want it to be a scene, you want it to be real," he said.

"He gave me my career," Mr. Krumholtz said. "He gave me my life, along with Herb Gardner and Daniel Sullivan," the writer and director of "Conversations With My Father."

"I'm not too confident about how I would have turned out otherwise, to be honest," he added.
752 2006-06-25 But maybe she was wrong. Last Monday the winner of the yearlong contest was revealed to be 51-year-old Kate Betts, a creative-writing teacher at the University of Chichester whose play, "On the Third Day," reveals what happens when an unhappy woman meets a government worker named Mike who believes he's the Messiah. On Thursday, after more than its share of dismaying setbacks, both personal and technical, the play opened at the New Ambassadors Theater in the West End.

The word "opening" is almost a misnomer, since it marks the end of a long, fraught process as much as the beginning of a new phase, in the way "commencement" means both a start and a finish at a graduation.

A lot of people, it seems, dream of writing plays for a living. When the competition began in the spring of 2005, there were more than 2,000 submissions. They came from train drivers, hospital porters, scientists, nightclub bouncers, teachers, plumbers, supermarket workers and call-center employees. For whatever reason, 70 percent of the entrants were men.

The plays — at that point they were merely synopses and sample scenes — had titles like "Dog's Pies," "Silent Running," "Frocktherapy," and "Revenge of the Biker Rabbits." Subjects included families at war, Jesus, drug-addicted prostitutes and yes, rabbits on motorcycles. Among the characters were inner-city Glaswegian youths, terrorists and, in 335 cases, people who visit either a gym or a weight-loss center.

Mr. Pearson was struck by how bad many of the entries were. "It's no surprise that we found no genius, since geniuses by nature are rare," he said in an interview. "But it was rather odd seeing how many people wanted to write for the theater who had apparently never been to the theater."

Many submissions, he said, were more suited to television-style half-hour segments than anything remotely stageable. "There were rather soapy subjects — abortions, love triangles, whatever — and also a number of scripts that echoed and sometimes slavishly copied sitcoms. You could actually see from the submissions what people like to watch on TV.

" 'Eastenders' and 'Father Ted' were particularly well represented," he added, referring to two popular British shows: a soap opera about working-class London and a sitcom about three priests in Ireland.

By nine months ago the judging panel — Mr. Pearson, Ms. Friedman, and the literary agent Mel Kenyon — narrowed the applicants to 30. The 30 became 10 and then 3. The entire process was filmed and edited down to the four-part Channel 4 series "The Play's the Thing," which had its premiere on June 12 and wrapped up Saturday night.

The series depicted, for instance, several early contestants' attempts to articulate for the judges what exactly their plays were about. "It's about a man looking for his dog," one said. Another made a quick sketch and then said, "That's a rubbish picture of a knife, which is important to the play."

A woman said that her play featured four characters and then, struck silly by nerves, promptly forgot three of them.

But from there the project diverged from programs like "Pop Idol," the granddaddy of televised humiliate-the-contestants talent competitions. In "The Play's the Thing," the judges are tough and honest, but not bitchy; they don't set out to ridicule anyone for a cheap thrill. The point is not to laugh at the losers but to illustrate in excruciating detail how much work, help and luck is required of an aspiring playwright hoping to go all the way.

"I got a lot of positive feedback," said Steve Gardner, a 39-year-old resident of Manchester whose submission, "Father's Day," made it to the final three before being rejected. When he entered the contest, Mr. Gardner, who left school at 17, was stacking shelves at a branch of Asda, a British supermarket chain. He wrote the play, about a young boy and his racist grandfather, in a quiet corner of his local pub.

"It wasn't intimidating, because you were treated as a writer," he said of the program. "You were taken seriously. Your background, your education — none of that mattered. They reacted to you on the basis of your script, and they were interested in your play and your opinion."

THE show demonstrates what happens when the final 10 playwrights are given eight weeks "to turn their sample scenes into masterpieces," Ms. Friedman tells them on camera. "The good times are over. Now it's really hard work."

They are sent to a country house with the playwright Stephen Jeffreys ("The Libertine"), who has been assigned to discuss rudiments of playwriting, like how structure is made up of story, time and place.

The 10 plays seem quite promising, the contestants intriguing. One man, in low spirits after being fired from his call-center job, says that the process of working on "Rose Colored," his play about four elderly people who kidnap a young hooligan and find common ground with him, has helped to lift his depression. A woman whose play, "Ramases Has Disappeared," is based on her experiences working with troubled youths, is shown struggling to explain the play's premise when Mr. Jeffreys asks the obvious: What actually happens to Ramases?

"He has lost his phone," she replies.

"That's not enough," Mr. Jeffreys says.

A cast of actors is hired to read scenes from the 10 plays to help the judges make their selections. And then there are three: Ms. Betts's, Mr. Gardner's, and "Reykjavik," by Iain Weatherby, an advertising copywriter who calls the work "a comedy about air travel and terrorism."

"If you had to die," he asks, "wouldn't you rather be in business class?"

Meanwhile opening day looms. Ms. Friedman is fretting, and her anxieties are spilling out onto the fledgling playwrights. Ms. Betts is discouraged, for instance, by Ms. Friedman's assessment that her main character, the government-worker-cum-Jesus, is "fundamentally dry and boring," and that the play has no tension and no ending. At the same time Mr. Weatherby is forced to rip his play up and start from scratch, relying on actors' improvisations to get his mind moving in the right direction.

IN the end, after a great deal of arguing, the panel chose Ms. Betts. (The decision was made in early March, so there would be sufficient time for rehearsals, but the results were embargoed.) But if the contest's resolution gave a focus for Ms. Friedman's worry and attention, Ms. Betts's troubles had barely begun. Mounting a play by an established writer is hard enough; the process of lifting "On the Third Day" — the only new play in the West End — into shape verged on the nightmarish.

As of the first preview, a week before opening night, Ms. Betts, who lives in a small cottage in Sussex with her husband, three children and elderly mother, was still making last-minute changes to the script. And the production was beset by problems so severe they would have daunted even a seen-it-all theatrical veteran.

Two weeks into the five-week rehearsal period, Steven Pimlott, the play's director, became seriously ill; his emergency replacement, Robert Delamere, had a completely different concept of the work and took the cast almost back to Square 1. A seven-hour power failure across the West End forced the cancellation of the first technical rehearsal, 10 days before opening night. Several previews were also canceled because the production simply wasn't ready.

Then there were worries that Ms. Betts, without the seasoning experience in, say, fringe and regional theaters, would not be able to handle the pressure. Ms. Friedman was gambling on Ms. Betts — "We had to go with someone with the mental and emotional stamina to cope" — and even though her bet seems to have paid off, the process has been unusually difficult.

"We are working at an unbelievable pace," she said. "We're having to give the winner unbelievable amounts of support." But as she prepared for opening night, Ms. Betts was feeling pretty good, considering.

"I'm not quite sure what a West End audience is, but I do hope that as well as being entertained, they'll have something to think about," she said in an interview. "I hope they will actually enjoy themselves. There's a lot of spectacle, a lot of special effects, a lot of humor as well as strong emotions in the play."

Mr. Pearson said that the process had been so encouraging in nurturing unplumbed talent that it did not much matter whether "On the Third Day," which is scheduled to run through Sept. 2, turned out to be a success.

Singling out Mr. Gardner's play as "a beautiful piece of work" that would be well suited to a small theater, he said the panel had discovered "possibly four, possibly five writers who are good enough to have an expectation of having their work produced, if not in the West End, than in a London studio."

As of a week before opening night Ms. Friedman was carefully lowering expectations, at least publicly. "I'm not looking to make history here," she said. "I'm not after people saying, 'You're created a masterpiece, you've discovered the new Beckett, the new Stoppard.' All I looking for is to be able to produce a credible, enjoyable play." She found some vindication after the first preview. "For me the best compliment we got came from several people who said to me, 'We've seen a heck of a lot worse in the West End by very established writers,' " she said. "At this stage that's all I'm after."
753 2006-06-25 In Oxford, where the median home price is $469,900, only 1.17 percent, or roughly 40, of all housing units qualify as affordable. Still a relatively rural community in the Naugatuck River Valley, Oxford is trying to manage a housing boom that has increased the town's population by more than 10 percent since 2000.

The accompanying rise in income has enabled Oxford to construct its first high school, which is scheduled to open next fall. Previously, the town sent students to schools in neighboring towns.

Compared with prices elsewhere in town, even market-rate homes in Oxford Commons will be fairly affordable, at less than $200,000, Mr. Freedman said. Of 39 units to be sold at below-market rates of roughly $70,000 to $142,000, 20 will be priced for buyers earning no more than 60 percent of the state's median income (currently $81,000). The rest will be reserved for buyers earning no more than 80 percent of the median. Residents will lease their lots.

"If a town is low on affordable housing and wants to do something about it, this, I think, would be a good way to do it," said Joe Mike, executive director of the Connecticut Manufactured Housing Association. "A new manufactured housing community is not something a town should be ashamed of."

And yet, he acknowledged, on the rare occasions when one is proposed in Connecticut, controversy generally follows. In Oxford, several town officials have spoken out against the project, and residents have petitioned for a public hearing on the developer's application to the Inland Wetlands Commission, the very first step in the approval process.

Connecticut has 223 mobile home parks (defined as any grouping of two or more such homes), but only three have been developed in recent years: Ryder Woods in Milford, Stonegate Village in Ledyard and Hillcrest in Montville.

Most town zoning ordinances are silent on the subject of mobile homes. The only mention in Oxford's regulations is a provision allowing the temporary use of a mobile home while awaiting completion of a permanent residence.

"In Connecticut, people don't understand manufactured housing communities because there are hardly any of them," said Mr. Freedman, whose company manages another 69 mobile home parks in New York and New Jersey. "They've seen them depicted in movies in a not-so-flattering way. If you've seen 'Sweet Home Alabama,' you know the stereotype I'm talking about."

With pitched roofs and vinyl siding, today's manufactured homes resemble ranch houses more than the boxy trailers of old. The Oxford park would consist exclusively of double-wide homes, which are 24 feet across rather than the usual 14 feet.

Garden Homes is seeking a zoning change that makes room for mobile home development in the town. That is what happened in Montville when another mobile home park developer, Jensen's Inc., proposed its Hillcrest community in the late 1990's, said Keith Jensen, the company's vice president. The regulations require lots and homes larger than those at a traditional mobile home park — Hillcrest's houses are as large as 1,500 square feet.

"Most people buying today do want the bigger multisectional homes that look like a typical house," Mr. Jensen said.

A zoning change makes sense for the Oxford site, said Timothy Hollister, a lawyer for Garden Homes and an expert on the state's affordable housing law, because a 13.5-acre wetland in the middle of the property makes it ill suited to business development.

He asserted that "there is no chance that the property will ever be developed for corporate use," particularly in light of the availability of so many other development sites in the area. Garden Homes plans to cluster homes around the wetlands.

Oxford may have invited the affordable housing proposal by its very reluctance to encourage development in the designated corporate park area.

"Over the years, this town has resisted developing its industrial area," hoping to slow down growth, said Mr. Schuler, the economic development director.

In fact, in 1989, the site now owned by Garden Homes had another suitor: the Marriott hotel chain. Marriott's proposal for a 175,000-square-foot distribution center would have served as an anchor for further industrial development, Mr. Schuler said, but the town turned the company away.
754 2006-06-25 Her romances may be flawed, but Juliet Venegas doesn't get all angsty about it on her album "Limón y Sal" (Norte/SonyBMG). Her voice is blithe and open, a little like Sheryl Crow's, and whether she's enjoying someone's company or saying a definite goodbye, she sounds as if she'll smile through it. Although Ms. Venegas sings in Spanish — she was born in Tijuana, Mexico — most of her music is folk-pop that could have come out of California, where she has also lived. Under the strummed acoustic guitar, there are some Caribbean and Mexican touches: reggae and reggaetón beats, Ms. Venegas's own button accordion. Each song lilts its tuneful way toward pop delight.

The old new wave gets a touch of emo on the Futureheads' second album, "News and Tributes" (Star Time/Vagrant), and it's not a bad idea at all. Undeservedly eclipsed by bands like Franz Ferdinand, Bloc Party and lately the Arctic Monkeys in Britain's postpunk revival, the Futureheads respond by tightening up even further. Angular meshed-guitar verses jump into blaring pop choruses, a stratagem learned from XTC. And in a three-song stretch — "Fallout," "Skip to the End" and "Burnt" — the Futureheads analyze romantic trauma as tautly as they build guitar parts.

"I wonder why it is I don't argue like this with anyone but you," Corinne Bailey Rae sings. It's one of the little barbs that sharpen the love songs on her self-titled debut album (Capitol). Ms. Rae has an airy voice with a jazzy quaver; she's the delayed English answer to Erykah Badu, with a streak of Minnie Riperton in the phantom high-harmony choruses. Ms. Rae wrote or collaborated on all the songs, and while obvious influences are strewn throughout the album — Marvin Gaye, the Beatles, Alicia Keys, Mariah Carey, Bill Withers, Stevie Wonder — Ms. Rae's melodies and voice are so graceful she usually gets away with it.

Getting drunk, stoned and dirty is a way of life in the songs of the Morning 40 Federation, which has a fanatical following in its hometown, New Orleans. The songs on its fourth album, "Ticonderoga" (M80), are lean and low-slung. Guitar and horns pile onto bluesy, brawny riffs in unison, while Josh Cohen cackles about debauched, reprehensible behavior and delicacies like "Dumpster Juice." That song and the album title — "Ticonderoga" means "the place where waters meet" — are as close as the Morning 40 Federation comes to hinting at Hurricane Katrina's impact; hedonism comes first. As crudely funny as it is musically tight, the Morning 40 Federation could rule frat parties from coast to coast.

India.Arie's dedication to virtue, self-realization and positive thinking has its laudable side. But it can be wearing as she lends her gorgeous voice to self-help bromides and oddly grandiose professions of humility. "If Nelson Mandela can forgive his oppressors, surely I can forgive you for your passion," she sings in "Wings of Forgiveness," on her new album, "Testimony Vol. 1: Life and Relationship" (Motown), which also includes her latest repudiation of fashion: "I Am Not My Hair." But for one song she sounds more like a lover than a lecturer: "Good Mourning," a breathy postdivorce bossa nova that wonders, "Good morning, independence, or is it loneliness?"

The great Malian singer Salif Keita found ideal backup on his 2002 album "Moffou": acoustic instruments in arrangements that filtered all Mr. Keita had learned in his long international career through patterns of West African counterpoint. The guitars are still acoustic on the sequel, "M'Bemba" (Decca). The title means "ancestor," and the music is no less cosmopolitan. The fingerpicked intricacies of the guitars are wrapped around 4/4 dance beats in "Yambo" and "Kamoukie," while the dancehall toaster Buju Banton shows up with some English words in "Ladji." Non-Malian instruments like the Caribbean cuatro and Hawaiian ukulele slip into the arrangements. Even the austere, traditionalist "Moriba" uses a vielle, a medieval European fiddle. But Mr. Keita's voice leaps out of every song with tender urgency: imploring, soothing, persuading, declaiming, confiding. It's a shame the album doesn't translate the lyrics to tell listeners what makes him so impassioned.

One of the musicians at the core of "M'Bemba" is Kante Manfila, the guitarist who hired Mr. Keita in the 1970's to sing with Les Ambassadeurs. They made an album in 1980 that has just been released as "The Lost Album" (Syllart/Cantos). Through a lo-fi haze, it shows Mr. Keita and Mr. Manfila already experimenting, most successfully in "Wara," a merger of six-beat Malian rhythms and guitar picking with Cuban conjunto horns and a woozy electric organ. The song is an Afro-Cuban mirage.
755 2006-06-25 Cookbook Chronicle

To the Editor:

The food issue (May 28) wasmost enjoyable. I especiallyliked reading Amanda Hesser'sCookbook Chronicle, wherein Ifound "Saucepans and the SingleGirl." I lived in New YorkCity in the late 60's, and myroommate and I used that bookall the time (except for thecanned stuff — my roommatecame from Wisconsin so we didn'tgo the canned route too often.I do have to admit to Jell-O,however). The recipes were reallyquite good, and we happilyserved many to ourselves and toguests. The No. 1 winner wasthe "special salad," a forerunnerof today's ubiquitous greenswith protein and an eggdressing. I would immediatelyrush out and buy the reissue, butthe 1965 copy is still on my cookbookshelf. 

EUGENIE SHERER

Norwalk, Conn.

To the Editor:

In her Cookbook Chronicle,Amanda Hesser asks where"older folks" — i.e., adults —enjoy black cows/root beerfloats: "Where — on 'Leave Itto Beaver'

Where do adults enjoy rootbeer floats? Answer: all over,from the Hudson to the Sierras— wherever it is possible toget genuine root beer, ratherthan that flavorless, characterlessbrown liquid passed offas root beer in New York. Infact, it is even occasionallypossible to get a reasonablefacsimile of root beer underthe label of "ginger beer" atspecialty food stores, and tomake a passable black cow athome on a July afternoon.The fact is that the heartlandis the only part of the UnitedStates that knows how to makea proper soda, sundae, shake,malt or split. 

ROSANNE KLASS

New York

Una Criolla

To the Editor:

Cathleen Medwick, in her reviewof Jaime Manrique's "OurLives Are the Rivers" (June 4),mistakenly defines the wordcriolla as meaning "mixed-race."The dashing ManuelaSáenz, Simón Bolivar's famouslover, was indeed a criolla, butnot because she was of mixedrace. In colonial Latin America,criollos were the Americanborndescendants of the originalSpanish settlers. Criollos weremembers of the land-holding ormerchant classes and generallywell-to-do. While some werecertainly of mixed race, it istheir ties to their Spanish familiesthat define them as a group.It was this class, whose membersincreasingly saw their fatewedded to the growing societiesin the New World, that rose inopposition to Spanish colonialrule in the early 19th century,eventually establishing the republicsof the Spanish-speakingAmericas. Medwick may havemistakenly assumed the wordto be the equivalent of "creole"in English, one of whose manymeanings is "mixed-race."

RAMIRO E. PRUDENCIO

Miami

An Animal's Life

To the Editor:

Elizabeth Marshall Thomasmisses the point in her reviewof "Kicked, Bitten, andScratched," by Amy Sutherland(June 4), when she states that:"Despite the beliefs of animalrights activists, many captiveanimals welcome their training.. . . Training gives them a life."Wild animals have a life — it isin the wild. Keeping them incaptivity, trained or otherwise,for human entertainment deprivesthem of that life.If species conservation is important(which it is), it shouldbe done on huge reserves thatsimulate the natural environment,which means keeping animalsaway from people. It ishard to imagine that Thomasreally believes that the trainedanimals she describes benefit inany way from their puppetlikeexistence, or that they are muchbetter off than wild animalskept in zoos. 

JOANN STEPHAN

St. Louis

With an Asterisk

To the Editor:

Bob Spitz, in his review of"The Big Bam: The Life andTimes of Babe Ruth," by LeighMontville (June 4), gushes: "Nobaseball player, despite whatrecord books claim, has everequaled Ruth's awesome performance."If anything, Ruth'srecords deserve their ownasterisk because the greatestblack ballplayers of his timewere banned from the majorleagues. Babe Ruth never hadto hit against Satchel Paige orpitch to Josh Gibson (who hitnearly 800 home runs whileplaying much of his NegroLeague career in the most cavernousballparks of that era,Forbes Field and Griffith Stadium).In my view, any majorleague record set before 1950should be marked by an asterisk.Spitz also refers to thevagueness surrounding Ruth'sfamily history. Throughout hislife Ruth was dogged by rumorsof black ancestry, which he neitherconfirmed nor denied. Indeed,Ty Cobb, an outspokenand notorious racist, openly disparagedRuth with racial epithetsreserved for blacks. Thetruth of this matter will probablynever be known, but thesports journalist Red Smithonce remarked that "JackieRobinson was not the first blackman to play in the majorleagues. He was merely thefirst identifiable one."

VAUGHN A. CARNEY

Stowe, Vt.
756 2006-06-25 In urban areas, almost half of all teachers leave within five years. According to studies like a 2003 report by the Center for the Study of Teaching and Policy, the reasons for leaving are not only poor salaries, but also the lack of student discipline and an uncongenial school environment. Among teachers who move to other schools rather than leave teaching altogether, the lack of administrative support is the primary reason for their departure. Like my colleague from Minnesota and myself, many teachers feel abandoned in their classrooms, left to do a seemingly impossible job without assistance or advice.

Increasing salaries, especially for teachers in hard-to-staff schools, is one obvious way of retaining teachers, but it is unpopular because it's expensive and runs counter to the salary schedule the union swears by. Another approach would be to offer teachers who are between their third and fifth years of teaching — the years when teachers tend to leave the profession — a significant bonus in exchange for a renewed five-year contract. The size of the bonus would probably be less than the cost of one new teaching fellow, and the result would be a teacher with experience and consistency for the school.

One laudable move that the city's Department of Education took this year was to expand the "lead teacher" program, which gives veterans the opportunity to train new hires. But even with the expansion, this program will employ only 200 veteran teachers, and there will be about 7,000 new hires.

A cheaper solution is to give teachers more control and autonomy in planning what, when and how they teach. All teachers should be involved in budget, hiring and curricular decisions. Teachers must also be empowered to plan and put into effect ways to deal with student discipline — a very serious issue in the city's schools and one of the top five reasons teachers give for leaving.

Finally, teachers should have access to free, high-quality professional development. The city should subsidize master's degrees for all teachers who are committed to working in high-need schools and create a program that would pay a semester of tuition for every year that a teacher works in a school, similar to higher education programs in Illinois and Alaska. If that involves agreeing to teach for an additional five years, not all teachers will agree. But many would, and the program would not only save the cost of training a new teacher, but it would have a greater chance of producing a quality teacher, rather than a temporary employee.

In order to complete my master's degree and retain my license, I will have to take an unpaid leave next year, and my school will have to hire a substitute. My tuition will be paid not through a city program, but by a private philanthropist. In other words, I'm lucky.

My fellow teacher from Minnesota, after receiving an extension in 2003, is about to come to the end of her license. Because of a lack of assistance, she plans to return to Minneapolis. Minnesota will gain an experienced instructor, but our school in the Bronx will need to hire a new English teacher. And the cheerleading team will need to look for a new coach, which, if experience has taught me anything, could take decades.
757 2006-06-25 Bizarre. At least that's the word Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly used to describe the chain of events.

But how bizarre? Bizarre like the day after the stabbings when, while standing in line at an Amtrak station in Washington, D.C., with my 5-year-old granddaughter, I ran into my friend Nelly Rosario and her 7-year-old daughter? I had a five-hour train ride to Penn Station ahead of me, and my granddaughter was already showing signs of restlessness. Then I heard someone call my name, and there was Nelly. I was ecstatic. Nelly was ecstatic. What were the chances? One in a million, we said. Bizarre.

Nelly and I were feeling great when we arrived at Penn Station, because the girls had managed to entertain themselves the entire trip and had not needed us once. So we decided to chance the subway. We had luggage and two girls. I suggested we take the elevator. Nelly, a New York writer, tensed, her normal fear of the kind of violence that could take place when confined in a subway elevator having been considerably sharpened since 9/11.

As if to justify her fears, the loudspeaker blared, "If you see something, say something." I reassured Nelly: "That's if you see something like a bag left unattended. You know, something with a bomb."

I was thinking terrorist. Neither of us was thinking: Maybe not a terrorist, maybe just someone in the elevator who could hurt us, someone like that man who went on a seemingly unprovoked rampage. In recent years, with our minds so focused on terrorism, how quickly we forget that frightening things do happen in the subway.

Once, I barely escaped being pummeled on the No. 4 train when it lurched, as subway trains often lurch, and a man standing near me was thrown into the arms of a rather voluptuous woman. The voluptuous woman's companion, convinced that the man had been ogling her, punched him, and for what seemed like an eternity, I found myself locked in a moving underground vault with no exit, inches away from two men hitting each other.

Another time, I emerged from the No. 3 train terrified and nursing a bruised arm because two teenage boys, just horsing around, had fallen on top of me.

These are random happenings, too infrequent to make me afraid of taking the subway at any hour, even at midnight. But I'll admit that the yellow line on the edge of the platform always makes me pause — and step back. There have been times when someone comes unglued and pushes an unsuspecting person onto the tracks. I've had nightmares about that, about the train barreling ahead and me tumbling down, my body squashed under metal wheels, blood spurting in all directions.

I'm not one of those people who lean over the platform to see if the train is coming. The rumble of the engine is good enough for me. And sometimes I find myself looking around reflexively to check who is at my back. Such moments, however, are fleeting. I'm on the train and I forget. Only when I look up am I reminded by signs on the walls that there are imminent dangers: possible terrorists casing the city, in subways and in subway elevators.

BUT that day at the 34th Street station, Nelly and I saw no unattended bags in the subway elevator, so we relaxed and took the elevator to the C train. Once aboard, the girls began swinging from pole to pole in the subway car and kicking out their legs. Luckily, the train was practically empty. The passengers glanced at the girls, then glanced away.

But at one end of the seat, opposite where Nelly and I were sitting, a middle-aged man who was bent over his newspaper growled, "Go somewhere else."

"Get away from me," he snarled. His eyes never left his newspaper. Nelly and I did not say a word to each other, but I knew that she, too, had been reminded of the random stabbing the day before on the very same subway line. We called the girls and gathered them in our arms.

Perhaps if city officials had not lulled us with their boasts about the steep decline in subway crime, down 26.7 percent from the comparable period last year, Nelly and I would have noticed the man earlier. Perhaps an alarm bell would have rung in our heads.

It was a hot day, and the man was overdressed, wearing layers of dark clothes that were clearly filthy. The newspaper, too, was grimy, as if he had found it in the garbage. His hair was in disarray, and the stubble on his chin and cheeks was days old. Nelly and I would have made the girls settle down before that man had a chance to say a word. But our antennas were out for terrorists.

I wonder now, on that C train where Mr. Alexis is accused of stabbing the tourist from Texas, Christopher McCarthy, how many people might have noticed that there was something strange about the assailant. My guess is that his gestures were agitated, and that before he stabbed Mr. McCarthy, there was a dangerous expression in his eyes.

Did anyone see the three-and-a-half-inch blade glinting in his hand? Probably someone, probably many people, but, like me, they were on the lookout for terrorists. This man did not fit the profile.

A really bizarre thing, Police Commissioner Kelly said of the stabbings. But we live in a city of eight million people, and even odds like one in a million could mean eight or more. In a city of random acts of kindness, we sometimes forget there can be equally random acts of violence.
758 2006-06-25 To test the effectiveness of such forces of nature, we combined a highly unlikely successful terrorist attack with another improbable event: failure to take any emergency response for six hours. The expected number of offsite early fatalities was calculated to be about 28 people out of a population of 305,000 within ten miles of the plant, or less than 0.02 percent. However, this low figure is not good enough. We then set out to reduce these consequences.

Most of the early fatality risk is within one mile of the plant; by two miles it is essentially gone. There are several ways that people can protect themselves. They can evacuate this inner two-mile circle by vehicle. If roads are jammed, they can take shelter first in their homes or workplaces and leave later, or they can walk out. Evacuation at two to three miles per hour, about walking speed, is sufficient to prevent early fatalities if begun within an hour and a half after the general emergency alarm is sounded.

To take advantage of this, emergency planners should identify pedestrian evacuation routes within two miles of the site. Additionally, our study identified specific locations where opening up more traffic lanes would result in faster evacuations. Sounding the general emergency alarm earlier would also significantly reduce consequences. Television stations and the Internet should inform people of the location of the radioactive plume and whether it's better for them to take shelter or leave. And the Westchester County executive should realize that evacuating too many people can be counterproductive.

The range of the early injury risk is about four miles. People can greatly limit this risk without depending on emergency responders by taking simple steps like seeking shelter if downwind from the damaged plant, breathing through a wet handkerchief or cloth face mask and protecting skin with clothing, a towel or a blanket.

For those four miles to 10 miles from the plant, the dominant health concern is long-term. But at this distance, there is no need to evacuate. People should simply stay indoors and listen to the emergency alert system. If downwind, take shelter in a basement. Use wet handkerchiefs or face masks.

The existing Westchester County community emergency planning booklet needs to be revised to take into account the findings of this two-year study. The public needs to be informed about the benefits of masks and of covering the skin, the location of pedestrian evacuation routes and rerouted traffic patterns. A revised booklet should tell residents who should evacuate and who should take shelter, and should clarify that waiting outdoors to be evacuated by bus does not offer protection and should be avoided.

Most risks are in the Town of Cortlandt, followed by other areas in Westchester County. Rockland County is a distant third, and Putnam and Orange Counties are even less exposed. That is why we should focus on the in-close areas and not disperse emergency responders to low-risk areas.

And most important, we need our community leaders to explain these new insights to the public and to update the present emergency plan.
759 2006-06-25 Eastern Connecticut's natural and historical attractions and small towns have always had a core of devotees. Just off I-395, travelers can drive less than 20 miles and find themselves in what some locals call the Last Green Valley. Here, in an area that has been named a National Heritage Corridor because it remains one of the few remaining undeveloped regions in the state, bucolic byways like State Route 169 wind past tiny ponds, clusters of birches, horse farms, hills and pasturelands so green they appear almost neon.

Along the way, the road passes through classic New England towns like Pomfret, where stark wooden houses with green trim abut simple all-white churches. South of Pomfret, along the eastern Connecticut shore, port towns like Stonington feature historic central districts packed with restored Victorian cottages and docks where tall wooden yachts still anchor.

But Mohegan Sun and Foxwoods, in the nearby town of Ledyard, are going after wealthy visitors who are interested in more than just a bucolic country drive. In the last couple of years, Mohegan Sun has added a $1 billion expansion, including a 1,200-room hotel and a 22,000-square-foot spa, to its original property, and is considering expanding again. Foxwoods, one of the world's largest resort casinos with 340,000 square feet of gambling space in a complex that covers 4.7 million square feet, has added two golf courses and has broken ground on a $700 million project that will include another casino, a hotel, nightclubs, restaurants and a performing arts center.

Meanwhile, last month, voters in the eastern Connecticut town of Preston, about 30 minutes from the two casinos, approved a referendum that would let the town buy the property of a former hospital and then sell it back to a group headed by a New York developer, Joseph Gentile. His group plans to build a project called Utopia Studios, which would potentially include movie studios, theme parks and more than 4,000 new hotel rooms. Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun are also trying to draw better-known entertainment. This summer, Mohegan Sun plans to spotlight headliners like Mariah Carey and Paul Simon, though both casinos still sometimes rely on shopworn acts like Paul Rodgers, the former lead singer of Bad Company, who recently appeared at Foxwoods.

"These are arguably almost the only casinos in the U.S., outside of the Las Vegas Strip and some of the Atlantic City properties, that are truly destination resorts," said William Eadington, director of the Institute for the Study of Gambling and Commercial Gaming at the University of Nevada, Reno.

Besides the Spa at Norwich Inn, in a restored 1929 Georgian-style building, spas are popping up throughout eastern Connecticut, often in unlikely places. In Pomfret, a transplanted Californian, Dee Dee Markes, opened the Pomfret Center Spa two years ago. From the outside, the spa looks more like a ranch house than Canyon Ranch — just a small, red clapboard house. But inside, a homey feel adds to its appeal.

MEANWHILE, at Foxwoods, an elevator whisks spagoers away from the cash-hungry chaos of the casino floor to the ninth floor, where they step into the Foxwoods version of Roman baths — the Grand Salon and Spa — which has tranquil massage rooms set around a hallway flanked by marble columns.

Along with the spas comes lighter and quirkier cuisine. A long line of people still camp out at the Foxwoods buffet, but the casinos are also aiming at more refined palates. Mohegan Sun has enlisted Todd English, founder of Olives Italian restaurants in New York, Washington and other cities, as well as Jasper White, a pioneer of regional New England cooking.

The region itself is moving up from fried clams and lobster rolls. At Sharpe Hill Vineyard in Pomfret, diners sitting in a garden that overlooks the grape vines can choose entrees like wood-grilled chicken with red-pepper jelly. Inside the main building, a replica of an 18th-century structure that resembles a red barn, couples sip dry rieslings and dessert wines.

Some Connecticut vineyards sit on improbable sites. Just blocks from Clinton Crossing, a sprawling outlet mall in the town of Clinton, Larry McCulloch manages Chamard Vineyards, which focuses on chardonnays because he believes they grow best in a local microclimate cooled by breezes from Long Island Sound. Still, Chamard's location throws some wine tasters. "People are starting to realize we're making good wines," Mr. McCulloch said. "But it's taken people a long time to acknowledge that."

Trying to expand people's knowledge of wine, Mohegan Sun holds an annual festival each January — the Sun Winefest — with many local wines among the more than 1,000 different vintages represented. And historic hotels like the Griswold Inn in Essex have opened wine bars to take advantage of the wealth of local wines. The growth in tourism has also transformed some of the region's villages. In the old mill town of Putnam, near Pomfret, warehouses by the train depot have been gutted and filled with antiques stores, coffee bars and new-age shops that sell books on chakra cleansing. On a weekend afternoon at one Putnam coffee bar, Victoria Station Cafe, a crowd of 20-somethings adorned in wraparound sunglasses, body piercings and tattoos sipped lattes as they watched couples on mountain bikes pedal past.

Just south of Putnam, the town of Brooklyn has experienced the overhaul of the New England Center for Contemporary Art, also known as Necca, a boutique museum dedicated to modern artists. Until 2003, the center sat in a decaying barn, but it has since relocated to an early-19th-century three-story house on Brooklyn's central green. The unassuming exterior conceals the weirdness inside: one recent exhibit featured drawings by Chicano inmates. Hard-core museumgoers can head to Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center at Foxwoods. Just behind the casino, which towers above the surrounding landscape, the $200 million museum proves a match for the new National Museum of the American Indian on the Mall in Washington. It features a full-size replica of a Pequot village and comprehensive interactive exhibits on the history of American Indian culture.

The museum could even distract some tourists from their main purpose at Foxwoods. On a recent holiday afternoon, groups of older couples wandered through a special exhibition on Indian quilts. One of the guides reminded them that a film would not be shown until near closing time.

"We'll still be here," one woman said. The man with her looked anxious, as if he had left a valuable object in his car.

"We will?" he asked out loud.

Foxwoods (www.foxwoods.com) and Mohegan Sun (mohegansun.com) are about 135 miles northeast of New York City by car. Pomfret and Putnam lie about 35 miles north of the casinos.

Both casinos have their own luxury hotels, but for a prettier place, try the Spa at Norwich Inn (607 West Thames Street, Norwich; 860-886-2401;

thespaatnorwichinn.com); weekend rates for early July start at $225. The nearby Griswold Inn (36 Main Street, 860-767-1776; www.griswoldinn.com) in Essex, on the Connecticut River, has rooms from $132 in summer.

For casinogoers who want to save on cash in order to lose it later at the tables, Todd English's Tuscany, at Mohegan Sun (888-226-7711; mohegansun.com/dining ) offers a more reasonable alternative to the resort's pricier Rain, where menu items include tenderloin with black truffles goes for $54 . Dinner for one at Todd English's costs about $40, without wine; the weekday buffet lunch is $18 a person; weekend brunch, $29.95.

Farther north, in Pomfret, Sharpe Hill Vineyard (108 Wade Road, 860-974-3549; www.sharpehill.com) specializes in simple, elegant wood-grilled meats and fish; the vineyard serves lunch in its outdoor garden terrace. Meal for one — with wine, of course — is around $45.

A Pomfret favorite, the Vanilla Bean Cafe (at the intersection of Routes 44, 169 and 97; 860-928-1562) serves a mean chili ($5.25 for a bowl) and features live entertainment every Saturday night. Dinner entrees start at $16.

And if you overeat at the Bean, you can lie down at Pomfret Center Spa (intersection of Routes 44 and 101 in Pomfret Center; 860-963-0846) to relax. Massages start at $40 for a half-hour session.
760 2006-06-25 THE going price for a martini in New York City is $12, and beer is $7 or $8 a bottle or pint. But just because you're visiting doesn't mean you have to drink (and pay) like some out-of-town sucker.

All you need to do is get a handle on the city's nearly endless happy hour options, which often feature great food specials as well as discount drinks; some of them are even available on Saturdays and Sundays. So, if a drizzly day happens to ruin your Central Park jaunt, you can drown your sorrows in something other than rainwater (and nearly as cheap). Afterward, seek out New York's two-tiered designated driver system: the guys in the yellow cars aboveground, and the subway conductors below.

HEDEH Third Street and its eastern continuation, Great Jones Street, is a pulsing happy hour vein that runs through the heart of Greenwich Village near New York University. There are $5 espresso martinis at Five Points, a $7 sorrel caipirinha (a cocktail in which Jamaica hugs Brazil) at Negril Village and the $4 burger-and-fries to go with your $4 Sam Adams beer at Groove. But Hedeh beats them all (happy hour, 5 to 7:30 p.m.) with its unusual drinks and quirky snack menu. Drinks appeal in their creativity, from the sake-tini, the margarita with yuzu fruit and the sake sangria (all $5 or less). Snacks include maki rolls or a seared tuna sashimi with onion soy dressing. The place, pretty expensive for dinner, is an affordable delight before or after. And, if you can ease into the table by the window on a warm evening, you'll wonder why people eat in the back at all.

SAPA This French-Vietnamese restaurant in Chelsea got one star from Frank Bruni of The Times in 2005 for a menu that has entrees in the $30 range. But during its seven-day-a-week 5:30-to-7:30 happy hour, you can get two drinks and a whole lot of appetizers for the same price. Sit either at the inviting bar or at the low-slung white cushioned seats in the lounge and take advantage of $5 martinis (the real gin or vodka kinds, not the litchi/raspberry/apple interlopers) and glasses of wine. Other highlights include a happy hour menu with items like the $2 oyster shooters: a shot glass with an oyster, sake and wasabi for those with rarefied tastes. Then there is the $4 bowl of barbecued pork wontons for the rest of us.

FIVES As most everyone knows since the remake of "The Omen" came out on June 6, repeated uses of the number 6 means you're dialing the devil's area code. What fewer people know is that repeated fives are associated with great deals on wine. Starting at 5 p.m. on all five weekdays, the Peninsula hotel at Fifth Avenue and 55th Street serves glasses of five different wines for $5 each. The subdued bar in the subdued hotel may not be so different from hotel bars in other cities, but it is a soothing place to relax after a late-afternoon check-in or a day of shopping on Fifth Avenue. There are also nice touches: a piano player, the bamboo toothpicks you use to pluck up the olives, chunks of Parmigiano-Reggiano and house-made candied walnuts that come at no extra cost. The wine selection changes weekly.
761 2006-06-25 Even those fees are less than the fees you'd pay using an A.T.M. to withdraw money from your credit card credit line, since these transactions are cash advances and subject to more fees. For example, for a cash advance from a foreign A.T.M. with a Chase Amazon.com credit card, Chase charges a 3 percent cash advance fee (minimum $10) on top of a 3 percent foreign currency transaction fee, along with 23.99 percent variable interest rate accrued daily. As for exchanging money at a hotel? Mr. Meyers said he tells people to avoid it: "You'll get the highest transaction fees and the worst exchange rates."

For purchasing goods or services, credit cards frequently offer the best rates, although it can be hard to determine what they are. "The process is not transparent," said Tim Jarrell, publisher of Fodors Travel Publications. "Most people don't know until they get their credit card bill how much they'll be charged for foreign purchases."

For example, while MasterCard and Visa charge a 1 percent fee for processing foreign purchases, banks may (and often do) charge an additional 1 or 2 percent. Save money by picking a credit card with the most favorable fees for international purchases. For example, American Express and Juniper Bank charge just 2 percent, and Capital One is especially traveler-friendly, with no additional surcharge, not even the 1 percent charged by MasterCard and Visa.

With hard currency exchanges, some on-the-fly research can be particularly valuable. "If you're changing a lot of money, check out rates at the currency exchange centers and the banks," said Colm Hanratty, editor of hostelworld.com. "Ask them what their exchange rate is and how much their commissions are. It's a 60-second question that could save you $5 to $10 each time."

You typically want to do as few exchanges as possible. "Each exchange involves processing, servicing and/or administrative fees; some exchange locations even give breaks on larger transactions," said John Brancato, managing partner of V. Puente Currency Services, an operator of a Travelex Worldwide exchange service at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. According to Mr. Brancato, Travelex's currency exchange provides a lower service fee for larger transactions — for a $100 exchange the service fee is 5.5 percent while it is generally about 1.5 percent for transactions over $500. Some exchanges may even offer promotions such as a "buy back" program that allows consumers to sell their leftover currency back to the company at a favorable rate, in some cases waiving the service fees. For example, upon returning from a trip, for a $7.50 fee, a customer can exchange up to the amount of the original purchase without a service fee, guaranteed at the same rate. The return transaction has to take place at the same location as the first.

Traveler's checks and the new prepaid traveler's check cards are another option. The American Express Travelers Cheque Card ($14.95 issuance fee) is a reloadable, prepaid card that is not linked to your bank account and can be replaced if lost or stolen. The card requires an initial minimum deposit of $300 and sets a maximum balance of $2,750; the funds can be purchased in dollars, euros or pounds. A.T.M. withdrawals using the card are a relatively low $2.50, excluding individual banks' fees. However, traveler's checks and plastic may not be the solution when traveling to remote locations.

WHEN traveling in China, once you leave the large cities, you could have a very difficult if not impossible time exchanging traveler's checks for local currency. In some cases, if you have the wrong types of traveler's checks, merchants may think they're fake and not cash them," said Seth Hishmeh, co-founder of USAS Technologies, a multinational IT consulting firm, and a frequent traveler. "Additionally, when traveling in some countries such as China, the credit card systems outside of major cities frequently do not accept Visa, Amex and other standard cards used in the U.S."

Make sure you check ahead to learn what bank cards or traveler's checks will be accepted at your destination, and have a backup plan. "The main thing is to realize that different things work better in different places," said Edward Hasbrouck, author of "The Practical Nomad: How to Travel Around the World."

"That's why you should take money in a mix of forms — an A.T.M. card, a credit card, some traveler's checks, some large-denomination bills like $100 for changing, some small-denominations (U.S. $1 through U.S. $20 bills for small purchases directly in dollars), rather than counting on any one method to work everywhere," he said.

Of course, cash is still king in many places. "You may be able to get discounts by paying in local currency," Mr. Hishmeh said. "For example, when traveling in India you can often save money by paying in their local currency and getting the local rate; paying in U.S. dollars or traveler's checks will cause you to pay much more."
762 2006-06-25 In the eight years since he became a cofounder of DogFriendly.com, a Web site that lists hotels, parks, beaches and restaurants that welcome pets, Len Kain has seen the options for owners traveling with their pets expand. He notes that hotels have increased their size limits on accepted pets, and about half of the hotels he now lists will take dogs of up to 80 pounds. "It used to be just some low-end places like Motel 6 and Super 8 along with a few midrange chains that accepted dogs," he said. "But now you can choose from low- and high-end places, and extended-stay residences. And more now not just accept dogs, but welcome them." Hotels may charge $25 to $125 for having a pet stay in the hotel; the fee typically covers the cleaning of the room and other basic amenities like water and food bowls and cleanup bags.

Chains like Kimpton Hotels, Best Western and W Hotels have long opened their doors to pets, but now hotels of all sizes are kicking in over-the-top amenities. The St. Regis in Aspen has high-count linens on its five-inch-thick dog beds with royal purple covers. The pastry chef at Inn of the Anasazi in Santa Fe bakes dog biscuits. And the Peaks Resort & Golden Door Spa in Telluride, Colo., operates an on-site "doggie spa" where $60 buys a 30-minute massage.

But it's not always about pet pampering. Hotels are rolling out activities that owners can do with their pets, like, well, drinking cocktails. The W San Diego started pet-friendly cocktail hours in the fall and the Hotel Helix in Washington is starting one this summer. The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort in Naples starts obedience classes this summer including a socialization class for puppies 10 weeks to 5 months old.

And the Loews Coronado Bay Resort in San Diego offers dog surfing classes. Yes, surfing. The hotel rolled out a $300 package this spring that includes one night's accommodation, a surfing lesson for the dog (but not the owner), a meal for the pet, and board shorts (seriously) for smaller dogs. "We have sold close to 40 of those packages," said Anne Stephany, the public relations manager for the Loews Coronado Bay. "With a package like that we usually sell five."

THERE are even international options, that is if you can wade through the entry restrictions, which vary by country. The Rome Cavalieri Hilton, for example, has a room service menu for dogs that includes, in proper European form, both first and second courses. The Hilton São Paolo Morumbi has a package called No More Doggy Drama that allows owners time away from their pets with daily dog day care. Las Ventanas in Los Cabos, Mexico, provides dog cabanas and a pet menu that includes shredded braised beef and rice. Pet menus are becoming more common at resorts, but owners may prefer to travel with their dog's regular food rather than risk a digestive disaster.

Still, some owners see no harm in mixing up the diets of their pet, which after all, is on vacation, too. Paul Wade, executive chef at the Eldorado Hotel & Spa in Santa Fe, rolled out a pet menu at the end of May complete with tenderloin of beef, scrambled eggs, chicken and homemade dog biscuits with a touch of lamb demi-glace. "It's all based on brown rice," said Mr. Wade, a dog owner who cooked at other pet-friendly hotels in Colorado including the Little Nell in Aspen, where, he said, he once saw a guest trot through the lobby with an otter sporting a diamond necklace.

An otter in a hotel lobby does seem extreme, but after all, Aspen is the ultimate pet town. The town is surrounded with hiking trails for owners and their dogs. It's not unusual for 40 percent of the guests at the Little Nell to have pets in tow. The St. Regis there encourages guests to check out an Aspen animal shelter program that lends dogs for day hikes or overnight stays. "We've rescued sled dogs that would have been shot when they're no longer of any use, but they end up living in great places," said Seth Sachson, president of the shelter, who has sent pets off in private planes to live with visitors who fell for them. It makes the name of the shelter's pet grooming center, Aspen Wags to Riches, especially fitting.

Most hotels have size restrictions, cap the number of pets in a room and limit the types of pets accepted. "Last year we got a call from a zoo about an iguana who was going on TV in New York," said Jane Lehman, a spokeswoman for W Hotels, which allows pets of less than 75 pounds. "We said no. We don't want to scare our guests."

Often the real barrier to traveling with pets isn't finding a hotel that will accept them but rather getting to the destination. Aside from service dogs, airlines only allow pets as in the cabin that will fit in an airline-approved crate under the seat. Bigger dogs must be checked as luggage, a prospect that turns many owners off.

When Leigh Branch returns to Aspen this summer for an extended stay, she will circumvent commercial flying constraints by traveling by private jet from her home in Sarasota, Fla. "There will be two dogs, two cats, two sugar gliders and a hamster on the plane," Ms. Branch said. Everyone, including the 9-year-old husky she adopted from the Aspen shelter, will be comfortable in the cabin. "But the cats can be pretty loud. I might put them in the bathroom."

Fees for pets are for a whole hotel stay.

The Loews Coronado Bay Resort in Coronado, Calif. (4000 Coronado Bay Road, 800- 235-6397; www.loewshotels.com), has surfing lessons for a dog, as part of a $300 package that includes a room for two people. Otherwise, a $25 fee for pets.

The James Hotel in Chicago (55 East Ontario, 877-526-3755; www.jameshotels.com) offers a pet bed, bowls, cleanup bags, a lint brush and a pet menu that includes a salmon and tuna tartar tower with crème fraîche for cats. Pet fee is $75. Doubles from $250.

Club Drive, 866-282-4557; www.thepeaksresort.com), opened a spa for cats and dogs with grooming services $40 to $80; massages, and "pawdicures" available. Doubles in summer start at $129; they started at $229 last winter. The hotel charges $150 as a surcharge for one pet, and $50 for each additional pet. No size limit.

The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort in Naples, Fla. (2600 Tiburon Drive; 239-593-2000; www.ritzcarlton.com), is offering three levels of obedience classes this summer. Rooms have dog beds with turndown service and a nightly icing-covered biscuit — with the pet's name on it on request. In summer, double rooms start at $159; in winter, $549. The hotel charges a $150 for pets; dogs cannot be over 35 pounds.
763 2006-06-25 Here are the basics: As long as the house is your primary residence and you are at least 62, banks will give you a big portion of its value under the condition that if you move out or die, you or your estate pays back the loan plus interest, set at closing.

The amount you receive depends on your place of residence, current interest rates, the value of the house, your age and the amount still owed on the first mortgage.

A $240,000 house, fully paid off by a 62-year-old in Minneapolis, qualifies for a lump-sum payment of $104,000 under the Federal Housing Administration's Home Equity Conversion Mortgage program, the dominant reverse mortgage product. There are two other payment options: $650 a month while the owner lives in the house, or a line of credit. (Insurance covers the lender, should an owner live long enough to draw more than the mortgage value.)

Because payouts for the housing agency's reverse mortgages are based only on the first $360,000 in home value, higher-priced homes do not fetch much more. Under the same loan program, a $700,000 house in Westport, Conn., would rate a lump sum of $159,000, monthly payments of $994 or a credit line.

Payout options can get more complex depending on which of the three products you choose. The intricacies are covered on Web sites like nrmla.org (operated by the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association) and aarp.org/money/revmort/.

Indeed, the complexity of the product is why consumers cannot take out a reverse mortgage without first certifying that they have received advice from a financial counselor approved by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.

The counseling sessions cover a range of issues. The loan payout is tax-free, for example, unless you invest the money elsewhere, Ms. Williams said. And the loans carry fairly high closing costs, so if you were to move out within a few years of the loan, the payout would most likely not be worth the initial expense.

But despite the counseling, industry executives say, horror stories have left a core group of customers leery of reverse mortgages.

In the 1980's and 1990's, financial institutions sometimes took a percentage of the home's equity with reverse mortgages. Some homeowners who moved out thus ended up owing the amount of the payouts and the entire appreciated value of the home.

No one considering a reverse mortgage today need fear such terms, said Peter H. Bell of the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association. "Nobody in the marketplace is offering anything of that sort right now," he said.
764 2006-06-25 To the Editor:     ''Connecticut's Energy Problem'' (editorial, June 11) is based on the premise that if Connecticut utilities owned and operated power plants again, consumers would be shielded from rising electricity rates.     Frustration with r...
765 2006-06-25 To the Editor:     Re ''Poland's Bigoted Government'' (editorial, June 11): Poland is a party to numerous international treaties and conventions that provide for strong safeguards of human rights and democratic standards.     Therefore, it is with...
766 2006-06-25 If only because museum exhibitions of dog paintings are a rare occurrence, the show now at the Bruce Museum of Arts and Science in Greenwich -- which for the last couple of years has been organizing intelligent and scholarly exhibitions -- should ...
767 2006-06-25 To the Editor:     Elizabeth Marshall Thomas misses the point in her review of ''Kicked, Bitten, and Scratched,'' by Amy Sutherland (June 4), when she states that: ''Despite the beliefs of animal rights activists, many captive animals welcome thei...
768 2006-06-25 Melissa Floren, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas C. Floren of Greenwich, Conn., was married yesterday to David William Filippone, a son of Catherine E. Filippone of Paradise Valley, Ariz., and the late Charles A. Filippone. Betty M. Ralston, a d...
769 2006-06-25 Kudos for a comprehensive issue on the increasingly trenchant topic of America's debt (June 11). I found Niall Ferguson's article ''Reasons to Worry'' of particular interest. His comparison of the national debt to an adjustable-rate mortgage made ...
770 2006-06-25 With the summer driving season under way, thousands of people in Westchester County are feeling the sting of soaring prices at the pump. Those who rely on public transportation have mostly been immune, but in Mount Vernon at least, that is about t...
771 2006-06-25 Spike Gillespie's cavalier attitude, trivializing a serious subject, was unsettling. Maybe she should have worked harder to get a better job, so she could afford more things. Does she realize that I have to pay for her freedom, relief and quieter ...
772 2006-06-25 Attention President Bush: C.E.O.'s in Detroit are standing by for your call. Mr. Bush was supposed to have a meeting with senior auto industry executives in May, but it did not happen and has not been rescheduled.      Rather than keep pestering t...
773 2006-06-25 John M. Fabrizi, the mayor of Bridgeport, admitted on Tuesday that he had used cocaine and abused alcohol while in office. Mr. Fabrizi, who was appointed mayor in 2003 after the former mayor, Joseph P. Ganim, went to prison on corruption charges, ...
774 2006-06-25 To the Editor:      Bob Spitz, in his review of ''The Big Bam: The Life and Times of Babe Ruth,'' by Leigh Montville (June 4), gushes: ''No baseball player, despite what record books claim, has ever equaled Ruth's awesome performance.'' If anythin...
775 2006-06-26 The expanding investigation of Anthony Pellicano, a private investigator who allegedly ran illegal wiretaps in Hollywood's highest circles, has touched another figure in the financial world. The New York Times reported Monday that one of the lates...
776 2006-06-26 In agreeing to buy Inco and Falconbridge in two deals worth a total of $40 billion, the mining giant Phelps Dodge is wagering that the breathtaking rise in metal prices will continue. An analyst in London told the Associated Press on Monday that "...
777 2006-06-26 The Alternative Investment Management Association, a hedge-fund group based in Britain, said that its members outside the United States should be allowed to deregister from the Securities and Exchange Commission, just days after a federal court ov...
778 2006-06-26 And then there were none. McClatchy announced Monday that it had reached an agreement to sell the Times Leader of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., the last of the 12 newspapers that it decided to exclude from its $4.5 billion acquisition of Knight Ridder. An in...
779 2006-06-26 Two research shops had opposing takes on Johnson & Johnson's victory in the auction for Pfizer's consumer-products unit. It won with a $16.6 billion bid. At UBS, analysts said the news "should not be surprising" given all the recent accounts of co...
780 2006-06-26 An arm of the General Electric Company said on Monday it planned to acquire six senior housing portfolios worth $1.4 billion from Formation Capital. The unit, GE Healthcare Financial Services, said it expected the deal to close in the third quarte...
781 2006-06-26 Holcim, a Swiss maker of building materials, agreed to buy a cement maker, the Meyer Material Company, for $231 million, to expand in the United States. Meyer, based near Chicago, produces aggregates, ready-mix concrete and concrete paving product...
782 2006-06-26 The young Wall Streeter arrested for running a far-flung, insider-trading ring that racked up $7 million in ill-gotten gains has traded in his old lawyer for one specializing in white-collar crime. The trader, Eugene Plotkin, who has been unable t...
783 2006-06-26 The founder of Weiss Research, Martin Weiss, agreed to pay about $2.1 million to settle a legal action by the Securities and Exchange Commission that claimed the newsletter publisher misled subscribers about the performance of its investment recom...
784 2006-06-26 A Justice Department lawyer pressed a federal judge on Friday to dismiss a lawsuit against AT&T over a government surveillance operation. But the plaintiffs maintained that the case could go forward even if some aspects were set aside on national ...
785 2006-06-26 Home Depot, the home-improvement retailer, said Friday that the Securities and Exchange Commission had begun an informal inquiry into its stock-option practices and procedures. In a regulatory filing, Home Depot said it would cooperate with the in...
786 2006-06-26 In the world of hedge funds, where timing seems to be everything, Arthur J. Samberg is a survivor. He and a partner went into business in 1986, only to lose much of their money in the 1987 stock market crash. He survived that, though, and until re...
787 2006-06-26 EMI, the world's third largest music company, is seeking private equity backing to mount a $1.5 billion bid for Bertelsmann's BMG Music Publishing, The Times of London reported. Venture capital backing would allow EMI to retain the resources to bi...
788 2006-06-26 Tribune is likely to succeed today in its effort to buy back as much as 25 percent of its stock, gaining an interim victory over boardroom critics who recently called for a breakup of the company, which owns the Chicago Tribune, the Los Angeles Ti...
789 2006-06-26 Johnson & Johnson, the drug maker, said Monday it will buy the consumer product unit of Pfizer, which includes household brands like Listerine and Sudafed, for $16.6 billion. The deal would add Johnson & Johnson's stable of brands – which includ...
790 2006-06-26 Vermont enacted its campaign finance law in 1997, spurred by those who believe there should be restrictions on both spending and donations. The law provided the court with what seemed its best recent opportunity to re-evaluate the 29-year-old precedent in Buckley.

The Vermont law set the lowest limits in the nation on donations, capping gifts at $200 for state House campaigns over a two-year election cycle; $300 for state Senate and $400 for statewide offices. In his controlling opinion, Justice Stephen Breyer noted that the court had allowed limits on donations in other states but said that the ones put forward by Vermont imposed burdens on the First Amendment that were "disproportionately severe."

His ruling, parts of which were joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Samuel A. Alito Jr., Anthony M. Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia, said that the Vermont law's donation limits raise "substantial restrictions on the ability of candidates to raise the funds necessary to run a competitive election." He said that the low limits on how much an individual could donate to a candidate made it especially difficult for challengers, thus giving an undue advantage to incumbents.

On the more contentious issue of limiting the amount of money a candidate could spend, Justice Breyer wrote, "We can find here no special justification that would require us to overrule Buckley."

The Vermont law limited the amount a candidate for governor may spend in a two-year election cycle to $300,000; a candidate for lieutenant governor to $100,000, and other statewide offices to $45,000. State senators and representatives would be limited to spending between $4,000 and $2,000, depending on their district.

Justice Breyer said the state had demonstrated neither any increase in corruption nor that capping campaign spending was the only way to attack corruption.

The court's action overturned a 2-to-1 ruling by a federal appeals court. That ruling endorsed the state's approach, saying that the 1976 Supreme Court ruling was not a complete bar to restricting campaign spending and that growing public cynicism had now made the case for doing so "compelling."

Justices John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and David H. Souter dissented. Justice Stevens said that he disagreed that money spent by a campaign was the equivalent of speech, the underpinning of the 1976 ruling. Justice Souter said that the Court should have deferred to the judgment of the people of Vermont on how to reduce corruption and its appearance.

"The findings made by the Vermont legislature on the pernicious effect of the nonstop pursuit of money are significant," he wrote.

Justices Scalia and Thomas, in a separate opinion, urged that all campaign restrictions be abolished.

The case was the first opportunity for the court's newest members, Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito, to weigh in on the issue of campaign financing.
791 2006-06-26 Under the terms of the new agreement, Phelps Dodge would acquire Inco, which would in turn sweeten its offer for Falconbridge and complete that merger. Inco and Falconbridge are based in Toronto.

The deal would catapult Phelps Dodge into the ranks of the world's largest diversified mining companies. J. Steven Whisler, its chairman and chief executive, called the acquisition "a unique opportunity in a rapidly consolidating industry to create a global leader based in North America."

The new company will have operations in more than 40 countries and will employ about 40,000 people, the statement said.

Phelps-Dodge said it would also buy back up to $5 billion worth of its own shares to increase returns to shareholders. The final amount depends on how some aspects of the financing for Inco's takeover of Falconbridge work out.

The chain of events that set off the deal stem largely from a decision in August of last year by Xstrata, a Swiss-based mining company with extensive interests in coal, to buy a stake in Falconbridge from Brascan, a Toronto holding company that was seeking to end its long association with natural resource companies to concentrate on commercial real estate and electrical generation.

At the time, Xstrata's chief executive, Michael Davis made it clear that acquiring more of Falconbridge was on his agenda. But a condition of the sale made a quick move to control Falconbridge potentially costly. Xstrata had agreed that for the following nine months that if it acquired Falconbridge shares at any price above 28 Canadian dollars (about $25) a share, it would also retroactively pay the premium to Brascan.

Meanwhile, Inco, Canada's nickel mining giant, had long coveted Falconbridge. Both companies have a major base of operations near Sudbury, Ontario. But the arrangement of their mines often verged on the irrational with, for example, material from Inco mines next door to Falconbridge processing facilities being moved long distances by rail to Inco's operations. The reverse case is often true as well.

While Xstrata waited for the nine-month Brascan bonus period to expire, Inco moved in and announced last October that it would buy Falconbridge for 12 billion Canadian dollars ($10.6 billion) in cash and stock under a friendly bid. While that represented a 21 percent premium over what Xstrata paid Falconbridge, many investors said it was too little.

That deal, however, was delayed by antitrust reviews in Europe and the United States.

Last month, just before the Brascan-Xstrata arrangement came to an end, Inco increased its offer to 19.6 billion Canadian dollars ($17.5 billion) from its original 12 billion Canadian dollars. But the increased bid failed to deter Xstrata.

Under the terms of the deal, Phelps Dodge will pay 80 Canadian dollars a share for every share of Inco; 17.5 Canadian dollars would be paid in cash and the rest in stock.

Inco's acquisition of Falconbridge will be worth about $62 for each Falconbridge share.

Phelps Dodge said the three companies expect to save about $900 million annually by combining operations, and that Phelps Dodge's earnings would increase immediately as a result of the merger.
792 2006-06-26 At more than $16 billion, Johnson & Johnson would be paying a hefty price tag; when the auction began, most analysts had pegged the sale price at about $14 billion.

The deal would significantly increase the size of Johnson & Johnson's consumer unit, the smallest of the company's three main divisions.

Earlier this month, Goldman Sachs said Johnson & Johnson's consumer health division would become 40 percent larger as a result of such a purchase, with consumer health representing 24 percent of corporate sales if the acquisition occurred. In the most recent quarter the company's consumer sales were $2.3 billion of a total $13 billion in sales, or about 18 percent.

In February, Pfizer had announced plans to explore a sale or spin-off of its consumer health unit, which accounts for about 8 percent of the company's revenues and 4 percent of its operating profit.

The company said it wanted to divest the unit so that it could focus on prescription drugs, its most profitable business line. The consumer unit had $3.9 billion in sales last year, a 10 percent increase from 2004, Pfizer said, and an operating profit of $670 million. It accounted for less than 8 percent of Pfizer's $52 billion in sales last year, and about 4 percent of operating profit.

Bristol-Myers Squibb made a similar move last year by selling its consumer division to Novartis for $660 million, part of Bristol-Myers' plan to concentrate its drug business on 10 major disease areas.

But other companies have been shoring up their consumer health units, which typically return consistent earnings without fear of patent losses or huge research and development costs.

Pfizer's plan to sell the unit is one of several steps that it is taking to bolster its share price; it is also increasing its dividend and trying to streamline operations.

Analysts have said that selling or spinning off the consumer unit would please Wall Street, because investors consider the division outside of Pfizer's core prescription drug business.

At the end of 2005, Johnson & Johnson was holding more than $16 billion in cash. When its deal to purchase the medical device maker Guidant for about $25 billion fell through this year, it also received a break-up fee from the company of $700 million.
793 2006-06-26 Phelps Dodge, the world's largest copper producer, said today that it had agreed to acquire two of the biggest nickel miners in a huge deal worth $40 billion. The deal, for Inco and Falconbridge, would create a mining behemoth that will reshape the industry as commodity prices continue to soar.

The deal comes a day after steel giant Arcelor agreed to merge with Mittal Steel in a $33.5 billion deal. Mining and other commodity-related companies are increasingly seeking to merge to take advantage of the enormous economies of scale involved in the mining and processing of metals. Steel and nickel producers have become particular attractive in the past year as China's appetite for the metals has grown exponentially.

The transaction will end a yearlong battle over Inco and Falconbridge, which had agreed to merge last October, by a cadre of rivals that had made hostile offers for both. Phelps Dodge, based in Phoenix, is swooping in as the white-knight to keep Inco and Falconbridge from its other suitors and to satisfy a growing chorus of investors that have contended the Inco-Falconbridge deal shortchanged its shareholders.

Under the terms of the deal, Phelps Dodge would acquire Inco, which would in turn sweeten its offer for Falconbridge and complete that merger. Inco and Falconbridge are based in Toronto.

For Phelps Dodge, the transaction would diversify its business and catapult it into the one of the largest diversified mining companies in the world. The chain of events that set off the deal stem largely from a decision in August of last year by Xstrata, a Swiss-based mining company with extensive interests in coal, to buy a stake in Falconbridge from Brascan, a Toronto holding company that was seeking to end its long association with natural resource companies to concentrate on commercial real estate and electrical generation.
794 2006-06-26 When the game kicks off Monday at 5 p.m. in Germany, it will be 1 a.m. the next day in Sydney and Melbourne, where large crowds are expected to congregate despite the chilly temperatures (it is winter in Australia).

In a television interview last week, the country's prime minister, John Howard, referred to Harry Kewell, the team's star forward, as King Harry. It was Kewell's 79th-minute equalizer against Croatia on Thursday that advanced the Australians to the Round of 16.

The team's success has energized the Australian politicians who have been pushing for the nation to play host to the 2018 World Cup. The 2010 event will be in South Africa, and FIFA is steering the 2014 World Cup toward South America.

If the Australians can be said to have a signature style of play, it is their indefatigability. "We've got players, especially in our midfield, that can run all day and then the next day, no problems," the team captain, Mark Viduka, said. "I think teams are finding it hard to deal with."

That stamina helped the Australians overcome some controversial officiating in their group-phase games against Japan, Brazil and Croatia. "They just didn't run out of the puff," John O'Neill, the chief executive of the Australian soccer federation, said.

The Australians' other big asset is the golden touch of Hiddink, who guided South Korea to an unexpected semifinal appearance at the previous World Cup, in 2002, and who took charge of Australia last summer.

But Hiddink, who is leaving to coach the Russian national team after this World Cup, steered the praise to his players. "The strong point of the Australian team is that even when they are down, the team never gives the impression that it's lost," he said Sunday.

The Aussies will need all the tenacity they can find to break down Italy's traditionally solid defense. They will start without their aggressive midfielder Brett Emerton, who was suspended after receiving two yellow cards in the first round, and probably without Kewell, who aggravated a groin injury and has not practiced since the Croatia game.

While the Italians have occasionally played the rake this month, with their errant elbows and the background noise of a sprawling match-fixing scandal at home, the Australians have at times come off as innocents abroad in the world of international soccer.

Australia's top scorer, Tim Cahill, set off some minor consternation early on in Germany when he disclosed that he and some of his teammates had wagered on which of them would be first to score.

Apparently underestimating the sport's sensitivity to gambling, Cahill candidly related the wagering to reporters, adding that the bookkeeper was the backup goalie, Zeljko Kalac, at 6 feet 8 inches the tournament's tallest player.

FIFA has since disputed reports that the organization is considering sanctions.

Rather than leaving for Kaiserslautern on Sunday morning and taking the customary practice session on the game-day field, the Australians remained at their training base in Öhringen, a sleepy town near Stuttgart.

It is a far cry from the World Cup seen on television — all raucous matches and excitable mobs. But small cities in the German countryside are the norm for many of the teams in the World Cup. They rest in hotels between matches, training at modest municipal stadiums.

The global game becomes local in towns like Öhringen, where the citizens are sometimes allowed to observe the exotics to whom they play host. The presence of one of the tournament's most spirited teams has inspired pride and enterprise here, where kangaroo memorabilia is sold, bulletin boards announce the next open practice session and children wear cartoon marsupials on their T-shirts.
795 2006-06-26 In New Orleans, sales tax collections in the first quarter were at only 76 percent of last year's level, but that represents a substantial improvement over the end of 2005, said Reginald Zeno, the city's finance director.

"It's a lot more robust than we had imagined," Mr. Zeno said.

State officials are not sure how much of the tax boom will continue, or for how long, so they are using the money to help cover one-time costs rather than for regular operating expenses, said Jerry Luke LeBlanc, the commissioner of administration.

Though Louisiana still has many obvious needs, like towing the hulks of hundreds of cars from under the highway overpasses in New Orleans, state officials are not devoting the unexpected tax revenue to those projects, arguing that they will ultimately be covered by the federal government. But the state is spending money to help solve less evident problems in areas like health care and economic development.

A raise has been approved for teachers and other school workers, but Mr. LeBlanc said it would be covered by recurring revenue. The Legislature agreed with Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco's plan to set aside about $150 million to pay for hurricane evacuations and even more to help pay bills that are coming due from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which requires states to pick up some of the cost of disaster recovery.

The governor, a Democrat, warned legislators not to go on a spending spree, and for the most part they complied. Political analysts noted, however, that the traditional battle over the budget was muted this year, partly because enough money was available to pay for at least some of the members' pet projects.

In fact, the tax boom comes at a rather awkward time for the state, which is getting billions of dollars of aid from Washington to finance its program to help homeowners.

"We're extremely relieved," Mr. LeBlanc said. "But our challenges far outstrip the revenue we have coming in."

Some parts of the state have not experienced a post-hurricane boom, and some of those with tax windfalls also face increasing costs for schools, sewers and other services.

Big spikes in sales tax revenue have occurred in places where many storm evacuees have settled, including St. Tammany Parish, across Lake Pontchartrain from New Orleans.

In Baton Rouge, which officials believe may still have 100,000 more residents than it did a year ago, tax revenue was up more than 22 percent in the first quarter of this year, said Walter G. Monsour, the city's chief administrative officer.

At stores, every day is like Christmas Eve, Mr. Monsour said. "Retailers are doing wonderful, restaurants are doing wonderful, car dealers are doing wonderful," he said.

But no one knows how long the boom will continue, he added, so the city will use the excess money for one-time improvements like putting video cameras in police cars.

In the meantime, however, Baton Rouge is struggling to cope with a decade's worth of population growth that occurred in two weeks, as anyone who has tried to drive at rush hour here knows all too well.

Government officials in the most devastated areas could only wish for problems like that. In St. Bernard Parish, east of New Orleans, less than a third of the population has returned, and there is still nowhere to buy groceries.

Big problems also remain in New Orleans, as well as huge unknowns. The city has had to borrow hundreds of millions of dollars and plans to borrow more from a new state program that will help local governments and agencies cover the payments on their debts.

And as in other areas hit by the hurricanes, no one knows what is going to happen to property tax collections, which are under way and which Mr. Zeno said were the second-largest source of city revenue after sales taxes.

Assessed property values have dropped about 20 percent, he said, and the city is assuming it will collect about 60 percent of what is owed. "But we're anxious to see the actual numbers," he said.

On the state level, income tax collections are a big question; many residents have been out of work for months, and much of the cleanup has been done by out-of-staters, for cash. Louisiana gets about a quarter of its tax revenue from personal income tax payments, which have been postponed for hurricane victims.

Based on indicators like the amount being withheld from payrolls, budget forecasters say the state's budget assumes that income tax payments will fall by almost $400 million, or 16 percent, and rebound just a little next year.

One of those forecasters, James A. Richardson, a professor of economics at Louisiana State University, said one of the biggest surprises had been how strong gambling revenue had been. At riverboat casinos, state data show, there have been fewer gamblers, but they have lost far more money ($22 million more in April this year than in the previous April).

Some Louisianans may have pumped their federal aid into video poker machines and slots. But Professor Richardson said he thought much of the gambling was done by out-of-state workers who flocked to the Gulf Coast after the hurricanes.

"You couldn't go to a restaurant without running into an insurance adjuster," he said, "and there were not many things for them to do in their spare time."

That seems unlikely to continue for long, though, and he worries about a short-term slump in the economy this year.

"There will be a two- or three- or four-month interlude when there are not very many people," Dr. Richardson said, when FEMA employees and some construction workers start to leave, tourists shun steamy New Orleans and spending by residents slows.

"At some point, they'll stop buying refrigerators," he said.

But longer term, Dr. Richardson and other experts said, the prospects are bright for the economy, and therefore for tax collections.

Timothy P. Ryan, an economist and chancellor of the University of New Orleans, calculates that more than $61 billion of disaster-related money will surge through the state from homeowners and business insurance, federal programs and the housing assistance program. The proportion of that money that will go to building will equal more than 28 years of normal construction spending.
796 2006-06-26 A Supreme Court decision last year on eminent domain caused many people to overreact, most of all Congress. The House of Representatives passed a troubling bill that would severely limit local governments' ability to clean up blighted areas and promote responsible development. The Senate, which has yet to act, should take a more moderate approach.

In last year's decision, the high court upheld the use of eminent domain by New London, Conn., to assemble property for a private development project that promised to prop up the city's tax base and bring in badly needed jobs. The ruling set off talk of "eminent domain abuse." What has been lost in the discussion is the good that eminent domain can do. It has long been a key tool by which cities can upgrade deteriorating neighborhoods and assemble land for affordable housing. (The New York Times benefited from eminent domain in clearing the land for the new building it is constructing opposite the Port Authority Bus Terminal.)

The bill the House passed last fall would block many of these good uses. It would cut off federal funds to states and cities that use eminent domain for economic development projects, a costly penalty that would make it harder for struggling cities like New London to rebound. It would also let private property owners sue to block eminent domain for seven years, a period so long that it would scare private lenders away from financing such projects.

The Senate bill should be more temperate. It should have a broad exception for blight, so governments can use eminent domain to upgrade rundown areas. It should make clear that building affordable housing is an appropriate use for eminent domain. And it should not put up roadblocks like the excessively long period for bringing lawsuits.

Taking away private property for public use should not be done lightly. Owners must receive just compensation. Procedures must be fair, and property owners must be given an adequate opportunity to be heard. Eminent domain should be used only for truly public purposes. These rights are already recognized in the law, but there is no harm in firming them up. Congress should, however, avoid passing sweeping legislation that prevents governments from promoting development projects that significantly advance the public interest.
797 2006-06-26 For Phelps Dodge, the transaction would diversify its business and catapult it into the one of the largest diversified mining companies in the world. The chain of events that set off the deal stem largely from a decision in August of last year by Xstrata, a Swiss-based mining company with extensive interests in coal, to buy a stake in Falconbridge from Brascan, a Toronto holding company that was seeking to end its long association with natural resource companies to concentrate on commercial real estate and electrical generation.

At the time, Xstrata's chief executive, Michael Davis made it clear that acquiring more of Falconbridge was on his agenda. But a condition of the sale made a quick move to control Falconbridge potentially costly. Xstrata had agreed that for the following nine months that if it acquired Falconbridge shares at any price above 28 Canadian dollars (about $25) a share, it would also retroactively pay the premium to Brascan.

Meanwhile, Inco, Canada's nickel mining giant, had long coveted Falconbridge. Both companies have a major base of operations near Sudbury, Ontario. But the arrangement of their mines often verged on the irrational with, for example, material from Inco mines next door to Falconbridge processing facilities being moved long distances by rail to Inco's operations. The reverse case is often true as well.

While Xstrata waited for the nine-month Brascan bonus period to expire, Inco moved in and announced last October that it would buy Falconbridge for 12 billion Canadian dollars in cash ($10.6 billion) and stock under a friendly bid. While that represented a 21 percent premium over what Xstrata paid Falconbridge, many investors complained that the offer was insufficient.

Completion of that deal, however, was delayed by anti-trust reviews in Europe and the United States.

Last month, just before the Brascan-Xstrata arrangement came to an end, Inco boosted its offer to 19.6 billion Canadian dollars ($17.5 billion) from its original 12 billion Canadian dollars. But the increased bid failed to deter Xstrata.

Under the terms of the deal, Phelps Dodge will pay $80 a share (Canadian) for every share of Inco; $17.50 will be paid in cash and the rest in stock. Inco will in turn sweeten its offer for Falconbridge by about $5 a share (Canadian) and it's offer will further increase as a result of the increased value of its shares because of Phelps Dodge's bid.

Inco's bid for Falconbridge's shares will be worth about $62 a share. Phelps Dodge will also announce a $5 billion stock repurchase program as part of the transaction. The deal is expected to be immediately accretive to Phelps Dodge and the companies expect to save about $900 million annually as a result of the three way combination, people involved in the negotiations said.
798 2006-06-26 "The idea of the reconciliation and national dialogue should not be understood as rewarding the killers," he said. "No, no reconciliation with those until they get their fair punishment by the justice for the criminal acts they committed."

Sunni Arabs welcomed the plan, but were quick to point out it offered little that was new.

"How can you call this amnesty?" said Sadoon al-Zubaidy, a Sunni Arab from the former Parliament. "We're talking about releasing people who are either proven innocent or who have not been charged with anything. We have a twisted kind of logic here."

Indeed, one government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be seen as critical, said, "Ninety-nine-point-nine percent of the principles in that plan have been included in the Constitution and in the political program of the government."

Negotiating with what some Sunni Arabs call Iraqi resistance fighters, and including them in any amnesty, is critical to success in quelling the insurgency, Sunni Arabs say. But such fighters seek to force Americans out of Iraq by violent struggle, and offering them amnesty would run counter to American policy here.

"We want outspoken acknowledgment for the national resistance, and it must be a direct statement," said Dhafir al-Ani, a member of the largest Sunni Arab bloc in Parliament.

The Sunni Arab demand leaves Mr. Maliki in a delicate place, and he avoided taking it on directly. "For he who wants to build, we offer a hand with an olive branch," he said. "For he who insists on aggression, terror and killing, we offer him a hand that carries a strict legal position."

The American ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, said in a briefing later that the amnesty would be "context dependent," and that "a lot of details will need to be worked out," but indicated that it would not give cover to insurgents who had attacked Americans.

"Those who've lost their lives to liberate this country and provide a historic opportunity, their sacrifice will be respected," he said.

Another point that Sunni Arabs say needs to be addressed is how long American troops will remain in Iraq. They say insurgents are looking for a timetable for withdrawal.

Mr. Khalilzad said he and the American commander in Iraq, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., would began talks with the Iraqis in the coming weeks on the topic, but reiterated that any reduction would depend on progress in Iraq. "We will adjust our forces, but we'll do it based on conditions, and the condition is that Iraqis can take care of themselves," he said. "The next five to six months are critical for this government."

The Russians who were killed had been seized by armed men at an outdoor market just blocks from the embassy.

In the video, four Russian men identify themselves in Russian as the embassy employees: Fyodor Zaitsev, 27, an aide to the ambassador; Oleg Fedoseyev, 41, a guard, and, The Associated Press reported, Rinat Agliulin and Anatoly Smirnov. The video then showed two men in black shirts and ski masks slice into the neck of a kneeling man, and quickly moved to a macabre scene of a head placed on a body. It is not clear if the head was that of the man just beheaded or another one. One of the killers says, "God is Great" in Arabic, in an accent that is not Iraqi.

The third portion of the video shows a man with a black cloth over his face being shot point-blank.

Also on Sunday, the American military announced that it had charged two National Guard members with voluntary manslaughter in the shooting death of an unarmed Iraqi man on Feb. 15 in Ramadi, the insurgent stronghold in the large desert province of Anbar.

The soldiers, identified as Specialist Nathan B. Lynn, 21, of South Williamsport, Pa., and Sgt. Milton Ortiz, Jr., 36, of Islip, N.Y., assigned to the First Battalion, 109th Infantry of the Pennsylvania National Guard, were also charged with obstructing justice for placing an AK-47 automatic rifle near the body of the dying Iraqi to make it appear he was an insurgent, the military said in a news release.

Mr. Maliki made an effort to address another sore point for Sunni Arabs, what they say are the overly tough criteria imposed against former Baath Party members. He said the country's de-Baathification committee would not bar 90 to 95 percent of former Baathists from public life, a distinction that echoed previous political restrictions based on how active in the party former members had been.

Bringing Baath members back into society is opposed by many religious Shiites who form much of the Parliament. Evidence of how hard it would be was seen Sunday in the only animated debate in Parliament.

Ayad Jamal al-Deen, a Shiite Parliament member of the bloc of secular parties, suggested bringing Baathists back into politics. "We can't be like ostriches, hiding our heads in the sand," he said. "Its members are the Iraqi people."

The members stirred and began to talk. One member asked if Mr. Deen's bloc shared his views. Another shouted out, "Mr. Jamal doesn't represent me!"
799 2006-06-26 Conservative critics say Acorn and similar groups are pushing antimarket, unrealistic answers that will not help the poor in the long run.

But the increased mobilizing efforts, often in alliance with the growing union movement among low-end service workers, have earned the attention of Democratic politicians.

Those scheduled to speak at Acorn's annual meeting in July include Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York; former Senator John Edwards, who has worked with Acorn on minimum wage initiatives; Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts; and John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

The expansion of Acorn, whose formal name is the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, is part of a broader surge in populist organizing around the country centered on issues like wages, gentrification, environmental disputes and immigrant rights.

"Over the last 10 years we've seen pretty explosive growth in the number and scale of community groups working in poor communities and with people of color," said Deepak Bhargava, of the Center for Community Change, a Washington-based support center for local organizers. Mr. Bhargava said the activism was "approaching a scale that could have a transforming effect on American politics and society."

But the number of people involved is still limited, and while many groups share similar "social justice" philosophies, they are often fragmented.

Mr. Rathke said he had no illusions about the strength of "government policies promoting inequality." But he added: "If there is going to be a change in politics in a progressive direction, we are going to be part of that. That wasn't true 10 years ago."

Mr. Rathke spoke at the bustling Acorn headquarters in New Orleans, where the group has sought to involve poor, displaced residents in the Hurricane Katrina recovery effort. He had just returned from a week in India, where he met with private groups worried about the possible entry of Wal-Mart and similar chains.

Acorn has a budget this year of $37.5 million, which does not include its spinoff research and housing organizations. Only $3 million of that comes from membership dues. Most of the rest comes from foundations, private donations and "partnerships" in which onetime corporate targets, like the Household Financial Corporation, pay Acorn to run programs, in this case to educate people about mortgages and loan terms.

Local offices pursue local issues of concern, like pressing an agency to clean up a vacant lot or, in the case of the powerful chapter in New York, opening schools and cosponsoring the Working Families political party.

What sets Acorn apart from most community groups, said Peter Dreier, an urban planning expert at Occidental College in Los Angeles, is its ability to combine local projects with coordinated national action on larger issues.

In a current campaign in several cities, for example, Acorn is demanding that the Sherwin-Williams paint company contribute to lead paint abatement.

The utility protest in Gary illustrates how Acorn creates a new chapter. Eric Weathersby, 43, is a church leader in Gary who wanted to get more involved in politics. After brief training in Chicago, Mr. Weathersby started as head organizer for Acorn in Indiana on April 17.

Heating bills soared last winter, and many poor residents resented their utility, the Northern Indiana Public Service Company, for what they saw as harsh policies for delinquent payers. Mr. Weathersby used the issue to recruit, going door to door himself, and by early June had 113 members.

Oscar L. Buggs Jr., 69, who lives on a pension from his career as a sanitation worker, was drawn in. He said he had inherited a house with past-due bills, had found himself owing $1,300 that he could not pay and had had his utilities cut off for several months. He used a flashlight to see at night.

"It seems like they do good deeds for people who need help," Mr. Buggs said of Acorn. "Maybe I can do some good for somebody else."

In early June, as members began unloading their pennies at the payment center, a company officer quickly appeared. He promised to relay to the company's president Acorn's demands for more aid to poor customers and a moratorium on shut-offs, and to try to set up a meeting with him.

In an e-mail response to a query by The New York Times, the company condemned Acorn's tactics and claims.

"They use threats of protests and other attention-grabbing techniques to bully local utilities and get media coverage," Tom Cuddy, a spokesman for the utility, said in the e-mail message. "Most of Acorn's 'demands' are already addressed in existing assistance programs."

The wage campaign in Chicago, where Wal-Mart is opening its first store this fall, had a visceral appeal for many residents and has gained the support in principle of a majority of the City Council.

Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research and author of "The New New Left" (Ivan R. Dee, 2005), said this campaign, for a law tailored specifically to giant retailers, showed how out of step Acorn was with the national mood and economic realities. "The only thing such laws ever do is to deprive shoppers in low-income neighborhoods of those stores," Mr. Malanga said.

Illustrating the philosophical divide, Madeline Talbott, a veteran Acorn organizer in charge of the Chicago office, said of Wal-Mart, "They're the world's largest employers, and if they can't pay a living wage, who can?"

Ms. Talbott added, "If we're going to have a middle class in the city of Chicago, we have to set some kind of standard in the sectors of the economy that can't just move to China."
800 2006-06-26 The source is not just longtime residents repairing their houses. Newcomers have flocked to St. Tammany, too, many from St. Bernard Parish to the south, where almost every house took in floodwater.

One sign of the population shift: The Archdiocese of New Orleans is moving a Roman Catholic high school that used to be in St. Bernard to St. Tammany, is opening another school and has even established a new parish in Covington; later this year, parishioners will worship in a building that used to house Mr. Fish Pets and Supplies.

"You follow the people," said the Rev. William Maestri, chief spokesman for the archdiocese, noting that these newcomers did not seem temporary. "They're building and buying, not renting."

St. Bernard Parish, which was damaged far more heavily in the storm, is, like St. Tammany, mostly white, but not nearly as wealthy. One Catholic church in the parish has reopened — out of nine. Residents have been slow to return, partly because there is little in the way of medical care or shopping (the Walgreens has reopened, but not the Super Wal-Mart).

Sales taxes are running about the same as last year, in part because taxes on new cars are paid where the vehicles are registered, not where they are bought, said David E. Peralta, the chief administrative officer for the parish. "I don't want you to think we are back and running and making more money than ever before," Mr. Peralta said.

That much is clear just from a trip down Judge Perez Drive, which is lined with heaps of rubbish, blown-out signs, white travel trailers and, on the side streets, condemned houses.

Behind the parish office building, where waterlogged papers ooze out of filing cabinets on the sidewalk, Henry Rodriguez, the parish president known to everyone as Junior, is still living and working out of a double-wide trailer. Sitting at his kitchen-table-cum-desk, Mr. Rodriguez said that about 20,000 residents, out of 67,000, had returned. And he expects many more to come back when they figure out how expensive housing is in St. Tammany.

On the other hand, one of his biggest worries stems from the thousands of ruined houses that have not been touched, and which he fears have been abandoned by people who are taking their insurance money elsewhere.

"I figure they don't give a damn," he said of these homeowners. "They're walking off and saying, 'It's yours.' "
801 2006-06-26 Johnson & Johnson, the health care conglomerate, is close to a deal to expand its household presence by purchasing the consumer unit of Pfizer, which markets well-known brands like Listerine mouthwash and Sudafed, the cold and allergy medicine, for more than $16 billion, people involved in the deal said last night.

The transaction is expected to be announced this morning, these people said. A spokesman for Johnson & Johnson, Jeffrey J. Leebaw, declined to comment on a possible purchase last night, but Johnson & Johnson was expected to hold an investor conference before the opening bell of the New York Stock Exchange.

The deal would combine Johnson & Johnson's stable of brands — including the Tylenol pain reliever, Neutrogena skin products and Johnson's baby shampoo — with Pfizer's lineup of Rolaids antacid, Benadryl allergy medicine, Rogaine baldness treatment, Zantac antacid, Bengay analgesic and Lubriderm skin lotion.

Johnson & Johnson appears to have beaten a cadre of other bidders for the unit, which was put up for sale in February, including GlaxoSmithKline, originally expected to win the auction, and a British household cleaning products maker, Reckitt Benckiser.

At more than $16 billion, Johnson & Johnson would be paying a hefty price tag; when the auction began, most analysts had pegged the sale price at about $14 billion.
802 2006-06-26 Ten new farmers' markets serving low-income neighborhoods including public housing projects will be open one day a week through Thanksgiving weekend, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other city officials announced yesterday. Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn has made farmers' markets a centerpiece of her plans to reduce hunger and increase awareness of nutrition throughout the city, especially in lower-income areas. Nine of the markets will be in Manhattan: Chambers Street and Broadway; St. Nicholas Avenue between West 167th and 168th Streets; West 43rd Street between Ninth and 10th Avenues; Malcolm X Boulevard between West 135th and 137th Streets; East 82nd Street between First and York Avenues; East 92nd Street near First Avenue; Orchard Street between Broome and Delancey Streets; East 26th Street between Second Avenue and Mt. Carmel Place; and East 99th Street near Madison Avenue. One market will be in the Bronx, on the Grand Concourse between 156th and 158th Streets. Days and times vary.
803 2006-06-26 In a letter sent to its clients on Friday, Pequot said, "There is absolutely no truth to these allegations," and added that all of its trades were made in the "ordinary course of the firm's business."

The investigation could not come at a worse time for Mr. Samberg as he tries to regain Pequot's past glory and pursues a goal of building a firm that will outlast him. That is a feat rarely accomplished in the quixotic world of hedge funds, which generally come and go with the money managers who start them.

"He's been at it a long time," said Leon G. Cooperman, chairman and chief executive of Omega Advisors and a friend of Mr. Samberg's from Columbia Business School, where both were students. "He's had ups and downs, and now he's on an up, trying to build a big business." Mr. Samberg declined to comment.

Hedge funds, which are investment pools for wealthy individuals and institutions, are known for keeping low profiles. Despite his fund's success, Mr. Samberg is not often mentioned in newspaper articles, even in the business press. Pequot's clients include endowment funds of major universities, foundations and big corporate pension funds like GE Asset Management, but the fund prefers to keep their names confidential. It trades in and out of many stocks in large volumes, but tries to keep its activities disguised.

Like many founders of other hedge funds, Mr. Samberg has made a fortune and is widely believed to be a billionaire. Managers generally get paid 2 percent of assets under management and 20 percent of profits they earn for investors. In May, Mr. Samberg donated $25 million to Columbia Business School. He controls at least two foundations, one of which made donations of $20 million in 2001.

By hedge fund standards, Mr. Samberg and Pequot are not particularly flashy. While some of his counterparts have made their mark in the art world by paying tens of millions for famous paintings at auctions, Mr. Samberg seems to prefer sports cars like Ferraris and Porsches, according to public records.

He is best known for his competitive spirit on the basketball court or playing tennis. Pequot's office in Westport, Conn., has a basketball court built into the center of the building. Its Manhattan office has a glassed-in gym with video games, an unusual installation that allows visitors to watch Pequot executives maintaining their competitive edge away from their desks.

Competition seems to be the stuff of life itself for Mr. Samberg, who climbed Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania in 2000 for his 59th birthday. After that, he was diagnosed with a congenital defect in his aorta. Mr. Cooperman said that slowed him down, but ultimately resulted in Mr. Samberg focusing on the longer-term project of building Pequot. "He wants to leave something in the future," said Mr. Cooperman. "He's intent on building a much bigger business, which impresses me from an energy point of view."

Born in the South Bronx, Mr. Samberg is the son of an electrician and a stay-at-home mother who later went to work as a secretary. He attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he studied aeronautics, and went on to earn a master's degree in the same subject at Stanford University.

Then he enrolled at Columbia Business School, and after graduating went to Wall Street. He was hired by Kidder Peabody as a securities analyst following the aeronautics industry, and then left to join a smaller firm, Weiss Peck & Greer.

In 1985 he set out on his own, joining Jonathan T. Dawson, a growth-stock specialist based in Connecticut. They started Dawson-Samberg Capital Management.

Hedge funds now are common, and quickly growing in number: there are 8,825 of them, 1,575 started last year alone, with total assets of $1.2 trillion. In 1990, a few years after Mr. Samberg started investing, there were 610 funds with $38.9 billion, according to Hedge Fund Research.

The timing of Mr. Samberg's start in 1986 could not have been worse. The night the stock market crashed in October 1987, one the fund's biggest investors, the Quantum Fund of George Soros, withdrew its money, forcing Pequot to sell to meet the redemptions. The fund plunged 44 percent in the fourth quarter and ended the year down 27 percent. Assets fell from $22 million to $5 million, in part because of investment losses and in part because of withdrawals.

The 1990's were good for Mr. Samberg and his partners, who made a bet that technology would boom. In 1993 the firm recruited Daniel C. Benton from Goldman Sachs, a technology analyst who would help generate outstanding returns and catapult the fund to almost $15 billion under management.

In 1998, Mr. Samberg and Mr. Dawson dissolved their partnership and Mr. Samberg started Pequot Capital Management, named after the Indian tribe. He took Mr. Benton and $3.5 billion with him.

The Pequot Technology Fund, managed by Mr. Benton, posted returns greater than 100 percent in 1999. Pequot Partners, the flagship fund, clocked gains of 60.2 percent in 1999, compared to 19.5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and 85.6 percent for the Nasdaq composite index. "It was like Christmas every day," said one analyst who had dealings with the firm. "Everybody loved it. It was high stress, but they'd run out and play basketball and everybody had a beautiful car."

By 2000, the fund's assets had again risen to about $15 billion. It was one of the most powerful in existence, and Wall Street banks tripped over each other to do business with it because of the high levels of trading it did. "They were enormous volume, people would do anything for them," said the analyst.

In 2000, when the market for technology stocks crashed, Mr. Benton's fund was still able to rack up a return of 34.4 percent. But his success would drive the two apart. In 2001, the two parted over a difference in strategy: Mr. Benton wanted to grow more aggressively and left to found Andor Capital Management, a fund that subsequently soared to $10 billion.

Mr. Benton's golden touch with technology wore off in 2003, when the Nasdaq rebounded and he bet against it. Andor Technology dropped 16 percent, while the Nasdaq gained about 50 percent.

Meanwhile, Pequot's returns during the bear market were solid: in 2002 when the S.& P. dropped 23.4 percent, Pequot Partners fell 13.5 percent. But in 2003, when the markets rallied, the fund returned only 13 percent, a disappointment to investors who expected more from a growth-oriented investor. In 2002, Institutional Investor magazine's list of the top 100 hedge funds ranked Pequot eighth, by assets under management, with $6.5 billion. Since then, however, Pequot's growth has fallen behind competitors. In 2005, Pequot's ranking on the magazine's list had fallen to 41st. In a period in which its assets under management have risen modestly, to $7.1 billion, the assets of some of its rivals have doubled.

In recent years, Pequot has focused on building a diversified asset management company with a hedge fund that could survive when Mr. Samberg retires or dies.

Since the early 1990's, Mr. Samberg strategy has focused on adding funds under the Pequot umbrella to attract talented managers and diversify the fund's exposure to different sectors.

As far back as 1993, when stock pickers were looking to focus on global bond trading, Mr. Samberg started funds focused on small-cap stocks, particularly in health care, and technology. In the mid-1990's, he started a venture capital arm, a rarity for a hedge fund then, although a more common practice now. The challenge has been and remains trying to keep talented managers who could make more on their own.

In 2005, he ramped up that strategy of adding funds, aiming at creating a platform of managers who share research and ideas but invest in their individual funds. With a new marketing team, he began aggressively courting new clients and introducing a stream of new products.

The focus on growth has had recent success: in May, the Pequot attracted $450 million in new assets. Pequot Partners is up 7 percent through the end of May after returning 12 percent in 2005.

The S.E.C. inquiry, which could result in nothing or become a springboard for a tougher examination of insider trading, comes at an awkward moment for Mr. Samberg. Many in the hedge fund world question why Mr. Samberg is so determined to keep working. In the 2004 radio interview, he said he saw new challenges that he wanted to take on, helped by his long experience. But he acknowledged limitations to that ambition. "I hope to have many years in front of me but I'm realistic enough to know that's probably not true."
804 2006-06-26 Microsoft's products will connect its Exchange Server e-mail system to advanced Internet-based PBX systems as well as traditional ones and make it possible to view voice mail in an Outlook inbox. The programs will also perform a series of sophisticated functions linking desktop and cellular phones to desktop and server computers.

In one Microsoft demonstration, a user late for a meeting that is scheduled in an Outlook calendar can phone the Exchange server and tell the system to notify other participants that he or she is running 10 to 15 minutes late. The system, using voice recognition to interpret the message, automatically generates an e-mail notification.

A feature of the next version of Exchange, to be called Microsoft Exchange 2007 Unified Messaging, will make it possible for users to have e-mail read to them by telephone. That product will be ready late this year or early next year.

"We think there's a lot of productivity to be gained by people having things in one place," said Jeff Ressler, Microsoft's director of Exchange marketing.

Although Microsoft has built alliances with powerful telecommunications firms like Cisco and Siemens, it is also potentially vulnerable because it has confined its development to the Windows operating system.

Elsewhere, I.B.M. said it would announce a new version of its collaboration software on Monday, called Lotus Sametime. The program, with many of the capabilities of the Microsoft software, is scheduled for delivery this summer. I.B.M., which has been the leader in collaboration software but has been losing market share to Microsoft, said it was pushing to adopt open standards.

"We've been far ahead of Microsoft in these technologies," said Ken Bisconti, I.B.M.'s vice president for workplace, portal and collaboration products, speaking from Cambridge, Mass.

Microsoft is also facing a growing open-source communications software market. One project, an open-source, Internet-based PBX called Asterisk, has more than 500,000 systems now in use. "Microsoft might have realized that there are a lot of people who have seen this idea," said Mark Spencer, an Asterisk designer and president of Digium, a company in Huntsville, Ala., that sells a commercial version of the program. "They want to get the message out there that they have a strategy."
805 2006-06-26 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:

Aventine Renewable Energy Holdings, an initial public offering of 7.8 million shares. Bank of America; Friedman, Billings, Ramsey; and Goldman Sachs.

GMarket, an initial public offering of 9.1 million American depository shares. Each A.D.S. represents one common share. Goldman Sachs and SG Cowen.

Gordon Biersch Brewery Restaurant Group, an initial public offering of 4.5 million shares. Thomas Weisel and BB&T Capital Markets.

J.Crew Group, an initial public offering of 18.8 million shares. Goldman Sachs and Bear Stearns.

PGT Inc., an initial public offering of 8.8 million shares. Deutsche Bank and J. P. Morgan.

Replidyne, an initial public offering of five million shares. Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley.

Wintegra, an initial public offering of five million shares. Goldman Sachs and J. P. Morgan.
806 2006-06-26 Two recent surveys of drug prices by consumer advocacy groups show a disturbing pattern of increases as the new Medicare drug benefit was getting under way. The surveys make it clear that health plans and individual consumers will need to be especially vigilant to keep spending on medications within reasonable bounds.

An analysis of 193 brand-name prescription drugs by AARP, which represents older Americans, found that their average wholesale prices increased 3.9 percent over the first three months of this year, almost four times the general inflation rate. Those increases will almost certainly drive up retail prices for consumers who pay out of pocket and will result in higher insurance premiums for many of those who have drug coverage.

Indeed, the second survey, by Families USA, a patient advocacy group, found that virtually all of the new private drug plans under Medicare raised their prices for frequently used medicines between mid-November 2005, when enrollment began, to mid-April 2006. For 19 of the top 20 drugs prescribed for older Americans, these changes were virtually identical, on average, to changes in the wholesale prices charged by manufacturers.

These price trends ought to put enormous pressure on Medicare drug plans to get the steepest possible discounts and rebates from the manufacturers when negotiating drug prices for the coming year.

The Families USA study found that the Department of Veterans Affairs has negotiated much lower prices than the private drug plans were able to achieve for the top 20 drugs. If the plans can't do better, Congress should allow the Medicare program to negotiate prices directly with the pharmaceutical companies, an approach that was blocked on the theory that competition among private plans would suffice to keep drug prices down.
807 2006-06-26 Although TNT broadcast two of the top three shows on advertiser-supported cable during the week ending June 18, USA Network managed to tie it for No. 1 among total viewers and win among adults 18 to 49. Wrestling saved the day for USA. Its two hou...
808 2006-06-26 Phelps Dodge, the world's largest copper producer, said today that it had agreed to acquire two of the biggest nickel miners in a huge deal worth $40 billion. The deal, for Inco and Falconbridge, would create a mining behemoth that will reshape th...
809 2006-06-26 FINALLY, A STEEL DEAL -- Arcelor, the steel maker, has agreed to a takeover offer from Mittal Steel, ending a five-month tussle and creating a new global champion. [Page C1.]    BIG-TICKET INTERNET -- With online advertising revenues growing quick...
810 2006-06-26 KISSEL--Christine, June 1st, 1943-June 23rd, 2006. Painter, musician, potter. Beloved wife of Howard, daughter of Mary Jane Buck, sister of Margaret and Jim, aunt of Chris and Nicole. Donations: Philmont Public Library, Philmont, NY 12565....
811 2006-06-26 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:    Aventine Renewable Energy Holdings, an initial public offering of 7.8 million shares. Bank of America; Friedman, Billings, Ramsey; and Goldman Sachs.     Bidz.com, an i...
812 2006-06-27 One can imagine this scene in one of the telenovelas, or Spanish-languange soap operas, that runs on Univision. A jilted groom stands at the altar, groaning bitterly and hinting at revenge. In real life, Univision, a broadcaster that caters to His...
813 2006-06-27 Phelps Dodge's proposed takeover of nickel producers Inco and Falconbridge is just the latest deal involving foreign takeovers of large Canadian companies. Other recent targets have been Molson, Hudson's Bay, Dofasco and Fairmont Hotels and Resort...
814 2006-06-27 Everything you always wanted to know - and much, much more -- about Oswald Gruebel is available from Bloomberg News's 4,200-word profile of the Credit Suisse chief executive. Every epic needs a hero. The challenge here is that the unassuming Mr. G...
815 2006-06-27 The two main industrial shareholders of EADS, the parent company of Airbus, have agreed in principle to streamline the management structure - potentially pushing out the embattled French co-chief executive, Nöel Forgeard, a person close to both c...
816 2006-06-27 European Commission authorities plan to recommend that Microsoft pay up to two million euros ($2.5 million) for every day it has failed to disclose information about its operating system to competitors, The International Herald Tribune reported. M...
817 2006-06-27 Warren E. Buffett's decision to donate the bulk of his Berkshire Hathaway holdings will certainly transform the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. But will the move change Berkshire Hathaway, too? Not for a while, investors and analysts say. Mr. Buf...
818 2006-06-27 The withdrawal of buyout firms from prominent deals, such as the defection of Carlyle, Blackstone and KKR from the Univision auction, reflects concerns not only about price, but also about the cost of financing these deals, says Breakingviews. For...
819 2006-06-27 The Marvell Technology Group, a diversified maker of microchips, said on Tuesday that it would buy the Intel Corporation's communications and application processor business for $600 million plus the assumption of undisclosed liabilities. Marvell s...
820 2006-06-27 The NYSE Group's chief executive, John Thain, said Monday he expects to have the agreement to purchase Euronext in front of the shareholders of both companies for a vote in the autumn and the merger closing in early 2007. Mr. Thain also repeated t...
821 2006-06-27 Most hedge funds do not want someone looking over their shoulder. So it was seen as a big victory for the industry on Friday when an appeals court threw out the Securities and Exchange Commission's rule that forced thousands of these investment po...
822 2006-06-27 Under Thai law, a political can be dissolved by the courts if its actions during an election are found to have threatened national security, peace and order, or the monarchy. A dissolved party's leaders are banned from forming new parties for five years. But they can run for Parliament as members of other existing parties, and can become prime minister. The Democrats and Thai Rak Thai each issued statements today denying the accusations of electoral misconduct.

"Thai Rak Thai believes that it is innocent, we are not guilty," Mr. Thaksin said. "The party is ready for questioning by the court if required."

The leader of the Democrats, Abhisit Vejjajiva, said the case itself was irregular and declared, "We will prove the truth, we will fight."

The main charges grow directly from the Democrats' decision to boycott the election, which political analysts here said would almost certainly have been won in any case by Mr. Thaksin.

Prosecutors charged the Democrats with six violations of electoral law, including a claim that the boycott itself was illegal.

Mr. Thaksin's party was charged with two violations, including a claim that it illegally financed fringe groups to contest the election to satisfy electoral rules and enhance its credibility.

The courts have taken an increasingly decisive role in Thai politics since King Bhumibol Adulyadej told them on April 25 to resolve the political situation, which he called "a mess."

Judges then moved to invalidate the April election, clearing the way for a new vote, scheduled tentatively for October.

The political confrontation between Mr. Thaksin and his opponents was put on hold by mutual agreement at the start of this month, out of respect for the 60th anniversary celebrations of King Bhumibol's rule. But Mr. Thaksin renewed his political activities, issuing government directives and filing lawsuits against opponents, as soon as visiting royalty had left the country again.

The opposition, which halted demonstrations that had lasted for many weeks in honor of the anniversary, said it was ready to fill the streets again with protesters.
823 2006-06-27 By The Associated Press

The idea is to put the ball in the net, not just keep it out. Ukraine figured that out quicker than Switzerland yesterday, and advanced to the quarterfinals of its first World Cup by winning a penalty-kick shootout in Cologne, Germany.

Ukraine blanked Switzerland for 120 minutes, then shut out the Swiss, 3-0, in the shootout that followed their scoreless tie. Ukraine goalkeeper Oleksandr Shovkovskiy did not have to work hard in the shootout, either. Two Swiss attempts came right at him, and another shot clanged off the crossbar.

Meanwhile, Artem Milevskiy, Serhiy Rebrov and Oleg Gusev hit the net after the Ukraine star Andriy Shevchenko's weak, low shot was stopped by Switzerland goalkeeper Pascal Zuberbühler.

The Ukrainians mobbed one another after their victory; they will play Italy on Friday at Hamburg.

"We suffered a lot, and we're happy to have won for all Ukrainians," Shevchenko said. "We do not have the greatest players, but we make up for that by making sacrifices for each other, by playing with a lot of heart."

But Ukraine, like the Swiss, was considered an outsider at the World Cup, and if Ukraine cannot find a semblance of offense, it is unlikely to defeat Italy.
824 2006-06-27 BRUSSELS, June 26 — European Commission authorities plan to recommend that Microsoft pay up to two million euros ($2.5 million) for every day it has failed to disclose information about its operating system to competitors, people with direct knowledge of the commission's plans said Monday.

Microsoft was required to provide information to its rivals on the inner workings of its Windows operating system under a March 2004 ruling by the commission. An advisory committee is expected to meet Monday to discuss a draft decision to impose a fine, and on July 10 to decide on a final fine, said people with knowledge of the case who said they had to speak anonymously because the plans were still pending.

Two million euros a day would be the biggest daily antitrust fine set by the commission. At the time of the ruling, the commission imposed a flat 497.2 million euro ($622 million) antitrust fine on Microsoft.

The commission has said any daily fine will be retroactive to Dec. 15, when Neelie Kroes, the competition commissioner, first threatened Microsoft with daily penalties. The fine could continue indefinitely until the commission determined that Microsoft had complied.

Microsoft has long insisted that it was complying with the European order. Brad Smith, the company's chief counsel, said in March that Microsoft had already made public "complete and accurate" data on Windows, including more than 12,000 pages of technical information.

On Monday, Horacio E. Gutiérrez, associate general counsel of Microsoft in Europe, said the company had "already delivered five of seven installments of technical documentation developed to the agreed specification and according to the agreed work plan." He said the next two installments would be submitted Friday and on July 18.
825 2006-06-27 The average initial response time varied considerably among the six regional offices of the department's Office of Pest Control Services, from a low of 18 days for the Staten Island office to a high of 42 days for the North Brooklyn office. The other offices are in South Brooklyn, East Harlem, the Bronx and Queens.

Even so, the 30-day response time marked an improvement from 2003, when it took the city an average of 43 days to conduct an initial inspection.

In response, the department said the 10-day goal was abandoned because it and other performance standards were unrealistic. "These standards did not reflect the actual operations, resources or seasonal changes of our program," officials wrote in the response.

But the department suggested in a statement yesterday that it would revisit that decision. "Time frames for response to complaints are needed," it said, adding that the department was drawing up more realistic goals.

The department also noted that the number of pest complaints it received rose by 40 percent, to 31,606 in the 2005 fiscal year, from 22,595 in the previous fiscal year. It attributed the increase to the fact that the 311 call center started taking pest-control complaints in the spring of 2004. For the current fiscal year, which ends Friday, the call volume does not appear to have continued to grow.

If a violation is detected during the first investigation, the department will send out a letter giving a property owner five days to correct the problem before the city conducts a follow-up inspection. The average time between the first inspection and the sending of the letter grew to 81 days, from 29 days in the last audit.

Similarly, the period between the sending of the letter and the follow-up inspection grew to 33 days, from 15 days in the last audit. (The previous goal was 10 days.)

The new audit noted an improvement in the end of the process. The time between the follow-up inspection to extermination or cleanup fell, to 31 days from 61 days. (The previous goal was 10 days for an extermination or 20 days for a cleanup.)

Over the past decade, the city's pest-control program has been reorganized. In 1997, a program began that focused inspection and extermination efforts on 70 neighborhoods, rather than relying solely on complaints. In 1999, that effort was replaced with a program that used geographic surveys to assess areas with the greatest rodent problems.

The latest effort began in August 2003. Based on an earlier experiment in Bushwick, Brooklyn, it was intended to concentrate 19 agencies' resources on "eliminating the conditions in which rats flourish," with a focus on parts of North Brooklyn, the South Bronx and East Harlem.
826 2006-06-27 In Vermont, people following the campaign finance case said yesterday that they were surprised that the Supreme Court had struck down the state's contribution limits, as well as its spending limits.

The law was originally passed with the goal of testing the constitutionality of Buckley v. Valeo and the idea that restricting spending limits meant restricting free speech, said Paul Burns, executive director of the Vermont Public Interest Research Group, an intervenor in the case on the side of the State of Vermont.

"It was quite intentional on the part of the Vermont legislature to pass a law that we knew would challenge that kind of concept of money equaling speech," Mr. Burns said.

The state attorney general, William H. Sorrell, said: "We knew we had a real challenge on our hands on the expenditure side, because that was what was really groundbreaking. I know there are free speech issues. But my feeling was that those are constitutionally complicated when a state's trying to uphold the integrity of its campaigns and the functioning of its government."

What surprised many was the court's rejection of Vermont's individual contribution limit of $400 for statewide offices, one of the few parts of the law that had been put into effect.

"The contribution limits had been in place and working well with no major problem," Mr. Burns said. "For Vermonters , the limits that were put into this law made sense. They may not make sense for a number of other states, but they made sense for Vermont."
827 2006-06-27 WITH the wind at its stern and two fireboats to welcome it, the Godspeed sailed into the South Street Seaport yesterday as part of the 400th anniversary commemoration of the nation's first permanent English settlement, in Jamestown, Va.

The 88-foot, three-mast square rigger is a new replica of the original Godspeed, which carried 39 settlers and 13 crew members during the more than four-month crossing from England ending in 1607. The new Godspeed, which is visiting cities that were among the nation's earliest settlements, is making its voyage now to open 18 months of events marking the anniversary.

The ship is made of tropical hardwoods and was designed using three 17th-century nautical accounts. It was built based on one of the few facts known about the original ship, its capacity, 40 "tuns," or barrels of cargo, said its captain, Eric Speth, dressed, like his crew, in hand-sewn linen breeches and shirts like those worn by the settlers.

The ship needs a crew of 12 to raise her six sails the old way, by hand.

"It's a tremendous amount of teamwork and coordination, to teach the crews to work the sails together," Captain Speth said, adding that each crew member is responsible for 6 to 10 lines at any one time.

Chuck Moody, the ship's engineer, drove 360 miles to Jamestown from his home in Charlotte, N.C., for the 80-day sail. He also escorted the ship on its maiden voyage from Rockport, Me. — where it was built — to Jamestown in early May.
828 2006-06-27 With the Fourth of July fast approaching, Senate Republicans are holding a barbecue. Unfortunately, instead of grilling hot dogs and hamburgers, they are trying to torch a hole in the First Amendment's free speech guarantee by passing an amendment to the Constitution that would allow federal and state authorities to punish flag-burning.

Some things should be out of bounds even in a competitive election year. Messing with the Constitution is one of them.

In reality, of course, the Stars and Stripes are in no urgent need of protection from scruffy match-wielding protesters. The Senate has been debating the flag issue on and off for years — ever since the Supreme Court's 1989 decision holding, quite properly, that flag-burning, however offensive it may seem, is constitutionally protected free speech. The amendment's return — just in time to distract voters from G.O.P. failures on more pressing fronts — might be dismissed as a bad joke except for two things: an intense lobbying campaign on its behalf by the American Legion, and the fact that no lawmaker relishes taking a stand that might be portrayed as unpatriotic, especially in an election year.

The last time the full Senate voted on the amendment, in 2000, the measure came up just four votes short of the required two-thirds. Nose counters on both sides say that supporters of the amendment are now just a single vote shy. That means that when the roll call is taken on the amendment later this week, there are no freebies. On this round, every vote counts. The House has already approved the amendment, and its ratification by the states is virtually certain should the Senate go along.

As an alternative to the amendment, two of its opponents, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Robert Bennett, Republican of Utah, have proposed a statute against flag-burning instead. Unquestionably, passing a law to address this nonproblem is preferable to rewriting the Constitution. But in crafting a bill with a comparatively narrow reach, its sponsors have not cured the affront to free speech. For that reason, it deserves to be defeated.

As debate on the amendment proceeds, past supporters like Harry Reid, the Democratic minority leader, owe a duty to search their consciences. Each senator must cast a vote as if it is the deciding one. Given the political math, it well could be.
829 2006-06-27 The Supreme Court struck down Vermont's reform-oriented campaign finance system yesterday. But more important was what it did not do. The court, ruling on the issue for the first time since the arrival of two new justices, declined to overturn 30 years of precedents upholding limits on campaign contributions. That makes the decision a setback for the anti-reform forces who want to open the spigots for corporate and special-interest money to flood into American politics.

The court has consistently upheld contribution limits against arguments that they restrict donors' right of free speech. But the decisions have often come by unnervingly narrow margins. When the court held in 2003 that the McCain-Feingold law was constitutional, the vote was 5 to 4, and since then, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito have joined the court. If both had joined the three conservative justices who disagreed with the previous rulings, federal and state campaign finance laws would have been in grave danger.

But that did not happen yesterday. Chief Justice Roberts did not join Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia, whose opinion called for the reversal of Buckley v. Valeo, the landmark 1976 ruling upholding limits on campaign contributions, and expressed broad willingness to strike down all such limits. Nor did he sign Justice Anthony Kennedy's opinion, which was also critical of the Buckley framework.

Instead, he joined an opinion by Justice Stephen Breyer that expressly endorsed Buckley and the cases that followed from it. When the votes of the court's three most liberal members are added to these two, it means that there is solid support for the court's current approach to campaign finance. (Justice Samuel Alito issued a mixed opinion that made his views harder to discern.)

The decision striking down Vermont's system was not unexpected. Vermont's limits were the lowest in the nation — an individual could give just $400 to a candidate for governor or $200 to a candidate for state representative. Even some strong supporters of campaign finance laws worry that such low limits stack the deck in favor of well-known incumbents. Another part of Vermont's law restricted how much candidates could spend, an approach that had already been struck down in Buckley.

Big-money interests that are challenging campaign contribution limits may be heartened by the fact that one state's attempt to reform its campaign finance system has been rejected. But taken as a whole, the ruling is a strong reaffirmation of the principle that the Constitution permits reasonable limits designed to prevent what the court has called "corruption and the appearance of corruption."
830 2006-06-27 Hedge funds must wait to see if the Securities and Exchange Commission will challenge a federal appeals court's ruling on its authority to regulate them before trying to withdraw their registrations.

On Friday, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the S.E.C. could not require hedge fund advisers to register with the commission.

The S.E.C. has 45 days to ask the court for a rehearing. According to a court order yesterday, hedge fund advisers must wait seven days after the court's decision on that request before acting.

The commission has not announced what it plans to do.

Paul Roth, a leading hedge fund lawyer at Schulte Roth & Zabel, said yesterday in an interview that he did not think the commission would seek a rehearing, given that the decision was unanimous and that the circuit court "hasn't been the most hospitable to the S.E.C. lately."

One official inside the S.E.C. said an appeal was unlikely, but asserted that Christopher Cox, the chairman, had not yet made a decision.
831 2006-06-27 A federal judge halted executions in Missouri. The judge, Fernando J. Gaitan Jr. of Federal District Court, said the state's lethal injection procedure subjects condemned inmates to an unnecessary risk of "unconstitutional pain and suffering." Judge Gaitan ruled in the case of Michael Taylor. He gave the State Department of Corrections until July 15 to come up with a new protocol. The judge also said he was "gravely concerned" because the lone doctor in charge of mixing the lethal cocktail in Missouri is dyslexic.
832 2006-06-27 The law, which was first written in 1963 and revised in 1970, before global warming emerged as a widespread concern, names many specific pollutants that the agency must regulate, including compounds released by cars, factories and power plants that form soot and smog. It does not name carbon dioxide, and in updating the law in 1990, Congress did not add the gas.

The plaintiffs have argued that the law's definitions and other terms implicitly allow the regulation of carbon dioxide as a pollutant.

The administration's refusal to do so reflected a reversal of sorts for President Bush, who campaigned in 2000 on the need for federal emissions standards on a variety of air pollutants, including carbon dioxide.

On Monday at the White House, Mr. Bush acknowledged that global warming was "a serious problem," but he also said there was some debate over whether it was caused by human activities. He called for using new technologies for environmental reasons and to wean the nation from its reliance on oil.

After the E.P.A. announced its refusal to regulate carbon dioxide emissions in 2003, the plaintiffs filed for review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Last July, three judges issued three different opinions, which had the effect of supporting the agency's refusal by a 2-to-1 vote.

Judge David B. Sentelle said the plaintiffs did not have standing to seek judicial review. Judge A. Raymond Randolph said that even if the agency had the authority to regulate carbon dioxide, it could choose not to do so for other reasons, like the uncertainty of the science or questions over available technologies.

Only Judge David S. Tatel said the law was clear that the agency was required to regulate emissions when public health and climate considerations were at issue.

Beyond its effect on federal policy, the case holds important implications for California and 10 other states that have assumed that the Clean Air Act authorizes regulations for carbon dioxide and other gases and have adopted their own stringent limits for automobile and truck emissions. The state laws, scheduled to go into effect for the 2009 model year, have been challenged in court by automakers.

A ruling by the Supreme Court could influence another case currently before the same appeals court, involving many of the same plaintiffs. They are arguing that the E.P.A. should also regulate carbon emissions from power plants.

A spokeswoman for the E.P.A., Jennifer Wood, said the agency had made the right decision in refusing to regulate carbon dioxide and defended its advocacy of a voluntary approach to curbing emissions.

"The president's policy achieves near-term reductions while investing in long-term solutions," Ms. Wood said in a statement. "In 2004, E.P.A.'s voluntary partnerships prevented over 60 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions, equivalent to the annual emissions from over 40 million vehicles."

David Bookbinder, a senior lawyer for the Sierra Club, said the Supreme Court's willingness to hear the case reflected the urgency of the issue. "It clearly indicates that they are acknowledging the importance of climate change as a public policy matter," Mr. Bookbinder said.
833 2006-06-27 In addition to the other household names, the deal will give Johnson & Johnson rights to the over-the-counter version of Zyrtec, the top-selling prescription antihistamine, and the foreign rights to the Nicorette smoking cessation line.

The company said it had evaluated the value of the products based on their merits, not compared to other, similar deals.

"This is a very different set of assets," said Robert J. Darretta Jr., Johnson & Johnson's chief financial officer.

Pfizer, which has decided to focus its attention on its pharmaceutical business, said it would clear $13.5 billion after taxes on the sale and announced it would buy back up to $17 billion in shares over the next two years.

Several analysts said the deal seemed to represent a strategic shift for Johnson & Johnson by increasing its smallest division — consumer health — to a size closer to the company's more dominant pharmaceutical and medical device divisions.

In the first quarter, pharmaceuticals accounted for 43 percent of the company's $13 billion in sales, while medical devices and diagnostics accounted for 39 percent of sales. Consumer health care accounted for only 18 percent.

With the Pfizer acquisition, Mr. Weldon said, the company's divisions will be more equally weighted, at 40 percent pharmaceuticals, 35 percent medical devices and diagnostics and 25 percent consumer health care.

By changing that ratio, the company increases the overall weighting of a fairly predictable part of its business at a time when results in the pharmaceutical and medical device businesses are volatile.

During a telephone conference with investment analysts yesterday, Mr. Weldon acknowledged that the consumer business was the least risky of its businesses. "Does that come into the equation? Yes. But it doesn't really drive it," he said, asserting that the company's strategy has always been broadly based.

Mr. Weldon also noted that the use of over-the-counter medications was growing rapidly and that increasing disposable income in developing nations was creating additional demand for consumer products.

Among positive aspects of the acquisition is that it will enhance the overall relevance of the company's consumer brands, help secure shelf space in retail establishments, and open up new markets. About 50 percent of the Pfizer portfolio's sales are outside the United States.

Jan David Wald, who covers the company for A. G. Edwards, expressed mixed feelings about the purchase.

"I think buying good brands when you can is a good thing to do. And less reliance on medical devices and pharmaceuticals is probably good for the company in the short term," Mr. Wald said.

But he added, "It doesn't help a whole lot on the bottom line, and on the top line, when we look at the Pfizer business, a growth rate of 5, 6, 7 percent, it's not going to help them a whole lot.

"The one thing it didn't do was move the needle on growth, which is what I think investors were mainly interested in seeing."

Lazard and Bear Stearns advised Pfizer on the deal. Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft provided legal counsel. Goldman Sachs advised Johnson & Johnson; Cravath, Swaine & Moore provided legal advice.
834 2006-06-27 Anheuser-Busch announced another legal victory in a fight to trademark its Budweiser beer in Europe. The appeals board for the European Union's Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market ruled that Anheuser-Busch could register its trademark "Bud" beer throughout Europe, the company announced. The ruling is just one piece of an extensive legal fight in several European courts between Anheuser-Busch and the Czech brewer Budejovicky Budvar. At issue is the Budweiser brand, which both companies claim a historical right to use. The latest ruling is subject to appeal. (AP)

A private equity company, Lion Capital, said that it had agreed to acquire American Safety Razor in a deal that valued the company at $625 million. American Safety Razor, based in Cedar Knolls, N.J., makes razors and blades and generated revenues of about $300 million in 2005, Lion Capital said. It did not provide details of the mix of cash and debt being used to buy the business. Lion Capital, which is based in London, said it had acquired American Safety Razor from another private equity firm, J. W. Childs Associates of the United States. The deal is expected to be completed in late July. American Safety Razors' consumer products include Personna razor blades and Burma Shave lather. It also makes industrial and surgical cutting tools. (REUTERS)

Assicurazioni Generali offered as much as 3.9 billion euros ($4.9 billion) for Toro Assicurazioni to become Italy's biggest property and casualty insurer. Generali, already the country's largest life insurer, will buy 56 percent of Toro from De Agostini for 21.20 euros a share, or 27 percent more than the June 23 closing price. Generali has an option to acquire an additional 10 percent from De Agostini. Toro, based in Turin, will increase Generali's retail-customer base and make the company less dependent on institutional clients like banks and investment companies. The purchase will increase Generali's market share in the country's nonlife market to 22 percent from less than 16 percent. Generali is based in Trieste. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

A Chicago real estate services company, the Equis Corporation, said it had signed an agreement to merge into the United Group of Australia in a deal valued around $120 million. Equis will operate as a unit of United Group, with Equis's chief executive, Michael Silver, remaining in charge of the unit. Mr. Silver said he had been seeking a strategic partner since January to expand the company's global platform to meet the rising demand by corporations for real estate space outside the United States. The merger will also give United Group an entry into the United States real estate market. (DOW JONES)
835 2006-06-27 Mr. Channer's story, and the others that he has collected in "Iron Balloons," is raw and uncensored, unlike much of the Jamaican writing of previous generations. The writers in "Iron Balloons" take the multiple identities of the Jamaican diaspora for granted; some of them were not even born there. Above all they are influenced by the rhythms, the colloquialism and the self-confidence of reggae music.

Many of the stories in "Iron Balloons" were nurtured at the Calabash International Literary Festival in Jamaica, which was founded by Mr. Channer and the Ghanaian-Jamaican writer Kwame Dawes, who are still its artistic director and programmer. The festival's mission, said Mr. Channer, 42, is nothing less than "to transform literary art in the Caribbean."

It sponsors an annual gathering of writers every May — this year 5,000 attended — and holds workshops throughout the year. Its goal, Mr. Channer said, is to nurture a new generation of writers who are beyond post-colonialism, and who are riding on the power of the reggae movement.

" 'Iron Balloons' is a rim shot heard around the world," Mr. Channer wrote in an e-mail message after the reading. "The Jamaicans are coming."

Reggae "gave permission to tell narratives that use the Jamaican vernacular voice not as comedy," Mr. Channer said in an interview, adding, "Reggae combines spirituality, sensuality, comedy and politics without apology."

Mr. Channer, an assistant professor of English at the City University of New York's Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn, is author of the novels "Waiting in Vain" (1998) and "Satisfying My Soul" (2002) and the story collection "Passing Through"(2004); all are published by One World/Ballantine.

The literature of Jamaica, which has a population of about 2.5 million and a relatively small publishing industry, has existed as much off the island as on it until now. Traditionally Jamaican literature has been grounded in folklore and rural byways, or has consisted of chronicles of colonialism and of the island's violent political conflicts. Frequently the subject was migration, as in Andrew Salkey's novel "Escape to an Autumn Pavement" or in "The Last Enchantment," a novel by Neville Dawes, Kwame Dawes's father.

"Caribbean literature, especially in the case of Jamaica, in its first incarnation in the 20th century, was reacting to colonialism," Kwame Dawes said. Along with the independence movement came, "an effort to forge a cultural identity," he added. He cited the works of Roger Mais, John Hearne, Orlando Patterson and his own father, all of whom went abroad for their education. "They were acutely aware they were taken away from their own landscape," Mr. Dawes said. "They were trying to recapture the Jamaican experience."

At the same time "the unstated assumption is that people did not have a voice," he added.

Then in 1962 came Jamaica's independence and the rising popularity of reggae. Because of reggae, Mr. Channer said, "I can write with a confidence that reggae music has turned the ears of the world to Jamaica." And as the island has become more urban and American culture has made inroads into Jamaica's traditional culture, the country's literature has become more multinational.

The 11 stories in "Iron Balloons," some by writers who have taken part in the Calabash workshops, have universal themes, stitched into a Jamaican fabric. The characters slip between patois and regular English. And the stories have none of the genteel Victorianism that has hung over Jamaican fiction in the past.

In Sharon Leach's story "Sugar," for instance, a maid in a tourist hotel has a three-way sexual encounter with a white tourist and his wife. In "A Little Embarrassment for the Sake of Our Lord," Konrad Kirlew, a doctor in Kingston, confronts an often-unspoken reality of Jamaican society, the fathering of children out of wedlock. Geoffrey Philp's "I Want to Disturb My Neighbor" takes the culture clash between reggae and the traditional religiosity of the island head on.

At Hue-Man in Harlem, Marlon James, another contributor to the anthology, read his story "The Last Jamaican Lion." It was about a former Jamaican prime minister, gone senile and haunted by his crimes and the ghosts of his political opponents. The story is about the failure of Jamaican politics after independence, to realize the ideal of revolution as embodied in the figure of Che Guevara.

"What you want, eh?" cries the old man when he is confronted by a grinning ghost from his past. "Is pound of flesh you come for?"

Mr. James said of the story: "It's going back to the past and stripping all the nostalgia from it. We tend to mythologize things from the past, that it was idyllic, that our political leaders were heroes."

Mr. James credits the Calabash workshop with getting his career started by encouraging him to try to publish his first novel, "John Crow's Devil," after it had received "70 to 80 rejections" he said. It was eventually bought by Akashic (www.akashicbooks.com), an independent Brooklyn publisher, which specializes in literary and noir fiction and writers of the Caribbean. The book, published in 2005, was a finalist for the Commonwealth Writers' Prize and the Los Angeles Times Book Prize.

Jamaica is a small place, and to succeed, Jamaican writers must break through to a wider English-language market. Mr. Channer was thinking about how tough that is, he said, when he tried to come up with a title for his new anthology.

He looked to Jamaican music, to its origins in the slum backyards of the island, its brutal competitiveness, the sheer difficulty of producing it in an impoverished place. The term "Iron Balloons," Mr. Channer said, is a music term that refers to performers who "don't seem to be able to 'bust out.' "

"They've been denied opportunities or they've been offered them and haven't seized them," he said. "You keep pricking them, but they don't bust out. We took this name as a point of pride."
836 2006-06-27 There are special exhibitions, like photographs of monuments and memorials to show how America remembers its heroes; a room of prints by William H. Johnson reflecting the lives of ordinary African-Americans; and a gallery celebrating civil rights, gay rights and rights of the disabled.

The old "10 years dead" rule has been banished, so we see activists like Gloria Steinem and Rosa Parks; writers including Toni Morrison, Tom Wolfe and John Updike; musicians like Ray Charles and Lionel Hampton; and athletes like Lance Armstrong and Shaquille O'Neal.

Each museum has its stars. In the Portrait Gallery Stuart's full-length "Lansdowne" portrait depicts George Washington near the end of his second term. It was previously on loan from its British owner, but the gallery bought it during renovations. The presidential gallery also includes the last known photograph of Abraham Lincoln, taken just a month before his death, and Elaine de Kooning's abstract of a somber John F. Kennedy.

In the American Art Museum O'Keeffe's "Manhattan," a sharp-edged skyline painted in 1932 that includes three randomly placed roses as if to suggest her future direction, enjoys a prominent space. So does a huge taming-the-West mural by Thomas Hart Benton that curators rescued from a more obscure space in the museum. A newly acquired neon map of the United States by Nam June Paik, with sounds and pictures emanating from each of the 50 states, gets a room of its own.

Some works poke and prod, perhaps hoping to spur something more than debate: a little discomfort. The American Art Museum's contemporary collection includes a Japanese geisha painted by Masami Teraoka in 1989. On close inspection, you can see that she is opening a package of condoms with her teeth as she gazes toward a half-seen skeleton.

Elizabeth Broun, director of the American Art Museum, dismissed any notion that conservatives might find the image troubling. "I can't imagine anyone in our society thinking it's inappropriate to acknowledge AIDS and its impact," she said. "Art is not always about pretty things. It's about who we are, what happened to us and how our lives are affected."

And just when a viewer might feel charmed by the finalists in a Portrait Gallery competition, which required that the subject be someone the artist knew, an entry from Steve DeFrank of New Haven underlines the museum's brave new energy. His "Mom and Dad," a 1960's-era representation of his parents made with small, illuminated Lite-Brite bulbs, shows them wearing only gold chains, watches, suntans and smiles.

The presidential gallery offers much in the way of contrast. To one side of a corner is the elder George Bush, looking formal and altogether presidential. To the other is a twice-as-large Bill Clinton, looking a tad rakish. "People read size for importance," said Marc Pachter, director of the Portrait Gallery. "But it's totally accidental."

In the renovation the museums also carved out new public areas like an overstock display space conceived as a way to put more of the museum's permanent collection on view, even if objects are unmarked and crowded together. Many are as eye-catching as those shown in the more formal galleries. Nearby computer terminals provide a discussion of each piece and the artists' biographies. And in glass-enclosed conservation centers on the upper floors, visitors can watch museum personnel treat and preserve works for future display or storage.

The building opened in 1840 as the Patent Office but served other needs — a Civil War hospital, the site of Lincoln's second inaugural ball — before the Civil Service Commission took it over in 1932. Thirty years later it won National Historic Landmark status.

The museums opened in 1968 and survived a steady decay of the neighborhood, before its recent rebound. Now they sit in the heart of this city's growing commercial center, steps away from three Metro lines.

Museum officials say they are bracing for huge crowds just ahead of the Fourth of July holiday.

"Both museums are telling stories of America," Ms. Broun reflected, "one through the lens of biography and individuals, the other through the lens of ideas. When the lenses converge, they help us understand who we are as people."
837 2006-06-27 But as a film about a country where two decades of violence between the Sinhalese-dominated government and rebels of the minority Tamil population pressing for self-rule have cost 60,000 lives, and where the modern practice of suicide bombing was perfected, "No More Tears Sister" is a bit too beautiful. Moreover, while it tells of Ms. Thiranagama's disillusionment with revolutionary politics and armed conflict, this film is heavy on illusion.

Born in 1954, Ms. Thiranagama was an idealistic medical student when she encountered the intoxicating names of Marx, Engels, Mao and Che. "You are my Che Guevara," she told Dayapala Thiranagama, a student leader from the Buddhist Sinhalese majority. (Ms. Thiranagama was a Christian, though most Tamils are Hindu.) Despite the bitter conflict between their ethnic groups, they married.

As conditions worsened for the Tamils, Ms. Thiranagama became convinced that only the armed struggle of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam could liberate her people. Ms. Thiranagama and her sister, Nirmala, joined it, and grew increasingly militant.

In 1982 Nirmala was arrested as a terrorist. Ms. Thiranagama traveled to Britain soon after to campaign for her sister's release, and while there she agitated on behalf of other causes, especially for the rights of women and minorities. She also began to distance herself from the violent Tamil Tigers; eventually she broke with them.

But then she returned to Sri Lanka, and her family. There, just after grading a set of medical exams, in September 1989, she was killed. The assassin is believed to have been a member of the Tamil Tigers.

Ms. Thiranagama's husband and sister are interviewed here, and both try to piece together what went wrong, especially her sister, who suggested the story to the Canadian filmmaker Helene Klodawsky and whose passion, brilliance and conscience suggest the vivacity of the murdered woman. It's a sophisticated tragedy with global implications, the story of yet another 20th-century revolutionary whose utopian fantasies had to detour through violence and didn't make it back.

Will future generations understand how revolutionary dreams and then madness seized the imaginations of bright young people in the 20th century, almost as a matter of course?

To make the past clear to those generations, we also need to make it recognizable. A lovely, poignant documentary like this one, with lush cinematography and the heightened language of revolution, makes the last century seem — complete with the serpent — Edenic. Another version of events, less idealistically rendered, might elucidate the ways that Ms. Thiranagama's life and death, like the lives and deaths of so many revolutionaries, were not fantasy, but history.

Sally Bochner, executive producer; Pierre Lapointe, producer; written and directed by Helene Klodawsky. Produced by the National Film Board of Canada.
838 2006-06-27 Thanks to a major infusion of federal financing, New York health officials took an active approach, getting as many patients as possible on directly observed therapy, known as D.O.T., in which outreach workers administered tuberculosis medications in clinics, patients' homes and on the street.

For patients who "failed" D.O.T., the health department employed forcible detention, either at Bellevue Hospital or at Goldwater Hospital. More than 250 patients were detained between 1993 and 1998, some for as long as two years.

This tough love approach seemed to work. By 2001, new cases of tuberculosis totaled only 1,261 and the Goldwater tuberculosis ward had closed. The courts that conducted routine hearings on the detention cases overwhelmingly decided in favor of the city.

Having been battered before, health officials did not rest on their laurels but continued to rely on D.O.T. and, when necessary, detention at Bellevue. Which is where one can find 19-year-old Shanice, one of a small number of patients recently detained. Shanice's illness was diagnosed as tuberculosis in the summer of 2005, and she was then placed on D.O.T. By early this year, she had quit taking her medications.

Shanice blames her outreach worker, who she says had stopped going to her house. But for health officials to detain someone, there has to be a history of repeated failures to adhere. Asked about being kept in the ward against her will, Shanice said she was "being punished for something I did not do."

The Bellevue staff often hears this argument. Outside the institution, the locked ward is sometimes called "TB jail," a term that makes Rany Condos, director of the Bellevue Chest Clinic, chafe. "Patients are here to be cured and supported and to get though their treatment," she said.

There is surely a concern that detention may be used inappropriately, as tuberculosis most often afflicts the poor and minorities. But every detained patient is assigned a lawyer. And there is more acceptance than anger among the patients, whose good behavior is rewarded with various incentives, like art therapy, Chinese food, exercise facilities and, at times, early discharge.

What does this have to do with H.I.V.? Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, New York's health commissioner, estimates that the city is home to about 20,000 people with undiagnosed H.I.V., all of whom could conceivably pass it to others. Moreover, each year, 1,000 New Yorkers first learn they are infected with H.I.V. when their illness is diagnosed as AIDS, a more advanced form of the disease.

In response, the health department has proposed several regulation changes. First, consent for H.I.V. testing would be simplified to get health practitioners to screen more aggressively. Second, the department proposes tracking H.I.V. in a manner similar to tuberculosis, monitoring patients and trying to ensure that they take their medications properly. These proposals have drawn fire from critics who point out that H.I.V. — unlike tuberculosis — is not spread through casual contact. They also fear that patients may be forced into unwanted testing or have their confidentiality violated. These are important concerns.

But the relative quiet of today's Bellevue tuberculosis ward, as compared with 15 years ago, speaks volumes. Giving the health department a chance will most likely save more lives.
839 2006-06-27 Waiting to expose a baby to cereal grains until after the age of 6 months may increase the risk that the infant will become allergic to wheat, a new study suggests.

Researchers followed 1,612 children from birth until an average age of about 4½. The prevalence of wheat allergy among the 958 children exposed to cereal grains before 6 months was 0.41 percent. But among the 654 who were not exposed to grains before that age, it was 1.8 percent, more than four times as high. Of the 16 children who developed the allergy, 12 had not received cereal grains until they were older than 6 months.

The authors conclude that the age at which a baby first tastes cereal is significant. "The common sense out there is that delaying the introduction of cereals would be beneficial," said Jill M. Norris, the senior author of the study and a professor of epidemiology at the University of Colorado School of Medicine. "But actually it may not protect against allergies."

The results, published in the June issue of Pediatrics, held true after controlling for the presence of other allergies and for a family history of allergy.

The scientists are unsure of the reason for the findings, but they suggest that immune tolerance develops in a specific time interval, and not later, or that larger portions given to older children may provoke allergy rather than tolerance. "This is something to consider when making decisions about infant diet," Dr. Norris said.
840 2006-06-27 Drinking coffee is linked to a reduced risk for diabetes, a new study reports, and caffeine apparently has little to do with the effect.

The researchers, led by Mark A. Pereira, associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Minnesota, studied the dietary habits of more than 28,000 postmenopausal women. They found that those who drank six or more cups of regular or decaffeinated coffee a day had a 33 percent reduced risk of Type 2 diabetes, compared with those who drank none. Those with intermediate levels of coffee intake tended to have intermediate diabetes risk. Over the period of the study, from 1986 to 1997, 1,418 women developed the illness.

Coffee drinking was also associated with eating less fruit and more high-fat dairy products, higher alcohol and cigarette consumption, high blood pressure and a lower level of vigorous exercise, some of which are known risk factors for diabetes. When adjusted for these lifestyle factors, the link with a reduced risk for diabetes was weaker but still present, and the association was stronger for decaffeinated than caffeinated coffee.

"The thing about coffee that sets it apart from many other dietary factors that may protect against diabetes is that people consume a lot of it," Dr. Pereira said. "We can see the effect because we're able to study massive doses of it."

The authors acknowledge that their study, which appeared yesterday in The Archives of Internal Medicine, depends on self-reports rather than objective experimental design.

The scientists were unable to determine what ingredient in coffee might be protective against diabetes, but they pointed out that coffee was known to be a rich source of minerals and antioxidants that may delay or prevent the onset of the illness.
841 2006-06-27 Dan Gerstman sometimes notices people drinking heavily in an exit row. "I think there should be a law — no booze in the emergency exit rows," he said.

Fellow passengers who recline coach seats all the way back are the biggest annoyances of all. Susan Klinger, 5-foot-1, says she is dismayed by "all those big lugs who push the seat back all the way and it winds up in my face."

Lou Reiter tries to work on his laptop while flying, but it becomes impossible when the seat in front is fully reclined. "Seems no one has any courtesy for the person behind and they think they're on an amusement ride," Mr. Reiter said.

Don't get Betsy Buchalter Adler started. "I lost a laptop to a reclining seatback a few years ago," she said. "The screen was sandwiched between the tray table and the suddenly reclining seatback."

Nice people are in near revolt as crowding worsens. Maxine Hermann says she's 5-foot-7, 73 years old and arthritic. "I often run into fliers who think it's their god-given right to rest in my lap," she said. She's had "mixed success" asking offenders to limit the recline. "But one woman was so rude in her response that I almost slugged her — an idea which frightened me a bit," she confessed.

Miriam Silverberg wrote, "As a 5-foot-tall woman weighing 88 pounds I am very uncomfortable. Whenever I'm sitting scrunched up in tourist class, I wonder what normal-sized people do."

But maybe there's hope, said Julie Fordyce, 5-foot-10. She's been noticing that many people are not reclining their seats all the way. "It seems that habitual long-haul coach travelers realize that the incremental recline does little for their own comfort, and impinges dramatically on that of the person behind them," she said. "Can't we all just think about our fellow travelers?"

Charles Lamb, 5-foot-9, said, "I've stopped reclining my seat as a courtesy to others."

With planes jammed, carry-on bags are a big issue again. "My biggest peeve is allowing people to board with enough carry-on to take a round-the-world cruise," Michael Mase said.

How about big people who take up lots of space? Kathy Turken suggests that coach cabins be divided into Overweight, Middleweight and Underweight sections. That way, she said, the overweight could "see what it's like to be sandwiched (no pun intended) between each other."

But big people are bound by the laws of physics. At 6-foot-9 and 380 pounds, Mark Pinter says there is nothing he can do. In exit rows, he said, "I cannot squeeze into those narrow seats." Patrick H. Neale, 5-foot-11 and 225 pounds, said: "My shoulders simply do not fit in the confines of a coach seat. Thus, I am always jabbing, rubbing against and body-checking the person next to me."

Let's blame those really responsible, said Logan T. Geeslin, whose suggestion would add a new economy-class circle to Dante's Inferno. "The engineers who configure coach seats should spend eternity in hell sitting in coach," she said.

This is fun. Next week, let's share peeves about hotels. I have a beaut.
842 2006-06-27 "I think it is actually a long-term positive for Berkshire Hathaway shares," said Tom Kersting, an analyst with the Edward Jones investment advisory firm. "It eliminates the uncertainty of what happens to Buffett's shares and provides an orderly plan for their distribution."

He added: "Short term, it could cause some pressure on the stock over concern that the Gates Foundation will potentially liquidate" some of the shares it receives.

According to a letter from Mr. Buffett to the Gates Foundation, Mr. Buffett will convert the bulk of his Class A shares into 10 million Class B shares that will be earmarked for the foundation. Starting in July, he will give away 5 percent of the balance of those shares for the rest of his life. Should he die before all the shares are distributed, the foundation will receive the remaining shares.

Tax experts said the charitable gift essentially provides $30 billion in income tax credits — something that Mr. Buffett is unlikely to use in his lifetime. It will also allow him to avoid about $4.5 billion in capital gains tax. And giving away the shares will also help avoid taxes on his estate. Estate planning experts called it a simple and pragmatic approach, true to form for Mr. Buffett.

Yet the donation is a somewhat unusual capstone for a man who has promoted the benefits of diversification through much of his professional career. Mr. Buffett, perhaps the world's most admired investor, applied that strategy to Berkshire Hathaway, transforming it from a small textiles and insurance company in the 1960's into a holding company for businesses like NetJets, Dairy Queen, MidAmerican Energy and Geico, as well as large investments in Coca-Cola and Wells Fargo.

But in his philanthropic life, Mr. Buffett appears to be emphasizing the benefits of concentration. He is placing billions of dollars of stock with the Gates Foundation, where he will serve as a trustee alongside his longtime friends and fellow billionaires, Mr. and Mrs. Gates.

The donation will clearly enhance the charity's annual giving, but it also poses the risk of placing too many eggs in the basket of a single stock. The W. K. Kellogg Foundation, which had the bulk of its endowment in Kellogg Company shares, suffered in the late 1990's when the company's shares faltered. And the David and Lucile Packard Foundation's decision to keep nearly all of its assets in Hewlett-Packard stock proved costly when the foundation's assets plummeted to $6 billion at the end of 2001, from $18 billion, after the stock was battered in the wake of a merger with Compaq Computer.

"They were so concentrated in a single stock and it really threw the foundation into turmoil," said Mark R. Kramer, managing director at FSG Social Impact Advisors, a nonprofit consultant group that has advised many large charities, including the Gates Foundation.

The Gates trustees may, over time, have concerns about having half their funds in a single stock, especially after watching the price of Microsoft shares fall. "Certainly they diversified their Microsoft shares as soon as they got them," Mr. Kramer added.

Yet Mr. Buffett's holdings will not be the only source of the Gates Foundation's liquidity, giving it the flexibility to determine the pace at which any Berkshire shares might be sold. And Mr. Buffett's letter appeared to be carefully worded to assuage investor fears of a major sell-off.

"I believe that you can reasonably expect the value of Berkshire shares to increase, in an irregular manner, by an amount that more than compensates for the decline in the number of shares that will be distributed," Mr. Buffett wrote.

Estate planners, meanwhile, said that Mr. Buffett's method of donating his fortune could be an inspiration to investors, just as his stock-picking philosophy was in helping them build their wealth.

"It's a great model of simple, efficient tax planning," said Howard Zaritsky, an estate planning lawyer at the Pitcairn Financial Group in Vienna, Va., and the author of several tax planning books. "People are always looking for the complicated loophole. The simplest way to save taxes is to take something that has grossly gone up in value and give it to charity."

He added, "Frankly, other people who have somewhat less than Warren Buffett should look very closely at what he is doing."
843 2006-06-27 But if you make your way through it, the research does suggest that there are sciences other than chemistry that can take you down the rabbit hole.

It seems that humans began conflating time and space long before Einstein ever picked up a piece of chalk. Instead of equations, however, we use what are called conceptual metaphors, in which space sits in for time.

Most of us describe the future as ahead or in front of us, and the past as behind us. Until the view of the Aymara speakers was deconstructed, no significant exceptions to this way of thinking about time had been demonstrated, according to Rafael E. Núñez, a cognitive scientist at the University of California, San Diego, and Eve Sweetser, a linguist at the University of California, Berkeley, who wrote the report in Cognitive Science.

But the Aymara call the future qhipa pacha/timpu, meaning back or behind time, and the past nayra pacha/timpu, meaning front time. And they gesture ahead of them when remembering things past, and backward when talking about the future.

These are not mere mannerisms, the researchers argue; they are windows into the minds of Aymara speakers, who have a conception of future and past that is different from just about everyone else's.

The authors say the Aymara speakers see the difference between what is known and not known as paramount, and what is known is what you see in front of you, with your own eyes.

The past is known, so it lies ahead of you. (Nayra, or "past," literally means eye and sight, as well as front.) The future is unknown, so it lies behind you, where you can't see.

If they are right, this is bigger than anything the 60's tossed up.

Is it possible that human concepts of time can vary this much because of language and culture? And what would it be like to think this way? Do I have the rest of my life behind me? And how can I let bygones be bygones if they're right in front of me?

I can't quite process these ideas, unless, perhaps, I swing my 20/20 hindsight around 180 degrees. And what about other aspects of space that we use metaphorically — up, down, in, out, high, low?

Could people feel up when they're sad, and low when they're elated? I suppose. I do think the low and mighty are all around us.

Certainly you could be down so long that it looked like up to you, which solves one puzzle. In fact, in the 60's that I see ahead of me now, a motley crew of pranksters, professors and guitarists are nodding in agreement and mumbling, "Far in, man, far in."

What a long, strange trip lies ahead of us.
844 2006-06-27 The Supreme Court will consider government regulation of vehicle carbon dioxide emissions. Page A14....
845 2006-06-27 BILLIONS TO HELP FIGHT DISEASE -- Warren E. Buffett's $31 billion gift to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will help the foundation pursue its goal of curing the globe's 20 leading fatal diseases, Mr. Gates said, along with improving education....
846 2006-06-27 To the Editor:     Re ''To Lower Risk on Jogging Trail, Get Off the Couch'' (Personal Health, June 20): If those who run regularly are less likely to have a heart attack, does that prove that running regularly is good for the heart? Or does it sim...
847 2006-06-27 Waiting to expose a baby to cereal grains until after the age of 6 months may increase the risk that the infant will become allergic to wheat, a new study suggests.     Researchers followed 1,612 children from birth until an average age of about 4...
848 2006-06-27 To the Editor:     Re ''In Medicine, Acceptable Risk Is in the Eye of the Beholder'' (June 20):      Dr. Peter A. Ubel's findings are consistent with what we know about people's willingness or unwillingness to make different types of errors. In a ...
849 2006-06-28 The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said Tuesday that while North Korea showed clear signs of preparing a missile for a test launching, it remained uncertain whether it was fully fueled for an imminent firing.     The chairman, Sen...
850 2006-06-28 There was so much buzz about hedge funds on Wednesday it was difficult to keep track of it all. Members of the Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing that was billed as a discussion of hedge funds and their ties to independent analysts. But the...
851 2006-06-28 The Senate Finance Committee on Wednesday approved the nomination of Goldman Sachs chairman Henry M. Paulson Jr. to be the country's next treasury secretary. The committee, on a voice vote, sent the nomination of Paulson to the full Senate, and Ma...
852 2006-06-28 Senators are being urged to regulate hedge funds, the high-risk investment pools that traditionally served the very wealthy but are increasingly luring ordinary investors. The Senate Judiciary Committee is examining two complex hedge fund cases in...
853 2006-06-28 Six months after buying Hertz in a $14 billion leveraged buyout, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Carlyle Group and Merrill Lynch Private Equity are about to collect a $1 billion dividend, recouping almost half their original equity investment. The finan...
854 2006-06-28 In a rare case of music retailer-turned-Internet pirate, the Virgin store chain in France said Tuesday that it had been found guilty of downloading and reselling a Madonna hit without permission. The store's online portal, virginmega.fr, was order...
855 2006-06-28 According to a survey of hedge-fund managers in Asia conducted by the CFA Center for Financial Market Integrity, 77 percent of respondents support greater regulation by financial service authorities or securities regulators to protect investors, a...
856 2006-06-28 Shares in Elpida Memory, Japan's largest maker of computer memory chips, slumped as much as 11 percent after the company said it would sell about 137 billion yen ($1.2 billion) of stock. The stock slid 7.9 percent, to 4,220 yen as of 1:27 p.m. Wed...
857 2006-06-28 Goldman Sachs chairman and President Bush's Treasury secretary nominee Henry M. Paulson Jr. treaded carefully at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday. Mr. Paulson reiterated Mr. Bush's general views on the need f...
858 2006-06-28 McClatchy closed on its acquisition of Knight Ridder Tuesday and will emerge as the nation's second-largest newspaper company measured by circulation. Sacramento-based McClatchy, which owns the Star Tribune out of Minneapolis, must still sell the ...
859 2006-06-28 Univision's acceptance of a $12.3 billion bid from a group of private equity firms on Tuesday has provoked the ire of rival suitor Grupo Televisa which contends it has been deliberately shunned in favor of a lesser bid. What Televisa will do next ...
860 2006-06-28 The standoff between EMI Group and Warner Music has flared into a two-way takeover battle, with each company rejecting bids from the other. Less than two months after EMI of London first unveiled its unsolicited $4.2 billion offer for New York-bas...
861 2006-06-28 WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. futures industry regulator said Wednesday that a U.S. unit of BP Plc. tried to manipulate U.S. propane prices by cornering the market in February 2004.

"With the knowledge, advice, and consent of senior management, BP employees developed and executed a speculative trading strategy in which BP cornered the February 2004 ... physical propane market," the Commodity Futures Trading Commission alleged in a 42-page complaint filed in a U.S. district court in Illinois.

BP denied that any market manipulation occurred and will contest the charges in court, company spokesman Ronnie Chappell said. BP has dismissed several employees for failing to comply with its guidelines, and cooperated fully with CFTC investigators, Chappell said.

"Market manipulation did not occur and we are prepared to make and to prove that case in courts," he said.

Employees at BP Products North America Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of BP Plc, sought a profit of at least $20 million through its actions, the CFTC said. BP is the largest supplier of propane in North America.

"Cornering a commodity market is more than a threat to market integrity," said Gregory Mocek, the CFTC's enforcement director. "It is an illegal activity that could have repercussions for commercial market participants as well as retail consumers around this country."
862 2006-06-28 LONDON, June 26 — Someday, EMI Group and Warner Music Group are going to pair up, most music industry experts predict.

What no one can figure out is exactly when or who will own whom if they finally do.

Those were some of the questions that arose today, after EMI said it had increased its bid for Warner to $4.6 billion, from $4.2 billion in May, and also said Warner had turned the tables and bid about $4.6 billion for EMI on Tuesday.

Neither company is welcoming the other's bid. EMI said today that Warner's proposal is "wholly unacceptable."

Warner issued a statement today calling its offer "value enhancing to EMI shareholders."

But if the companies do join forces, the end product would be one of the largest music libraries in history. Warner, based in New York, is the world's fourth-biggest music company, and EMI, based in London, is the third-largest.

The two companies, the only major music labels that are not part of a larger media conglomerate, have tried to negotiate a deal for several years, and even agreed in 2000, only to have it killed by regulators. This round of talks has been live since the beginning of May, when EMI first made a $28.50-a-share offer for Warner. EMI is now offering $31 a share in cash for Warner.
863 2006-06-28 SAN FRANCISCO, June 27 (AP) — The Intel Corporation said Tuesday it would sell its division that makes processors for handheld gadgets to the Marvell Technology Group for $600 million in cash, as the world's biggest semiconductor maker focuses on its main business of supplying chips for PC's and computer servers.

Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., started making chips for cellphones and other handheld devices in the late 1990's as part of a bid to expand into the growing field of communications, networking and storage devices. At the time, it said the moves would help it increase revenue as the PC market matured. But Intel was never able to overtake entrenched competitors like Texas Instruments and Qualcomm.

Complicating matters for Intel, Advanced Micro Devices, which for most of its history copied Intel's innovations, in 2003 introduced a series of processors for PC's and servers that have stolen sales from its larger competitor.

In April, Intel reported a 38 percent decline in first-quarter profit as lost sales and its flagging business units caused gross margins, the percentage of sales left after manufacturing costs, to fall below its own forecasts. That month, Intel's chief executive, Paul S. Otellini, said he would respond by cutting Intel's costs by $1 billion a year, vowing "no stone will remain unturned or unlooked at."

Marvell shares fell $7.76, or 15 percent, to close at $44.14. Intel lost 23 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $18.05.
864 2006-06-28 The two sides also agreed to several new outlays, all relating to children: $7 million to add 2,000 full-day prekindergarten spaces for 4-year-olds; $4.2 million in aid to nonprofit agencies that serve neglected and abused children; and $2 million for "child advocacy centers" where lawyers, social workers and the police interview children believed to have been mistreated. Unlike the "baseline" programs, there is no assurance that these initiatives will continue beyond the next fiscal year.

Both sides announced an agreement to use $20 million from the 2006 budget to bridge a deficit at the New York City Housing Authority, an action that will increase by 3,000 the number of families that pay rent with vouchers supplied by the federal Section 8 program. That is in addition to $100 million from the 2006 surplus that the mayor's May budget proposal had already set aside to assist the Housing Authority.

As a result of the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, the city is required to pass a balanced budget by June 30, the last day of the fiscal year. The budget still needs to be approved in a formal vote by the Council, which is scheduled for Thursday.

This year the negotiations began somewhat later than usual, in part because Ms. Quinn, a Manhattan Democrat, replaced several longtime employees in the Council's Finance Division after her colleagues elected her speaker in January.

The ceremonial "handshake" agreement between the mayor and the speaker occurred on June 19 in 2002, and on June 25, June 21 and June 28 in the three succeeding years. The mayor, who often had a tense relationship with the previous speaker, Gifford Miller, noted with evident satisfaction that the new agreement beat last year's by a day.

Mr. Bloomberg lavished Ms. Quinn with praise. "It is clear that we share a lot of the same priorities and that we both understand that balancing long- and short-term interest is absolutely essential to protecting our city's future." He said with a laugh, "I didn't kiss the last speaker, I'll point out. I don't want you to take that the wrong way."

The city's fiscal fortunes have turned dramatically in Mayor Bloomberg's four and a half years in office. To plug big deficits in his first two budgets, the mayor raised property taxes and cut government services. In contrast, the fiscal year that ends on Friday has produced such a surge in revenue that the mayor and Council were able to set aside $2 billion for long-term expenses, and still close the year with a surplus of at least $3.4 billion. Of the money that was set aside, $1 billion went to create a fund for retirees' health care, and yesterday's budget deal puts another $1 billion into that fund.

Mr. Bloomberg and Ms. Quinn warned yesterday that they did not expect the good times to continue. Interest payments on the city's debts, along with pension contributions and health-insurance premiums for municipal workers, have been rising swiftly. The mayor's Office of Management and Budget projects deficits of $3.6 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.6 billion for the fiscal years 2008 to 2010.

"We are not going to repeat the mistakes of the past and squander our good economic fortune," Mr. Bloomberg said. Ms. Quinn said, "It is much better that we act conservatively with huge deficits like that looming out there."

Although the operating budget has been the focus of the negotiations since the mayor released his preliminary budget on Jan. 31, the new budget contains important capital programs as well, including an extension of the No. 7 subway line; construction of a bioscience office complex at First Avenue and 29th Street; and redevelopment of a former naval station on Staten Island.
865 2006-06-28 "Privacy is important to many people; they don't want their business known, and I think that's true the more high-profile or the greater someone's wealth," Mr. Willkie said. "And therefore people feel comfortable when they have some layer of protection. Now the whole world, when this goes through, will know."

The bill was drafted at the request of the city's Finance Department. It allows the city to make public the information provided on transfer tax forms, including the sales price, bringing co-op sales in line with other real estate transactions, including those involving condominiums and single-family homes.

If the bill becomes law, the information would be available on an online database, and would also include addresses, and the names of the buyers and sellers. In 2003, a similar law went into effect allowing the city to make public the sales prices of all other real estate transactions.

According to Martha E. Stark, the finance commissioner, that bill was originally intended to apply to co-op sales as well, but it was improperly worded so that it did not include co-ops, which are traded as shares in a corporation rather than as real property.

"Something like sales prices is too fundamental a piece of what makes our property tax system fair and what makes a real estate market as rational as possible, and this helps us advance that," Ms. Stark said.

The city first moved to make sales figures public after the scandal that led to the indictment in 2002 of 18 city tax assessors, on charges they took bribes to cut the property taxes for the owners of commercial and residential buildings. Policy makers felt that with more information publicly available, it would be harder for such abuses to occur.

Ms. Stark said the change would also help people who were looking to buy or sell an apartment, by making it easier for them to find out how much other units had sold for.

Co-ops, she said, "were not originally created to be these exclusive places that don't share information."

"Yes, this kind of lifts that veil a little bit," she said.

The next step is for the State Senate to send the bill to the governor for his signature, but there is no fixed date for when that would happen, and it could take weeks or months. Lynn Krogh, a spokeswoman for Governor Pataki, would not comment.

Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board of New York, a trade group made up of real estate brokers and developers, said that he expected the bill would be signed. "I don't think anybody's going to be opposing it," Mr. Spinola said.

It is true that high-profile co-op sales are frequently reported in the press, as when Rupert Murdoch, the media mogul, paid a record $44 million last year for a Fifth Avenue co-op that had been owned by Laurance S. Rockefeller.

But Mr. Willkie, the real estate executive, said those are the exceptions.

"This will be every sale, not just a few," he said. "We already know too much about each other, and people don't like that. There's identity theft, there's security. Now people are going to know that Mrs. Gotrocks, who has the biggest collection of Impressionist paintings in the world, lives at 834 Fifth Avenue and she paid $10 million for that apartment."
866 2006-06-28 Time Warner and Comcast, the cable television companies, won bankruptcy court approval yesterday to buy Adelphia Communications for $17.6 billion in cash and stock.

Judge Robert E. Gerber of Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan approved the sale without a creditor vote more than 14 months after Time Warner and Comcast agreed to buy the assets. Approval was slowed by fighting among Adelphia creditors over how to distribute proceeds to repay more than $18 billion in debts.

The purchase increases Time Warner's subscribers by 32 percent, to 14.5 million, and Comcast's by 8 percent, to 23 million. Comcast will strengthen its position in Pennsylvania and Florida; Time Warner Cable will become the largest cable provider in New York and Los Angeles.

"Good business reasons exist for conducting the sale," Judge Gerber said. A provision of the bankruptcy code allows a debtor to sell assets without a creditor vote. Such a sale was necessary "to prevent the risk of losing the sale altogether," he said.

Adelphia had previously planned to sell its assets under a plan of reorganization, which would have required a creditor vote. Hearings begin tomorrow on confirmation of the reorganization plan.

Adelphia, which owns cable systems from Los Angeles to Miami, will receive $12.7 billion in cash and 16 percent of a cable company Time Warner plans to spin off. The Time Warner shares were estimated to be worth $4.9 billion when the sale was announced in April 2005.
867 2006-06-28 Televisa is also considering a new offer for Univision, though it would have to pay a $300 million breakup fee and beat the private equity consortium's offer significantly to pay for the risk that the deal could be blocked or delayed by regulators. Altogether, analysts said, the Televisa-led group would probably have to pay at least $38 a share, which would be $1.75 higher than the consortium offer.

Univision declined to comment yesterday on Televisa's contentions. Shares of Univision rose more than 6 percent yesterday, to $34.

The consortium that won the auction — Madison Dearborn Partners, Providence Equity Partners, the Texas Pacific Group, Thomas H. Lee Partners and the media investor Haim Saban — made a sneak attack over the weekend with a sweetened offer of $36.25 a share after learning that the Televisa-led group had bid $35.75 a share, an offer that was much lower than expected. The new offer by the private equity group followed the rejection of its initial bid of $35.50 a share.

At a board meeting late Monday night in Los Angeles, Univision's board accepted the private equity group's offer over the objections and surprise of two board members who represented Televisa, which owns about 10 percent of Univision, and Venevision of Venezuela, which had loosely associated itself with Televisa's bid but ultimately decided against joining the final bid.

The Televisa-led group, which included Bill Gates's private equity firm, Cascade Investments, and Bain Capital, was stunned to learn that it was not given a chance to raise its offer, people involved in the group said.

Televisa sent Univision a letter over the weekend and again during the board meeting asking to negotiate on both terms and price, these people said, but the letter was never answered.

One person close to Televisa said the group would have been willing to pay as much as $38 a share, though that suggestion may be far-fetched: the group had already lost four of its backers — the Carlyle Group, the Blackstone Group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Venevision — because of worries about overpaying.

People close to Univision suggested that they could not take Televisa seriously after it bid only $35.75. And once the private equity group bid $36.25, Univision was skeptical that Televisa would beat that offer by at least $1, an amount that advisers to Univision suggested would be the premium needed to pay for the regulatory risk.

Univision was also up against a threat from the private equity consortium that if Univision did not take its offer it would walk away, these people said. That left Univision with the choice of taking the bid on the table or waiting for Televisa, which had already missed the company's original deadline to bid and appeared uninterested in taking aggressive action.

Televisa also considered joining the winning consortium, which included a provision within its offer to allow Televisa to own as much as 19.9 percent of the company. But Televisa resoundingly decided against it yesterday, a spokesman, Robert Siegfried, said. "It is suicidal that the group does not involve Televisa," he said. "But we are not going to bail out the winning consortium."

The friction between Univision and Televisa stems from a deal Mr. Perenchio made with Televisa in 1992 to provide programming for the network through 2017. That deal turned out to be prescient: more than a third of Univision's revenue comes from advertising on Televisa programming. Televisa, however, receives only about 10 percent of that. Televisa has sued Univision over royalty payments and said earlier this year that Univision was in material breach of the 1992 licensing agreement.

The winning consortium now faces challenges that Televisa may try to throw in its way. The biggest, perhaps, is Televisa's threat that it may try to broadcast its programming in the United States over the Internet.

It is unclear whether Televisa can do that under its agreement with Univision, and it is also unclear how big a dent that would make in Univision's audience, given that broadband has not yet achieved a significant scale in the Spanish-language market.
868 2006-06-28 The government "is not paying enough for the children who receive subsidies," said Bridget Carruth, a provider in the Bronx who has been a vocal union supporter. "Not only are they not paying enough, there are no paid vacation days, no paid sick days, there isn't enough money to buy educational materials and toys and games for children."

Backers say the New York legislation will cost nothing, at least up front, because any new benefits would still have to be negotiated with the state. But in Illinois, the first of a handful of states to let day care workers organize, an initial contract for 49,000 workers, signed earlier this year, will cost the state about $80 million a year from a combination of health benefits and wage increases.

"It's possible to frame many of these things as cost-free in the short term," said Edmund J. McMahon, a budget analyst at the conservative Manhattan Institute. "The long-term cost impact will be significant."

"The most significant costs for government, especially governments that aren't growing, is pensions and other post-employment benefits," he said, adding that the state's liability for retiree health care "could be between $75 and $100 billion."

The governor, in his veto message earlier this month, also expressed concern that several hundred million dollars of federal grant money could be jeopardized; union officials said that has not been the case in Illinois.

At a minimum, the action by the Legislature is another act of defiance of the Republican governor in his waning days in office, and reflects what fiscal conservatives see as a state with little budgetary discipline. It was the Republican-controlled Senate that overrode the governor's veto on Friday, in a 57-to-4 vote in the last minutes of their regular legislative session for the year. One vote against the override came from Senator David A. Paterson, a Democrat who is running for lieutenant governor alongside Eliot Spitzer, a leading gubernatorial candidate who has expressed reservations about making the workers quasi-state employees.

Legislators and union leaders say that the overwhelmingly Democratic Assembly, which passed the bill in April and has close ties to organized labor, is likely to return to Albany at some point this year to join in overriding the veto.

The Senate votes show the clout of the labor-backed Working Families Party, a past supporter of Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Yonkers Republican who carried his district by a mere 18 votes in 2004. Mr. Spano, who sponsored the child care bill, is aggressively courting the party's support in the fall election.

"These are for the most part minority women who are the lowest-paid wage earners," said Mr. Spano. "These are the people who are allowing many of our women to get off of welfare and get a job. It is completely unfair to ask these same people to treat our children with dignity when they are not treated with the same level of respect."

Shortly after the vote Friday night, Mr. Spano called Bertha Lewis, the co-chairwoman of the Working Families Party, to tell her the news.

"Hi, it's Nicky," he told her, adding, "We did it. We did the override."

Ms. Lewis is also executive director of the New York branch of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, an antipoverty group known as Acorn, which is a major developer of the child-care organizing effort nationwide.

"There was a bunch of folks in the Senate that did the right thing," Ms. Lewis said, adding, "these are women who are low-wage workers who have been under this yoke for years."
869 2006-06-28 Gilbert Arenas of the Washington Wizards missed a court hearing in Miami yesterday for his arraignment on a disorderly conduct charge, and a warrant was issued for his arrest. Neither Arenas, who had been out on $1,000 bond, nor his lawyer showed up for the morning arraignment. He would have been eligible for pretrial diversion, according to the state attorney's office.

Arenas, the Wizards' leading scorer, was arrested in May in Miami Beach along with a teammate, Awvee Storey. Both men were charged with failing to leave a crowded street.
870 2006-06-28 LOS ANGELES, June 27 (AP) — Thomas Gregory Arthur, the Dodger Stadium concessionaire whose knockoff of the footlong Nathan's Famous hot dog came up short, at 10 inches, but became the beloved Dodger Dog anyway, died June 8 in St. Louis. He was 84.

The cause was a heart attack, his son Steve said.

A former New Yorker, Mr. Arthur borrowed the idea of a footlong hot dog from his favorite Nathan's Famous dogs for the ballpark menu when the Dodgers moved from Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to Dodger Stadium in 1962.

"He called it the footlong dog, but it was actually only 10 inches," his son said. "It was before truth in advertising, but he decided to call them Dodger Dogs."

It meant big business for Arthur Food Services, the stadium concessionaire for 29 years, until 1991. Along with beer, popcorn and Cracker Jack, about 50,000 Dodger Dogs were sold each game.

"Besides peanuts and Cracker Jack, it's probably the most famous delicacy in baseball," said Mark Langill, the Dodgers' team historian.

Mr. Arthur was born in Los Angeles but grew up in New York City, where his father owned theaters, including the Roxy.
871 2006-06-28 American intelligence officials say they believe that the missile is a Taepodong 2 and that a three-stage version could strike the United States. One administration official said the missile at the launching pad was a two-stage version.

Details like that have not been clearly spelled out, either because administration officials are uncertain of the facts or because the details are classified. Several officials would discuss recent intelligence reports on the situation only on condition of anonymity, because the situation is diplomatically delicate and the intelligence is secret.

The New York Times reported Monday that North Korea appeared to some officials to have completed fueling the missile, citing American officials who warned that the move greatly increased the probability that the North would go ahead with its first important test launching in eight years.

A senior American official said Sunday that data from satellite photographs suggested that booster rockets had been loaded onto a launching pad, and liquid-fuel tanks fitted to the missile at a site on North Korea's remote east coast.

Roughly 10 days ago, American intelligence agencies reported to the administration that fueling trucks had been spotted around the missile.

On Monday and Tuesday, two officials said the intelligence could, at best, be interpreted as offering only a prudent assumption that the missile was fueled, and that intelligence analysts had described an already fueled missile as a worst-case scenario.

"It is impossible to know for certain whether or how much fuel is moving between a closed container through a closed line to another closed container," one official said.

Citing intelligence gathered by "overhead systems" photographing the missile, Senator Warner said, "We are not certain if it's fueled."

He also said the surveillance images indicated that "certain infrastructure" remained around the missile and would have to be removed in advance of a launching.

"They could be launching a satellite, a weather satellite or any type of satellite that might be launched by this system," Mr. Warner said. But he said the United States must "prepare for the possibility of a hostile strike," though he termed it a "probably remote possibility."
872 2006-06-28 Administration officials wooed Mr. Paulson, who earned $35 million at Goldman last year, in part with assurances that he would play a more central role than either of his two predecessors — Paul H. O'Neill, who was fired in part for his headstrong attitudes; and John W. Snow, who spent most of his time as a salesman rather than architect of Mr. Bush's policies.

Mr. Paulson, 60, rejected some of the White House's initial overtures to become Treasury secretary. When Mr. Bush announced his choice of Mr. Paulson on May 31, the president described him as his "principal adviser on the broad range of domestic and international economic issues."

But on Tuesday, Mr. Paulson stuck to generalities: keeping taxes low, maintaining flexibility in the capital markets, fighting a "creeping regulatory expansion," addressing an anticipated surge of spending on Social Security and Medicare as the nation's baby boomers enter retirement, and improving competitiveness in world markets.

He also alluded at least twice to the limited time left — two and a half years — in Mr. Bush's presidency.

Much like his predecessor, Mr. Paulson rebuffed calls for trimming some of Mr. Bush's tax cuts to reduce the deficit.

"I think it would be a big mistake to increase taxes," he told Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, adding that the deficit, which is hovering around $300 billion a year, is "within the realm of historical norms" as a share of the gross domestic product.

Mr. Paulson faced sharp questioning from both Republicans and Democrats about the administration's efforts to stop abusive tax shelters and to reduce the so-called tax gap — as much as $350 billion a year, according to Congressional estimates — in taxes that are owed but not paid.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, complained that the Internal Revenue Service, which is part of Treasury, had "fallen down on the job" in offering incentives to whistle-blowers who could expose tax cheating.

Mr. Paulson is reported to have a net worth of about $700 million, including about $470 million in Goldman Sachs shares. He has said he will sell his holdings in Goldman Sachs to comply with the government's conflict-of-interest rules.

Mr. Grassley said his staff, which scrutinized Mr. Paulson's tax returns, had found no evidence that he had used tax shelters.

In response to questions from Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, Mr. Paulson promised to review a secret program to investigate and track terrorists that relies on an international database that includes Americans' banking transactions.

If confirmed, Mr. Paulson said that he would make sure he thoroughly understood the law covering the program.

One of the few moments of direct personal conflict between lawmakers and Mr. Paulson was not about policy but about Mr. Paulson's role as chairman of the Nature Conservancy, an environmental organization that buys land to prevent it from being developed.

The Nature Conservancy came under heavy criticism several years ago, because some of its deals allowed people to take big tax deductions for contributions of land and yet also allowed significant development projects.

Mr. Paulson pushed through major changes at the Nature Conservancy as well as a settlement of disputes with the Internal Revenue Service.

But on Tuesday, Mr. Grassley complained that the Nature Conservancy had refused to release the details of the I.R.S. settlement.

Mr. Paulson said he was "only one member" of the board, and that the chief executive of the Nature Conservancy wanted to keep the settlement out of the public eye by having the Internal Revenue Service give the Senate Finance Committee details under the cloak of confidentiality.
873 2006-06-28 The average annual asking rent for prime buildings in Midtown has climbed to $85 a square foot, said Benjamin L. Friedland, a first vice president at CB Richard Ellis. At two premier towers that are prized by hedge funds because they offer sweeping views of Central Park — the General Motors Building at 767 Fifth Avenue and 9 West 57th Street — the asking rent has reached $175 a square foot, Mr. Friedland said.

At least 19 leases with annual rents exceeding $100 a square foot have been signed this year, compared with 16 for all of 2005, brokers say.

At the end of 2005, average annual net rents, which are calculated by subtracting the cost of higher property taxes, operating expenses and electrical rates, were still significantly below peak levels during the dot-com era — $48 a square foot, compared with $54 a square foot in 2001 — but are catching up fast, said Steven Coutts, a senior vice president of national research services at Studley, a brokerage firm that represents tenants. He said the average net rent in 2004 was about $40 a square foot.

As Midtown has become increasingly competitive, companies seeking a large chunk of space have had few choices, particularly since new construction has slowed. Last week, such space became even scarcer as Morgan Stanley signed a lease for all of 522 Fifth Avenue, a 23-story building at 44th Street that used to belong to J. P. Morgan. Morgan Stanley will move its investment management and private wealth management divisions to its new quarters early next year, but will hang on to its 42-floor headquarters building at 1585 Broadway, near Times Square, as well as about 400,000 square feet across the street from its headquarters at 750 Seventh Avenue.

The proliferation of hedge funds is causing some landlords to say goodbye to longtime tenants whose pockets are less deep. The Reckson Associates Realty Corporation recently declined to renew the lease of a group of 47 men's apparel companies that had banded together a decade ago to move into offices at 1340 Avenue of Americas, where the rent was about $35 a square foot, said Scott Rechler, the chief executive. "We think we can get over $30 more a square foot from a new tenant," he said.

Tenants being squeezed out of the most desirable areas are being forced to venture into new neighborhoods. Most members of the men's wear group, now only about a third of its original size, will move to 641 Lexington Avenue, paying $40 a square foot, though they would have preferred to remain on the Avenue of the Americas, said their broker, David Rosenbloom, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield. "This is new territory for them," he said.

Seven years after the Condé Nast building moved Midtown's western frontier to Times Square, the market's boundary is pushing farther west. Forest City Ratner, which is developing a new office tower on Eighth Avenue with The New York Times Company, recently signed leases with two national law firms, Seyfarth Shaw and Covington & Burling, and is about to announce that it has acquired a third tenant, Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt, a Canadian law firm.

"What I'm finding very interesting is that many clients are choosing new construction in that part of town, rather than older construction on Park Avenue," said Mitchell S. Steir, the chief executive of Studley, which represented Covington & Burling.

While the vacancy rate in Midtown over all is said to be about 8 percent, space is even tighter in the so-called Plaza submarket, from the Avenue of the Americas to the East River and 51st Street to 63rd Street. According to Colliers ABR, another brokerage firm, the vacancy rate for top buildings in the Plaza area has fallen to 6 percent last month, from 8.7 percent a year ago.

Rents are escalating so fast that landlords feel free to raise the rent if negotiations take too long. Dechert, a law firm with 17 offices around the world, was negotiating for space at two different buildings — the New York Times building and 1095 Avenue of the Americas — but lost out both times because it did not move quickly enough, several real estate specialists said. (Dechert's managing partner did not return several phone calls.)

Mr. Rosen says he now give prospective tenants two weeks to make up their mind. "In today's environment, with rents changing dramatically, the price you quoted two months ago is a stale price," he said.

Despite the intense activity, tenants are still getting concessions from landlords, but the terms are less generous than they used to be. Steven M. Durels, an executive vice president at S. L. Green Realty who has signed 125 leases so far this year, said tenants who might have received as many as 10 months of free rent a year ago for a long-term lease were now receiving as few as six months. They are getting $40 to $45 a square foot from landlords to remodel their space, $10 or $15 less than they would have gotten in 2005.

Even in a highly competitive market, landlords provide concessions so that they can push up rents, said Dale Anne Reiss, who directs the global real estate practice at Ernst & Young. "When you go to sell the building down the road," she said, "you'll be selling it on the basis of the income stream."

And many owners have been selling to capitalize on an investment market that remains strong, just as sales elsewhere are cooling slightly. So far this year, $6.6 billion worth of Midtown buildings have sold or are under contract to sell, said Robert M. White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm that tracked $7.5 billion worth of sales for all of 2005.

The average selling price this year of $565 a square foot is about 40 percent higher than last year's, Mr. White said. The recent sale by Boston Properties of 280 Park Avenue to Istithmar, an investment company in Dubai, for $1.2 billion marked the first billion-dollar building to trade for more than $1,000 a square foot, Mr. White said.

"The market is really screaming," he said.
874 2006-06-28 But we live in a world where Homo sapiens is in charge, and other orders are subject to our whims and rules. And so, as long as animals are treated with a measure of respect, we need them to satisfy our hunger. We also use them as sled dogs, racehorses, pets and draft animals. Is that cruel? Humane treatment means what humans decide.

I, for one, will continue to enjoy lobster and beefsteaks. Others choose to fight against their definition of cruelty by committing cruel acts.

Perhaps Whole Foods should consider no longer selling processed lobster meat as well as live lobsters. Processed lobster comes from lobsters that die inside enormous automated crushing machines. They are loaded alive into a cylinder, and the water around them is compressed to several times the pressure found in the deepest trenches of the ocean.

Tests by animal-welfare experts are under way, but it is not yet clear how long the lobsters suffer inside these high-pressure processors before they die.

While perhaps more humane than boiling alive, it is certainly not more humane than pithing a lobster with a kitchen knife before you put it in the pot.

Trevor Corson 

Washington, June 25, 2006

The writer is the author of a book about the biology of lobsters.

Frank Bruni's Critic's Notebook raises the fundamental question underlying every consumer and lifestyle choice we make: What is our purpose in this life?

If our purpose is to maximize our own pleasure or convenience, we are likely to allow all kinds of suffering in the name of our palate, our taste in clothing and our desire for the highest return on our investments. Any consequences of those decisions are a kind of collateral damage.

But if our purpose is to reduce suffering whenever we can, we derive happiness from the knowledge that our choices are minimizing the collateral damage, while raising the consciousness of the collective.

Frank Bruni's essay illustrates the frustration I'm feeling in regard to, well, just about everything.

I volunteer at an animal shelter. The question I hear is, "Well, what about the animals you don't have room for?" I also mentor a child, and I hear, "Well, what about all the other children at her school?"

I stopped eating chicken when I learned about the torture they endure at factory farms, and the question is: "Well, what about cows? Don't you care about them?"

I care about cows, and about homeless animals, and tortured prisoners, and our soldiers dying in Iraq, and children growing up in poverty, and rapes in Congo, and our national debt, and North Korean missiles. What can I do?

With that said, I will not eat chicken or foie gras, and I will not drop a live lobster into a pot of boiling water.
875 2006-06-28 Anyone who's seen the promos knows that the assistant doesn't need a simpler life; she needs a better boss. And what the Sandler character really wants is a remote he can control, instead of one with a mind of its own. The films' fraudulent messages, though, suggest that audiences should and probably do feel guilty for indulging in such selfish fantasies.

In "Click" Mr. Sandler follows the pattern of some of Jim Carrey's biggest hits. In fact, Mr. Carrey's career offers a template of how the bogus-message genre works. In "Liar Liar" (1997) he plays a workaholic (like the father in "Click"), whose 5-year-old wishes his dad would tell the truth for one day. The father, a lawyer who lives by lying, ostensibly learns to value honesty and his son, but the selling point is that being honest puts him in a string of outrageous comic situations. Learning to value honesty is simply a way to wrap things up.

The megahit "Bruce Almighty" (2003) makes Mr. Carrey an ambitious television reporter who is passed over for the anchorman's job and decides that God is out to get him. When God (Morgan Freeman) turns over his powers to Bruce (Mr. Carrey), he trains his dog to use the toilet, gives his girlfriend bigger breasts, gets the anchor job. Well, who wouldn't start by exacting revenge on the nincompoop who got the job with his name on it? Naturally, Bruce learns that he should use his powers selflessly. When God extols such daily miracles as "a teenager who says no to drugs and yes to education," the slapstick Carrey movie begins to sound like a public-service ad, but that turn comes so late that it hardly matters.

It's not surprising that the writers of "Click," Steve Koren and Mark O'Keefe, also wrote "Bruce" (along with Steve Oedekerk). They are obviously revisiting the scene of their success, giving another hero supernatural powers only to have him appreciate being human. But "Click" doesn't wait for the end to tack on its preachy message. Three-quarters of the way through, the Sandler character has fast-forwarded into darker, sadder terrain, where he faces illness and death. The movie changes from an Adam Sandler comedy to a time-traveling film about loss. It even pushes the audience's emotional buttons more effectively than this season's other time-traveling melodrama, "The Lake House." The last stretch of "Click" is suited to the "Lake House" audience, but if viewers hungry for a goofy Sandler comedy suddenly morph into people who buy the sentimental part, that really will be magic.

The be-careful-what-you-wish-for film works best when there is no phony message. Oddly, Mr. Carrey can point the way there, too. In Michel Gondry's sweet "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" (2004), Mr. Carrey's character and Kate Winslet's erase the painful memories of their romance, using some new-fangled science. But Charlie Kaufman's script doesn't wag its finger at their desire to avoid pain, or offer a cautionary message about the evil fallout of technology. Instead, the characters are profoundly sad for reasons they can't remember, and the film's endless loop of a plot suggests that they are fated to be together, surmounting whatever the high-tech world throws their way.

"Eternal Sunshine" is a far more sophisticated film than "Click," of course, and its entire United States run didn't match the $40 million "Click" made on its opening weekend. So far, the complicity between audience and movie has held up for "Click." The real test may come this weekend, the movie's second, after word has gotten out that the entire last section tries to make you cry. That may be a twist the knowing wink was never meant to cover.
876 2006-06-28 Time: 30 minutes plus several hours' soaking

½ cup pearl barley

Salt

1 cup chopped onion

1 tablespoon olive oil

2 large eggs

2 tablespoons flour

2 cups plain whole-milk yogurt

2½ cups low-sodium chicken broth, or as needed

 1/3 cup raisins

White pepper

Red pepper flakes, optional

1 medium Kirby cucumber, peeled and diced

1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint leaves

Extra-virgin olive oil, optional.



1. In a small bowl, combine barley with 2 cups water. Allow to soak for several hours or overnight.

2. In a medium saucepan, add barley, its soaking water and salt to taste. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and simmer until barley is tender, about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, in a small skillet over medium heat, sauté onion in olive oil until light golden. If necessary, drain excess water from barley. Add onions to barley and set aside.

3. Place eggs in a medium saucepan and whisk until smooth. Sprinkle flour over eggs and whisk until combined and free of lumps. In a mixing bowl, whisk together yogurt and 2½ cups chicken broth. Pour into egg mixture and stir until smooth.

4. Add barley and onions to egg mixture. Stir in raisins. Place pan over medium heat just until steaming and slightly thickened; do not boil. Remove from heat and season with salt and white pepper to taste. If desired, add pepper flakes to taste while soup is still hot.

5. Allow soup to cool, then transfer to a covered container and refrigerate until well chilled and thickened. To serve, stir and adjust thickness of soup to taste with additional chicken broth. Add cucumber and mint. If desired, drizzle with olive oil before serving.
877 2006-06-28 Leaders of the Episcopal Church — the Communion's American province, long dominated by theological liberals — sought to play down the statement's import, saying it was just one more exchange in a long dialogue they expected to continue within the Communion.

The archbishop said his proposal could allow local churches in the United States to separate from the Episcopal Church and join the American wing that stays in the Communion. But that process could take years, and some American parishes are already planning to break from the Episcopal Church. Entire dioceses may announce their intention to depart, as soon as today.

The 38 provinces that make up the global Communion have been at odds since 2003, when the Episcopal Church ordained Bishop V. Gene Robinson, a gay man who lives with his partner, as bishop of the diocese of New Hampshire.

The archbishop's statement is the most solid official step yet in a long march toward schism. Twenty-two of the 38 provinces had already declared their ties with the American church to be "broken" or "impaired," but until now the Communion had hung together, waiting for guidance from the Archbishop of Canterbury. He is considered "the first among equals" in the Communion but does not dictate policy as the pope does in the Roman Catholic Church.

For the proposal to be enacted would take at least half a dozen major church meetings spread out over at least the next four years, the Rev. Canon Kenneth Kearon, secretary general of the Anglican Communion, said in a telephone interview.

What should be included in a covenant could become the next focus of debate. The idea of a covenant was first proposed in the "Windsor Report," issued in 2004 by a committee commissioned by the archbishop. Canon Kearon said, "Many churches welcome the idea of a covenant, but they didn't particularly welcome the text that was proposed." He said he did not regard the archbishop's proposal as a step toward schism but as a means to clarify "identity and common decision-making procedures" in the Communion.

Church liberals said that any "covenant" would be crafted with the participation of the American church and other provinces that favored full inclusion of gay people.

"I think the archbishop takes a long view and underscores the fact that we are involved in a process rather than a quick fix," Presiding Bishop Frank T. Griswold of the Episcopal Church said in a telephone interview.

Several church officials in communication with the archbishop's office said he wrote his six-page communiqué, which he called a "reflection," after the close of the Episcopal Church's convention last Wednesday in Columbus, Ohio.

At the convention, the church fell short of the demands in the Windsor Report for an explicit apology and a full "moratorium" on ordaining gay bishops. Instead, the church approved a conciliatory statement encouraging American dioceses to refrain from ordaining gay bishops.

But the convention also offended the conservatives by electing a new presiding bishop, Katharine Jefferts Schori of Nevada, who has been an outspoken advocate of full inclusion for gay people and who allows gay union ceremonies in churches in her diocese.

Bishop Jefferts Schori, who takes office after Bishop Griswold retires in November, will represent the American church in meetings with the world's primates, some of whom do not approve of women as priests or bishops.

She said in an interview yesterday that she was heartened by Archbishop Williams's comments in the letter that he would not be able to mend rifts over sexuality single-handedly.

"There were expectations out there that he would intervene or direct various people and provinces to do certain things, and he made it quite clear that it's not his role or responsibility to do that," Bishop Jefferts Schori said.

The Anglican Communion has about 77 million members in more than 160 nations. Members in conservative provinces far outnumber those in the liberal provinces. The Episcopal Church has about 2.3 million members but contributes a disproportionate amount to Anglican Communion administration, charities and mission work. The Anglican Communion Network, a group leading the conservative response, said it had 200,000 members last year.

The archbishop's proposal was greeted with satisfaction by conservative leaders in the United States, who had formed a powerful alliance with prelates in many of the provinces in Africa and in Asia, and in some parts of Latin America. The conservatives have insisted all along that it is the American church that destabilized the Anglican ship and should be pushed overboard if it will not relent.

The Rev. Canon David C. Anderson, president of the conservative American Anglican Council, said: "We really believe that the Episcopal Church wants to follow a course that takes it out of both Anglicanism and Christianity, as Christianity is historically known. So a two-tier approach looks good in theory."

Canon Anderson said the plan could be difficult in actuality, because many parishes and dioceses were ready to sever ties with the Episcopal Church now, years before the archbishop's plan for reorganization could take effect. He said that churches and dioceses had already asked to be put under the authority of bishops in Africa and Latin America and that many more would do so in coming months.

"The floodgates are starting to open," he said.

The division has already led to legal battles over church property. Under Episcopal Church bylaws, parish assets belong to the dioceses, but churches in some states have challenged that in court.

Archbishop Williams said in his statement, "The reason Anglicanism is worth bothering with is because it has tried to find a way of being a church that is neither tightly centralized nor a loose federation of essentially independent bodies."

But that decentralization will continue to be a cause of conflict unless it is addressed, he said, adding, "What our Communion lacks is a set of adequately developed structures which is able to cope with the diversity of views that will inevitably arise in a world of rapid global communication and huge cultural variety."
878 2006-06-28 "This is an opportunity to get a brand-new, state-of-the-art building," Mr. Smarr said. "I think a lot of the concerns are about fear of change."

Administrators, parents and residents of nearby apartment buildings say their fears are justified. Neighbors say that the area needs more public schools, not fewer, and that the proposed science center could be a hulking tower that would cast a shadow over their apartments and nearby St. Catherine's Park. Parents say uprooting Julia Richman would send a discouraging signal to the dozens of small schools that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has created in recent years, using Julia Richman as the model.

And a growing chorus of critics say Hunter should be ashamed of even considering uprooting a crop of successful schools, noting that it would never displace its own publicly financed elementary and high school, on East 94th Street.

"The news is spreading like wildfire," said Elizabeth Rose, who lives in an ivy-covered building across the street from Julia Richman. "When you see what the city is doing to other schools, you get very concerned about what they might do to your child's school."

Julia Richman opened more than 80 years ago, and was for many years a prestigious high school for girls. It fell apart during the 1970's fiscal crisis, when the city laid off thousands of teachers. By the early 1990's, the school was called "Julia Rikers," as in Island, and had a 37 percent graduation rate, the lowest in Manhattan. School lore has it that unruly students were kept in cages until the police arrived.

School officials hatched a plan to replace Julia Richman with a collection of small schools, and by 1996, six new schools had supplanted the old one. Sharing the building now are the pre-kindergarten through eighth grade Ella Baker School, where some parents who work in the neighborhood send their children, along with a program for autistic children known as P226M, and four high schools. They are Talented Unlimited, a performing arts school; Urban Academy, known for working wonders with students who have not succeeded at other high schools; Vanguard High School, which like Urban Academy avoids traditional standardized tests and where the principal has painted his office bright purple; and Manhattan International High School, for recent immigrants.

"It's got real roots in the community now," said Sherry Jacobs, who lived blocks away from Julia Richman for a quarter-century and remembered crossing the street to avoid walking too close to the old school. Mrs. Jacobs and her husband raised $110,000 to build the small schools a library, the destruction of which would be "heartbreaking," she said.

More than 1,000 Julia Richman parents and staff members have signed a letter calling for the school to stay put.

"As all close observers know, a school is never just a physical structure, there's a culture to every educational setting," the letter says. "How can the Department of Education consider uprooting an exemplary educational complex, one of the true gems of the system, which has received nationwide recognition and won numerous awards?"

Some Julia Richman supporters are directing their fury at Hunter and its president, Jennifer J. Raab, who was chairwoman of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.

"It's very disturbing to me that Hunter College would dislocate young children in order to accommodate a program for themselves," said Jacqueline Ancess, co-director of the National Center for Restructuring Education, Schools and Teaching at Columbia University's Teachers College.

Ms. Raab's office referred calls to Meredith Halpern, a Hunter spokeswoman, who said many of the details would be worked out at a meeting in the next month or so attended by Hunter and city officials. She described the plan as "one of the best things to happen to the Hunter community."

Matthew Goldstein, chancellor of the City University of New York, said that it would be "fabulous for Hunter" if things worked out, but that a lot would depend on the finances involved.

Asked if the proposed science center would be 16 stories or taller, as some in the neighborhood say they have heard, Dr. Goldstein responded, "Oh, no no no," adding, "This is so speculative."

City officials said the plan hinged on whether Hunter can come up with enough money to build both its new science center and a new building for the Julia Richman schools, which Mr. Smarr said would cost at least $100 million. Mr. Smarr said parents, students and staff members would be involved in designing the new school, which would not open before September 2011.

Dr. Ancess, who has studied the Julia Richman complex, said the small schools would suffer if moved, no matter how posh their new quarters.

"You feel very deeply connected to your home, you have a sense of safety, you know the place, you make an investment in it, you decorate it," Dr. Ancess said. "They've designed that building, they put their blood, sweat and tears into it, and they're just supposed to walk away like they didn't?"

Michelle Fine, a distinguished professor of psychology at the CUNY graduate center who has also studied Julia Richman, said demolishing the building would be "dispiriting" to Mr. Bloomberg's newer small schools and would set back their efforts to weave themselves into the fabric of their own neighborhoods.

"The Julia Richman complex epitomizes what the mayor hopes to create citywide, that is a building that was once producing enormously adverse educational outcomes that has now been resurrected intellectually, spiritually, morally, aesthetically," she said.

Critics also deride the secrecy they say has shrouded the plan. School officials say that they learned of it from local politicians, not Hunter or the school system, and that Mr. Smarr met with them only after they requested more information.

"I have no confidence from all the secrecy that's gone on that they even think parents and teachers and students could be involved in the design" of a new building, said Herb Mack, the principal at Urban Academy.

Mr. Smarr said that officials were not being secretive about what he described as "an opportunity to do something very special."

"It's a free school," he said.
879 2006-06-28 A recipe for Corn and Barley Salad on Arugula....
880 2006-06-28 Some remaining barriers to the Arcelor-Mittal Steel merger came down as the Luxembourg government and Arcelor's largest shareholder pledged to back the deal. Luxembourg, once one of Mittal's staunchest critics, said it supported the 26 billion eur...
881 2006-06-28 The French government's self-imposed deadline to resolve the situation at EADS passed with no resolution of who would take over as chairman in a restructuring. Adding to the uncertainty, EADS, formally the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Com...
882 2006-06-28 RELIANCE INDUSTRIES, a major energy company in India, said it would expand into retailing there, selling goods like food, clothes and home furnishings.    SARITHA RAI (NYT)...
883 2006-06-28 KPMG RULING In a case involving KPMG, a federal judge ruled that a tactic used by prosecutors to crack down on corporate corruption violated the constitutional rights of employees, a decision that may change the way the government pursues white-co...
884 2006-06-28 BABB--Handel McCartney. Beloved friend and family member, passed away on June 25, 2006. Mr. Babb was a customs traffic manager for Vandegrift Forwarding Company, a valued employee for 47 years. He was born on September 5, 1929 in Colon Replublic o...
885 2006-06-28 To the Editor:     Re ''It Died for Us,'' by Frank Bruni (Critic's Notebook, Week in Review, June 25):     There is no ethical difference between eating a dog, cat, chicken, pig or fish. If anything, eating your dogs or cats would be morally prefe...
886 2006-06-29 Fernando Alonso in today's press conference at Indianapolis in preparation for Sunday's U.S. Grand Prix: "Indianapolis, for sure, will be the most difficult race in all the championship for us. The car was never competitive here. We don't know why...
887 2006-06-29 More than a year after tumbling into bankruptcy protection, the supermarket chain Winn-Dixie Stores has detailed its plan to climb back out again. Its proposed Chapter 11 reorganization, filed with the bankruptcy court on Thursday, would turn Winn...
888 2006-06-29 Nearly everything in a bankruptcy case becomes part of the public record, and that includes the hourly rates charged by some of the nation's top lawyers. The Daily Report, a legal newspaper based in Georgia, has taken advantage of that fact by rou...
889 2006-06-29 New shows in New York include "Macbeth" and "Trouble in Paradise."...
890 2006-06-29 Wednesday's testimony by Demetrios Anifantis, one of the speakers at the Senate Judiciary Committee's controversial hearings on hedge funds, is creating some controversy of its own. Financial columnist Herb Greenberg is among those who are asking ...
891 2006-06-29 I've switched my membership from Netflix to Blockbuster's DVD-by-mail service, but I have to tell you a Netflix customer service story that made my mind boggle....
892 2006-06-29 The Securities and Exchange Commission's hedge-fund regulation program "has entered a state of limbo" in the wake of last week's Court of Appeals decision to vacate the so-called Hedge Fund Rule, according to a newsletter from the law firm Wachtel...
893 2006-06-29 When I reviewed DVD-by-mail services awhile back, I pointed out that Netflix is the service, speed and selection king. Blockbuster's DVD-by-mail service took second place in every category but one: value. The mail service cost much the same as Netflix--but included coupons for two *additional* free rentals each month at one of Blockbuster's physical stores. (The plans have changed slightly--in fact, most of Blockbuster's DVD-by-mail plans include *four* free in-store rentals a month now.)

Convinced by my own logic, I actually switched my own membership to Blockbuster. Although the service was soundly maligned by members at the time (March 2005), I was swayed by those free in-store coupons. We have three kids, and sometimes things just come up. Some event gets rained out, one of us has a hard day, or whatever; sometimes, it's nice to just dash over to the video store spontaneously (ours is only five minutes away) to pick up a DVD instead of ordering it via mail. We've really gotten incredible mileage out of these free coupons--and Blockbuster's service, speed and selection have closed a huge amount of its gap with Netflix.But I have to tell you a Netflix customer-service story that made my mind boggle.

Back when I was a member, I wound up losing "The Last Samurai" DVD. Couldn't find it.

Netflix's Web site makes it simple to report such a lost disc. You're charged a flat $20 for the loss--but the site makes it clear that if the disc ever turns up, you can return it and they'll give your money back. I thought that was a pretty excellent policy.

So guess what? Last week I found "The Last Samurai" (or maybe I should say "The *Lost* Last Samurai"). But I haven't been a Netflix member for over a year!

"That's no problem at all, sir. Just mail us back the DVD, and we'll credit your credit card," the guy told me.I cleared my throat nervously. "Well, um, here's the wrinkle: I'm not a customer Netflix anymore. I left in March 2005."

"That's still not a problem. Mail it back, and we'll refund your $20."
894 2006-06-29 Genworth Financial of Richmond, Va., said on Thursday it has agreed to acquire AssetMark Investment Services, an investment adviser with more than $8 billion in assets under management, for $230 million. AssetMark is based in Pleasant Hill, Calif....
895 2006-06-29 With the increased incentive of dividend recaps, buyout firms are bidding up prices and adding leverage right up to the point when the market turns. Breakingviews has a look at the recent Hertz LBO along with this week's $13.7 billion bid for Univ...
896 2006-06-29 A switch/router vendor, Foundry Networks, and a security specialist, VeriSign, are the latest companies to be sucked into the growing scandal over so-called stock option backdating. Broadcom, Juniper Networks, SafeNet, and Vitesse Semiconductor ar...
897 2006-06-29 A former investigator for the Securities and Exchange Commission, Gary J. Aguirre, told Congress on Wednesday how senior S.E.C. officials gave in to what he described as political pressure and stopped his investigation of suspected insider trading...
898 2006-06-29 Companies found guilty of anti-competitive practices will face multi-billion euro fines or more than 10 times the current tariffs for abusing their monopoly and taking part in cartels, under new guidelines adopted by the European commission yester...
899 2006-06-29 Goldman Sachs plans to buy a stake in India's National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange to gain from a surge in trading in Asia's second-fastest growing major economy, Bloomberg News reported. Goldman will buy the stake from ICICI Bank, India's se...
900 2006-06-29 WASHINGTON -- Urged anew by Nancy Reagan, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist on Thursday revived a bill to expand funding for embryonic stem cell research after conservatives who had blocked it withdrew their objections.

"It's my intention now that we've gotten over this first hurdle that we will (vote on the bill) in the not too distant future," Frist said as he brought the three-bill package to the floor.

"We'll do this before we get out of here for the October break?" asked Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada.

The announcement marked a major advance for a bill -- one supported by about 70 percent of Americans -- that had been stalled in the Senate since the House passed it in May 2005. Frist was still untangling objections from at least two senators that blocked the bill up to a few moments before he brought the package to the floor, according to officials close to the talks who requested anonymity because they had not been authorized to speak publicly.

The bill is expected to pass. But for all the progress, President Bush's veto threat remained, said White House spokesman Ken Lisaius.
901 2006-06-29 Severstal's owner, Aleksei Mordashov, may drop his bid for a stake in Arcelor and accept 140 million euros ($175 million) in compensation, according to a report on Reuters, quoting the Russian daily Vedomosti. Mr. Mordashov is expected to announce...
902 2006-06-29 Years of jockeying to combine two of the world's biggest music companies, the EMI Group and the Warner Music Group, has escalated with the two now bidding to take over each other. Despite a deadlock over rejected counter-offers of about $4.6 billi...
903 2006-06-29 The young men and women who challenged segregation as Freedom Riders in the spring and summer of 1961 are now senior citizens....
904 2006-06-29 "It is tempting to describe the joga bonita campaign as something along the lines of football having its soul sold back to it for the price of a £49.95 T-shirt."...
905 2006-06-29 Ms. Crnkovich said, without providing more details, that the United States Park Service had helped in the recovery of the equipment, which will be tested further by F.B.I. officials here.

The veterans' personal information was stored on a laptop computer and detachable hard drive that were stolen in a burglary on May 3 from the home of an agency employee in Aspen Hill, Md. Some V.A. officials learned of the theft almost immediately, but Mr. Nicholson was not notified until May 16.

Because of the delay, the F.B.I. did not find out about the incident until about two weeks after the burglary, which was under investigation by the police in Montgomery County, Md.

Officials at the veterans agency have said the employee violated department procedure by taking the information home. But The Associated Press reported Wednesday night that agency documents show he had approval to work on his laptop from home.

A spokesman for the agency, Matt Burns, said that the employee had been put on administrative leave while the V.A. sought his dismissal. He declined to comment on the report by The A.P. "because it is an ongoing personnel matter, and am prohibited by privacy laws from discussing specifics of the proposed action."

Mr. Nicholson has said he wanted to dismiss the worker outright but was told he could not because of job-protection rights held by federal employees.

The records involved in the matter included names, dates of birth and Social Security numbers for millions of people, although the exact number has not been clear. At first, the department said information on about 26.5 million veterans was affected. But it then said that number included those on active duty as well as veterans.

Last week, the agency lowered the number of people at risk to about 17.5 million, saying that the earlier estimate had not taken into account deaths and duplication of records.

The theft of the data and confusion about the scope of the breach have caused the department to be sharply criticized by veterans groups — several have joined a class-action lawsuit over the theft — and lawmakers on Capitol Hill.

Representative Steve Buyer, Republican of Indiana and chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, said he hoped the recovery of the computer would allow veterans to "breathe a sigh of relief." But he added that it would not diminish the importance of the committee's oversight of the department's handling personal information.

"We will hold the V.A. responsible and accountable," Mr. Buyer said.

The chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, Larry E. Craig, an Idaho Republican, said in a statement that recovery of the equipment was "wonderful for veterans and active duty personnel," adding: "We have all learned, as well, that serious changes are needed in data protection government-wide."

The department offered to pay for a year of free credit monitoring for the veterans, which it said would cost about $160.5 million. The department said last week that it would cover most of that cost by taking money from accounts that pay health and other benefits for veterans.

The department has withdrawn that plan, in part, because of outcry from Democrats. The director of the White House Office of Management, Rob Portman, suggested on Wednesday that the department seek to pay for such monitoring with about $130 million from a food stamp employment and training program, a farmers' assistance program, student loans and a program for young people released from prison.

The department has already spent millions of dollars to send warning letters to people who might be affected by the theft of the computer and to operate a telephone call-in center for concerned veterans.

Asked whether the department would carry out its plan for monitoring now that the data has been recovered, the V.A. spokesman, Mr. Burns, said the "next steps are going to be determined after receiving additional information on law enforcement's analysis of the recovered equipment."
906 2006-06-29 But it also acknowledged that the economy is slowing down, that the housing market has cooled and that strong growth in productivity had prevented a significant rise in labor costs.

Most importantly, the Fed talked about the need for additional rate increases in the most tentative language it has used since it began raising rates almost exactly two years ago.

"The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for inflation and economic growth," the central bank said. In May, by contrast, the Fed declared that "some additional firming may yet be needed."

That was enough to cheer Wall Street. The Dow industrials rose 217.24 points, or 2 percent, to close at 11,190.80. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 26.87 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,272.87. The Nasdaq composite index jumped 62.54 points, or 3 percent, to 2,174.38.

"People were expecting something very consistent with the hawkish rhetoric we had heard earlier," said Richard Berner, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley. "People were pricing in a more hawkish statement."

Bond prices also rose, but more modestly than stocks, and interest rates on long-term Treasury securities edged down. The dollar fell against major currencies, as foreign investors changed their calibrations for interest rates in the United States.

"This is a slightly softer statement than had been expected," said Stuart Hoffman and Richard Moody, economists with PNC Financial, in a research note. They added that the Fed "has given themselves the latitude to take no action at their Aug. 8 meeting."

Wall Street had been anxiously awaiting the Fed's decision, both because of uncertainty about its new chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and about the often-contradictory signals emanating from the economy itself.

Inflation has crept up noticeably in the past six months, in part because of the recent spike in energy prices but also because of increases in prices for housing. At the same time, the economy seems to have slowed significantly from the torrid growth rate during the first three months of this year.

Today, the government released its final estimate of growth in the first quarter and elevated the its growth estimate to an annual pace of 5.6 percent, from 5.3 percent, far above the pace that most economists consider sustainable without inflation.

But analysts dismissed the higher growth number as old news. Job creation has slowed sharply in the past three months, to an average of about 125,000 jobs per month, and sank to only 75,000 additional jobs in May.

Though housing starts have bumped up and down in recent months, the inventories of unsold homes have grown much larger in the past year and sales prices are climbing far more slowly. Construction employment fell sharply last month, and there are signs that consumer spending has slowed as a result of high gasoline prices and fewer cash-out home refinancings.

"The central bank is caught in the middle," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at Decision Economics. "This statement is a cautious tip-toeing between a moderating economy and elevated core inflation."
907 2006-06-29 "The government is going to initiate a dialogue with ETA," the prime minister said, but without violating "the principle that political questions can only be resolved by the legitimate representatives of the popular will."

"The process of pacifying and normalizing the Basque Country is a task for all the political forces," Mr. Zapatero added. "It is going to be a long, hard, and difficult process."

Mr. Zapatero has offered only vague descriptions of what the government will discuss with ETA during the talks, which officials refuse to describe as negotiations, preferring the word "dialogue."

The broad goal is to persuade ETA to hand over its weapons and dissolve, according to Spanish officials. But it is unclear what the government is willing to offer to achieve its objective.

Mr. Zapatero said today that "this democracy will pay no political price for achieving peace," a phrase he has used repeatedly in various forms since the cease-fire but without elaborating on what would or would not constitute such a price.

His aides have said that the government would be willing to discuss minor concessions during the talks, like the transfer of ETA prisoners to jails that are closer to the Basque region. Many ETA prisoners are held outside the region to inhibit them from conspiring with other Basque inmates to commit further crimes.

But government officials have said little about the more contentious issues that are expected to come up during the talks — like the freeing of ETA prisoners if they agree to renounce violence.

ETA says that the prisoners are political dissidents who deserve to be freed, especially since armed conflict has ceased. The group also says it will disarm only if the Spanish government agrees to acknowledge that the Basque region has the right to secede from Spain, a condition Mr. Zapatero has rejected.

The president of the Popular Party, Mariano Rajoy, criticized Mr. Zapatero's decision to open the talks, saying that the government should not agree to a meeting until ETA has disarmed and promised to disband.

"Any person understands that you cannot negotiate with someone who has such a decisive negotiating weapon as a pistol," Mr. Rajoy told a news conference in Madrid today. "Under these conditions, we cannot lend our support to the process that the government has opened."

Mr. Rajoy also denounced signals from officials in Mr. Zapatero's Socialist Party that the separatist political party, Batasuna, which has been outlawed on charges that it is controlled by ETA, may be allowed to participate in a different set of talks that the government is to hold on the political future of the Basque region.

"If you talk politics with Batasuna, you are talking politics with ETA," Mr. Rajoy said. "The terrorists will have won, because they will have achieved their objective, which was a political negotiation."

"Terrorism would become a useful tool in politics in Spain forever," he added.

Since its founding in 1959, ETA — whose acronym stands for the Basque phrase Euskadi Ta Askatasuna, or Basque Homeland and Liberty — has killed more than 800 people in its campaign to establish an independent Basque state in northern Spain and southern France. Its last killing was in May 2003.

Critics of Mr. Zapatero say that the group had been so heavily weakened by police crackdowns that it would have expired on its own if the prime minister had not decided in May 2005 to offer talks in exchange for a cease-fire.

Now, critics say, the group has gone from a point of imminent collapse to a position where it can demand concessions from the government at the negotiating table.

Mr. Zapatero's decision to offer talks, nevertheless, was widely praised when the group responded with a permanent cease-fire in March.

Spanish officials said that Mr. Zapatero had not opened the talks before today because he was waiting for assurances from Spanish security forces that ETA's cease-fire was legitimate. They said he also wanted time to try to persuade the Popular Party to support his decision.

Today's announcement opens a lengthy process of discussions over the Basque region that is expected to dominate Spanish politics at least through the end of the year, and probably well into the next.

The Basque region's numerous peaceful separatists and supporters of loosening ties with Madrid have hailed the ETA cease-fire as a chance to aggressively pursue more autonomy, saying that their demands have been unfairly tarnished in the past by associations with ETA.

The cease-fire, they say, will undercut efforts to portray government concessions to their demands as appeasement to terrorism
908 2006-06-29 Mr. Aguirre said he sought the testimony of Mr. Mack, who now runs Morgan Stanley, because Mr. Aguirre suspected him of possibly leaking nonpublic information to Pequot Capital Management, in advance of a major corporate merger. Mr. Aguirre did not say, and was not asked, what led him to suspect that Mr. Mack leaked information. Mr. Mack is a longtime acquaintance of Mr. Samberg.

A spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, Jeanmarie McFadden, said, "No one has provided any evidence that Mr. Mack has engaged in any wrongdoing, and Mr. Aguirre provided none today." Morgan Stanley said Mr. Mack was never contacted by the S.E.C.

Mr. Aguirre, a former California trial lawyer, was fired in September after working at the S.E.C. for about a year.

Two other Senate committees are investigating why the agency would fire him only days after awarding him a two-step merit raise and after praising his work on the hedge fund investigation.

After the hearing, the committee's chairman, Arlen Specter, Republican from Pennsylvania, said he wanted to see the e-mail messages before passing judgment on Mr. Aguirre's credibility. "He has commented on a fair amount of documentation to corroborate what he says," Senator Specter said. "Nothing like a contemporaneous document to corroborate testimony."

Mr. Aguirre said he had provided the documents as part of a 42-page sworn statement and 46 supporting exhibits presented to the Senate Banking Committee, which has jurisdiction over the S.E.C. Senator Specter said he would ask the Banking Committee to see the correspondence.

Although it is unclear to what extent Mr. Aguirre's firing may have interrupted the S.E.C.'s inquiry, government officials who have been briefed on the case say the investigation of Pequot is continuing.

A Pequot spokesman, Jonathan Gasthalter, said all of its trades had been proper and were not based on insider information. "Mr. Aguirre has still failed to produce a shred of evidence," Mr. Gasthalter said, "to support his unfounded allegations against Pequot."

In addition to hearing from Mr. Aguirre, the Judiciary Committee listened to witnesses describe how they believe that hedge funds are manipulating the market by colluding with certain securities analysts to drive down stock prices of certain companies. Such action benefits short sellers, who bet that stock values will drop.

Marc E. Kasowitz, a senior partner of Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman, a New York law firm, said he represented clients who had been harmed by hedge funds.

"Companies have been targets of a pattern of egregious collusion between certain influential hedge funds," Mr. Kasowitz said, "and supposedly independent analysts — whose research, in effect, was bought and paid for by the hedge funds."

Mr. Aguirre said his supervisors at the S.E.C. had backed his investigation of Pequot until shortly after he received a call from a Morgan Stanley compliance officer on June 23, 2005 — the day newspapers reported that Mr. Mack was being considered to run Morgan Stanley.

"Are you going to proceed against Mr. Mack?" Mr. Aguirre said he was asked by the Morgan Stanley officer. "We don't want him to step in as C.E.O. if there is going to be a securities case brought against him."

Mr. Aguirre, who only wanted to take Mr. Mack's deposition, said he discussed the Morgan Stanley inquiry with his superiors at the S.E.C. But, he said, after one regulatory official remarked, "I think we've got to let them know," another official overruled him and nothing was said.

People with knowledge of the agency's position have said that S.E.C. officials did not believe that Mr. Aguirre made a strong enough case for taking Mr. Mack's deposition.

Mr. Aguirre said he was told the deposition could not be taken because Mr. Mack had "very powerful political connections." Mr. Aguirre did not specify what those connections were, but Mr. Mack, in addition to his prominence on Wall Street, was a major fund-raiser for President Bush.

Mr. Aguirre said that soon after getting the inquiry from Morgan Stanley, his investigation came to "a grinding halt." And he added: "Essentially I was left out of meetings, high-powered attorneys contacted my supervisors."

The former prosecutor, Mary Jo White, now a lawyer at Debevoise & Plimpton, has said Morgan Stanley's board hired her to vet Mr. Mack before he was named to run the company. Ms. White said she found no evidence of improper trading by him.

Mr. Aguirre told another Congressional committee that Ms. White had bypassed him when she called a high-ranking S.E.C. official to discuss Mr. Mack. Ms. White denies any meddling. "We never asked or suggested to anyone at the S.E.C. that any investigation be closed down," she said.

The S.E.C. declined to comment on Mr. Aguirre's testimony. Previously, Walter G. Ricciardi, the S.E.C.'s deputy director of enforcement, said that while he could not confirm the existence of an inquiry, no one had tried to exert improper influence.
909 2006-06-29 Wielding a combination of new medicines, better bed nets, old-fashioned pesticides and computer analysis to clean up the most afflicted areas, the smelter and its partners in business and government have turned malaria in one of its former hot spots into a manageable threat.

The results are a rare bright spot in fighting a parasitic killer that has thrived in the face of flawed, inadequate programs by African nations and international organizations.

Last year a United Nations task force singled out the joint effort, which today covers an area the size of Kentucky, as a model for a continent that still has nearly a million malaria deaths a year. The focused effort in southern Mozambique, experts say, may point the way toward a broader and more effective strategy.

The government of Equatorial Guinea and two American oil companies created a similar program three years ago on Bioko Island, whose offshore oil reserves are a magnet for foreign investors. In the June issue of the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, researchers reported initial declines in infection rates there as well.

"There is a trend in the direction of large-scale malaria control projects financed by the private sector," said Brian Sharp, who directs malaria research for the South African Medical Research Council, a quasi-governmental group that studies medical issues. "It is extremely pleasing to see."

Southern Mozambique's success, health specialists say, is rooted in two facts: a realization that malaria can be defeated only if campaigns are taken on regionwide, and a commitment by business and government to put up money and wage war until the disease reaches a tipping point of retreat.

"This is the first time in Mozambique we have used the private sector," said the country's deputy health minister, Avertino Barreto. "The results have been terribly good."

Absences at the plant, once affecting nearly a fifth of the work force, are down to 1 percent. The plant has expanded and doubled its production in the last three years. Even attendance at the nearby primary school is up, officials say.

"We are not suffering from this disease any more here," said Mr. Mesquita, a boyish-looking metallurgical engineer of 47 who greets visitors in a worker's gray jumpsuit.

Malaria is estimated to shave up to 1.3 percent off Africa's growth annually, a cost of roughly $12 billion a year. Health officials here say it remains Mozambique's leading cause of absenteeism and death, even with the advance of AIDS.

Hardly a family, farmer, small business or major investor is immune to malaria's impact. Some companies, like in the sugar cane and tobacco industries, have noted the smelter's success and are now eager to imitate it, if for no other reason than it makes rational economic sense.

Health surveys in the targeted areas in Swaziland and South Africa show that the incidence of malaria plummeted to fewer than 5 cases per 1,000 people last year, from as many as 66 cases per 1,000 in 1999.

In southern Mozambique, surveys show similarly huge drops. Nearly 9 in 10 children who lived near the smelter were infected in 1999. By last June, that had fallen to about 2 in 10, according to the South African Medical Research Council.

The malaria control effort now covers an area that is home to four million people and is expanding with the help of $21 million in grants from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis. Still, it reaches only a fraction of Mozambique's population, and health experts say a much greater effort is necessary.

The continent missed out on the all-out effort to eradicate malaria that killed off the disease in southern Europe, North America and other parts of the world some 50 years ago. Even though international donations to fight malaria more than doubled from 1998 to 2002, sub-Saharan Africa needs three times as much money as it now spends, the World Health Organization estimates.

Indeed, the health organization says, malaria became even deadlier in the 1990's in southern and eastern Africa, partly because of weaker efforts to control it and growing resistance to common malaria drugs.

Children were the most vulnerable: in the 1980's, fewer than one in five deaths among children under 5 in those regions was blamed on malaria. By the late 1990's the toll had climbed to more than one in three. In 2002, 40 percent of outpatients at Mozambique's clinics and 60 percent of children admitted to hospitals suffered from malaria.

For executives in charge of the aluminum smelter, it was obvious that the disease was far too prevalent to fight alone. Andre van der Bergh, regional health and safety adviser for BHP Billiton, the corporation formed when British-based Billiton merged with Australian-based BHP in 2001, estimates that malaria control issues ate up a third or more of his time until the project got off the ground.

"You cannot operate as an island," he said. "I certainly learned the value of partnerships."

The government was eager to cooperate. The smelter, known as Mozal — short for Mozambique aluminum — was an important symbol that Mozambique, after a devastating 17-year civil war, was open for business to foreign investors.

Across the border, South African officials were worried that malaria was scaring away tourists. South Africa and Swaziland agreed to join Mozambique in 1999 to fight malaria in the region.

Seventy percent of financing for the first three years came from a coalition of 145 South African businesses, which contributed $2.6 million, and BHP Billiton, which kicked in $1.2 million.

Clinics throughout southern Mozambique were supplied with more powerful medicines. The smelter alone distributed 6,141 bed nets — the newest of which repel mosquitoes for five years. And house-to-house indoor spraying of insecticides was begun, including the targeted use of DDT, which remains controversial.

Fears that uncontrolled outdoor spraying of DDT would contaminate ecosystems led many nations, including the United States, to ban the pesticide.

Dr. Barreto of the Health Ministry argues that Mozambique should stick to more expensive pesticides that are less risky for the environment. But his superiors were swayed by the World Health Organization's approval of DDT's limited use for malaria control and by South Africa's resumption of its use in 2000 after a four-year break, during which malaria resurged.

Dr. Barreto said the government now planned to apply the indoor spraying of pesticides throughout the country. One day recently, a team of four sprayers hiked down the dirt paths of a neighborhood in Patrice Lumumba, a settlement on the outskirts of Maputo. At nearly every house, residents had a tale of malaria.

Jacinto Maela, 38, a laboratory analyst, hauled buckets of corn and water into his dirt yard. "This is very welcome," he said, "because we suffer a lot from malaria. I have had it three times. The last time, I was off work for three weeks."

Tvete Dimande, medical chief of Maputo's health department, said the campaign's impact was obvious at the clinics. "Previously the hospitals were filled with malaria cases," she said. "People were lying everywhere. Now that number is being reduced."

"They should have done this a long time ago," she said.
910 2006-06-29 Much of the market's unusual pricing dynamic is a result of the fact that the surgeon choosing the device typically does not have to pay for it — the hospital is responsible for the bill. Insurers typically reimburse hospitals a fixed amount for any given procedure like a hip replacement, and the hospitals purchase the devices implanted during the surgery.

Device companies have long courted the affections of the doctors through consulting agreements and the like, and many doctors are able to insist that the hospital where they perform surgeries must pay whatever it costs to purchase their favorite brand.

A surgeon performing a hip procedure can expect to receive about the same fee from Medicare — $1,700, say — no matter the device he or she chooses. But Mr. Nudell's survey found that hospitals might have to pay anywhere from $2,000 to $9,000 for the artificial hip, which would have a significant impact on how much it might profit or lose money on any given operation.

Most hospitals he surveyed relied on a single vendor to supply half or more of the joints they used. His study included a mix of community and teaching hospitals, performing some 60,000 major joint operations a year.

Mr. Nudell is predicting that the financial pressure on hospitals and the publicity over pricing will end the era in which device makers have felt free to raise prices every year because the hospitals had no idea what their peers were paying.

The market's unusual dynamics appear to have caught the attention of federal officials, too. Within the last week, four companies — Biomet, Zimmer Holdings, Stryker and the DePuy unit of Johnson & Johnson — said that they had received subpoenas from the Justice Department's antitrust division related to the manufacture and sale of orthopedic devices. The companies all say they are cooperating.

The inquiry is in addition to a broad Justice Department investigation begun last year to examine the close financial ties between the doctors recommending the specific implants and the manufacturers.

The interest by federal offices places the device industry in "an at-risk situation," Mr. Nudell said in an interview. He recently lowered his recommendation on Biomet to underperform. And he recommends staying away from all the orthopedic supplier stocks, saying the other major companies — Stryker and Zimmer — are " 'dead money' for the foreseeable future."

Biomet traded yesterday at a 52-week low of $30.29, compared with its April high of $39.45. It closed yesterday at $31.50. Zimmer is also trading near its 52-week low, closing yesterday at $56.74. Stryker closed at $42.12, compared with a high of $56.32 last September.

As the cost of implants devours an ever-higher share of hospitals' reimbursements, and as the pricing disparities receive greater publicity, hospital executives are growing increasingly concerned. Many of the purchasing managers surveyed mistakenly thought that they were getting better prices than their peers when, in fact, they were paying more.

"Transparency on these products is an inevitable reality and an inevitable requirement in order for the health care system to be increasingly competitive and efficient," said John A. Bardis, the chief executive of MedAssets, a consulting firm that works with hospitals. He says the average cost of an orthopedic implant now consumes anywhere from 40 to 80 percent of the payment a hospitals receives for an operation.

As health care costs continue to escalate, Mr. Bardis predicts hospitals and patients will demand more information about how much these devices cost.

Robin Young, the publisher and editor of the newsletter Orthopedics This Week, agrees. "There's serious pushback coming from the hospitals," he said, adding that manufacturers are likely to have to work with hospitals to reduce their costs as reimbursements continue to be flat or decline.

While there are still significant differences among hospitals' abilities to negotiate better deals on devices, consultants say they are becoming more sophisticated in their interactions with the manufacturers and are increasingly trying to enlist the support of the doctors. "I think hospitals are becoming more educated," said Joane H. Goodroe, a consultant in Norcross, Ga.

Still, Mr. Young says that device makers' high prices may end up being supported to some extent by consumers; for them, he says, artificial joints are a lifestyle purchase. Even if the hospital insists patients cover a greater share of the overall price, many of them may be willing to pay up to get sophisticated knees and hips that will keep them active longer.

"We don't know if the pricing isn't sustainable yet," he said.
911 2006-06-29 DILI, East Timor, June 28 — East Timor's prosecutor general said Wednesday that he had summoned the former prime minister for questioning over accusations that he was involved in arming hit squads that were ordered to strike at opponents of the governing party.

The prosecutor, Longuinhos Monteiro, also said he had enough evidence to proceed with an indictment of the former interior minister on charges of illegally supplying weapons to the groups.

The former prime minister, Mari Alkatiri, who resigned under pressure on Monday after four years as this nation's most powerful politician, had been asked to appear for questioning on Friday, Mr. Monteiro said in an interview.

The saga that is apparently spilling forth from the former interior minister, Rogério Lobato, and some of his subordinates who have also been interviewed by the prosecutors, portrays two of the most senior politicians of this tiny, four-year-old nation as arming a small group of former resistance fighters amid the collapse of the underpaid and poorly trained army and police force.

The information from the interviews reveals the deep fissures between the personalities and approaches at the top of an inexperienced government led by men who were in exile, like Mr. Alkatiri, or in prison, like President Xanana Gusmão, or in the bush during 24 years of Indonesian occupation.
912 2006-06-29 BERLIN, June 28 — Germany, one of the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases in Europe, announced changes Wednesday that would allow increases in its emissions — a move that is expected to be challenged by the European Commission.

The German cabinet decided to exclude the coal industry from the European Union's carbon trading program, under which companies must buy permits before they can release higher-than-mandated levels of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. The move could persuade other countries to loosen their controls, critics said.

Chancellor Angela Merkel, a Conservative, and her Social Democratic coalition partners agreed to cut Germany's emissions limit by nearly 3.4 percent from 2008 to 2012. But critics said the reductions would be ineffectual if coal — a source of some of the worst industrial pollutants — is excluded.

"The cabinet decision will send completely the wrong signal to the other member states," said Claudia Kemfert, an energy professor at the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin. "For all its support for a clean environment and the Kyoto Protocol, the cabinet decision is very disappointing. The energy lobbies have played a big role in this decision."

The European Commission supports the Kyoto Protocol on climate warming, an international treaty created to curb greenhouse gases. The commission said yesterday that it needed to study Germany's plan before commenting on it.
913 2006-06-29 WASHINGTON, June 28 (AP) — A Bristol-Myers Squibb drug received federal approval on Wednesday for the treatment of some leukemias where other drugs have failed.

The drug dasatinib, being sold under the brand name Sprycel, won Food and Drug Administration approval to treat all phases of chronic myeloid leukemia in patients with either resistance or intolerance to the drug Gleevec. Gleevec, made by Novartis, is used as a first-line therapy as well as when standard interferon-alpha therapy has failed.

Chronic myeloid leukemia accounts for 14 percent of adult leukemia cases, according to the agency.

Bristol-Myers also received full approval to sell Sprycel to treat Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia, again in cases where patients show resistance or intolerance to other treatments. Major safety issues with the Bristol-Myers drug include suppression of the bone marrow's ability to make blood cells, fluid retention, hemorrhage and an increased risk of arrhythmia, according to the F.D.A.
914 2006-06-29 An Interior Department official who has been linked to the disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff was charged in Federal District Court with filing a false financial disclosure report, a misdemeanor. The official, Roger G. Stillwell, handles the Northern Mariana Islands, a territory that hired Mr. Abramoff as a lobbyist. In interviews with The Washington Post last year, Mr. Stillwell said he had sent Mr. Abramoff copies of e-mail messages to his boss. He also told The Post that he accepted meals and tickets to Washington Redskins games from Mr. Abramoff. He said that was not wrong because at the time he was a contract employee of the Interior Department, not a federal employee.
915 2006-06-29 He defended unprotected sex as, at least, unavoidable.

Larry Kramer, Gabriel Rotello, Michelangelo Signorile and other prominent gay writers criticized such views as dangerously irresponsible, even with a decline in AIDS cases.

Dr. Rofes's outspokenness extended to comparing gay men in the time of AIDS to survivors of Nazi death camps. He wrote what may have been the first book on gay people and suicide, and he strongly criticized AIDS service organizations and anti-AIDS activists for what he saw as dogmatism and fostering a culture of terror.

When testifying to the National Commission on AIDS in San Francisco in 1991, he wore leather chaps, vest and gloves to suggest that sexual expression took many forms.

Eric Edward Rofes was born on Aug. 31, 1954, in Brooklyn. He grew up in Commack on Long Island. Dr. Rofes graduated from Harvard in 1976.

In the 70's, he was one of the so-called Boston Mafia who founded the Gay Community News and the Boston Lesbian and Gay Political Alliance. In an article he wrote last year for White Crane, a quarterly intended for gay men, he told of his joy in joining the emerging gay culture.

"Gay was good," he wrote. "Gay was very good. Gay was excellent."

In that period, he taught sixth grade in public school until he was fired for being openly gay. He then taught for five years at the Fayerweather Street School in Cambridge, Mass. He and his students published three books on young adults' perspectives, including "The Kids' Book of Divorce: By, for and About Kids" (1981).

In 1985, he was hired as executive director of the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center. After moving to San Francisco in 1989, he headed the Shanti Project, an AIDS service group.

Dr. Rofes received his master's from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1995 and his doctorate in 1998. He had taught at Humboldt State University in Arcata, Calif., since 1999.

His research subjects included charter schools and schoolyard bullies, and he consistently used his own experience and research to document the changes in gay culture from the time before AIDS to the disease's epidemic proportions to what is happening now.

"Dr. Rofes's contribution is unique in the continuity it provides with the political movements of the late 1970's, before the derailment that occurred in the early 1980's as a result of AIDS," The Gay Community News wrote in 1996.

Dr. Rofes brought detailed descriptions of his own experiences, including explicitly sexual ones, to his work, as well as stark emotions.

The Harvard Gay and Lesbian Review, in reviewing "Dry Bones" in 1999, suggested that it "is at root not about AIDS at all, but about what AIDS took away from him and his generation, what it left him with, and what he's doing with his anger about the theft."

Surviving are his partner of 16 years, Crispin Hollings of San Francisco; a brother, Peter, of Milwaukee; and a sister, Paula Casey-Rofes.
916 2006-06-29 The probate judge overseeing the estate of Andrew M. Kissel appointed the uncle of Mr. Kissel's widow yesterday as executor in accordance with the dead man's will. Judge David Hopper essentially dismissed objections raised by lawyers for William Kissel, Andrew Kissel's father, saying the father was not named as an heir and lacked standing to bring a legal challenge. Andrew Kissel, who was found fatally stabbed on April 3, left behind a long line of creditors that include his former business partner, his lenders, title insurance companies and his wife, Hayley, who was in the midst of divorce proceedings when he died.
917 2006-06-29 Parliament's lower house gave preliminary approval to amendments that would expand the definition of extremism, a measure critics say is so broadly worded that it could allow the authorities to quash political and public protests. The amendments, if adopted in two additional votes, would label as extremist those who "impede the activities of state bodies" or organize or take part in public disturbances, according to news reports. It would also apply to "public slander" of state officials. The measures would allow the authorities to disqualify political parties or, in extreme cases, prosecute violators.
918 2006-06-29 Herman I. Merinoff, who transformed his family's liquor distribution business into a company with more than $3 billion in annual revenue, died yesterday in Melville, N.Y. He was 77.

The cause was cancer of the pancreas, according to his business partner and corporate counsel, Andrew Crisses.

Mr. Merinoff was co-chairman of the Charmer-Sunbelt Group of Manhattan, one of the region's three major liquor distributorships. He joined the family liquor distribution business in 1959 with a plan to expand it beyond the city.

Along with his wife, Susan Kletz Merinoff, whom he married in 1965, Mr. Merinoff endowed a research center at the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y., near the couple's home in Lake Success, called the Susan and Herman Merinoff Center for Patient-Oriented Research. Mr. Merinoff also served on the state commission overseeing the 1964-65 World's Fair in Queens.

Herman Irwin Merinoff was born on Oct. 28, 1928, in Manhattan, a son of Charles and Gertrude Merinoff. He was graduated from the Fieldston School, Syracuse University and Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of the law review.

After law school, Mr. Merinoff joined the Manhattan firm of Chadbourne, Parke, Whiteside, Wolff & Brophy, then became an assistant federal prosecutor in Manhattan.

When Mr. Merinoff joined the family business, it was called the Blue Crest Wine and Spirits Corporation and operated mostly in New York. Mr. Merinoff expanded it to 16 states and the District of Columbia.
919 2006-06-29 Irving A. Berk, who as founder of the Berk Trade and Business School in New York supervised the training of plumbers, electricians, car mechanics and secretaries for 65 years, died on June 16 at his home in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. He was 100.

His death was announced by his son Joel, of Tenafly, N.J.

Mr. Berk opened his school in 1940 in a storefront on Atlantic Avenue in Downtown Brooklyn, and expanded it five years later when it moved into a nearby converted tenement building. He helped hundreds of returning World War II veterans find work after receiving training paid for under the G.I. Bill. Eventually, the Berk school had four branches, two in Brooklyn and two in Manhattan, with a significantly expanded curriculum.

"He defined the need for job training by proprietary schools right after World War II," said David Brieff of the New York State Education Department's bureau of proprietary school supervision, which monitors trade schools. "He was one of the pioneers in the nondegree-granting sector that provides training in the trades."

Irving Arthur Berk was born on Jan. 11, 1906, and was a year old when his parents, Chaim and Rachel Bercovic, arrived from Bucharest, Romania. A clerk on Ellis Island promptly changed their name.

The Berks first lived on the Lower East Side, then moved to Coney Island. After high school, while working as a plumber, Mr. Berk went to night school at New York University, graduating in 1936, and earned a master's degree in education there two years later.

The original Berk school taught nothing but plumbing. Electrical installation was added when the school moved to its second building. Later the curriculum expanded to include auto mechanics, building administration, business administration, accounting, secretarial training, computer applications, English as a second language, medical billing, and even the taking of blood for transfusions or tests. About 10,000 students have earned certificates.
920 2006-06-29 Re "It's Goalkeeper vs. Bookkeeper as I.R.S. Discovers Youth Soccer" (news article, June 25):

When my mother coached my soccer team 25 years ago, she piled players into her station wagon and drove us to a nearby town to play.

After the game, she'd take us for ice cream, whether we had won or not.

Now that I'm a soccer coach, I wish it were that simple.

As my kids move up through the soccer leagues, I fear the future: a future filled with games halfway across the state, professional coaching and year-round practices.

I worry that it's too much pressure on my kids and on me, both as a mom and as a coach.

No wonder the Internal Revenue Service is interested in youth soccer: it's big business and not necessarily big fun. Jen Singer
921 2006-06-29 It's an iPod world, and that makes Apple's popular music player a target for thieves. Police departments around the country have reported a surge in thefts of iPods and other portable music players, and the New York Police Department says iPod robberies have helped push up crime statistics in the subway.

To foil iPod snatchers, Targus recently introduced the Mobile Security Lock for iPod. The company makes many security devices for computers, the most common being a steel cable and lock that attach to the security slot found on just about every laptop.

IPods do not have a security slot, so Targus is making use of the docking connector to help secure them. The Targus device has a thick plastic case that can be tied, clipped or strapped to a backpack, belt or purse. A combination lock, which is attached to the case by a cable, pops out of the case's center and hooks into the dock connector.

The lock, available at www.targus.com, sells for about $40. It will soon be available at the usual online stores and major electronic outlets. Perhaps it will help wipe out one form of music theft.
922 2006-06-29 But if you can get past that philosophical hurdle, you may be pleasantly surprised. For its target market of nontechnical people, OneCare turns out to be quite good.

The service costs $50 a year, which, remarkably, covers up to three computers. You can download the software portion from onecare.com, or buy it in a box from a computer store.

OneCare is designed to automate five areas of PC life:

VIRUS PROTECTION According to Microsoft's market research, 80 percent of Windows users believe that they have up-to-date antivirus software — but in fact, only 33 percent do.

Like rival antivirus programs, OneCare constantly watches over your PC for the arrival of new viruses. When it spots one in a document (that you open in an e-mail message, for example), it quarantines the file in a protected folder where it can do no harm. It alerts you to the problem and offers to try a cleanup of the document.

OneCare updates its own database of viruses daily. (Microsoft says it belongs to the same virus information-sharing cooperative as Symantec, McAfee and other antivirus companies.) The final version of OneCare caught 100 percent of "in the wild" viruses in testing by Virus Bulletin.

SPYWARE Similarly, OneCare also detects and offers to remove spyware — programs that are designed to display pop-up ads, change your Internet settings, transmit information behind your back and so on.

Spyware protection is a nice feature to have, although not worth paying for; behind the scenes, it's just Windows Defender, a free Microsoft program. It may also be OneCare's weakest feature; in PC Magazine tests, OneCare missed a quarter of its 24 spyware programs. (Microsoft calls the magazine's test method "unfair," pointing out that the particular spyware programs tested were extremely rare and obscure. The company also points out that Windows Defender itself is still in beta testing, and will steadily improve.)

BACKUP Let's face it: backing up is a pain. Even if you've gone to the trouble of buying a backup hard drive, remembering to back up your data and bothering to do it routinely is a hassle. (Windows XP Home Edition comes with a backup program, but you have to install it manually, and it's painfully crude.) No wonder that, according to Microsoft's research, 9 out of 10 PC owners don't regularly back up their files.

OneCare can perform either complete or incremental backups (a faster method that copies only files that are new or changed since the last backup) — automatically, unattended, on a regular schedule. Alas, this stunt requires an external U.S.B. hard drive; flash drives, internal drives, FireWire drives and network drives need not apply.

You can also back up onto blank CD's or DVD's, although that, of course, is not something OneCare can do unattended. You have to sit there and feed it blanks.

If tragedy should befall your hard drive, OneCare's Restore function reverses the procedure.

UPDATES Windows XP already auto-downloads Microsoft security patches, but OneCare also auto-downloads patches for other Microsoft programs. The day you install it, you may be startled to see how many security fixes for Microsoft Office you've missed.

TUNEUP Either on command or on a schedule, OneCare gives your computer a tuneup. It defragments your hard drive (reconstitutes files that have been subdivided on the hard-drive surface for faster access), deletes temporary files and other detritus (to reclaim disk space), runs a virus scan, checks for Microsoft updates and backs up your stuff.

FIREWALL A firewall is a gatekeeper that blocks hacker signals passing between the Internet and your PC. Windows XP's built-in firewall is only one way; it blocks only the incoming nastiness. OneCare's two-way firewall also stops signals sent by spyware on your machine.

Now, it's important to acknowledge the target audience for OneCare: nontechnical people who just want to set it and forget it. Once in place, OneCare is effortless; a little color-coded icon on your taskbar provides steady reassurance that all is well. (The icon glows green for good, yellow if it's time for a tuneup or backup, and red if you're offline and your virus database needs updating.)

But you could make the same point another way: by saying that OneCare doesn't offer much flexibility and control compared with its rivals. For example, your only options for scheduling the automated tuneup are every one, two, three or four weeks. It always runs at 1 a.m., and then only if your computer is left on. So if you're a geek or do-it-yourselfer, you can assemble a suite of tools that does everything OneCare does with more control and at far lower cost (though with far more effort).

It's worth noting, too, that installing OneCare can be exhausting. You must first uninstall all other security software. Installation requires Internet Explorer 6, Windows XP With Service Pack 2, and Microsoft Passport, which means signing up for a free Hotmail or MSN account.

It's also disappointing that OneCare does nothing to protect you from junk e-mail. (Microsoft claims that in developing OneCare, it conducted exhaustive research into what bugs PC users most. Incredibly, spam wasn't among the top responses, which kind of makes you wonder about the validity of the research.)

There are other security suites, of course. Norton Internet Security, for example, offers features that OneCare ignores, notably parental controls and a spam blocker. But it's more intrusive and cluttery, and it doesn't do backups, updates or tuneups. It also costs more ($70 plus $50 per annual renewal) — and that's for only one PC. McAfee Internet Security Suite is similar.

Most painful of all, Symantec charges $30 per tech-support question; McAfee charges $3 per minute. OneCare, by contrast, provides all the free phone, chat and e-mail help you can eat.

Better yet, OneCare upgrades are to be free and frequent. Microsoft says that all members will automatically get new features as the service is enhanced in the next few months. Improvements under consideration include more flexibility in backup disks, parental controls and anti-phishing tools. (Phishing is a common form of Internet fraud in which the bad guy sends you a fake notice about your bank, eBay or PayPal account; the goal is to trick you into supplying your account information.)

If it seems worth $50 a year to have PC security and maintenance taken off your hands, you have a decision to make. If you can't get past your indignation at Microsoft's double-dipping, you can wait until the end of the year, when Norton and McAfee, not to be outdone, will offer very similar services.

In the meantime, OneCare offers very good value, convenient automation and clean design — as long as you can accept the fact that you're buying Microsoft software to protect Microsoft software.
923 2006-06-29 Noël Forgeard, the co-chief executive of EADS, dismissed a French lawmaker's suggestion that he quit his post, even as the group's largest German shareholder stepped up the pressure for a quick solution to the company's management crisis. Marylis...
924 2006-06-29 GOOGLE PAYMENT SERVICE Google is introducing a service that will let users make purchases from online stores using payment and shipping information they keep on file with Google. [Page C1.]    ACCUSATIONS AGAINST BP Federal regulators charged that...
925 2006-06-29 Parliament's lower house gave preliminary approval to amendments that would expand the definition of extremism, a measure critics say is so broadly worded that it could allow the authorities to quash political and public protests. The amendments, ...
926 2006-06-29 Police in Bangalore confirmed that they had arrested an employee of the back-office unit of HSBC, the British bank, on charges of stealing customers' confidential data and helping defraud them of about $425,000. The employee, Nadeem Kashmiri, was ...
927 2006-06-29 To the Editor:      Re ''It's Goalkeeper vs. Bookkeeper as I.R.S. Discovers Youth Soccer'' (news article, June 25):...
928 2006-06-29 An Interior Department official who has been linked to the disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff was charged in Federal District Court with filing a false financial disclosure report, a misdemeanor. The official, Roger G. Stillwell, handles the Norther...
929 2006-06-30 Laurie Cumbo, founder and executive director Museum of Contemporary African Diasporan Arts, on the significance of having a museum in Brooklyn dedicated to African diasporan arts. (Produced by David Frank)
930 2006-06-30 Just in time for the pre-Fourth-of-July weekend, Eugene Plotkin, the former Goldman Sachs analyst charged with orchestrating an insider trading scheme, was expected to be freed on bail late Friday afternoon, his lawyer told DealBook. To refresh yo...
931 2006-06-30 Mangan & McColl Partners, a hedge fund founded by a former broker from Friedman Billings Ramsey and the son of former Bank of America chief executive Hugh McColl Jr., is closing its doors. The fund said it will shut down in July, citing a "reduced...
932 2006-06-30 One year after splitting from aerospace giant Boeing, aircraft parts maker Spirit AeroSystems is laying the groundwork for an initial public offering of stock. The company, backed by Canadian buyout firm Onex Partners, intends to raise as much as ...
933 2006-06-30 General Motors should strongly consider joining the partnership-alliance between Renault and Nissan Motor, shareholder activist Kirk Kerkorian said Friday in a letter to G.M. president Rick Wagoner. In the letter, sent by Mr. Kerkorian's Tracinda ...
934 2006-06-30 Lord Conrad Black and the newspaper publisher he once led, Hollinger International, won dismissal yesterday of most of a shareholder lawsuit accusing the company of inflating circulation figures. U.S. District Judge David Coar in Chicago threw out...
935 2006-06-30 Top Democrats on the U.S. House Financial Services Committee on Thursday unveiled a bill to reverse a recent court ruling that blocked efforts by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to force most U.S. hedge fund advisers to register with t...
936 2006-06-30 Aircraft maker and military contractor, The Boeing Company, announced yesterday that it would take second-quarter charges of up to $1.15 billion as a result of a settlement of ethics investigations with the federal government and delays in a surve...
937 2006-06-30 Apple Computer and its chief executive are likely to come under heavy scrutiny following the company's announcement yesterday that it had uncovered irregularities related to stock options awarded between 1997 and 2001. The move raises questions ab...
938 2006-06-30 There was a time when banks lured new customers with kitchen appliances and digital clocks. Now Credit Suisse Group, to promote its latest $1.5 billion private equity fund, has set its hook with vastly richer bait. According to a recent summary pr...
939 2006-06-30 Plant-nutrient and ethanol concern The Andersons has filed to publicly offer about 2.3 million shares of its common stock. Of that amount, the company will sell 2 million shares, while 280,000 shares will be sold by certain shareholders named in t...
940 2006-06-30 On Tuesday next week, Eros International, a well-known Indian film distribution company in Britain, will create history when it goes for a listing on the London Stock Exchange. The aim is to raise $100 million with shares offered initially only to...
941 2006-06-30 Deutsche Borse, thwarted in attempts to buy stock markets in London and Paris, approached the operator of the Spanish exchange about a possible combination. Deutsche Borse, owner of the Frankfurt stock exchange, wrote to Bolsas y Mercados on May 3...
942 2006-06-30 Warner Music demanded an inducement fee of up to 26 million pounds from EMI and failed to satisfy the British company's board that it had the financing to pull off its 2.6 billion pound counter-bid made earlier this week, according to The Times of...
943 2006-06-30 POINT PLEASANT, N.J., June 29 (AP) — Rescuers were searching Thursday night for two people who were missing after a tugboat and a shrimp boat collided in the Atlantic Ocean off Manasquan Inlet.

The collision, which occurred about six miles offshore, was reported around 8 p.m., said Ken Seebeck, a Coast Guard spokesman.

Coast Guard crews were helping in the search, and boats from the State Police Marine Bureau were heading to the scene, the authorities said.

The tugboat was towing a barge when it and the 68-foot wooden shrimp boat collided. The missing people were among four who had been on board the shrimp boat, Mr. Seebeck said.
944 2006-06-30 Democrats accused Republicans of engaging in media-bashing for political gain while practicing selective outrage since, they said, Republicans stayed largely silent on the White House disclosure of the identity of the C.I.A. operative Valerie Wilson. They also said the administration had repeatedly disclosed its determination to track money moving to terrorists.

"We are here today because there hasn't been enough red meat thrown at the Republican base just before the Fourth of July recess," said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts.

The House vote followed denunciations by President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney of the disclosure, a request for prosecution of the sources of the article and Times employees and calls to revoke their press credentials.

The Republican-written resolution did not identify any publication by name. But many of the resolution's backers said The Times had acted irresponsibly.

Representative David Dreier, Republican of California, said The Times had led other news outlets in deciding to publish classified material. He dismissed arguments that the disclosure served a public interest, saying the public would rather be safe from terrorists than "all-knowing" about antiterror efforts.

Bill Keller, executive editor of The Times, disputed the idea that the had paper acted cavalierly in its decision to reveal the program.

"If the members who voted for the resolution believe the press is insensitive to the risks of reporting on intelligence programs, they could not be more wrong," he said in a statement. "We take those risks very, very seriously." He said the paper had agreed in the past to withhold information when lives were at stake.

"However, the administration simply did not make a convincing case that describing our efforts to monitor international banking presented such a danger," he said. "Indeed, the administration itself has talked publicly and repeatedly about its successes in the area of financial surveillance."

Democrats complained that Republicans refused to allow a vote on a Democratic alternative, which supported tracking terror financing and raised concern about leaks of classified material, including the "names of clandestine service officers of the Central Intelligence Agency," a clear reference to the Valerie Wilson case.

Democrats said the Republican proposal made assertions about the antiterror effort that could not be known since Congress had conducted little or no oversight of it. The resolution declared that it "has been conducted in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations and executive orders, that appropriate safeguards and reviews have been instituted to protect individual liberties and that Congress has been appropriately informed and consulted."

The resolution said the House "expects the cooperation of all news media organizations in protecting the lives of Americans and the capability of the government to identify, disrupt and capture terrorists by not disclosing classified intelligence programs."

Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said Republicans were trying to stifle criticism of the administration, which he described as the most deceitful he had seen in his 50 years in Congress. Others said the administration was promoting democracy abroad while challenging a free press at home. "If anyone wants to live in a society where journalists are thrown in prison, I encourage them to move to Cuba, China or North Korea to see if they feel safer," said Representative Jane Harman, a California Democrat.
945 2006-06-30 Apple said one of the options grants being reviewed was made to Mr. Jobs. It did not elaborate but the grant appears to be one made in January 2000.

On Jan. 19, 2000, the company issued a news release announcing the stock option grant, for 10 million shares, effective Jan. 12. Those options would have carried a strike price of $87.19, the lowest closing price in the two months up to that date; by Jan. 19, the price had risen to $106.56.

"Steve's stock options were granted a week ago at the then-price, and will gain value only as Apple's stock price rises," said Jerome B. York, the former Chrysler executive and an Apple board member, in a regulatory filing dated Jan. 19.

At the time, it was not illegal or uncommon for companies to disclose stock option awards several days or even weeks after a grant was made. Since the corporate accountability law known as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 went into effect, companies are required to report stock option grants within two days.

Still, compensation specialists say that bottom-of-the-trough pricing methods raise troubling questions about disclosure practices, including potential backdating.

"If the company actually granted the options on Jan. 12 as Apple disclosed, then it wouldn't appear to be problematic," said Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant at the S.E.C. and a managing director at Glass, Lewis & Company, which advises institutional investors on corporate governance. "However, if the options had actually been granted at a later date when the stock price was higher than the Jan. 12 date, so as to give an extra benefit, then that could well mean trouble is brewing."

Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, said the company would not comment on the dating discrepancy or respond to any other questions. "We refrain from commenting on this matter until an independent investigation is concluded," he said.

Issuing discounted options is not illegal, and in fact, was allowed at the time according to Apple's own stock-option plan rules. But the practice is problematic because it undermines the link between pay and performance. It can also lead to violations of securities, accounting and tax laws.

And Mr. Jobs's case is somewhat unusual. In March 2003, with a decline in Apple's stock price having rendered the January 2000 options worthless, Mr. Jobs "voluntarily canceled" virtually all his outstanding stock options. That same month, the company's board awarded Mr. Jobs five million shares of Apple restricted stock, worth almost $75 million at the time of grant, that would not fully vest until 2006.

In its statement yesterday, Apple pointed out that the option grant in question was "subsequently canceled and resulted in no financial gain" to Mr. Jobs. That would potentially alleviate many of the tax issues surrounding the grant. But if there is evidence of backdating, compensation specialists say accounting and disclosure issues could remain.

"It's a pretty big grant to have a pricing problem with," said Brian Foley, an independent compensation consultant based in White Plains. "You are talking about a $190 million charge if they in fact made the grant on Jan. 19 but reported it on Jan. 12."

"The proxy did not disclose this as having priced at a discount," he added. Mr. Jobs was made several grants during the 1997-2001 period, but the January 2000 grant seems to be the one most likely to reveal irregularities. Regulatory filings show at least three grants during the period, but Mr. Foley noted that the others were not made at the lowest point in the month and were of much smaller amounts.

Apple's stock subsequently split twice, in 2000 and 2005. It fell almost 3 percent yesterday in after-hours trading, to $57.31.

Like many companies during the 1990's, Apple liberally doled out options to its executives and rank-and-file, often at favorable terms. For example, its rules allowed the company to reset the exercise price at a lower value if the options became worthless. Regulatory filings also show that the company swapped worthless options for lower-priced ones or restricted stock.

Meanwhile, Mr. Jobs, who took a $1 salary and a Gulfstream V jet in 2000, became a symbol of super-sized stock option grants.

Apple's announcement came as several other major technology companies acknowledged potential stock options problems. Yesterday, CA Inc., formerly known as Computer Associates, said it was delaying filing an annual report with the S.E.C. while it examined grants made to executives, and Intuit disclosed that it had received a subpoena from the United States attorney in Northern California related to stock option grants.

Earlier this month, Microsoft acknowledged that it had a policy for several years, until 1999, under which it granted options at the lowest price in a 30-day period to its rank-and-file employees. Microsoft's top executives, Bill Gates and Steven A. Ballmer, did not receive options during that period.Shaw Wu, a financial analyst with American Technology Research in San Francisco, said yesterday that investors had been concerned in recent weeks that Apple would be drawn into the stock option controversy, given its widespread use of options.

"It's been a market concern for the last month or so, because of all the companies that have been charged with backdating," Mr. Wu said.
946 2006-06-30 "These are the Tours you wait years and years to see," said John Eustice, a former United States pro cycling champion and now a television commentator and race promoter. Jonathan Vaughters, a former teammate of Armstrong's and now the race director of the United States-based TIAA-CREF team, echoed that, adding, "This race is going to be unpredictable — and very chaotic."

A court for sports arbitration in Lausanne, Switzerland, ruled yesterday that Tour officials could not force the Astana-Würth team to withdraw from the race. So Alexandre Vinokourov of Kazakhstan, who finished fifth last year and third in 2003, will remain in a field that has no clear favorite. Ivan Basso, the Italian rider for the CSC team who finished second last year, was the only man who could consistently keep pace with Armstrong last year on the Tour's steepest climbs. But some riders say Basso's form has suffered since he won the Giro d'Italia.

Jan Ullrich, the German anchor of the T-Mobile team, was third last year, has finished second five times and won only once, a record that seems to have created its own psychological burden. Two Americans, Floyd Landis of Phonak and Levi Leipheimer of Gerolsteiner, seem to have the fitness and the ability to win. And no fewer than three of Armstrong's former teammates are thought to have a shot at the podium when the 21-day race finishes in Paris on July 23.

Whoever wins, that rider is almost certain to face the questions that have dogged Armstrong since 1999, when he stunned the world, returning from death's door not only at peak physical condition but also with a seemingly different body. He was nearly 20 pounds lighter and had the lithe build of an expert in climbing mountains, rather than the muscular structure of a power rider, as he had previously been known.

In 1999 and over the six subsequent years, Armstrong was never found to have used a banned, performance-enhancing substance. In the interim, a seemingly reliable test was developed for EPO, or erythropoietin, which had become the illegal drug of choice for cycling cheats. Although a handful of riders have tested positive and been thrown out of the race in recent years, never has a drug scandal as widespread as this year's threatened the Tour.

Considerable controversy exists around the test used to detect EPO, a synthetic version of a naturally occurring hormone that increases oxygen-rich red blood cells and allows athletes to recover more quickly from the effects of strenuous exercise.

Experts in the doping-control measures used by cycling and other sports say that since a urine test for EPO was devised by a French laboratory in 2000, many athletes whose tests seemed to indicate they made use of the banned drug have nevertheless been given a passing grade.

Don Catlin's role as the head of the drug testing laboratory at U.C.L.A., the only American site accredited by the World Anti-Doping Association, makes him an authority on doping by athletes. Catlin said his lab saw many EPO urine tests that indicated illegal doping by an athlete. He passes most of them, however, because the evidence is not, in his estimation, overwhelming.

"I don't call them because I know I will be faced with a phalanx of scientists and experts who are there to say I'm wrong," he said. "The false negative rate is very high."

Diagnostic tests that detect the illegal use of steroids, amphetamines and other substances banned in cycling and most other sports are relatively simple: a machine spits out the scientific equivalent of a plus or minus sign. The EPO test, in contrast, spits out a Rorschach blot, with results that must be interpreted by someone skilled in the art.

"The test is actually a very good one, but it's technically complicated," said Steven Elliott, the scientific director of Amgen, the biotechnology company that invented the pharmaceutical form of EPO. "If done properly, it works extremely well. But it's not just something that can be done by any lab."

Some athletes have managed to successfully challenge their positive results. A more troubling development came recently when researchers at the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium reported in the medical journal Blood that the widely used EPO urine test can produce a false positive result when urine is taken from an endurance athlete within an hour after exercise.

At the Tour de France, the riders selected for testing after each day's stage — the race leader, the winner of the stage and several other riders selected randomly — have an hour after the finish to report for testing.

The methods designed to strengthen the reliability of the EPO test have raised even more questions about it. Last year, the French newspaper L'Équipe reported that recent tests of urine samples provided by Armstrong during the 1999 Tour had tested positive for EPO use. The tests were performed by the French lab that invented the EPO urine test and is the primary site used for drug testing by cycling officials during the Tour.

But the doubts around the reliability of the EPO test also raise considerable questions about whether seven-year-old urine samples could produce a legitimate result. An independent researcher hired by professional cycling's governing body studied the French lab's procedures and found several flaws.

Specifically, he said, the samples tested appeared to have been used several times for numerous tests, and there was no documentation verifying that the samples had been properly preserved over the seven-year period — meaning they could have been contaminated.

Armstrong called the researcher's findings a vindication of his claims that he never used performance-enhancing drugs. Then, just weeks later, further charges were leveled against Armstrong after news media reports surfaced that a former teammate, Frankie Andreu, and his wife had both testified that Armstrong had admitted using performance-enhancing drugs before he contracted cancer. Armstrong again denied the accusations.

Defenders of cycling say that so many riders have been caught doping because the sport has one of the strictest drug policies.

"I don't mean to say that we don't have problems," said Bob Roll, a former professional cyclist. "But look at football, tennis, track and field, not to mention baseball. The more aggressive we are in testing, the worse our reputation becomes. It's incongruous that we are the one with the worst reputation."
947 2006-06-30 Mr. Giuliani has said that none of this information was brought to his attention before he made his decision to appoint Mr. Kerik.

Most of the information did not surface until 18 months ago, when Mr. Kerik's nomination as Homeland Security secretary unraveled in a swirl of questions. At the time, city investigators said they would review the way Mr. Kerik's background check was conducted.

After the court proceeding today, the city's investigations commissioner, Rose Gill Hearn, whose staff assisted Bronx prosecutors on the grand jury investigation, is scheduled to join the Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, at a news conference, where they may well address some of the remaining questions.

Mr. Kerik plans to plead to two misdemeanor charges, and is expected to admit failing to report accepting the renovation, which was performed by associates of Interstate when it was pursuing business with the city, a person with information on the agreement said yesterday.

He is also expected to admit failing to report a $29,000 loan from a friend for the down payment on the apartment, the person said.

The grand jury had reviewed possible felony bribery charges.

Under the arrangement, Mr. Kerik would not serve any time in jail and would keep his private investigator's license and his pistol license.

Nonetheless, the criminal inquiry has been a considerable setback to Mr. Kerik, a former police detective who rose quickly in city government under Mr. Giuliani. As commissioner, he directed the city's response to the World Trade Center attacks, work that was the basis for President Bush's decision to nominate him for the Homeland Security job.

Mr. Kerik quickly withdrew from consideration for the federal job, citing possible tax and immigration problems involving his family's nanny. His withdrawal was followed by a stream of accusations about personal, financial and ethical improprieties, as well as disclosures about his relationship with one of the owners of Interstate, Frank DiTommaso.

Mr. Kerik and Mr. DiTommaso met in 1998 through Lawrence Ray, the best man at Mr. Kerik's wedding, Mr. DiTommaso has said. The two men became friendly, riding motorcycles and socializing, and Mr. DiTommaso later hired Mr. Kerik's brother to an $85,000 a year post at a related company's transfer station at a time when the company, Interstate Materials, was seeking a permanent license to operate the station. The company also hired Mr. Ray as its security director.

City investigators first learned of Mr. Kerik's relationship with Mr. DiTommaso during depositions they took in June 2000 as part of the licensing procedure. Mr. DiTommaso said in a deposition that he would sometimes visit Mr. Kerik in his Correction Department office.

Asked under oath why he had hired Mr. Ray as his security director, Mr. DiTommaso said he did so in part because Mr. Kerik vouched for him.

Earlier that year, Mr. Kerik had notified city investigators that Mr. Ray was charged with fraud in an unrelated matter. Based on that disclosure and questions about Mr. Kerik's relationship with Mr. DiTommaso, Investigations Commissioner Edward J. Kuriansky questioned Mr. Kerik, city officials have said, but little is known about the substance or outcome of that conversation. Mr. Kuriansky did not respond to messages seeking comment.

The accusations that Mr. Kerik accepted the renovations surfaced last year in court papers filed by the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement, which moved to revoke the company's license to work on Atlantic City casinos. The agency cited what it contended were Interstate's longstanding ties to organized crime, an accusation the company has repeatedly denied.

The company has also denied paying for Mr. Kerik's renovation or seeking favors from him.

But the New Jersey authorities said that Mr. Kerik had arranged for an Interstate representative to meet in his office with city regulatory investigators looking into the license application, had given the company advice about pending regulatory issues, and had accepted the apartment renovations.
948 2006-06-30 Rejecting a challenge by Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., the State Court of Appeals yesterday upheld the validity of a five-year, $33 million agreement that allows Snapple to sell beverages in city-owned buildings in exchange for cash and tourism promotion. Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye, writing for the court, said that once the mayor and corporation counsel certified that "procedural requirements have been met and legal authority exists," the comptroller did not have the power to refuse to register a contract. But the court sided with Mr. Thompson's argument that marketing contracts like the Snapple deal must be submitted to the city's Franchise and Concession Review Committee.
949 2006-06-30 Teams in professional cycling, like many Little League baseball teams and company bowling squads, are known by their corporate sponsors. Here are some of the teams most likely to be in the spotlight at the Tour de France this year.

Sponsored by a German mobile phone company, T-Mobile has built its team around Jan Ullrich, whom Lance Armstrong has consistently called the most talented rider. Ullrich won the Tour de France in 1997, but has suffered in past years from a lack of off-season training. Armstrong's retirement seems to have brought a new vigor to Ullrich's training, however. Chris Carmichael, Armstrong's former coach, says Ullrich will win.

The only United States-based team in the race, Discovery has perhaps the most international squad. In addition to George Hincapie of the United States, two other riders have a shot at the podium: Yaroslav Popovych, a Ukrainian; and Paolo Savoldelli, an Italian who won the Giro d'Italia two years ago. The team's director, Johan Bruyneel, said he would see which rider performed best in the early stages before mustering the team's forces behind one rider, adding that all the riders would be given free rein to try for stage victories.

Sponsored by the American computer services company but based in Europe, CSC has what is probably the strongest team in the Tour, built around Ivan Basso, an Italian who was second last year. The team boasts the Australian sprinter Stuart O'Grady, who will be chasing victories in the sprint finishes that characterize the flat stages. Dave Zabriskie of the United States is talented, but he will probably serve in a support role for Basso.

Sponsored by a pharmaceutical group and the Belgian national lottery, this team has a contender in Cadel Evans, a 29-year-old Australian. The team could also garner stage victories with Robbie McEwen, another Australian and one of the best sprinters in cycling. EDWARD WYATT
950 2006-06-30 SEATTLE, June 29 (Reuters) — The Microsoft Corporation said on Thursday that it would delay the release of its Office 2007 business productivity software, citing a desire to put in improvements received from customer feedback during testing.

The company said it would now aim for a release of Office 2007 to business customers by the end of 2006 rather than an earlier goal of October. Microsoft also said it would delay the general availability of the Office upgrade to early 2007.

In March, the company pushed back the consumer release of the 2007 Microsoft Office package to January. The package includes the Word word-processing program, the Excel spreadsheet and the PowerPoint presentation software. A January release would coincide with the debut of its Windows Vista operating system.

Microsoft said it planned to assess the impact of the Office 2007 delay on its Windows Vista release, which had been timed to move at the same time as Office 2007.

Office and Windows account for more than half of the company's total revenue.
951 2006-06-30 The F.A.A. demonstrated a device in December 2002 that could make nitrogen, an inert gas, using air from a plane's engines. The nitrogen could be pumped into all fuel tanks, eliminating the danger if sparks were present. In March, the agency published a draft rule that would require installation of this technology over seven years, but Mr. Rosenker pointed out that it did not cover wing tanks, where about half the explosions have occurred.

The agency hopes to put the rule into effect by the end of this year. Airlines not complying in seven years would have to ground their planes.

Mr. Rosenker said it would cost about $500,000 per plane, a price he called reasonable.

At the Air Transport Association, the airline industry's main trade group, Basil J. Barimo, an operations expert, said the industry had reduced the risk sufficiently by inspecting old wiring and taking other steps to exclude sparks.

Board experts said that since the crash of T.W.A. 800, the aviation agency had issued more than 100 orders to airlines to fix problems in fuel tanks that could cause explosions, and that two months ago, it found a new potential source of sparks: a screw that had come loose and lodged against a fuel pump.

Robert L. Swaim, an engineer on the safety board's staff, said that the possibility of a loose screw had not occurred to engineers at the F.A.A. who performed an exhaustive review of tank safety after the Flight 800 explosion. Failure to account for "simple human error," like not tightening a screw enough, meant that there were probably other potential ignition sources still to be discovered, Mr. Swaim said.

Among the crashes of the 1990's, the Flight 800 crash, in which 230 people died, stands out because its causes have not been eliminated in other planes. In contrast, after a ValuJet DC9 crashed in the Everglades earlier in 1996, because of a fire in a cargo hold, the airlines installed fire detection systems to make a repetition unlikely.

Two years earlier, after a Boeing 737 flown by USAir had crashed on approach to Pittsburgh International Airport, airlines changed their procedures, and the hardware in the rudder control mechanism, to prevent a recurrence. And when an inflight fire caused the crash of a Swissair MD-11 near Halifax, Nova Scotia, in 1998, the F.A.A. required the replacement of an insulating material that was found to be flammable.
952 2006-06-30 The Boeing Company, the aircraft maker and military contractor, announced yesterday that it would take second-quarter charges of up to $1.15 billion as a result of a settlement of ethics investigations with the federal government and delays in a surveillance aircraft program for Australia and Turkey.

The charges are expected to more than eliminate Boeing's second-quarter profit, which analysts had estimated would be about $970 million. Yesterday's charges were the first major ones since W. James McNerney Jr. became chief executive last year after several ethics scandals.

The agreement with the Justice Department had been previously announced. The $615 million penalty, one of the largest ever faced by a military contractor, resolves potential civil and criminal charges against Boeing.

It is a result of an investigation over the improper acquisition of proprietary documents from a rival, the Lockheed Martin Corporation, that Boeing employees used to try to gain government rocket launching business. The settlement also covers a second government investigation into Boeing's hiring of a former Air Force official who had overseen Boeing contracts while at the Pentagon.

"We are pleased to bring this matter to a conclusion and move forward," Mr. McNerney said in a conference call. "We are already moving forward with substantial efforts to strengthen our ethics and compliance. We want to turn ethics and compliance into a competitive advantage for Boeing."
953 2006-06-30 The subtext is that Chevrolet has changed during that time, too, and for the better, just as baseball purists have come to accept changes described in the new jingle, like retractable roofs, team mascots and "broken curses," a reference of course to the Boston Red Sox's finally winning the World Series in 2004.

The campaign, carrying the theme "Love affair," is being expanded far beyond the traditional media that Chevrolet used three decades ago. In addition to television, radio, print and billboards, there are ads that consumers are helping to create, promotions in local markets, ads aimed at minority consumers, cause marketing that benefits the Boys and Girls Clubs of America and efforts to keep in touch with Chevrolet owners as well as reach potential buyers.

The online part of the campaign is appearing on four Web sites: chevy.com/baseball, foxsports.com, mlb.com and the Yahoo pages devoted to fantasy baseball (baseball.fantasysports.yahoo.com). There are even plans to ask fans at some ballparks to sing the jingle during the seventh-inning stretch, in place of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game."

•"This is probably the most completely integrated program we have," said Philip Caruso, national promotion manager for the Chevrolet division of the General Motors Corporation in Detroit.

"The more we can have a 360-degree connection with consumers, the more we can get them to interact with Chevrolet," he added.

The campaign is being created by the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, which was added to the Chevrolet agency roster in November to create campaigns centered on sports marketing and sponsorships.

The hiring of Deutsch is indicative of the changes General Motors is making in its agency lineup as it seeks to reverse a serious sales slump. Another example came this week when the Cadillac division shifted its creative account to Modernista after working with Leo Burnett and predecessor agencies for seven decades.

Deutsch is a corporate sibling of Campbell-Ewald, the Chevrolet creative agency of record that produced the original version of "Baseball, hot dogs," which began in fall 1974 and ran through 1976. Campbell-Ewald, which has worked for Chevrolet since 1914, and Deutsch are owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

As Deutsch was considering ways to tell consumers why Chevrolet sponsors Major League Baseball, "we thought about how to convey the indelible connection between the Chevrolet brand and the sport," said Eric Hirshberg, president and chief creative officer at the California office.

"The answer was sitting under our noses," he added, referring to the original version of the campaign. "All we needed was to give it an extreme makeover, with a modern twist, a modern edge."

Chevrolet joins a lengthy list of brands that are reviving signature ads, jingles, characters and slogans to strike emotional chords with consumers. Others include Alka-Seltzer, which remade two 70's commercials; the National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia, which recast its spokesman, Juan Valdez; and Hanes, which rewrote "Just wait'll we get our Hanes on you" to "Look who we've got our Hanes on now."

Comeback campaigns are risky because they can annoy older consumers who fondly recall the original versions while failing to resonate with consumers too young for the first time around.

But Mr. Hirshberg said the idea was tested and "even those who didn't know it got it." And what those younger consumers said was: "Chevrolet has been involved with baseball for years. But baseball has modernized and Chevy also has kept up with the times."

For older consumers, the campaign still celebrates baseball in a "reverent" fashion, Mr. Hirshberg said, as it "makes a tongue-in-cheek tribute to new school meets old school."

"This is not rehashing or re-creating an old ad, it's reinventing it," he added.

•To appeal to both age groups, the commercials deftly weave together elements of the past and present. They begin with excerpts from a 1975 version of the campaign, as the composer of the jingle, Ed Labunski, performs on camera.

Then, as the scenes shift to modern-day baseball, special effects and a sound-alike announcer make it seem as if Mr. Labunski, who died in 1980, is still around, reflecting wryly on what has happened to baseball and Chevrolet since the 70's.

Tim Brosnan, executive vice president for business at Major League Baseball in New York, said the league was not perturbed by the campaign's jocular presentation of the new elements of the game. "We take that as a compliment from Chevrolet," Mr. Brosnan said. "It points out, quite correctly, that baseball has evolved, and adapted."

"Baseball has great traditions, but tradition is not a business," he added.

Of course, 30 years after the original campaign's paean to baseball, the sport has to share the stage with football, basketball, extreme sports and even soccer, just as Chevrolet has to share streets with newer brands like Kia, Hyundai, Mazda and Nissan.

And the problem of substance abuse in baseball has gone far beyond the hangovers ballplayers endured after nights out disco dancing.

"We feel we've got the right property," Mr. Caruso of Chevrolet said of Major League Baseball, citing its recent gains in attendance and TV ratings.

Mr. Brosnan returned the compliment when asked about the current woes of General Motors, saying: "Baseball stands behind every one of its partners. When we partner with a company like Chevrolet at the level we have here, we have a responsibility to help make them make their business better."
954 2006-06-30 With only a slight chance of rain Friday morning and partly cloudy skies forecast for Saturday and Sunday, the championship could end on the weekend. Once the final shot is struck, the golfers will have gone through an awkward schedule and one of the more difficult tests of the year.

Newport Country Club has already taken on 13 inches of rain in recent weeks, making a long course play even longer. The fog Thursday just added to the frustration and the waiting.

"The United States Open is about grinding," Laura Diaz said. "It's about being patient and dealing with the elements. This is just one more patience issue."

With the first tee time scheduled for 7 a.m. Thursday, golfers and fans stood around twiddling their thumbs. Michelle Wie took a nap, then emerged from the clubhouse in the afternoon to sign autographs and practice her putting. When she made one on the practice green, a crowd nearby cheered her.

At different points, the fog above the course would lift, and the players scurried about the grounds, trying to find the latest news.

"There were times when you were 75 yards from the green and you couldn't even see the flagstick," Davis said. "Around 2:15 was our best scenario, when you could see between 300 and 400 yards, and that's really where we got excited, thinking we were going to get some golf in. Literally, 5, 10 minutes later, it rolled back in, and we were done."

Diaz added, "The whole time we sat there, you could see it wasn't going away."

When the suspension became official, the players scattered again. Officials went back onto the course to tend it after so many days of rain.

Players headed to the driving range, the putting green and home. Paula Creamer, who had spent part of her day staring out of a clubhouse window and pressing the buttons on her cellphone, left the premises.

"It's hard to hit a golf ball when you don't know where it's going," she said.
955 2006-06-30 "I've been coming to New York a long time," said the drummer Herlin Riley at Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola on Tuesday night, "and this is the very first set of the very first week of my being here as a leader."

The audience, peppered with friends of Jazz at Lincoln Center, applauded this declaration with enthusiasm and perhaps a note of mild astonishment. Since the late 1980's, when Mr. Riley assumed the drum chair in the Wynton Marsalis Septet and the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra, he has managed something like ubiquity in certain circles. Though he is no longer the regular percussionist for either ensemble, he has earned an emeritus eminence. His likeness emblazons a poster that can be found throughout Frederick P. Rose Hall. (You probably would have passed one on your way up to Dizzy's Club.)

So why hasn't Mr. Riley led his own group in New York? Perhaps because he lives in New Orleans and usually travels at someone else's behest. It might be because he's the sort of player more interested in dynamics than logistics. Whatever the reason, it has nothing to do with his charismatic authority, as he proved on Tuesday night.

Mr. Riley made his premiere in good company, with the tenor saxophonist and clarinetist Victor Goines, the pianist Eric Reed and the bass player Reginald Veal. It's the same personnel one might have expected to hear behind Mr. Marsalis a decade ago.

So it made sense that the set was bracketed by New Orleans second-line rhythm, the ebullient groove that Mr. Riley plays more definitively than anyone else alive. It appeared first as a backbone to one of his originals, "Watch What You're Doing," and later as the native cadence to a New Orleans standard, "Royal Garden Blues."

Notably, both songs were infused with modern harmony and, during their solo choruses, with a cruising sense of swing. On the first tune Mr. Reed articulated hornlike lines with his right hand and modal accents with his left. Mr. Goines, playing soprano saxophone on "Royal Garden Blues," followed a conservative reading of the melody with variations that gestured toward bebop; for most of his solo he leaned on, or flirted with, the flatted-fifth degree of the scale.

Mr. Goines fashioned a literate and more faithfully traditional clarinet essay on Hoagy Carmichael's "Nearness of You." And he delivered a solid tenor solo on "Cosa Nostra," a polyrhythmic piece by Mr. Reed.
956 2006-06-30 The festival also emphasizes that more worlds are to be discovered. Its final display is in partnership with a contemporary explorer: NASA.

Godspeed Landing Party Festival, through Thursday at Pier 16, the South Street Seaport, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan; americas400thanniversary.com. Hours: today through Monday, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Tuesday, ship and exhibits close at 3 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. All events free, but timed tickets are required to board the Godspeed.

Dogs can be glimpsed all over New York City, from Chihuahuas to Newfoundlands. But the Fordham section of the Bronx is now home to one breed that you haven't seen at the local dog run or at the end of a leash, and that it's safe to say you won't.

This is the African wild dog, subject of a new exhibit at the Bronx Zoo and one of the stars of Cats and Dogs Weekend, whose emphasis is certainly not pets. But the zoo's festivities tomorrow and Sunday will highlight the relationship between its feral species and your own furry family members, as well as important differences. The wild dogs, for instance, have only four toes, not five. And while they resemble domesticated dogs in some ways, they do not bark.

"They make this really neat vocalization," said Alison Reiser, a zoo spokeswoman. "It's the dogs communicating with each other. It's a high-pitched chirp or a squeal."

The dogs — also called African painted dogs because of their brown, black and white splotches — will be discussed by zoo experts at scheduled "keeper chats." Lions and tigers will get the same treatment. The zoo will also offer African storytelling, dance and drumming and a Chinese lion dance. And because children often like to be wild things themselves, they can make lion or dog masks and enter a roaring contest.

Not that parents can't be kings of the jungle. "We have a category for ages 13 and up," Ms. Reiser said of the competition.

Cats and Dogs Weekend, tomorrow and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the Bronx Zoo, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham, (718) 367-1010. Events free with zoo admission: $12; ages 2 to 12 and 65+, $9; under 2, free.

The Man of Steel has become the Man of Wax.

Madame Tussauds New York, the Manhattan branch of the wax museum, has just opened its latest interactive exhibit, centered on a likeness of Brandon Routh as the hero of the new film "Superman Returns." But while this Superman is doomed to just stand there, visitors to the exhibit can try a few tricks that will let them feel as if they can leap tall buildings at a single bound.

The entrance to the display, in the museum's dome theater, is through a phone booth, which leads to a mini-Metropolis, with clips of the film and a brief Superman documentary playing on screens. Superman buffs can test their trivia knowledge at a game station and pose under a suspended subway car so that they look as if they're lifting it. But the biggest lure is a chance to fly, movie style.

"It's all done with green-screen technology," said Stacy Shuster, the museum's director of marketing and sales. The would-be Superman (or -woman) first lies across a table. "There's a fan blowing your clothing, and you put your arms out," Ms. Shuster said. "The image of you flying is captured and projected on the dome. You look as if you're flying over the landscape." And since Metropolis is modeled on Manhattan, that's quite a skyline.

Madame Tussauds, 234 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (800) 246-8872. Summer hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Free with admission: $29; ages 60+, $26; 4 to 12, $23; under 4, free.
957 2006-06-30 Studying the pastry case at Bruehwiler's bakery, my eyes lock onto what appears to be my favorite French pastry: pain aux raisins, a glazed spiral of sweet, eggy yeast bread studded with raisins, with a fine layer of pastry cream woven throughout. I wonder if I might have wandered into someone else's life and awakened in a Paris boulangerie.

I am, it turns out, on Main Street in Old Saybrook. And it is not a pain aux raisins; it is a hazelnut-raisin Danish. And the baker is not French; he is Swiss. But the excellence of the Danish, with its buttery multileaved dough and sweet crusty edges, goes a long way toward assuaging my disappointment.

Christoph Bruehwiler, chef and owner (with his wife, Linda), is a third-generation baker who learned his craft growing up in his grandfather's bakery in Switzerland. Mr. Bruehwiler moved to the United States in 1985 and met his wife here. He worked at a number of top hotels around the country, and the couple owned and operated a large bakery in Atlanta for 12 years. They eventually moved to Old Saybrook and opened this shop three years ago.

In addition to the Danish and some larger coffeecakes made with the same dough (try the pecan-cinnamon), Bruehwiler's sells croissants, a seeded multigrain loaf, baguettes, Italian bread and hard rolls. The multigrain bread is an elegant loaf, bearing no resemblance at all to clunky health-food versions we have known and baked. The shop also sells European cookies, éclairs, muffins, scones and beautifully turned out fruit mousse cakes, in individual or full sizes.

Bruehwiler's is open Tuesday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.; it is closed Sunday and Monday. There is an espresso machine.
958 2006-06-30 In contrast, "if you think about a festival like Bonnaroo, they had Tom Petty this year," he said, referring to the event held on a 700-acre field in Manchester, Tenn.

"It's easy when you're organizing a festival to get an artist like Willie Nelson and sell thousands of tickets," he said. "But when you start having major-label artists, you're stuck with what the major label hands you."

That could mean "a full band with a trapeze or something" in addition to Mr. Nelson, said Mr. Angus, a Clinton native who with his former band Angus was once a fixture on the jam-band scene from which the Dave Matthews Band emerged.

"We figure we'll win out in the end if we stick to getting good music and don't play by somebody else's rules," he said.

Based on the more than 500 submissions from bands hoping to play on one of the two stages, as well as the special guests — so far, Mr. Angus will confirm only the Harlem Gospel Choir for this year — it is a strategy that's paying off.

"This is the only festival I know of where you go play and there's not a big Budweiser sign hanging over the stage," said John Ginty of Bernardsville, a keyboardist who has recorded with Santana and Sheryl Crow. He will perform with his eponymous band for a second time at the festival on Saturday.

"It's about supporting your independents, and that's a beautiful thing," he said. "Plus, it's one of the best outdoor places I've ever played. Last time I think we knocked a couple of boulders off the quarry."

For Ms. Potter, a Vermont-based blues rocker who is often likened to her mentor Bonnie Raitt, Black Potatoe may seem humble compared with Bonnaroo, where she was among the 150 acts that attracted 80,000 last month. But "we don't care if it's 5,000 people or 50,000," Ms. Potter said in a telephone interview. "We're in it because it's the right kind of festival for us.

"For a band like ours, finding the right venues and festivals is so important, because we don't want to be cornered into any one scene, like the chick scene or the jam-band scene.

"We come from a very do-it-yourself place," she added, "and we want to keep it that way."

That sentiment seems custom-made for an audition tape addressed to Mr. Angus, who selects bands as part of a six-person committee, and who himself performs at each year's Black Potatoe Festival. (It is named for his college roommate, who was from Idaho.) It also helps ease his discomfort over deciding what each band is paid — "you always want to be able to pay more," he said.

"But when your focus is on promoting independent music, major labels aren't going come in and make things cheaper for you," Mr. Angus said. "And we're keeping to our core."

He would, he said, make certain exceptions: "If Willie Nelson, Bruce Springsteen or Bob Dylan ever came up and said they wanted to play, that'd be O.K. Even though they're on major labels, they get an open invitation. I'd let them."
959 2006-06-30 Another challenge is Gardasil's price. At $360 for the three-shot regimen, it is among the most expensive vaccines ever. Because cervical cancer is mostly a disease of poverty, those in most need of the vaccine will be the least able to afford it. State vaccination programs, already under financial strain, may refuse to provide it.

"This vaccine will be more expensive than all other childhood vaccines put together," said John Schiller, a senior investigator at the National Cancer Institute, whose discoveries underpinned Gardasil's development. "How do you make sure it gets to the poor women who need it the most?"

Because Gardasil prevents a sexually transmitted disease, some religious groups have sounded reservations about vaccinating young girls.

"You can't catch the virus, you have to go out and get it with sexual behavior," said Linda Klepacki of Focus on the Family, a conservative Christian group based in Colorado Springs. "We can prevent it by having the best public health method, and that's not having sex before marriage."

Ms. Klepacki's group opposes mandating Gardasil vaccinations. States and school districts have the power to decide whether to mandate vaccinations, but such decisions are usually not made until at least a year after a vaccine is introduced.

In a news conference, the federal panel, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, Dr. Anne Schuchat, director of the immunization program at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, called the panel's approval of Gardasil historic and "a breakthrough for women's health."

Though the vaccine is costly, studies presented at the meeting showed that its widespread use would save more in health expenses than the cost of buying the vaccine. In the United States, 9,710 women contract cervical cancer each year, and 3,700 die. Millions of women have annual Pap smears to test for cervical cancer, and tens of thousands undergo further expensive testing and procedures after receiving false positive tests.

Such testing will continue in part because the vaccine's preventive effects are years away but also because Gardasil does not protect against viral strains that cause up to 30 percent of cervical cancers.

Cervical cancer is far more deadly in the developing world. Worldwide, it affects 470,000 women and kills 233,000 each year. Merck and some international health groups have said they are committed to making Gardasil available in the developing world, but the World Health Organization is already struggling to provide a worldwide $3.50 vaccine against five major killer diseases.

In the United States, health insurers will probably cover the cost of vaccinations, Dr. Schuchat said. Poor girls without insurance should be able to get the vaccine through Vaccines for Children, a federal program that distributes nearly half of all vaccines.

In fact, the panel's vote all but commits the federal government to buy vaccines for as many as seven million girls at a total price that could exceed $2 billion. The Department of Health and Human Services must confirm this decision, but such affirmations are routine.

After the government initiates a "catch-up" campaign focusing on girls from 13 to 18, it will seek to vaccinate all 11- and 12-year-olds routinely. The vaccine is most effective if given before girls first have sex.

Girls who are not poor enough to qualify for the federal program but who do not have adequate private insurance may have difficulty obtaining Gardasil. Most states have programs to vaccinate those who fall between the health system's cracks, but budgets are already strained.

Merck also hopes someday to receive approval to have boys vaccinated with Gardasil, which protects against two strains of virus that cause 90 percent of genital warts.

Although a few religious groups have expressed mild reservations about the vaccine, many conservative organizations support it.
960 2006-06-30 North Korea tested a long-range missile once before, in 1998, firing it over Japan into the Pacific and shaking up financial markets, the public and political leaders.

Japanese officials have threatened in the past to cut off ferry service and other trade with North Korea or to crack down on the transfer of cash from Koreans living in Japan back to the North.

"Should they ever launch the missile, that will cause various pressures — we would apply various pressures," Mr. Koizumi said, speaking through an interpreter. "And we discussed that. I believe it is best that I do not discuss what specific pressures we were talking about."

The prime minister and the president greeted reporters in the East Room of the White House after their two-hour meeting. North Korea was discussed at length, Mr. Bush said. He issued a pointed reminder that the United States and Japan were cooperating on antimissile technology, calling it an "interesting opportunity" to dissuade North Korea over the long term.

Mr. Koizumi, one of Mr. Bush's closest friends on the world stage, is expected to step down when his term expires in September. He was welcomed Thursday morning with a majestic arrival ceremony at the White House featuring a 19-gun salute, a military color guard, an Air Force brass band and a fife-and-drum corps in Revolutionary-era uniform: bright red jackets, blue tricorn hats and powdered wigs.

But the high point of his stay will be a private presidential tour on Friday of Graceland, the Elvis Presley mansion in Memphis. Mr. Koizumi is a die-hard Elvis fan, and at the start of Thursday's visit Mr. Bush presented him with a jukebox filled with old vinyl 45's, including Elvis tunes.

Mr. Koizumi promptly turned it on, playing one of his favorites, "I Want You, I Need You, I Love You," for the president.

"Officially he's here to see the president," Mr. Bush said at the arrival ceremony. "But I know the highlight of his visit will be paying his respects to the King."

The Graceland trip is partly a reward to the prime minister for standing firmly with the president on Iraq. Mr. Bush praised Mr. Koizumi as "a strategic thinker" and someone who "believes in freedom," and went on to recount a story he used often on the campaign trail, about how his father, the first President Bush, and Mr. Koizumi's father fought on opposite sides in World War II.

"Something happened between our visit to Graceland and when our respective fathers looked at each other with deep suspicion," Mr. Bush said. "And what happened was, Japan developed a Japanese-style democracy based upon shared values."

Despite the closeness there was one delicate bit of diplomacy on the agenda: Japan's recent decision to reopen its markets to United States beef after a ban related to concerns over mad cow disease. Mr. Bush thanked Mr. Koizumi for the move.

"I think the Japanese people are going to like the taste of U.S. beef," Mr. Bush said

To prove it, the White House put steak on the menu for the formal dinner in Mr. Koizumi's honor on Thursday. The main course: Texas Kobe beef.
961 2006-06-30 The Russian ruble moved a step closer to becoming a fully convertible world currency, news agencies reported, after the government said that the last restrictions on currency operations would be removed by July 1. Removal of the restrictions, whic...
962 2006-06-30 The Goldman Sachs Group agreed to buy a 7 percent stake in the National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange of India for $330 million from the ICICI Bank. P. H. Ravi Kumar, chief executive of the exchange, which is based in Mumbai, said the deal wo...
963 2006-06-30 FED MEETS, AND STOCKS RISE The Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the 17th time in a row, but kicked off a celebration in the stock market by lowering its alarms about inflation. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.2 percent -- its...
964 2006-06-30 Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court opinion in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld by Justice John Paul Stevens and a dissent by Justice Clarence Thomas. A full text is at nytimes.com/washington.    From the Ruling       At a minimum, the government must...
965 2006-06-30 Rejecting a challenge by Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., the State Court of Appeals yesterday upheld the validity of a five-year, $33 million agreement that allows Snapple to sell beverages in city-owned buildings in exchange for cash and tou...