1 2008-06-01 In a wide-ranging interview, Intel Chief Executive Paul Otellini talks about Intel's move into processors for smaller machines, the company's new chip plant in China, the challenges of programming many-core processors and the economic impact of th...
2 2008-06-01 1. In a small bowl, cover the raisins in hot water. Separate the chard leaves from the stems. Chop and rinse both separately in cold water; drain. Submerge the chard leaves again in cold water and set aside.

2. Drain the raisins. In a large saucepan, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil over high heat. Cook the garlic until light brown, then discard. Add the chard stems and sauté over high heat for 2 minutes. Drain the chard leaves from the water and drop them directly into the pan, along with the raisins, pine nuts and the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil. Cook, covered, until the leaves wilt, about 5 minutes. Remove the lid and boil until most of the moisture has evaporated, about 3 minutes more. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serves 4. Loosely adapted from "The Classic Vegetable Cookbook" by Ruth Spear.
3 2008-06-01 A program gets inmates to train service dogs to assist disabled people, including veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan....
4 2008-06-01 “I wouldn’t say that here,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation was in its earliest stages. “I think it’s an open question. If in fact that turntable was taken out of service and someone put it back in service improperly, that could lead to criminal liability.”

Barbara Thompson, the spokeswoman for the district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, confirmed that an investigation had begun but declined to discuss any details.

In May 2007, a worker discovered a crack in a metal plate that was part of the turntable of a crane at the construction site of the Platinum condominium, at Eighth Avenue and 46th Street, construction executives involved in the project said. The city halted work, and the turntable was replaced.

If the same turntable was in use on Friday, investigators will try to determine whether the repairs and reassembly were adequate.

Robert D. LiMandri, the acting buildings commissioner, said during a news conference on Saturday that it had not been determined whether it was the same turntable at the two construction sites. He said the turntable would be a focus of the investigation.

“A deep mechanical failure within the crane is something we need to get to the bottom of,” he said.

Asked whether the city had directed New York Crane to discard the turntable after the damage was detected last year, Mr. LiMandri said only that he knew there had been “discussion about a crane, a Kodiak crane” that had a problem.

The failure on East 91st Street appeared to be very different from the problem discovered last year on West 46th Street, however. The 91st Street accident did not involve a crack in the turntable, but instead appeared to have occurred when a weld joining two parts of the turntable broke, according to people familiar with the investigation. A person who examined the crane after Friday’s accident said that the faulty weld could have been made when the turntable was reassembled after being repaired.

After the turntable broke, the top part of the crane, including the cab, boom and counterweight, separated from the crane’s steel tower and smashed into an apartment building across the street before falling to the ground. Two workers were killed and one was injured.

The crane, a model known as a Kodiak, was manufactured in 1984.

Mr. LiMandri issued stop-work orders for Kodiak cranes that are now in use at four other sites in Manhattan until new inspections, additional testing and a review of maintenance records are completed. He also directed that no cranes be erected, dismantled or increased in height over the weekend.

At the site of the accident on East 91st Street, workers on Saturday scaled more than a dozen stories up the damaged remnants of the crane tower. Two other cranes were brought in to help dismantle it, a job that was completed in the afternoon. The tower had concerned neighbors for weeks, amid fresh memories of a crane collapse on East 51st Street that killed seven people in March.

Passers-by took little solace in seeing one crane removed at a time when a construction boom has made parts of the city’s skyline seem like a forest of cranes.

“It’s crazy, it’s unbelievable,” said Maria Garcia, 28, a waitress from the Bronx who was visiting family in the neighborhood. “Anything can happen. It scares me because my husband is a construction worker.”

City Councilwoman Jessica S. Lappin, whose district includes the Yorkville site of the collapse, said her office had been overwhelmed since Friday morning with calls and e-mail messages from worried constituents.

“People are scared and angry, and I don’t blame them,” she said at the scene on Saturday. “Everybody needs to come together and figure out in the short term what solutions can be put into place to make these sites safer right away.”

The Buildings Department held an emergency closed-door meeting on Saturday with 79 representatives from the construction industry to solicit opinions on how to make work sites safer amid the city’s real estate boom.

After the meeting, Mr. LiMandri said he was “troubled and saddened” by the collapse and felt optimistic that the discussion would yield meaningful change.

He said construction will not cease, “but it cannot come at the expense of workers or other New Yorkers.”

One of those attending the meeting, Louis J. Coletti, president of the Building Trades Employers’ Association, which represents contractors and construction industry unions, said there were smaller discussion groups that stayed focused on tower crane safety.

“It’s hard to describe the emotion in the room,” Mr. Coletti said. “But it’s clear that the city and the industry see this as a shared tragedy and want to do everything they can to regain the confidence of the people of New York City and assure them that they are safe.”

The residents of the building at 354 East 91st Street, which was hit by the falling crane and evacuated, spent Saturday searching for information about when they might be able to return to their apartments. The police escorted residents into their homes to help them retrieve belongings. Some said they were staying with friends, while others had sought shelter at the 92nd Street Y or at a Marriott hotel a block from their building.

“The most frustrating thing is finding out fresh information,” said Marina Harss, 35, a freelance translator and dance writer who lived in the damaged building. “We’re still hoping, possibly unrealistically, that we’ll be able to get in by Monday.”
5 2008-06-01 On Sunday, Swiss citizens are voting in a referendum on whether to give municipalities the final say on granting citizenship, and allow townspeople to vote in secret on whether foreign members of their community can receive Swiss passports.

Such votes were declared unconstitutional in 2003, but the practice continues in some pockets of the countryside, according to several lawyers. The ballot measure would also make it unnecessary for elected officials or townspeople to justify their decisions, and would deny rejected applicants any recourse.

Some lawyers fear that if the referendum succeeds, more random decisions and discriminatory rulings will occur.

There is no guarantee, though, that the referendum will pass. President Pascal Couchepin told reporters on Tuesday that he would be “extremely disappointed” if the initiative was approved.

“In the end, the people will not succumb to the xenophobic and anti-foreigners calls,” he said.

Almost 22 percent of Swiss residents are foreigners. The only European countries with higher proportions of foreign residents are Liechtenstein and Luxembourg. But some say the Swiss rate is so high because few foreigners are granted citizenship.

One in five foreigners comes from the former Yugoslavia; the next largest group comes from Italy. The referendum was initiated by the Swiss People’s Party, a right-wing group that is the most powerful party in the federal Parliament.

Known as SVP, the party made international headlines before last year’s general election with a campaign that many called racist. A poster on billboards across the country summed up the party’s stance on immigrants: It showed white sheep standing on the Swiss flag and kicking away a black sheep.

The People’s Party won additional seats in Parliament, and analysts said the vote portended more of the polarization that had accompanied its rise to power, straining Switzerland’s tradition of consensus politics and tarnishing its image abroad as a bastion of tolerance.

Sunday’s vote is seen as another important indicator of whether Switzerland is turning away from its more welcoming past as immigrants flood the country, which has a population of more than seven million.

Switzerland’s citizenship process has long been an oddity. Legal scholars say it must be viewed in the context of the Swiss system of direct democracy.

Decisions on individual applicants are made at the local level. The votes are most often by elected officials, but in the countryside, a more traditional practice prevails: When people want to become citizens, their neighbors gather in a town meeting and vote.

Although applicants are given tests to check their language skills and knowledge of Swiss government, allowing people’s neighbors to vote is seen by some lawyers as making the system less professional and more open to subjective judgments.

Until the early 1990s, it was even common for public officials to visit foreigners’ homes before a citizenship vote, to see whether the applicants were sufficiently adapted to the local way of life.

In Adliswil, officials still make home visits, although the applicants may decline to have one, Mr. Koller said.

Switzerland’s immigration rules changed substantially in the early 2000s, during an wave of anti-immigration sentiment against people from the former Yugoslavia. Many of the immigrants had arrived in the 1990s as their country was violently torn apart.

Their arrival coincided with a downturn in the Swiss economy, and many Swiss feared that the newcomers would take citizens’ jobs.

In many instances, town meetings refused to naturalize anybody with a family name from the former Yugoslavia.

After several high-profile suits by immigrants, the Swiss Federal Court ruled that citizenship votes by townspeople, which were done by secret ballot, were unconstitutional because they did not provide justification for a “no” vote.

The court also said that all rejections, even by elected officials, had to provide an explanation of the decisions.

The SVP-sponsored referendum on Sunday would have the effect of overturning that court ruling — though secret hearings remain common practice even now. As before, the party is using posters to spread its message. In one, hands, some of them dark, grab for Swiss passports.

Meanwhile, the party has collected enough signatures for other anti-foreigner referendums. One would allow Switzerland to expel entire families if one member commits a crime. Another, in a country in which foreigners make up many of the small Muslim minority, calls for a ban on the building of minarets.

Swiss legal scholars say the rules that would be set out by the referendum appear to breach the Swiss Constitution, several United Nations conventions and the European Human Rights Convention. Last month, a group of 72 professors of constitutional law took out newspaper ads urging a “no” vote.

“This initiative breaches basic tenets of our constitution, namely the stated right against discrimination and due process of law,” said Hansheiri Inderkum, a lawyer and a representative of the Christian-Conservative Party in the Swiss Upper House.

The Arifis wonder how much harder their attempts to gain citizenship could be if the referendum passes.

After their first rejection, in 2003, a lawyer helped them make their case to higher city and cantonal authorities, who subsequently recommended that the council grant them citizenship. When they reapplied in 2005, the canton formally ordered the Town Council to hand the Arifis their much-desired passports, but the council again refused.

“This is clearly a case of arbitrariness,” said the couple’s lawyer, Christian Widmer. “The council thinks this woman looks like a Gypsy with her colorful clothes and her jewelry, so they just reject her in this succinct Swiss way.”

Although Mrs. Arifi is not a Gypsy, there are lingering prejudices against that ethnic group here, as elsewhere in Europe.

Mr. Koller, the council member, said he voted against naturalizing the Arifis because they were not integrated. “It is not a matter of insufficient language ability or that they are a public threat,” he said. “It is that their environment is not so good.” He declined to expand.

He added: “The canton does not have its ear close to the people. We are hearing people in the vicinity of the Arifis who don’t want us to do it.”

Mrs. Arifi says she feels more Swiss than many people who were born here.

She recalls crying when Swissair, the national carrier, was grounded after filing for bankruptcy years ago.

“Taking our children to the airport used to be one of our favorite weekend pastimes,” she said.

To show her support for the Swiss soccer team — the European soccer championships start in a week — she would normally clamp a Swiss flag on her car door, as many Swiss are doing. Not this time.

“Usually I am Swiss with all my heart,” Mrs. Arifi said. “But this time there will be no flag. I feel too hurt.”
6 2008-06-01 The Democrats are essentially testing the theory that Miami politics have changed. Voters will ultimately decide — and local hard-liners show few signs of insecurity — but at the very least, the debate over travel has sparked what many here describe as the liveliest, most open debate about Cuba that Miami has seen in decades.

“Newer voices are being heard,” said Lisandro Pérez, former director of the Cuban Research Institute at Florida International University and a supporter of looser travel restrictions. “There’s a general sense that we’re not in a straitjacket anymore in terms of the discourse, and we’re no longer just a monolith.”

The Democrats are mainly relying on a generational shift among Cuban-Americans. The so-called historicos or historic exiles who arrived immediately after Cuba’s 1959 revolution have been dying off, even as their children move beyond a narrow focus on Cuba and as fresh waves of Cubans have poured in.

Polls of the community have confirmed a tilt toward engagement, especially through travel. A survey in April 2007 by Florida International University found that 55.2 percent said they favored “unrestricted” travel to Cuba for all Americans — a reversal from three years earlier, when 53.7 percent said they opposed it.

An even larger proportion, 64 percent, said they wanted a return to pre-2004 rules, which allowed one trip per year.

Many Cubans, it seems, feel like Mr. Martin, 53, an engineer who left Cuba in 1994. He tried to return for a visit in 2002 only to have the Cuban government deny his visa request for five years. Now after finally visiting in 2007, he cannot go back until 2010 because of American law.

“The Cuban people are like a ping-pong ball,” said Mr. Martin, who recently lent his support to a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union that seeks to overturn the law. “The Cuban government hits us hard one way, then the American government hits us back just as hard.”

Among some Cuban-Americans, there are also signs of fatigue with a 47-year-old policy that has emphasized isolating the island.

No one here seems to expect much from the current Cuban president, Raúl Castro, whom even the most moderate exiles see as an extension of his brother Fidel, but there is a sense that Cuba today might be more pliable politically and that Cuban-Americans need to get involved.

The warm reception Mr. Obama received at the Cuban American National Foundation’s luncheon on May 23 — even as he pushed for more engagement with Cuba — made public what scholars like Mr. Pérez have described as a sea change in approach. After years of bellicosity, contact has come to be seen by some as a political weapon.

After Mr. Obama’s speech, Jorge Mas Santos, chairman of the foundation and the son of its founder, stood under a palm frond and explained. “We see travel as our only vehicle of changing things in Cuba,” Mr. Santos said. “Cuban-Americans are our foot soldiers.”

And yet, some scholars and pollsters say, a focus on Cuba comes with risks. Demographics are not necessarily destiny in Miami because the Cuban-Americans most likely to vote favor a more conservative stance.

The Florida International University poll found that the 55.2 percent majority favoring unrestricted travel was the product of a sharp divide — 74 percent of nonregistered voters supported the idea, while 58 percent of the registered voters opposed it. “You want to know how the Cuban-American community feels, look at the last election,” said Frank Calzon, executive director of the Center for a Free Cuba. “Every time some of these clowns come out, the elections demonstrate — time and again — that if there is a generational shift, it has been greatly overestimated.”

In fact, Democrats may be missing the bigger picture. Sergio Bendixen, who has spent years conducting polls in South Florida, said that Cubans now made up only about 45 percent of Florida’s Hispanic registered voters, down from 75 percent eight years ago.

Even as the overall Hispanic vote continues to grow, Mr. Bendixen said, the Democrats seem stuck in the past, looking primarily for victory among the Cubans.

“What do you gain by focusing your campaign on travel restrictions and remittance restrictions?” Mr. Bendixen said. “I don’t get it. It’s turning off more than half the electorate that’s not Cuban, and the people who would benefit from a change are a very small slice of the Cuban electorate. It’s a mistaken strategy.”
7 2008-06-01 That’s why the original sin of the war’s conception remains a political flash point, however much we tune out Iraq as it grinds on today. Even a figure as puny as Mr. McClellan can ignite it. The Democrats portray Mr. McCain as offering a third Bush term, but it’s a third term of the war that’s his bigger problem. Even if he locks the president away in a private home, the war will keep seeping under the door, like the blood in

Mr. McCain and his party are in denial about this. “Elections are about the future” is their mantra. On in April, Mr. McCain pooh-poohed debate about “whether we should have invaded or not” as merely “a good academic argument.” We should focus on the “victory” he magically foresees instead.

But the large American majority that judges the war a mistake remains constant (more than 60 percent). For all the talk of the surge’s “success,” the number of Americans who think the country is making progress in Iraq is down nine percentage points since February (to 37 percent) in the latest Pew survey. The number favoring a “quick withdrawal” is up by seven percentage points (to 56 percent).

It’s extremely telling that when Gen. gave his latest progress report before the Senate 10 days ago, his testimony aroused so little coverage and public interest that few even noticed his admission that those much-hyped October provincial elections in Iraq would probably not happen before November (after our Election Day, wanna bet?). Contrast the minimal attention General Petraeus received for his current news from Iraq with the rapt attention Mr. McClellan is receiving for his rehash of the war’s genesis circa 2002-3, and you can see what has traction this election year.

There are other signs of Iraq’s durable political lethality as well. Looking for a bright spot in their loss of three once-safe House seats in special elections this spring, Republicans have duly noted that the Democrats who won in and were social “conservatives,” anti- and pro-gun. They failed to notice that all three Democratic winners, including the two in the South, oppose the war. Even more remarkably, new polling in finds that an incumbent Republican senator and Bush rubber stamp, , is only four percentage points ahead of his Democratic challenger, Rick Noriega, a fierce war critic who served in .

In the woe-is-us analyses by leading Republicans about their party’s travails — whether by the House leader (in The ) or the media strategist Alex Castellanos (in National Review) — Iraq is conspicuous by its utter absence. The Republican brand’s crisis is instead blamed exclusively on excessive spending, scandal and earmarks — it’s all the fault of ’s K Street Project, and that Alaskan “bridge to nowhere.”

This transcends denial; it’s group . Nowhere is this syndrome more apparent than in the profuse punditry of , who never cites Iraq as a problem for Mr. McCain (if he refers to it at all) and flatly assured last Sunday that Mr. McCain has no need to make a “clean break” from Mr. Bush.

Mr. Rove is to the McCain campaign what was to the campaign: a ubiquitous albatross dispensing dubious, out-of-date political advice and constantly upstaging the candidate he ostensibly supports. Like Mr. Clinton, Mr. Rove is a camera hog who puts his need to vehemently defend his own administration’s record ahead of all else. So what if he’s under subpoena by the House Judiciary Committee? He doesn’t care if he reminds voters of administration scandals or of Mr. McCain’s association with Iraq any more than Mr. Clinton cared if he reminded voters of his continued ties to suspect financial donors and the prospect of an out-of-control co-presidency.

Damaging as Mr. Clinton’s behavior was to his wife’s campaign, Iraq was worse. Mrs. Clinton could never credibly explain away her vote authorizing the war. Her repeated disingenuous attempts to fudge it ended up contaminating her credibility on other issues.

Mr. McCain’s record on Iraq is far worse than Mrs. Clinton’s. He didn’t just cast a vote but was a drumbeater for the propaganda Mr. McClellan cites, including the neocon fantasies of a newly democratic . On “Hardball” and “Meet the Press” in March 2003, Mr. McCain invoked that argument, along with the promise that Americans would be “welcomed as liberators,” to assert the war would be “one of the best things that’s happened to America.”

To cover up these poor judgments now — and questionable actions, including his public boosting of , then a lobbying client of the current McCain campaign guru, — Mr. McCain is hoping that the “liberal media” will once again be complicit enablers. We’ll see. He’s also counting on the press to let him blur his record by accentuating his subsequent criticism of the war’s execution — as if the war’s execution (also criticized by countless Democrats), not its conception, was the fatal error.

His other tactic is to try to create a smoke screen by smearing as unpatriotic. Mr. McCain has suggested that the Democratic front-runner is the candidate and has piled on to Mr. Bush’s effort to slur Mr. Obama as an apostle of “appeasement.” A campaign ad presented Mr. McCain as “the American president Americans have been waiting for” (not to be confused, presumably, with the un-American president has been waiting for).

Now Mr. McCain is chastising Mr. Obama for not having visited Iraq since 2006 — a questionable strategy, you’d think, given that Mr. McCain’s own propagandistic visit to a “safe” Baghdad market is one of his biggest embarrassments. Then again, in his frantic efforts to explain why he sided with Mr. Bush to oppose an expanded G.I. bill that the Senate passed by 75 to 22, Mr. McCain has attacked Mr. Obama for not enlisting in the military.

Besides making Mr. McCain look ever angrier next to his serene opponent, this eruption raises the question of why he chose double-standard partisanship over principle by not applying this criterion to the blunderers who took us into Iraq. Unlike Mr. Obama, who was 7 years old in 1968, Mr. Bush and company could have served in as Mr. McCain did.

The McCain campaign may have no choice but to double down on Iraq — what other issue does the candidate have? — but it can’t count on smear tactics or journalistic and public to indefinitely enforce the McCain narrative. As the McClellan circus shows, unexpected bombshells will keep intervening — detonating not only on the ground in Iraq but also in , where more Bush alumni with reputations to salvage may yet run for cover about what went down in 2002-3.

As would have it, we will be borne back ceaselessly into the past. Or so we will be as long as Americans continue to die in Iraq and as long as politicians like Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain and Mrs. Clinton refuse to accept responsibility for their roles, major and minor, in abetting this national tragedy.
8 2008-06-01 The overall stock market managed a small gain for the week, and technology stocks propelled the Nasdaq composite index to a hefty advance.

Dell, the personal computer maker, rallied strongly on Friday after its earnings report exceeded Wall Street’s expectations. It gained 10.4 percent for the week, one of the best performances in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Hewlett-Packard, which rose 4.8 percent, was the best weekly performer among the Dow Jones industrials, followed by I.B.M., with a 3.8 percent gain.

Oil prices in the New York futures market dropped to $127.35 a barrel, down from $132.19 the previous week. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note closed at 4.06 percent, up from 3.84 percent the previous week.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 158.69 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 12,638.32. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 24.45 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 1,400.38. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 77.99 points, or 3.2 percent, to close at 2,522.66.
9 2008-06-01 Chief among the commodities they move is coal — which accounts for 30 percent of freight and 22 percent of profits. The railroads have also been shipping more grains and fertilizer, which have benefited from the ethanol surge, Mr. Kirkeby said.

He said railroads have continued to raise their rates over the last 12 months, thanks largely to the commodity boom. “It is far easier to raise prices when your customers’ products are on an uptrend,” he said.

The railroads have also been able to demand fuel surcharges, said Ed Wolfe, a transportation stock analyst who recently left Bear Stearns to form Wolfe Research in New York.

“Rising fuel prices have not hurt the railroads as much as they have other parts of the transportation sector,” Mr. Wolfe said, adding that overcapacity has made it harder for truckers to pass along fuel surcharges to their customers.

Although trains and trucks both run on diesel, railroads move more tons per gallon of fuel, Mr. Wolfe said, adding to their advantage over trucking companies.

Anthony B. Hatch, an independent railroad analyst in New York, said that after the sharp rise in share prices, much of the good news was already reflected in the stocks. “Over the long term, they are going to do tremendously well,” he said. “But in the short term, I would say they are fully priced.”

Mr. Hatch said the railroad stocks were trading at around 16 times the analysts’ consensus estimates for earnings next year. Historically, he said, the shares have traded anywhere from 10 to 16 times forward earnings estimates.

John G. Larkin, a railroad stock analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, an investment bank based in Baltimore, raised Union Pacific’s stock to a “buy” last month. While he liked the outlook for the railroad industry as a whole, he said that after the run-up in share prices, “it becomes a question of valuation.” He called Union Pacific, which is based in Omaha, a turnaround story, and said the company might benefit from productivity improvements during an economic recovery.

Mr. Larkin has “hold” ratings on two other railroad stocks that have been investor favorites: CSX and Burlington Northern Santa Fe, which is based in Fort Worth. Although he said he liked both companies, he was not recommending new share purchases at recent prices.

A year ago, Warren E. Buffett began acquiring a large stake in Burlington Northern for Berkshire Hathaway, his holding company. Many analysts say that this has attracted investors who might not ordinarily buy railroad stocks.

Mr. Larkin says investors have been enthusiastic about CSX because of a proxy battle now being waged by the Children’s Investment Fund, a hedge fund based in London. He said that many investors thought the hedge fund could push the company to become more efficient.

MR. Kirkeby, the railroad analyst at S.& P., favors Norfolk Southern, based in Norfolk, Va. Its stock has risen about 35 percent this year. But its valuation still lags behind those of the other three major lines. The stock has a trailing price-to-earnings ratio of less than 18, while the other three all have trailing P/E ratios around 20.

Mr. Kirkeby says Norfolk Southern has been less popular with investors because it is somewhat more dependent than the other three major American railroads on the troubled auto and housing construction sectors. But he says it should benefit from rising coal exports, which have increased since the dollar has fallen against the euro.

“It is kind of wild to think that we are exporting coal to Europe,” Mr. Kirkeby said. “But this is breathing new life into the Appalachian mines,” and Norfolk Southern plies the Appalachian Mountains.
10 2008-06-01 “Rent,” which was originally scheduled to close this weekend after 12 years on Broadway, has extended its lease through Sept. 7. And there lies a poignant irony: The musical’s struggling artists surely could no longer afford even one more day in Alphabet City. But these restaurants seem poised for long runs there.

Avenue B is framed as handsomely as can be by a picture window in the barroom, the most spacious of the restaurant’s three rooms. The menu includes a burger made from grass-fed beef and served with homemade ketchup and slices of tomato. The tabbouleh — here called green wheat and made with frik, an heirloom bulgur wheat — is excellent.

E.U. stands for European Union, and the pan-European menu here is eclectic. The various boxes and sections of type within the menu seem to advise a cobbled-together meal rather than a conventional progression of appetizer, entree and dessert, though that progression is an option as well. Choices include oysters, cheeses, a charcuterie plate, tapas, and spit-roasted quail with ramps and dates.

(212) 254-6600; 157 Avenue C (East 10th Street); $; $25 and Under: 10/4/06.

With the glut of big-name burger openings in recent years, it’s surprising to find that one of the best new hamburgers isn’t the handiwork of some fancypants chef and that the place serving it isn’t as much a restaurant as it is a bar. The Royale with cheese, made of 75 percent lean ground Black Angus beef, is broiled with remarkable accuracy.

(212) 260-1333; 511 East Fifth Street (Avenue A); $; $25 and Under: 1/9/08.

The burgers at Seymour Burton, which flirt with greatness, and the place’s extra-relaxed vibe make it an ideal refueling spot. Main courses are confident examples of New American cooking: skirt steak with fries and salsa verde, and a whole brook trout in a buttery sauce.

Steven Duong, the owner of Nam in TriBeCa and O’Mai in Chelsea, has returned to the East Village, where he had his first restaurant, Cyclo, now closed. The menu features Vietnamese regional dishes like crab cakes poached in a tangy pork-tomato broth over rice noodles, and salmon steak simmered in chili-pineapple sauce.
11 2008-06-01 IN mid-April, a young black man in Crown Heights was struck with a baton and sprayed with Mace by two white men, according to the police, and ever since, tensions have run high in the Brooklyn neighborhood. Jews and blacks who live there eye one another warily, and police patrols and surveillance have intensified.

But there is another split on these streets, not between Jews and blacks but between Jews and Jews. The feuders, paradoxically, are neighborhood patrol groups that officially aspire to keep the peace.

Jewish patrols exist in several New York neighborhoods, like Brooklyn’s Borough Park, but Crown Heights is the only area that has two such competing patrols. Their names, Shomrim and Shmira, both derive from the Hebrew word meaning “guard,” but the two groups fiercely resent each other nonetheless.

“Shmira has a litany of things about Shomrim that they say they did wrong,” said Dov Hikind, an assemblyman who represents several other heavily Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods in Brooklyn. “As for Shomrim, when I met with them, they said, ‘We have a file about Shmira.’ ”

Aron Hershkop, the coordinator of Shomrim, said that Shmira members had intimidated his volunteers, falsely informed on them to the police, and even jammed their radios with shrieks, beeping sounds and what he described as “Christian music.”
12 2008-06-01 The cheap leisure fares stipulated that the trip had to be booked seven or more days in advance and include a Saturday-night stay. For business travelers, booking a week in advance was often an option, but staying on Saturday night often was not.

Earlier this year, several major airlines quietly began reviving Saturday-night and one-, two- or three-night minimum-stay rules on a limited number of routes. Then, in April, United Airlines boldly revived Saturday-night-stay requirements for discount fares on routes in 65 percent of its markets. Not coincidentally, those were markets where United’s competitors were other network airlines, not low-cost carriers. The other major airlines responded by quickly adding their own minimum-stay rules in a large variety of markets.

Here are two examples: A man has a lunch meeting in Knoxville, Tenn., on June 12 and wants to come home that night. On Delta, a round-trip ticket from La Guardia Airport in New York with a departure at 6:10 a.m. and a return that night costs $870. But if he stays one extra night, the fare drops to $455.

A woman has a morning meeting in Norfolk, Va., on Thursday. On Continental, the round-trip fare from Newark is about $875. But if she stays through Saturday night, the fare is about $250.

“I know the airlines need to generate revenue, but there’s got to be another way to do it than to try to hose business travelers again. Do they think we have no memories?” said Mr. Greenberg, who has been urging travelers to fight back with various ploys to circumvent minimum-stay rules.

Chief among them is so-called back-to-back booking, in which a traveler buys two separate round-trip discount tickets, each with the requisite Saturday-night stay, but uses only the departing ticket on one and the return ticket on the other, throwing away the two other tickets. In the late 1990s, airlines penalized passengers whom they found using that technique, making them pay a full-fare one-way ticket to get back home. Few passengers actually were caught, however.

AIRLINES still hate the ploy. “The intent to circumvent our tariffs is clear and may be construed as common-law fraud,” American Airlines says in a statement. But, it adds, “usage of back-to-back tickets is not illegal, in the sense that one could be fined or sent to jail by the government; it is a breach of a passengers contract with American Airlines.”

Daniel T. Gogerty, senior vice president at Ovation Travel, which manages travel for corporations, said: “It’s not illegal. It is against the fare rules imposed by the airlines.”

Thanks to vastly more complex fare and booking technologies, it’s easier for an airline to catch a back-to-backer now than it was eight years ago. But it’s also easier for travel managers to use sophisticated technology to find creative fare-cutting alternatives — including small adjustments in dates and times, and using nearby alternative airports that are just as convenient, Mr. Gogerty said.

With competition still fierce and low-cost carriers battling the majors, “there are lots of creative new ways to work the system legitimately,” he said.
13 2008-06-01 Q What was the structure at the far end of the old photograph of West 18th Street, published on Jan. 27 with the Streetscapes column about that street? ... Glen Reynolds, New Milford, Conn.

A It was one of a series of astonishingly artistic stations for the Sixth Avenue elevated railroad designed by the Hudson River School painter Jasper Cropsey.

The elevated line was bitterly opposed, and in 1878, Appleton’s Journal noted that owners and businesses along the route foresaw noise, gloom and cinders — “a monstrous infringement upon their inalienable rights.” Protest meetings slowed construction of the line, but the Metropolitan Elevated Railroad Company had a secret plan: It hired Jasper Cropsey to design its 14 stations, to “quiet the remaining grumblers” forever, as Appleton’s put it.

Cropsey was trained as an architect and began his career in that field in 1842, but soon put it aside to pursue painting, especially picturesque landscapes.

In the 1860s, he again took up architecture and in early 1878 was selected to design the stations, at a fee of $200,000, along the elevated line.
14 2008-06-01 Hannah Elizabeth Means and Russell Andrew Shannon were married on Saturday in Lahaska, Pa. The Rev. William Peterson, a Unitarian Universalist minister, officiated.

The bride and bridegroom met at Oxford University, from which she graduated with a master’s degree in English language and literature and also received master’s and doctorate degrees in medieval languages. He received a doctorate in engineering science.

Mrs. Means-Shannon, 30, was until last month an English instructor at West Chester University of Pennsylvania.

She is a daughter of Linda P. Means of Canton, N.C. Her mother retired as an English teacher at Fair Oaks Academy, a high school that was in Fairfax, Va.

Mr. Shannon, 32, is an electrical engineer for aircraft carriers for the Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division at the Naval Air Engineering Station in Lakehurst, N.J. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Hartford.

He is the son of Rita S. Koeser of Princeton, N.J., and of the late Edward M. Shannon, who lived in Longwood, Fla., and the stepson of George J. Koeser. The bridegroom’s mother retired as a teacher of English as a second language at the Berlitz school, in Princeton. His father owned Dadeland Dodge, a car dealership in Miami. The bridegroom’s stepfather retired as a vice president and the general counsel for intellectual property at Squibb Corporation, the pharmaceuticals company in Princeton.
15 2008-06-01 Emily Ryan Lerner, the daughter of Margaret R. Ryan and Steven P. Lerner of Manhattan, was married last Monday to Evan Sinnard Kindley, a son of Louise S. Kindley and Jeffrey B. Kindley, also of Manhattan. Magistrate Judge Ronald L. Ellis, of Federal District Court in Manhattan, officiated at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.

The bride, 29, is keeping her name. She is the associate editor for licensed publishing at DC Comics in Manhattan, and is also a freelance illustrator. She graduated from Wesleyan University.

Her father retired as a service sales executive in the global services division of I.B.M.; he worked in Manhattan. Her mother is a floral designer at Greene Willow, a flower shop in Rye, N.Y., and is also a poet.

The bridegroom, also 29, is a doctoral candidate in English at Princeton. He graduated from Vassar.

His mother is a social worker in the crime victims treatment center at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. His father retired as a television writer; he was the story editor for “Stanley,” a program for children on the Disney Channel.
16 2008-06-01 Melissa Beth Kuba and Jeffrey Lester Lederer were married by Rabbi Jeremy Kalmanofsky on Thursday evening at the Metropolitan Club in New York. Cantor Natasha Hirschhorn also participated in the ceremony.

Mrs. Lederer, 40, is the director of design and manufacturing at Verdura, the jewelry company in New York. She graduated from Clark University in Worcester, Mass.

She is the daughter of Leona Kuba of New York and the late Donald Kuba. Her father was a partner in the New York law firm Warshaw Burstein Cohen Schlesinger & Kuh.

Mr. Lederer, 60, is a principal in several investment partnerships.

He is the son of the late Celia Lederer and the late Fred Lederer, who lived in New York. His mother retired as a bookkeeper at Sterling Bancorp in New York. His father retired as a vice president for research and development at Amacoil Machinery, a manufacturing company that was in New Rochelle, N.Y.
17 2008-06-01 The property’s many perks — including a 24-hour doorman and a roof deck — contributed to its recent quick and smooth sale. Mr. Siebert called Gil Neary, a managing partner at DG Neary Realty in Chelsea. Mr. Neary was the agent who had shown him the apartment before he bought it, and he is also a longtime resident of Chelsea Gardens.

“I felt like he knew the building so well,” Mr. Siebert explained, “and that he would know every detail about the place for anyone who came to see the apartment.”

“I called him on a Tuesday, and on Wednesday four people had seen it already,” he said. “Then we had an open house on Sunday, and on Monday I had an accepted offer. It closed in just under 10 weeks.”

Mr. Siebert, who paid $277,000 six years ago, listed the apartment for $465,000, which Mr. Neary thought was priced to sell. In the end, Mr. Siebert accepted a bid for $465,500.

“He wanted to move,” Mr. Neary said. “You want time or money; it’s always that formula.”

Mr. Siebert said there wasn’t much he had to do to prepare his place for the market. After a thorough cleaning, he said, “I did a few silly things, like I painted the inside of my closet doors. They were really scuffed up looking, and I figured if it bothered me, it would bother someone else.”

The place spent less than three weeks on the market. During that time, Mr. Neary held two open houses and had about 10 lookers. Some didn’t like the apartment’s 23rd Street exposure (it’s quite loud when the windows are open), and others didn’t care for its old kitchen. Some buyers simply needed more space.

“I really liked that building,” said Roger Bailey, 42, a kitchen and bathroom contractor who has worked on several jobs at Chelsea Gardens, and who had taken a look at the top-floor studio in the hopes of moving on from his neighborhood rental. “I like the character of the place — the sunken living rooms and deco crowns, the garden courtyard,” he said. “And the floor plans are genius.”

But despite its charms, the space proved to be too small. “I have a couple of dogs — one big and one little — and I have a boyfriend,” he said. “So the studio is, like, impossible. Square footage is key.”

But the place did inspire three bids — one from a man who wanted to pay all cash but wouldn’t raise his offer, another from a prospective buyer with less-than-stellar financials, and a third from a man named Robert Morrison, who made the winning offer of $465,500.

“He had looked at another apartment in the building that wasn’t as nice, and had asked me to call him if anything else opened up,” Mr. Neary said, “and I called him as soon as this one became available.”

While that first apartment was dark, sitting on a low floor and overlooking an air shaft, the winning sun-filled studio is on the sixth floor, the top level, with both southern and eastern exposures. It feels like a corner unit, thanks to its position in a projecting bay.

The layout is complex for a studio: a long entry foyer leads into the main space to the left, while a separate dressing-room area sits to the right, outside of a windowed bathroom. The small, separate kitchen has a large window, too.

“The way you move through the space makes it very charming,” Mr. Neary said. “There is something romantic about inefficiency.”

It certainly wooed Mr. Morrison, who chose the place after having seen about 200 other apartments in the course of a year and a half.

“What made this one stand out was the layout — it’s not just a box,” explained Mr. Morrison, 51, a pianist, harpsichordist and assistant conductor with the Metropolitan Opera. “Plus, it had a windowed kitchen and bath, which, in Manhattan, is a big deal. And I thought the price was reasonable compared to what else I had seen.”

Also, despite having only 500 square feet, the apartment fulfilled his top priority: it had ample room for his Steinway Model M grand piano.

“When I say I live in a studio with a grand piano, people look at me like I’m out of my mind,” Mr. Morrison said. “But the piano comes first. It’s not an extra piece of furniture.”

This month, he’ll have the nearly six-foot-long instrument moved from his Chelsea loft-bedroom duplex, which he has rented for two years, to his new studio. “I wanted the tax advantage of owning, and it seemed like a good time to buy,” he said.

As for Mr. Siebert, he is taking the opposite tack: After saying goodbye to his place, he began renting a studio in Hell’s Kitchen. “It’s one of those modern rental buildings — slightly overpriced, and it has a gym,” he said. “But I decided I would splurge for a year.”
18 2008-06-01 Matt Bai deserves credit for attempting to make sense of Senator John McCain’s desultory foreign-policy thinking (May 18). According to McCain, the United States should not intervene militarily in Zimbabwe because it would risk a “backlash from the people, from the legacy that was left in Africa because of the era of colonialism.”

Nor should America intervene militarily in Myanmar, because it is unclear “whether you’d be greeted there as liberators or occupiers,” and “we might see an insurgent movement.” In light of these views, it is difficult to understand McCain’s support of the current Bush administration policy in Iraq, a country with a legacy of Western imperialism and where the United States military faces a deadly insurgency. Does McCain not see that by intervening militarily in foreign countries and by justifying such intervention in terms of supposed universal values, America stands in the tradition of imperial powers whose policies and practices have tended to engender the kinds of insurgent movements he fears?

Bai’s elegantly written assessment of McCain served to confirm that the senator is, indeed, refighting the Vietnam War, which would, should he win the election in November, result in at least four more years of American and Iraqi deaths and untold more trillions of U.S. dollars wasted on the war that should never have been.

As a former U.S. Navy psychiatrist who served under McCain’s father in the Vietnam era, I remain keenly aware of his son’s internment at the Hanoi Hilton. The assertion that McCain is “entirely driven by” the legacy of Vietnam falls short of the mark. It is John McCain’s extraordinary sense of duty and mission that led to his survival and triumph over captivity. That passion for country has not lessened.

I found Bai’s article both refreshing and informative. McCain’s dislike of labels and his difficulty in adhering to orthodoxies make him intriguing. In addition, as Bai relates, McCain has never been very good at “political artifice.” This and the fact that he was able to admit he was wrong to try to win South Carolinian votes by defending the Confederate flag deems him worthy of consideration in my opinion. My hope for 2008 is that the decision will be a difficult one finally made by examining the platform of two (or more) candid hopefuls who decide to focus on the issues.

Policy makers like McCain have a difficult time finding answers to foreign-policy crises like Darfur and Myanmar because they consistently frame them in the context of whether to send troops or not, as if those are the only foreign-policy options available. Bai’s interview of the senator doesn’t address the possibility that the reason America is failing in such places is that we resist proactive, cooperative policies that address the underlying causes of these atrocities before they occur. McCain claims our problem is “the Vietnam thing.” Wrong. Our problem is myopia and the failure to realize that the post-cold-war era requires greater global cooperation and nonmilitary solutions.
19 2008-06-01 Q. Have you been looking for this kind of work? Not television necessarily, but chances to play other kinds of characters?

A. I love to act, so, yeah. Over the years, because I sort of lived my life making my own movies, and that’s what I immersed myself in, I think I turned down so many things that I’m just not put up on the board anymore, you know? ...

I read a review of “Iron Man” that said, “Jeff Bridges doing his best Albert Brooks,” and I haven’t seen the movie, so I don’t even know what that means, but I thought, “Hey ...”

Q. That you could have done the part?

A. Well, sure. I could have done my best Jeff Bridges. I see the billboards for that HBO movie “Recount,” and it’s filled with the kind of people that I can play in my sleep. I think to myself, I should have been first on that list. So doing something like “Weeds,” having that out there, is better than me telling people I’m available. Because people sort of have to be shown. It’s not that I don’t get offered things. I got offered a number of network guest spots on television that I didn’t feel comfortable with, because I wasn’t quite ready to be interrupted by a Ford commercial. I don’t know, it felt like too much of a jump.

Q. Is acting where you want to put your energy now? Are you still working on your own projects or would you rather be a hired hand for a while?

A. I definitely have films that I want to do myself. I’m writing right now. I’m on Page 54 — 55 actually — and if I finish this and I raise the money, then I go do it. I can’t not do that. But I’d like an excuse to delay that by having one or two great feature film parts. Because if I take myself out of the game for another two or three years, then I’m probably out of it for good. So I would like very much if when I got home today there was an interesting script waiting for me as an actor. I always thought I’d make a very interesting bad guy.

A. I’ll try to answer that question without putting real ideas in The New York Times. I certainly am interested in what a real future might look like, you know? Let’s just put it this way, all the warnings we’re hearing from political candidates, what if some of them actually came true? That, to me, makes an interesting story.

Q. So, now that you’re in your 60s ...

A. Sixty. Just 60. I don’t get the “s” yet.

Q. Now that you’re 60, do you find your perspective dramatically changed from when you were in your 30s or 40s? Are you less aggravated than you used to be? Less frustrated?

A. I think I get more aggravated. At some things. I haven’t become Mary Poppins because I have a wonderful wife and two great kids. What I distrust and worry about, that changes. But my nature doesn’t change. Sometimes when I’m down, my wife will say to me: “Look what you have. You have a great family and everything.” And its absolutely true.

Q. So does that mean your ability to roll with the ups and downs of the business has improved?

A. I don’t think so. No. You know, I was reading something the other day, an interview with Woody Allen, and I’ve always been amazed that Woody Allen claims he doesn’t care about the business, doesn’t know about the business his movies do and doesn’t read anything about it. If that’s true, that’s really amazing. He never tested his movies. He never did any of that. That’s a great luxury, you know. I was never able to hide from people letting me know about the business. And for me to have to go out and partake in the same game that “Made of Honor” has to play in, is tough for me. ’Cause there’s no way I’m going to do well in that group of audiences. It’s like taking the SATs in Spanish for me.

But I don’t want to come off as person who spends my days thinking about the perilous aspects of the business. ... It’s not what occupies my day. I’m still most concerned about coming up with the next great idea.
20 2008-06-01 There is no central market where investors can watch credit default swaps trade and see their prices. Each transaction is conducted away from regulators’ prying eyes. While there are common aspects to many of these contracts, so-called bespoke deals also exist, hand-tailored to the requirements of the parties involved in the transaction.

The swap that is central to the UBS-Paramax dispute is one of these customized deals, dating from May 2007, well into the mortgage crisis. The swap was created to insure $1.31 billion in highly rated notes that reflected performance of subprime mortgages in a collateralized debt obligation underwritten by UBS.

The swap insured these notes, known as the “super senior tranche” of the debt obligation, because they were rated triple-A by both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service.

Officials at Paramax declined to comment on the litigation and the swap that led to it. A UBS spokesman said the company “is confident in the merits of our case.”

According to the story that unfolds in the court documents, in early 2007, UBS approached Paramax, a small hedge fund with just $200 million in capital, to insure the notes. After months of discussion, Paramax established a special-purpose entity to conduct the swap and capitalized it with $4.6 million.

Under the terms of the deal, UBS would pay Paramax 0.155 percent of the $1.31 billion in notes annually for its insurance and Paramax would deposit collateral to back the swap, increasing it if the value of the underlying notes declined.

That they did. Almost immediately.

By early November, UBS had asked Paramax for $33 million in additional collateral. Paramax refused, and UBS sued the fund, contending breach of contract, in mid-December 2007 in New York State Supreme Court. Paramax filed a counterclaim in January.

In court filings answering the complaint, Paramax tells its side of this story — and intriguing it is. The fund said it knew when it entered into the swap with UBS that the swap was risky and could require a good deal more capital than it had to deploy if the underlying securities fell in value. Paramax was concerned, the court filing said, that UBS could mark to market downward the value of the notes, causing a call for more collateral beyond the initial $4.6 million.

To allay the fund’s concerns, the documents say, Eric S. Rothman, the UBS managing director who arranged the deal, assured Paramax that mark-to-market risk was low. During a Feb. 22, 2007, phone call, Paramax contends in the filing, it was informed by Mr. Rothman that “UBS set its marks on the basis of ‘subjective’ evaluations that permitted it to keep market fluctuations from impacting its marks.” The filing also says: “Rothman explained that he was responsible for all marks on UBS’s super senior positions and that he could justify ‘subjective’ marks on the Paramax swap because of the unique and bespoke nature of the deal.”

Mr. Rothman is no longer employed at UBS. He could not be reached for comment.

In later discussions, according to court documents, Mr. Rothman contended that even if significant defaults arose in the underlying mortgages, UBS’s marking of the position “might not be as bad as you’d first think.”

On April 10, the hedge fund’s filing said, Mr. Rothman pressed Paramax to “please close this trade already”; in mid-May, the hedge fund pulled the trigger on the deal.

Six weeks later, in early July, Paramax said, it received its first margin call from UBS, for $2.36 million. On Aug. 10, UBS asked for an additional $12.7 million in collateral from Paramax and, on Aug. 22, called for almost $14 million more. The margin calls added up to almost $30 million, more than six times what Paramax had posted in initial collateral.

PARAMAX subsequently arranged with UBS to substitute the credit default swap with a restructured note that would not generate further margin calls. Based on those discussions, over the summer Paramax supplied UBS with $29.3 million to cover the margin calls.

But UBS submitted another margin call to Paramax in November, which the hedge fund declined to cover. Paramax contends in its filing that UBS’s margin calls exaggerated changes in the market.

On Dec. 10, UBS announced that it would take a $10 billion write-down in the fourth quarter of 2007, much of it related to “super senior” holdings like those it had insured with Paramax. Three days later, UBS advised Paramax that a default had occurred in the notes Paramax had insured. In December, after failing to reach a settlement with Paramax, UBS sued the hedge fund. Paramax responded by filing a counterclaim, asking that UBS return the $33.9 million that it lost in the swap.

John P. Doherty and Richard F. Hans, law partners at Thacher Proffitt & Wood, argue that the UBS-Paramax case is only the beginning of lawsuits relating to credit default swaps.

In “The Pebble and the Pool: The Global Expansion of Subprime Litigation,” an article published this year by Thomson West, they wrote: “In addition to losses resulting from corporate default on the underlying loans or bonds, the credit default swap market may also feel stress from the repricing of risk following the deterioration of corporate and/or household credit, as well as a rise in corporate bankruptcies stemming from the subprime market failure.”

The credit default market has ballooned recently, at least in part because of low default rates on corporate bonds. In such a benign environment, participants may have had little concern about the solidity of the entity agreeing to insure, known as the counterparty, or about problems with the swaps’ performance.

Those days are over. And as defaults rise, the optimistic assumptions are likely to come up short. But learning about the details of these disappointments will surely be educational.
21 2008-06-01 For the pork and marinade:

1. The night (or at least 4 hours) before, make the marinade: place the tenderloins in a baking dish. In a nonreactive bowl, mix together the remaining ingredients minus 2 tablespoons of the cilantro. Pour the marinade over the tenderloin to coat. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 4 hours or overnight, turning the tenderloins twice.

2. Prepare a gas or charcoal grill fitted with a lid. Thirty to 60 minutes before grilling, set the loins at room temperature. Pour the marinade into a saucepan, bring to a boil and simmer for 15 minutes, whisking often to prevent burning. Keep warm.
22 2008-06-01 I was 1,083 pages into Robert Musil’s majestic novel “The Man Without Qualities” when my wife burst into the living room and said that my 1991 Toyota Previa was leaking oil. The Previa is a fantastic vehicle, requiring virtually no upkeep, but “The Man Without Qualities” is even more fantastic, despite being 1,774 pages long, which is why hardly anybody has finished it.

For at least four years I’d been having trouble with the van — the passenger door went on the fritz in 2006, the emergency brake started sticking in 2007, the rear wiper started squeaking this year and the engine has been wheezing since it hit the 132,000-mile mark in 2004 — but I’d never taken care of these problems because I’d rather lie on the couch reading gargantuan books like “The Man Without Qualities.” Over the past couple of years I’d used the “Iliad” (663 pages in my edition), “All the King’s Men” (661 pages) and “Anna Karenina” (851 pages) as an excuse for not dealing with the van, but once my wife got serious about a vehicular upgrade, I knew I’d have to roll out the heavy artillery: Boswell, Gibbon, Proust. I kept telling her, “I’ll get the brakes checked as soon as I finish ‘The Guermantes Way,’” or “I’ll take the Previa in for an oil change as soon as I get to the part where Diocletian goes to war against the Christians.” My wife, who has read tons of Trollope, is no slouch in the jumbo-size lit department, but she has much stronger views on auto maintenance than I do, so usually she’s the one who takes care of it. But this time, she’d had enough: It’s your car. It’s a death trap. Fix it.

You wouldn’t have to get very far into “The Man Without Qualities” before seeing why auto repair would be so far down on my list of priorities. Set in Austria in 1913, the novel centers on a man who decides to take a back seat in his own life and become a detached observer of life in general and the soon-to-implode Austro-Hungarian Empire in particular. Much of the book deals with the Parallel Campaign, a frantic effort by a group of Austrian intellectuals to do something important, though they can never decide what. The best joke in this sly and very funny book is a rumor that the Parallel Campaign is planning to celebrate a “Year of Austria.” A single Austrian year, Musil writes, might be tolerable, whereas an entire Austrian century would effectively sentence the entire world to “the punishments of hell by an absurdly voluntary effort.”

I had read only 350 pages, up to the section where Musil describes “Mr. Plato” (the philosopher) trying to pitch story ideas to the Life and Leisure section of a contemporary newspaper, when I started buying up copies of the book and giving them to friends as Christmas presents. Many seemed surprised by the gesture, but I truly believe that if this book were set in Los Angeles or Paris, or even Miami (though probably not Atlanta), it would be as famous as “Madame Bovary,” “The Great Gatsby,” perhaps even “The Kite Runner.”

Anyway, for at least a month I’d known there was something wrong with the car, because I could see I was getting only about eight miles to the gallon from a vehicle that used to average 20. The problem was, shopping for a car involved reading a bunch of Consumer Reports, and every time I sat down with the magazines, trying to decide whether to buy the Honda Accord or the Toyota Camry, I found myself sneaking back to the far more glittering prose of “The Man Without Qualities.” Though I assured my wife that I would buy a car just as soon as I’d finished off Musil, she knew I was lying. I’d said the same thing about “Middlemarch” and “The Mayor of Casterbridge.” For years, I’d been getting engrossed in enormous books while the house, the van, the very fabric of our lives kept disintegrating. And since my wife knew that Boswell’s “Life of Johnson” was inching toward the on-deck circle, the odds of my getting around to buying a car were just about nil.

I’m not suggesting that gigantic books are useful only as an excuse for avoiding responsibility. No, those who read them also reap the psychic benefits of being admitted to an exclusive club, like Icelandic rodeo queens or American presidents whose administrations did not end in disaster. Those who have read the unabridged “Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire” and “Remembrance of Things Past” and “Man Without Qualities” belong to a very special group because at any given time there are no more than a few hundred such people on the face of the earth, and none of them live in Tarrytown.
23 2008-06-01 The hotel boom in Beijing continues as the Summer Olympics draw near. The stylish Hotel G Beijing will open this month in the Chaoyang District, where bars and restaurants like the Green T. House abound. The design of the 110-room hotel (www.avantgardehotels.com) seems to be inspired by the retro-chic sensibility of the Austin Powers movie series, and guests have a choice of three restaurants: 25 Degrees (upscale burgers and cocktails), Gilt (Mediterranean cuisine) and Morio (Japanese fine dining). There is also a spa. Nightly rates start at about 2,010 yuan, or $289 at 7 yuan to the dollar, through the end of the month, after which the rates will increase to about 2,369 yuan, or $334 at the same exchange rate. For those who prefer a corporate ambience — and to stay high above the city — there is the Park Hyatt Beijing (www.beijing.park.hyatt.com), scheduled to open next month in the business district. There will be 237 rooms on floors 37 to 49 in the Park Tower (part of the Beijing Yintai Center). Rates are expected to start at 3,500 yuan.
24 2008-06-01 QWhat was the structure at the far end of the old photograph of West 18th Street, published on Jan. 27  with the Streetscapes column about that street? ... Glen Reynolds, New Milford, Conn.     A It was one of a series of astonishingly artistic st...
25 2008-06-02 A team-by-team look at Group A for the 2008 European Championship featuring Portugal, Czech Republic, Turkey and Switzerland....
26 2008-06-02 Did the Republican senator consider running on a promise of just four years?...
27 2008-06-02 From our colleagues at City Room: Christopher Carter, a stockbroker who was charged with assault after confronting a noisy gym customer during a spinning class in an Upper East Side fitness club last summer, was found not guilty of assault in Manh...
28 2008-06-02 The two candidates would be an ideal political pair to tour Iraq, if they could only turn back the clock....
29 2008-06-02 Wiping down desks and using hand sanitizers can keep kids from missing school due to illness....
30 2008-06-02 In a bid to keep software developers in its orbit, Facebook is making its code open-source....
31 2008-06-02 Two former senators greet the Republican on a stop in Nashville....
32 2008-06-02 The surge in gas prices has increased the cachet of gas-sipping scooters. But some environmental advocates say scooters are only a half-measure to a greener commute....
33 2008-06-02 Melvyn I. Weiss, the prominent class-action lawyer, was sentenced on Monday to 30 months in prison by a federal district judge in Los Angeles for his role in concealing illegal kickbacks to plaintiffs. He was also ordered to pay $9.7 million in fo...
34 2008-06-02 Mr. Bill, an icon of Saturday Night Live, gets tapped for MasterCard's "Priceless" campaign.
35 2008-06-02 Headlines from the international property business: Spanish housing dips further The downturn in Spain's residential housing market is gathering pace, as tightening credit conditions exacerbate already weakening demand. From the Financial Times. G...
36 2008-06-02 When the Discovery Home Channel becomes Planet Green Wednesday at 6 p.m., the new channel will offer a broad sample of its environmentally-themed schedule. Here is the premiere night programming, according to Discovery: SuChin Pak and Daniel Siebe...
37 2008-06-02 Before pro-Israel lobby group, the Republican candidate lays out the threats posed to Israel by Iran and Iraq....
38 2008-06-02 Angry investors in an embattled $650 million Greenwich, Conn. hedge fund sued last week to take control of the fund from Philip and Alan Milton, the brother investment team that had steered the fund through many years of fat returns before it hit ...
39 2008-06-02 Investors don't often get a peek inside the vast, opaque and unregulated world of credit default swaps, those privately traded insurance contracts that essentially allow participants to bet on or against a debt issuer's financial condition. (Remem...
40 2008-06-02 Société Générale announced Friday that it would replace its head of investment banking, Jean-Pierre Mustier, in the latest effort to restore a reputation badly bruised by a massive trading scandal. The French bank hired Michel Péretié, the f...
41 2008-06-02 A former Credit Suisse investment banker convicted of insider trading was sentenced to 10 years in prison by a judge who said Wall Street professionals were failing to understand that it was a serious crime to cheat in the markets. "It's going on ...
42 2008-06-02 The group that oversees the London interbank offered rate will implement no changes in the way it is set, confounding critics who said the rate, known as Libor, had become unreliable as a gauge of the cost of borrowing. The British Bankers Associa...
43 2008-06-02 Goldman Sachs on Monday announced two new co-heads to its investment banking group for Asia excluding Japan, highlighting a shifting of talent by Western banks to Asia. Goldman said Ravi Sinha, relocating to Hong Kong from New York, would become c...
44 2008-06-02 But Ms. Levy and others who ride and work at Kensington Stables say the parks department has not done enough to maintain the more than three and a half miles of historic bridle paths in the park, or a riding ring near the south end of the Long Meadow, where the stable offers lessons.

Ms. Thomas, the park’s administrator, said parts of the path had been restored by the parks department. “We restore the bridle path during any major capital project near the path,” she said. “We try to do major repairs when there is a washout.”

The most recent restoration work was done last year, in the park’s Midwood section and on a part of the path near Lookout Hill.

Ms. Thomas, who said that maintenance of the paths needed to be a collaboration between riders and the park, said it had “never been very clear” whose responsibility it was. And she blamed a lack of communication for the confusion, adding that she was confident that the path would be fixed.

At least one other park in the city has had better success maintaining its horse trails. In 2002, the bridle paths in Forest Park in Queens were restored, with new drainage systems and erosion controls, as part of a $1.7 million park improvement. Joseph Sinopoli, the owner of Forest Equine Center, said that his and another stable held regular fund-raisers or contributed their own money to maintain the paths, and organized rock-removal parties. “Instead of complaining,” Mr. Sinopoli said, “we go out and do it ourselves.”

Kensington Stables did raise $12,000 to fix the riding ring, but the work has barely begun. And Mr. Blankinship said he had repaired the trails with his tractor in the past. But fixing the recurring problems on the bridle path would require money from the park, he said: “There’s no funds unless we do it ourselves.”

The problem at Prospect Park is complicated, those involved agree. The path, especially a stretch near the Vanderbilt Street Playground, is prone to flooding and could require an expensive drainage system in any true restoration.

The problem is not new. An 1887 editorial in The New York Times could have been written by Ms. Levy and her colleagues today.

“The soil of Prospect Park is not favorable to the formation of good bridle roads through the unaided and unchecked operations of nature,” it read. “This fact does not seem to be fully understood by the current managers of the park. It is excessively rough, very soft in places, and the loose sandy soil of which it is composed is thickly mixed with small stones, on which a spirited horse may easily lose his footing or become lamed.”

Ms. Thomas said in a recent telephone interview that she was committed to making sure riding could continue in the park. There has always been a bridle path there, though its route has been altered over the years. Ms. Thomas said, “When you go on a horseback ride, there are different ways you see the park,” views that Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux intended when they designed it.

To preserve those views, riders from Kensington Stables are trying to raise more money from somewhere, anywhere, to restore the paths. Ruth Moore, a rider, wrote a letter to Shelby White, the philanthropist who donated $10 million to the park last month, urging her to earmark some of the money for the bridle paths. “We read that she used to ride in the park when she was a child,” Ms. Moore said.

On Sunday night, Ms. Levy, reached by telephone, was sitting at a bar near the stable drinking a beer with her colleagues after an emotional few days spent consoling children who have come to love her horses. Ms. Levy said that if real money was spent to make the paths better — to make them safe — she might bring her horses back.
45 2008-06-02 Professional athletes have often lost considerable earnings in risky or fake ventures. Before it began providing a list of financial advisers as part of the collective bargaining agreement with the league, a study by the N.F.L.P.A. found that 78 members were cheated out of at least $42 million from 1999 to 2002.

Wright, soft-spoken and charismatic, began small. During testimony at his trial last month, he recalled pooling $2,000 with classmates while pursuing a master’s degree at Harvard, then investing modest amounts entrusted to him by relatives and acquaintances while operating a business out of his basement in Virginia. One client was his mother.

Ultimately, in partnership with two socially connected Atlanta anesthesiologists, Wright moved to Marietta, Ga., and attracted hundreds of affluent clients to his firm, International Management Associates. Atwater and Bishop were so impressed that they became recruiters for Wright’s firm, which had offices in Marietta, New York and Las Vegas.

“I brought in my best friends,” Atwater said in a 2006 interview. “That hurts more than my loss” of nearly $2.7 million.

Atwater, who declined comment for this article, said in 2006 that he might have recognized the returns reported by Wright as too good to be true, but added, “The last thing I thought was that the guy was stealing money.”

He and other investors viewed Wright’s four sports cars, multiple residences, flashy jewelry and fit-for-royalty $500,000 wedding in the backyard of the main family home as evidence of his investing skills. Prosecutors say Wright stowed much of his clients’ money and made poor investments. They found evidence of fabricated financial statements sent to clients.

Atwater, who earned a degree in business and finance, was among some current and retired players who grew suspicious and tried to withdraw their money. When they sued Wright’s firm, the federal authorities shut it down. Wright fled.

For more than two months, he was a fugitive until he was caught poolside at an elegant hotel in Miami Beach, a cocktail at his side, in May 2006. He had been using an alias. The arresting officers found nearly $30,000 in cash, false identifications and a Mercedes in his possession. He had made a down payment on a condominium.

Soon after, Atwater and Bishop, along with Ray Crockett, Al Smith, Carlos Emmons and Clyde Simmons, sued their union and the league and asked for $20 million in restitution. Terrell Davis and Rod Smith said they also lost money with Wright.

“I never would have placed my trust and money with I.M.A. had I known of these matters,” Bishop said when the suit was filed. Court documents placed his loss at about $4 million. He could not be reached for comment.

The union and the league “are truly responsible for what happened here,” Fritz Jekel, a lawyer for the players, said last week.

“The P.A.’s vetting process was incomplete,” he said. “The whole system is designed to miss things.”

The union hires an outside party to carry out background checks, including criminal and credit history, of those who apply to be on the registered financial advisers’ list, said Joseph Yablonski, a counsel for the union who is assigned to the Wright case.

The only change in criteria since the program’s inception is that advisers must have five years of experience, above the original minimum of three.

Yablonski said the S.E.C. encouraged the union not to be highly selective. The list contains more than 500 names. He quoted the text accompanying the list, which requires a password to access, as saying that the N.F.L.P.A. “does not endorse or recommend any financial advisers on this list.”

The program is designed, according to Yablonsky, so that “Players will be solely responsible for their personal finances.”

He said that only one of the six players had obtained a password and thus would not have seen Wright on the union Web site before investing with International Management Associates. Further, Yablonski questioned whether Atwater’s and Bishop’s employment compromised their claims. Hedge funds, he said, have an inherent risk known to any knowledgeable investor.

“This is a case that should never have been brought,” Yablonski said. “It has no merit.”

The parties agreed that the death of Wright, who was brought into the suit by the union as a third party, should have no legal effect on the matter.

Wright is survived by four sons. During an interview in prison two years ago, he disclosed that plea negotiations with the United States attorney were unlikely because he felt the proposed settlement might harm his wife and children financially.

“Most people in that situation think they have a right to carve out some of those proceeds to go to their family,” Bruce Kirwan, Wright’s former lawyer, said. “The government’s position is, everything is fair game. That was a stumbling block.”

Kirwan eventually urged Wright against going to trial. Wright dismissed him.

“Successful businesspeople who talk their way into situations like this think they can talk their way out of it,” Kirwan said last week. “They think, If given a chance, I can persuade anybody.”

He added: “They’re in the habit of controlling everything. When they get indicted, they’re shocked that they are no longer in control.”

Kirwan said that Wright “had so much ability; he could certainly have made a living” legitimately.

At trial, Wright contended that internal mismanagement was mainly to blame for the soured investments. He also tried to shift some burden to his two associates. “A basis of the case was that he wasn’t the only person responsible,” Bill Morrison, Wright’s co-counsel, said last week.

The jury deliberated for two days, then convicted Wright on all 47 counts of mail fraud, securities fraud and money laundering. Sentencing was scheduled for Aug. 26. Wright had been placed on routine security alert after the verdict.

“He was disappointed, no doubt about it,” said Morrison, who had expected to appeal. “He didn’t say anything that would have led us to think of a heightened level of security for him. We were shocked and saddened.”

Wright’s death has hardly elicited universal sympathy from his investment victims.

Calvin Paris of Delray Beach, Fla., had prepared a speech for the sentencing in which he would ask the judge for maximum punishment.

“It’s sad, but he deserved what he got,” said Paris, 75, who once regarded Wright as a friend and said that he lost $1 million, including a son’s college trust fund, with Wright’s firm. “In every sense of the word, he was a charlatan. He cheated us two ways, coming and going.”
46 2008-06-02 While nearly all of the more than 21,000 detainees in Iraq are in American custody, Maj. Gen. Douglas M. Stone, who runs detainee operations countrywide, is proceeding with a broad experiment to restructure it. His goal is to use the system of detention centers as another front in the counterinsurgency war, trying to reduce the likelihood that they become a recruiting ground for militants.

“The extremists owned the battlefield of the mind,” said General Stone, a Marine Reserve counterinsurgency expert who took responsibility for the detention system last spring. Before he arrived, moderate and extremist detainees were usually mixed, turning the American-run detention facilities into what he called a “jihadi university.”

General Stone’s goal now is to isolate those he believes are extremists, who are a minority of detainees, and persuade the other detainees that they will have better lives if they keep away from those who preach jihad. It is part of the effort to bring detention policy here in line with American military strategy that seeks to separate insurgents from civilians, mentally and physically.

General Stone’s goal is to move detainees, particularly more moderate ones, through the system faster by instituting review boards to hear each detainee’s case. So far, these boards have released at least 8,400 people. He has also pushed to expand paid work programs, like carpentry shops, brick factories and laundries, as well as educational programs, especially for juvenile detainees and the many illiterate adults.

It is difficult to assess this drive toward improvement. Outsiders are forbidden to interview detainees. The International Committee of the Red Cross has regular access to the facilities, but the United Nations and human rights groups say they have not been permitted to enter.

Still, a reporter’s visits to Camp Cropper and Camp Bucca, the two main American detention facilities; interviews with American military officers in charge of the facilities; and conversations with former detainees and human rights advocates make clear that the system has been changed in several important ways.

These changes were seen as vital after the images of prisoner humiliation and abuse at Abu Ghraib created fury throughout the Arab world. Recidivism is down: since General Stone’s arrival last year, just 28 of those released have been jailed again. That number, less than 1 percent of the total released, reflects considerably fewer repeat detentions than before the administrative hearings and other reforms, when recapture rates ran at 5 to 10 percent, according to military lawyers.

Riots, which once regularly traumatized Camp Bucca, have tailed off. The last was in September. Violence among detainees, including beatings and killings, is down as well. The last escape attempt was in November 2007, when military police officers found an 80-foot-long tunnel with an exit outside the compound.

In interviews, former detainees praised the new hearing system, which they said allowed them for the first time to tell their side of the story.

“I would consider this committee a fair and beautiful committee,” said Sheik Riyadh, who was released in early April from Camp Bucca, near Iraq’s southern border with Kuwait, after three and a half years in detention. “If only they had formed it when I was first detained. Then the detainee was not sent to any committee. But this committee works to release people.”

But the innovations have not erased memories of the Abu Ghraib scandals, nor have they mollified the many Iraqis who continue to be arrested and who maintain their innocence.

“I had not done anything,” said Mahmoud Abu Dumour, who was detained in Falluja in November 2004 and released without explanation in July 2007, before General Stone’s administrative hearing system was in place.

“It was very nice that my daughter recognized me,” he added, his arms around his 3-year-old girl. “She was 10 days old when the Americans took me.”

Human rights advocates familiar with the new system say they believe conditions have improved considerably since Abu Ghraib. But they contend that those gains do not change the underlying legal problems with the detentions themselves and the lack of legal rights afforded to detainees.

Suspects are often brought in, with little or no physical evidence, because they were near an attack on American or Iraqi troops or based on statements by informants, who often have their own reasons for lying. Detainees have no right to a lawyer nor can they challenge the grounds for their detention.

Of the total detainee population, which peaked at 25,600 last October and which was reported on Sunday to be at 21,680, only 10 to 15 percent will ever stand trial, military lawyers said. The average detainee is interned for 333 days, and as of March, about 1,500, or 5 percent, had been in detention for more than three years, said Lt. Col. Rodney Faulk, of the 300th Military Police Brigade, who runs Camp Bucca day to day.

No one knows how many of those detained are innocent of any crime, but General Stone said he believed that only about 8,000 detainees as of March were extremists who posed a continuing security risk. “One-third are genuinely continuing and imperative security risks,” General Stone said then. “But that means two-thirds are not, or at least remain a question mark.”

Although the American military has the legal right to detain suspects in Iraq under a United Nations resolution, human rights advocates say the Americans have interpreted the resolution far more broadly than was ever intended.

“Security detention is an emergency measure, and emergency measures you should try to use temporarily,” said John Sifton, executive director of One World Research, a human rights organization based in New York.

“These things have a way of becoming addictive,” he said. “It’s great the U.S. is trying to improve things. But remember, insurgency is a crime, and you should prosecute it.”

Eager to erase the stain of the Abu Ghraib scandal, the United States emptied that complex, which had a notorious reputation under Saddam Hussein, too, and turned it over to the Iraqi government in 2006.

Of the two major American-run facilities, Camp Bucca, the larger, holds 18,580 detainees. Camp Cropper has 3,100, and that includes all the juveniles in the system as well as so-called high-value detainees — Mr. Hussein was kept there before his execution in 2006 — and about 15 women, according to figures released on Sunday. About 80 percent are Sunni and 20 percent are Shiite. Just 221 of the detainees in Bucca and Cropper combined are from outside Iraq, a tiny percentage of the total number that the military views as extremists.

Recent visits to both detention centers, along with interviews of former detainees, depicted a system whose conditions increasingly resemble those of the American civilian model, in general treatment if not in rights.

On a late winter day at Camp Bucca, the detainees whom a reporter could see appeared to be in good health and at ease. Some played volleyball or table tennis. Others sat in the sun reading the Koran. One man tended a bottle of milk that he was fermenting into homemade yogurt.

Former inmates at Bucca, however, have complained in interviews about the food there, which they described as scant and sometimes nauseating.

When detainees arrive at Bucca, they are quickly profiled to separate those identified as moderates from those thought to be extremists. The procedure, which was under way before General Stone arrived, has been expanded so the military obtains a rough psychological assessment of each detainee. Former detainees say the change has made them feel safer.

“When the prisoner entered, he was terrified, and he found takferis surrounded him and taught him takferi ways,” said Abu Yahya, a former detainee who now lives on Falluja’s outskirts, using the Arabic word for Sunni Muslim fanatics. He said he spent more than three years in detention and was beaten several times by extremist detainees. “If anyone objected, he would be beaten and attacked, and sometimes he would die.”

A more recent innovation, popular with families living far away, is videoconferencing. Now, families who cannot travel from Baghdad to Bucca to see an interned relative can go to Camp Cropper and be linked by video.

Detainees say the most important change has been the creation of administrative boards to determine whether an individual remains an “imperative security risk” — the legal term used in the United Nations approval for American forces to detain Iraqis. If a detainee is no longer deemed to be a risk, he can be released.

Detainees appear before a three-person panel, with no lawyer. In almost all the hearings, the detainees deny any wrongdoing, military lawyers say. They often change their accounts to try to say the right thing to obtain release.

It took months, the lawyers said, for the Americans to conclude that the Iraqi denials were a reflexive survival strategy inculcated under Mr. Hussein, not simply an effort to obfuscate. During Mr. Hussein’s rule, people were often tortured until they confessed; then the confession was used against them. So there is a deep reluctance to admit any shade of guilt, even if the cost is an inconsistency in the detainee’s testimony that can trouble American hearing officers.

Now, roughly 45 to 50 percent of those who have hearings are recommended for release.

Although the goal is for each detention to be reviewed every four to six months, interviews with detainees suggest the process is more haphazard.

Sadiq Jaber Hashim, 43, a Shiite merchant in Baghdad, was recommended for release after his first appearance before a hearing panel. A speaker of English and Turkish and a paramedic by training, Mr. Hashim tried to persuade his captors from the moment of detention that he had done nothing wrong. But only at his first hearing — eight months later — did anyone listen.

“The accusation was not that I was a terrorist, but that I knew some terrorists,” Mr. Hashim said. Because he was Shiite, he said, he was thought to have ties to the Mahdi Army militia of the cleric Moktada al-Sadr.

“I said, ‘I hate the Mahdi Army; they tried to kidnap me in 2006.’ But they did not listen,” he said.

While the hearings have succeeded in reducing the detainee population, to a visiting journalist they were difficult to follow, and the detainees often seemed to have little understanding of the process. The reasons for detention are frequently a jumble of allegations by soldiers and informers contained in documents available only to the hearing board.

The complications of the process were on display at a hearing in March, when a detainee in Bucca who had been accused of taking part in displacing families and planting bombs in the troubled Dora district of Baghdad, made his case.

“You were captured as a suspected Al Qaeda member,” said Maj. Charles Leonard, chairman of the administrative board and an acquisition officer from Hanscom Air Force Base in Massachusetts.

“I am innocent,” the detainee said.

“We have evidence that you were a target because of information we gathered.”

“No, no, I was in my house.”

“We have evidence that you were involved in displacing and killing Sunnis and Christians in your local area.”

“I was an employee in the Ministry of Education.”

“What will you do if you get released?”

“I’ll go back to the same job, and I have a shop with my brother.”

The detainee left, and Major Leonard sighed as he looked down at the file. “This is one of the tougher ones,” he said. “There are two allegations against him, but no physical evidence. There’s been no problems with him whatsoever in detention.”

His fellow hearing officers nodded. All three voted for release.

Looming on the horizon is the end of the United Nations authorization of the American involvement in Iraq, including the detention system. The authorization expires Dec. 31 and the United Nations is not expected to take up the issue again, leaving it to negotiations between the United States and Iraq. But the outlook for such a deal, which involves sweeping issues of troop withdrawal, as well as detention and other aspects of an American presence in Iraq, is in doubt.

On Sunday, for instance, the Iraqi government said it would not accept an American draft proposal on the issues.

The detention issues at play cover difficult legal and ethical ground, so much so that no American official interviewed for this article was willing to speak on the record about the discussions.

At the heart of the problem are all the so-called security detainees, who make up an overwhelming majority of the 21,000 people in American custody. They are the people who have been arrested because, in the judgment of the United States military, they could present some threat, even if they are not accused of extremist activity.

It is expected that Iraqi officials, who are now completing new prisons, will seek to take more control of detention operations, including taking custody of at least some of the current Iraqi detainees. That prompts the question characterized by one American military lawyer as “What do we do with the red population?” or those detainees the Americans consider to be extremists — the 8,000 detainees that General Stone referred to as a continuing threat.

Even as the Americans try to overcome their reputation for past mistreatment, serious allegations of torture and substandard conditions in some Iraqi prisons persist. Iraq’s Interior Ministry detention centers, which hold the largest numbers of pretrial detainees, have been run primarily by Shiites and have a record of overcrowding and abuse against the predominantly Sunni detainee population.

There have also been many allegations of torture. In cases in 2005 and 2006, it was American and British soldiers who rescued beaten and starved prisoners.

“If the coalition is going to turn over detainees, there are real Convention Against Torture issues,” said Kevin Lanigan, a former Army Reserve judge advocate in Iraq who is director of the law and security program at Human Rights First, a rights organization.

He was referring to the international Convention Against Torture, which among other things prohibits nations that have signed it from turning detainees over to countries where there are “substantial grounds” to believe that they would be tortured. Iraq has also signed the convention.

In the end, there is some speculation that a compromise will be reached that allows the American military to continue to detain and hold at least some of the people it deems security risks. In the meantime, the American military is pushing to review as many detention cases as possible with an eye toward quickly shrinking the overall detainee population.

Whatever the result, it is unlikely to meet American standards of justice or satisfy human rights groups.

Sheik Riyadh, for example, was released because of the new hearing panel at Camp Bucca. Still, he found little justice in the three and a half years he spent in detention.

“I like the idea of democracy in America,” he said. “But I have not touched it yet.”
47 2008-06-02 ZURICH — Swiss voters on Sunday defeated a measure that would have legitimized the practice of allowing secret votes by townspeople on granting citizenship to foreigners in their communities.

The vote was a blow to the powerful far-right Swiss People’s Party, known as SVP, which had initiated the measure. Over all, nearly 64 percent of voters cast “no” ballots, and the measure gained a majority in only one of the country’s 26 cantons.

The defeat shows that the Swiss people “fully back our constitutional state,” the Social-Democratic Party, known as SP, said in a statement. Legal scholars said the measure would have violated the country’s Constitution and the European Human Rights Convention because, among other things, it would have denied rejected applicants any appeals. Buoyed by the vote, the SP said it would soon introduce an initiative to automatically grant citizenship to third-generation foreigners.

The defeated measure would have overturned a Swiss Federal Court ruling in 2003 that found that secret citizenship votes by townspeople were unconstitutional. Despite that ruling, the practice has continued in some parts of the country.

The vote was seen as an important indicator of whether Switzerland, with seven million people, was turning away from its more welcoming past as immigrants flood the country. Almost 22 percent of Swiss residents are foreigners — the highest proportion in Europe except for Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.

The SVP has risen rapidly in politics since the late 1990s. Asking for the will of the people in referendums is common in Switzerland’s direct democracy, and the SVP regularly leads initiatives on questions over asylum and against entry to the European Union.

“The SVP has harnessed Switzerland’s unusual political system of direct democracy to attract disgruntled voters to get their support, especially when it comes to topics regarding foreigners,” said Oscar Mazzoleni, a political scientist and lecturer at the University of Lausanne. “The SVP wants to remain at the center of the political agenda, to keep its voter base happy and possibly get new voters.”
48 2008-06-02 “I think tennis is getting more and more popular in our countries,” said Guy Forget, the French Davis Cup captain. “And even small countries realized they could produce champions and really good players.”

Serbia has been the emergent force in the last two seasons, and three of its stars advanced to the quarterfinals Sunday. Novak Djokovic, the No. 3 men’s seed, defeated Paul-Henri Mathieu of France, 6-4, 6-3, 6-4.

Ana Ivanovic, the No. 2 women’s seed, overwhelmed Petra Cetkovska of the Czech Republic, 6-0, 6-0, a shockingly lopsided score at this stage of a major tournament. No. 3 Jelena Jankovic, once again ailing with a sore right arm and neck, had to work much longer to shake Agnieszka Radwanska, the 14th seed from Poland. Jankovic lost a 5-1 lead in the second set before winning, 6-3, 7-6 (3).

Ivanovic will face Patty Schnyder of Switzerland. Schnyder won, 6-2, 6-4, against Katerina Srebotnik of Slovenia, who was not nearly as steady as she had been in her upset of Serena Williams in the third round. Jankovic will play the biggest surprise in the women’s draw, the 132rd-ranked Spanish qualifier Carla Suarez Navarro, a clay-court specialist with an elegant, versatile one-handed backhand.

It was also a promising day for Latvia because of the unseeded men’s player Ernests Gulbis, a laid-back, fresh-faced 19-year-old with tousled hair, a huge serve and a powerful forehand. Gulbis reached the quarterfinals with a 6-4, 7-6 (4), 6-3 victory over the flashy Frenchman Michael Llodra.

Gulbis, ranked 80th and rising fast, is the first Latvian to break into the top 100, an ascent that gained notice when he reached the fourth round at the United States Open.

“Tennis in Latvia was never one of the popular sports; we had hockey, basketball and football,” Gulbis said. “After the U.S. Open, when I reached the fourth round, I mean the courts in Latvia are fully booked always. If I go to practice at home, I don’t get a court really. It’s full. There are a lot of kids and young players coming to practice, but the problem is that we don’t have so many good coaches in Latvia. That’s the main problem.”

Instead, Gulbis enrolled at Nikki Pilic’s tennis academy in Munich, the same place Djokovic developed after leaving Serbia.

According to Djokovic, Gulbis used to win in practice. But they will now play on a much more meaningful stage, the quarterfinals at Roland Garros.

“We knew each other on and off the court, crazy experiences off the court as well,” Djokovic said.

The Baltic nations may get a second surprise quarterfinalist. Kaia Kanepi, a tall and unseeded Estonian, will face Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic on Monday. But the bulk of the Europeans still in contention come from established tennis power bases: Russia for the women, Spain and France for the men.

The other quarterfinal in the bottom half of the men’s draw will match Rafael Nadal, the No. 2 seed and three-time French Open champion, against No. 19 Nicolas Almagro, a fellow Spaniard with no shortage of personality or power. Nadal crushed his compatriot Fernando Verdasco on Sunday, 6-1, 6-0, 6-2, despite seeking treatment for dizziness after returning to the court in the second set after a rain break. Nadal said he quickly felt better after eating some bread and a banana. He has lost only 22 games in four matches.

Almagro defeated the 145th-ranked Jérémy Chardy of France, 7-6 (0), 7-6 (7), 7-5. Although he, like almost everyone here, is a heavy underdog against Nadal, he has the weapons and clay-court expertise to cause him more trouble than most.

The five Russian women left, led by No. 1 seed Maria Sharapova and No. 4 Svetlana Kuznetsova, are bunched at the top of the draw. With five men in the fourth round, France has had its best showing here since 1971.

Even as clay remains a struggle for many American players, it is worth remembering that two American men, Andy Roddick and James Blake, are ranked in the top 10. Venus Williams is the reigning Wimbledon champion, and her sister Serena has already won three titles this year.

But there can still be no question about which continent is winning the numbers game.

“We hope to turn it around in the next three to five years,” said Rodney Harmon, the director of men’s tennis for the United States Tennis Association’s elite-player-development program. “I think it’s cyclical. We’re working at it, quietly, peacefully every day.”
49 2008-06-02 Mr. Doolittle, who has been dogged by legal issues related to the disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff, has repeatedly denied wrongdoing. But when he announced in January that he would retire from the House next year after nine terms, a scramble ensued among Republicans to hold onto the district, where registered Republicans heavily outnumber Democrats. The Republican primary is Tuesday.

Mr. McClintock, 51, who hails from a senate district hundreds of miles to the south, has served in the State Legislature for two decades and is one of the state’s best-known Republicans. He has run many times for statewide office, including the governor’s seat, and has been a frequent critic of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger’s policies. The two are rarely spotted in the same room willingly.

During the campaign, Mr. Ose, 52, has relentlessly criticized Mr. McClintock for living in Southern California and running in a Congressional district at the northern end of the state. Mr. McClintock, who has become so enraged by these charges that he withdrew from a recent debate with Mr. Ose, has in turn accused his competitor of being too liberal.

“It’s been the ugliest campaign I’ve ever seen,” Mr. McClintock said in a telephone interview. “But I think it has backfired on him.”

Mr. McClintock’s campaign has centered largely on issues like immigration, the federal budget and states rights. “I have found people care far more about where the candidate stands than where the candidate lives,” he said.

Mr. Ose, who served in Congress in an adjoining district from 1999 to 2004 and now works in real estate, has also yet to take up residency in the Fourth District. His campaign is more focused on local issues like traffic and water conveyance. “You name the issue,” he said, “and these folks know I’ve got the experience and the knowledge about the Fourth Congressional District to get things done.”

Mr. Ose has the endorsement of two former Republican governors of the state and many elected officials, while Mr. McClintock has been endorsed by two local county Republican parties, against the rules of the state party. There will be no punishment, but the move did not make state party leaders happy, said Kevin Roberts, a party spokesman.

Mr. Brown says he does not care whom he runs against. “They are two of the same,” he said.

Mr. Brown is hoping the bruising battle between the two Republicans, combined with his military background and conservative leanings, will pave the way for him among voters like Jerry Kopp, 65, a print and sign shop owner in Auburn.

Mr. Kopp described himself as a conservative who was undecided between Mr. Ose and Mr. McClintock, but added that he had respect for Mr. Brown. “I like Charlie Brown,” he said. “If all Democrats were like Charlie Brown, I could probably vote for Charlie Brown.”

State Democratic Party officials hope that fatigue with President Bush, an increase in the number of voters registering as Democrats and Mr. Doolittle’s troubles could result in a gain here. (Of the state’s 53 Congressional seats, Democrats already hold the upper hand, 34 to 19.)

“The Republican brand is being recalled,” said Bob Mulholland, a spokesman for the party. “Even up there.”

While state Republicans are optimistic about the outcome, Mr. Roberts, the party spokesman, said, “it is definitely a race of interest that we are keeping our eye on.”

Here in Auburn, a picturesque city of about 12,600 in the Sierra foothills about 30 miles east of Sacramento, many voters say they are still trying to decide about all three men in the race. Vance Sauter, 60, says he and a group of like-minded Republicans meet for coffee most mornings to discuss the race.

“The majority of voters who are going to vote in the election look at what happens in the last two weeks,” Mr. Sauter, a graphic designer, said. “So if nothing changes, I think this district will still go Republican.”
50 2008-06-02 When Dan Walsh, a 33-year-old technology manager in Dublin, started posting doctored versions of the comic strip “Garfield” on his blog in February, he thought he might amuse a few friends.

Instead, his site on Tumblr started receiving as many as 300,000 hits a day from the United States and beyond. More recently it has leveled off to 30,000 to 35,000 a day, which is not bad for a site whose content takes about five minutes to create.

Mr. Walsh does nothing to the panels except strip away Garfield and other characters — like Odie the dog and Nermal the kitten — to create a new, even lonelier atmosphere for Jon Arbuckle, the main human. Without the cutesy thought-bubbles of his lasagna-loving cat, Jon’s observations seem to teeter between existential crisis and deep despair.

“Do you have any unfulfilled dreams?” Jon asks in the first panel of the “Garfield Minus Garfield” strip posted on May 2. Then he stares into the void for the next two frames.

In the real version, which first appeared in 2002, Garfield keeps Jon company in all three panels. In the middle one, Garfield thinks, “Oh sure,” and then in the third: “There’s the one about the 12-foot chocolate éclair...”
51 2008-06-02 Basic Assembly’s “Game On” is proof that a dance can be born in the unlikeliest of places, even in a Slovakian hotel courtyard during a card game. The production, seen on Friday at the Chocolate Factory, also takes inspiration from “Open Score,” a 1966 performance piece by Robert Rauschenberg that began with a tennis match.

A lighthearted collaboration, performed by two dancers (Benjamin Asriel and Ashleigh Leite), a video designer (Keith Skretch) and a lighting designer (Joe Levasseur), “Game On,” while not exactly a dance, was densely choreographed from beginning to end. The work, which plays with the notion of play, revolves around Set, a game of visual perception in which cards must be matched according to symbol, color, number or shading.

A preshow event took place in the Chocolate Factory’s basement space, where the audience was encouraged to play, too, with the board and video games provided. In the second-floor space, cabaret-style seating featured tables equipped with video monitors that showed the cards of the performers, who sat at a table on a raised platform.

A live feed captured close-ups of the players’ faces, which were projected onto the surrounding walls. Eventually, the Set cards were switched for others, with lines like “What is it you’re looking for?” and “Let’s start from the beginning again.” When mixed up and spoken at rapid-fire speed, they told a story of sorts that hinted at a mystery. One phrase in particular stood out: “Tell me everything you saw and what you think it means.”

As it progressed, “Game On” became somewhat oppressive in all its clever frivolity. Even as the cards danced and Carrie Wood’s video-game lighting peppered the floor in rainbow patches, watching a card game you aren’t allowed to play becomes tiresome.

But in the last section, Basic Assembly raised the stakes, shuffling performers as it had shuffled cards. As they darted around the room, punching fists into the air to snippets of Devo, or slid head first across the raised platform, Grace Kelly’s coolly elegant voice could also be heard reciting lines from Alfred Hitchcock’s “Rear Window.” In an instant, everything we saw — and what we thought it meant — took on a greater meaning, about perception. The final set saved the match.
52 2008-06-02 Was Steve Novick the first major YouTube political candidate? O.K., he didn’t quite win the Democratic Senate nomination in Oregon, and there was more to his unusual campaign than YouTube — in fact, most things about it were unusual, starting with the candidate.

Mr. Novick lost the May 20 primary by three percentage points, but political pros say that for the first time in a statewide race, YouTube had the crucial multiplier effect, turning an under-financed campaign into a serious contender. His ads received far more attention on the Internet than through his few television spots, offering a new template for insurgent candidates.

“YouTube plus netroots equals Steve Novick,” said Jennifer E. Duffy, managing editor of the Cook Political Report. (Netroots fuses the words Internet and grassroots to describe a style of political activism.) “YouTube is the only way he got any traction.”

Not that this will be easy to duplicate. It worked because of a candidate, a strategy and a set of ads that were all clever, oddball and appealing.

Mr. Novick, 45, a wisecracking former government lawyer, stands 4-foot-9, his looks are something short of matinee-idol and he has a hook for a left hand. The Democratic establishment preferred a better-known candidate, Jeff Merkley, speaker of the Oregon House, who won the primary and will face the Republican incumbent, Gordon Smith.
53 2008-06-02 DOHA, Qatar (AP) — Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said there was no quick fix to high oil prices, which he called an issue of supply and demand.

Mr. Paulson said Sunday that inflation in the Persian Gulf region was “significant” but suggested that gulf countries’ pegging their currencies to the weak dollar was not the only reason.

The Treasury chief was in the Mideast to deliver a message to officials of Saudi Arabia and other oil-producing nations that soaring oil prices are putting a burden on the global economy.

He is urging the countries to open their oil markets to investment that can increase yields, exploration and production.

Mr. Paulson said there is “no quick fix” to high oil prices because it is an issue of supply and demand. Global demand remains strong while “production capacity has not seen new development,” Mr. Paulson said.

“I don’t see a lot of short-term answers,” he added.
54 2008-06-02 ENVIRONMENTAL DEBATE As Washington prepares to take up climate policy, corporate interests and environmentalists have combined to form a group called the Climate Action Partnership to make sure their interests are represented.      BERTELSMANN'S N...
55 2008-06-03 McCain's speech underwhelms the faithful....
56 2008-06-03 As the contests end, speculation intensifies about Hillary Rodham Clinton's political future....
57 2008-06-03 Internet Week is a New York festival that brings together some 60 largely unconnected events somehow related to the Internet. Some complain about people and events that were excluded....
58 2008-06-03 After a four year absence, ExxonMobil will resume sponsorships of PBS programs this month, the public broadcaster announced Tuesday. ExxonMobil will partially underwrite the news program "Nightly Business Report" and the science program "Nova." Th...
59 2008-06-03 Gov. David A. Paterson said he would propose a ceiling on increases to local property taxes, but the idea in Albany faces stiff opposition from labor groups....
60 2008-06-03 The irony is that Americans have been experiencing a lot of change in their lives attributable to these historic events, and some of those changes have distressed many American families -- job loss, failing schools, prohibitively expensive health care, pensions at risk, entitlement programs approaching bankruptcy, rising gas and food prices, to name a few. But your government often acts as if it is completely unaware of the changes and hardships in your lives. And when government does take notice, often it only makes matters worse. For too long, we have let history outrun our government's ability to keep up with it. The right change will stop impeding Americans from doing what they have always done: overcome every obstacle to our progress, turn challenges into opportunities, and by our own industry, imagination and courage make a better country and a safer world than we inherited.

To keep our nation prosperous, strong and growing we have to rethink, reform and reinvent: the way we educate our children; train our workers; deliver health care services; support retirees; fuel our transportation network; stimulate research and development; and harness new technologies.

To keep us safe we must rebuild the structure and mission of our military; the capabilities of our intelligence and law enforcement agencies; the reach and scope of our diplomacy; the capacity of all branches of government to defend us. We need to strengthen our alliances, and preserve our moral credibility.

We must also prepare, far better than we have, to respond quickly and effectively to a natural calamity. When Americans confront a catastrophe they have a right to expect basic competence from their government. Firemen and policemen should be able to communicate with each other in an emergency. We should be able to deliver bottled water to dehydrated babies and rescue the infirm from a hospital with no electricity. Our disgraceful failure to do so here in New Orleans exposed the incompetence of government at all levels to meet even its most basic responsibilities.

The wrong change looks not to the future but to the past for solutions that have failed us before and will surely fail us again. I have a few years on my opponent, so I am surprised that a young man has bought in to so many failed ideas. Like others before him, he seems to think government is the answer to every problem; that government should take our resources and make our decisions for us. That type of change doesn't trust Americans to know what is right or what is in their own best interests. It's the attitude of politicians who are sure of themselves but have little faith in the wisdom, decency and common sense of free people. That attitude created the unresponsive bureaucracies of big government in the first place. And that's not change we can believe in.

You will hear from my opponent's campaign in every speech, every interview, every press release that I'm running for President Bush's third term. You will hear every policy of the President described as the Bush-McCain policy. Why does Senator Obama believe it's so important to repeat that idea over and over again? Because he knows it's very difficult to get Americans to believe something they know is false. So he tries to drum it into your minds by constantly repeating it rather than debate honestly the very different directions he and I would take the country. But the American people didn't get to know me yesterday, as they are just getting to know Senator Obama. They know I have a long record of bipartisan problem solving. They've seen me put our country before any President -- before any party -- before any special interest -- before my own interest. They might think me an imperfect servant of our country, which I surely am. But I am her servant first, last and always.

I have worked with the President to keep our nation safe. But he and I have not seen eye to eye on many issues. We've disagreed over the conduct of the war in Iraq and the treatment of detainees; over out of control government spending and budget gimmicks; over energy policy and climate change; over defense spending that favored defense contractors over the public good.

I disagreed strongly with the Bush administration's mismanagement of the war in Iraq. I called for the change in strategy that is now, at last, succeeding where the previous strategy had failed miserably. I was criticized for doing so by Republicans. I was criticized by Democrats. I was criticized by the press. But I don't answer to them. I answer to you. And I would be ashamed to admit I knew what had to be done in Iraq to spare us from a defeat that would endanger us for years, but I kept quiet because it was too politically hard for me to do. No ambition is more important to me than the security of the country I have defended all my adult life.

Senator Obama opposed the new strategy, and, after promising not to, voted to deny funds to the soldiers who have done a brilliant and brave job of carrying it out. Yet in the last year we have seen the success of that plan as violence has fallen to a four year low; Sunni insurgents have joined us in the fight against al Qaeda; the Iraqi Army has taken the lead in places once lost to Sunni and Shia extremists; and the Iraqi Government has begun to make progress toward political reconciliation.

None of this progress would have happened had we not changed course over a year ago. And all of this progress would be lost if Senator Obama had his way and began to withdraw our forces from Iraq without concern for conditions on the ground and the advice of commanders in the field. Americans ought to be concerned about the judgment of a presidential candidate who says he's ready to talk, in person and without conditions, with tyrants from Havana to Pyongyang, but hasn't traveled to Iraq to meet with General Petraeus, and see for himself the progress he threatens to reverse.

I know Americans are tired of this war. I don't oppose a reckless withdrawal from Iraq because I'm indifferent to the suffering war inflicts on too many American families. I hate war. And I know very personally how terrible its costs are. But I know, too, that the course Senator Obama advocates could draw us into a wider war with even greater sacrifices; put peace further out of reach, and Americans back in harm's way.

I take America's economic security as seriously as I do her physical security. For eight years the federal government has been on a spending spree that added trillions to the national debt. It spends more and more of your money on programs that have failed again and again to keep up with the changes confronting American families. Extravagant spending on things that are not the business of government indebts us to other nations; fuels inflation; raises interest rates; and encourages irresponsibility. I have opposed wasteful spending by both parties and the Bush administration. Senator Obama has supported it and proposed more of his own. I want to freeze discretionary spending until we have completed top to bottom reviews of all federal programs to weed out failing ones. Senator Obama opposes that reform. I opposed subsidies that favor big business over small farmers and tariffs on imported products that have greatly increased the cost of food. Senator Obama supports these billions of dollars in corporate subsidies and the tariffs that have led to rising grocery bills for American families. That's not change we can believe in.

No problem is more urgent today than America's dependence on foreign oil. It threatens our security, our economy and our environment. The next President must be willing to break completely with the energy policies not just of the Bush Administration, but the administrations that preceded his, and lead a great national campaign to put us on a course to energy independence. We must unleash the creativity and genius of Americans, and encourage industries to pursue alternative, non-polluting and renewable energy sources, where demand will never exceed supply.

Senator Obama voted for the same policies that created the problem. In fact, he voted for the energy bill promoted by President Bush and Vice President Cheney, which gave even more breaks to the oil industry. I opposed it because I know we won't achieve energy independence by repeating the mistakes of the last half century. That's not change we can believe in.

With forward thinking Democrats and Republicans, I proposed a climate change policy that would greatly reduce our dependence on oil. Our approach was opposed by President Bush, and by leading Democrats, and it was defeated by opposition from special interests that favor Republicans and those that favor Democrats. Senator Obama might criticize special interests that give more money to Republicans. But you won't often see him take on those that favor him. If America is going to achieve energy independence, we need a President with a record of putting the nation's interests before the special interests of either party. I have that record. Senator Obama does not.

Senator Obama proposes to keep spending money on programs that make our problems worse and create new ones that are modeled on big government programs that created much of the fiscal mess we are in. He plans to pay for these increases by raising taxes on seniors, parents, small business owners and every American with even a modest investment in the market. He doesn't trust us to make decisions for ourselves and wants the government to make them for us. And that's not change we can believe in.

Senator Obama thinks we can improve health care by driving Americans into a new system of government orders, regulations and mandates. I believe we can make health care more available, affordable and responsive to patients by breaking from inflationary practices, insurance regulations, and tax policies that were designed generations ago, and by giving families more choices over their care. His plan represents the old ways of government. Mine trusts in the common sense of the American people.

Senator Obama pretends we can address the loss of manufacturing jobs by repealing trade agreements and refusing to sign new ones; that we can build a stronger economy by limiting access to our markets and giving up access to foreign markets. The global economy exists and is not going away. We either compete in it or we lose more jobs, more businesses, more dreams. We lose the future. He's an intelligent man, and he must know how foolish it is to think Americans can remain prosperous without opening new markets to our goods and services. But he feels he must defer to the special interests that support him. That's not change we can believe in.

Lowering trade barriers to American goods and services creates more and better jobs; keeps inflation under control; keeps interest rates low; and makes more goods affordable to more Americans. We won't compete successfully by using old technology to produce old goods. We'll succeed by knowing what to produce and inventing new technologies to produce it.

We are not people who believe only in the survival of the fittest. Work in America is more than a paycheck; it a source of pride, self-reliance and identity. But making empty promises to bring back lost jobs gives nothing to the unemployed worker except false hope. That's not change we can believe in. Reforming from top to bottom unemployment insurance and retraining programs that were designed for the 1950s, making use of our community colleges to train people for new opportunities will help workers who've lost a job that won't come back, find a job that won't go away.

My friends, we're not a country that would rather go back than forward. We're the world's leader, and leaders don't hide from history. They make history. But if we're going to lead, we have to reform a government that has lost its ability to help us do so. The solution to our problems isn't to reach back to the 1960s and 70s for answers. In just a few years in office, Senator Obama has accumulated the most liberal voting record in the Senate. But the old, tired, big government policies he seeks to dust off and call new won't work in a world that has changed dramatically since they were last tried and failed. That's not change we can believe in.

The sweeping reforms of government we need won't occur unless we change the political habits of Washington that have locked us in an endless cycle of bickering and stalemate. Washington is consumed by a hyper-partisanship that treats every serious issue as an opportunity to trade insults; impugn each other's motives; and fight about the next election. This is the game Washington plays. Both parties play it, as do the special interests that support each side. The American people know it's not on the level. For all the problems we face, what frustrates them most about Washington is they don't think we're capable of serving the public interest before our personal ambitions; that we fight for ourselves and not for them. They are sick of the politics of selfishness, stalemate and delay, and they have every right to be. We have to change not only government policies that have failed them, but the political culture that produced them.

Both Senator Obama and I promise we will end Washington's stagnant, unproductive partisanship. But one of us has a record of working to do that and one of us doesn't. Americans have seen me put aside partisan and personal interests to move this country forward. They haven't seen Senator Obama do the same. For all his fine words and all his promise, he has never taken the hard but right course of risking his own interests for yours; of standing against the partisan rancor on his side to stand up for our country. He is an impressive man, who makes a great first impression. But he hasn't been willing to make the tough calls; to challenge his party; to risk criticism from his supporters to bring real change to Washington. I have.

When members of my party refused to compromise not on principle but for partisanship, I have sought to do so. When I fought corruption it didn't matter to me if the culprits were Democrats or Republicans. I exposed it and let the chips fall where they may. When I worked on campaign finance and ethics reform, I did so with Democrats and Republicans, even though we were criticized by other members of our parties, who preferred to keep things as they were. I have never refused to work with Democrats simply for the sake of partisanship. I've always known we belong to different parties, not different countries. We are Americans before we are anything else.

I don't seek the presidency on the presumption I'm blessed with such personal greatness that history has anointed me to save my country in its hour of need. I seek the office with the humility of a man who cannot forget my country saved me. I'll reach out my hand to anyone, Republican or Democrat, who will help me change what needs to be changed; fix what needs to be fixed; and give this country a government as capable and good as the people it is supposed to serve. There is a time to campaign, and a time to govern. If I'm elected President, the era of the permanent campaign of the last sixteen years will end. The era of reform and problem solving will begin. From my first day in office, I'll work with anyone to make America safe, prosperous and proud. And I won't care who gets the credit as long as America gets the benefit.

I have seen Republicans and Democrats achieve great things together. When the stakes were high and it mattered most, I've seen them work together in common purpose, as we did in the weeks after September 11th. This kind of cooperation has made all the difference at crucial turns in our history. It has given us hope in difficult times. It has moved America forward. And that, my friends, is the kind of change we need right now.
61 2008-06-03 Activist investors may be on the brink of losing a tool that aids in their battles with corporate management - and the hedge fund industry is worried, MarketWatch reported. Positions built in a company using equity swaps, a type of derivative that...
62 2008-06-03 On the night of Dec. 2, 1980, shortly after the start of El Salvador’s civil war, Mr. Ford’s sister, Ita , a Maryknoll sister; another member of the same order, Maura Clarke; the Ursuline sister Dorothy Kazel; and a lay missionary, Jean Donovan, were abducted, raped and shot to death. The next day, peasants discovered their bodies beside an isolated road and buried them in a common grave. The van they had been driving when they were stopped at a military checkpoint turned up 20 miles away, burned and gutted.

The killings came as the United States was beginning a decade-long, $7 billion aid effort to prevent left-wing guerrillas from coming to power in El Salvador, and the case quickly became the focus of a bitter policy debate about Central America.

“This particular act of barbarism,” a 1993 State Department report said, “did more to inflame the debate over El Salvador in the United States than any other single incident.”

In 1984, four national guardsmen were convicted of murder in El Salvador and were sentenced to 30 years in prison. After 17 years of silence, the guardsmen said they had acted after receiving “orders from above.” Their admissions were made to a delegation from the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, including Mr. Ford.

For years, Mr. Ford lobbied politicians and made speeches, charging that the Salvadoran government had failed to conduct even a rudimentary investigation into the murders. In 1981, he pressed his case with the American ambassador to El Salvador, Dean Hinton, and the Salvadoran president, José Napoleón Duarte.

Mr. Ford also criticized the Reagan administration. The government, he said, “is so obsessed with the East-West confrontation that they are willing to tolerate the murder of American citizens in El Salvador.” The Salvadoran junta had killed more than 30,000 people, he said.

It was an unusual stance for a lawyer who had been on the staff of the New York law firm where Richard M. Nixon and John Mitchell had worked before Mr. Nixon became president and Mr. Mitchell became the attorney general. A year after his sister’s murder, Mr. Ford said he had been “radicalized” by American support for a government “which is no more than a group of gangsters in uniform.”

William Patrick Ford was born in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, on April 28, 1936, the son of William and Mildred O’Beirne Ford. Besides his son William, Mr. Ford is survived by his wife of 47 years, the former Mary Anne Heyman; another son, John; four daughters, Miriam Ford, Ruth Ford, Elizabeth Ford and Rebecca Ford; a sister, Irene Coriaty; and eight grandchildren.

Mr. Ford graduated from Fordham University in 1960 and earned his law degree at St. John’s University in 1966. He was a law clerk to a federal judge and later a founding partner of the law firm Ford Marrin Esposito Witmeyer & Gleser.

Litigating securities and product-liability cases took a back seat for Mr. Ford after that day in 1980. Of the American government, he said a year later, “You can’t take seriously the inscription at the base of the Statue of Liberty if at the same time you are sending arms, ammunition, trucks and police equipment to a junta which is murdering its own citizens.”
63 2008-06-03 A worker who was power-washing the upper facade of an apartment building in Brooklyn without wearing a safety harness died on Monday after he fell four stories to the ground, officials said.

The victim was identified by friends as Houssain Mosharrf, who turned 50 on Sunday.

Investigators at the scene said they had not yet determined what caused Mr. Mosharrf to fall.

Mr. Mosharrf, of 1212 Newkirk Avenue in Brooklyn, and another worker had been cleaning the six-story building at 789 St. Marks Avenue in Crown Heights for about five days, the building’s superintendent said. On Monday, Mr. Mosharrf and Joishim Uddin, his partner, hoisted themselves up the building using suspended scaffolding: a rigged aluminum platform and rope.

According to the Department of Buildings, the workers were not wearing safety harnesses or any attached lifeline, as they are required to do, and there was no licensed rigger overseeing the use of the scaffolding, as the department also requires.

Mr. Uddin said that he was Mr. Mosharrf’s helper. At one point, Mr. Uddin said, he climbed down from the perch and headed to a nearby store to pick up something for lunch. He said he was on the ground when he saw his partner tumble to the concrete below. At that point, he said, he ran away, returning about 5 p.m. to talk to the authorities.
64 2008-06-03 Nissan led a decline in domestic auto sales in May, as higher taxes and fuel costs cut demand. Sales of cars, trucks and buses fell 6.1 percent from a year earlier to 221,377, the Japan Automobile Dealers Association said. The total excludes minicars. Sales at Nissan dropped 11.4 percent to 33,681 vehicles. Toyota’s sales fell 2.8 percent to 105,519 vehicles. Honda sold 26,900 vehicles, a 5.1 percent increase, helped by its revamped Fit compact.
65 2008-06-03 The company that New York City chose to operate a heliport near Wall Street revealed on Monday that it would place a former city official in charge of the facility, despite criticism that it was getting the contract through political connections.

At a public hearing on Monday, representatives of three local aviation companies complained about the city Economic Development Corporation’s decision to sign a 10-year contract for the Downtown Manhattan Heliport with FirstFlight, a company based near Elmira, N.Y., that has never operated a busy urban heliport. But neither FirstFlight executives nor city officials said anything at the hearing, held by the city’s Franchise and Concession Review Committee, to dispel the criticism that the company had ties to City Hall.

Instead, Ron Ricciardi, the vice chairman of FirstFlight, said that Robert Grotell, who was once the senior aviation official for the Economic Development Corporation, would manage the heliport on an interim basis.

Mr. Ricciardi also disclosed that Mr. Grotell, who also served as a city transportation official under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was the architect of the company’s successful bid for the heliport.

That declaration fanned the discontent simmering among losing bidders and operators of helicopter tours in the city. One of the bidders, Linden Airport Management Corporation, has sued the development corporation in federal court, contending that its selection process was unfair and “based on political motivation.”
66 2008-06-03 Mr. Chávez, who has insisted the defeat will not dampen his ambitions to transform Venezuela into a Socialist state, said the new law was intended to guarantee “national security” and shield against “imperialist attacks.”

He lashed out at its critics as being agents of the “empire,” meaning the United States.

The law’s stated aim of protecting Venezuela follows a history of antagonism between the governments in Caracas and Washington, dating at least from the Bush administration’s tacit support for a short-lived coup against Mr. Chávez in 2002.

Recently, Venezuela has claimed it was subject to military intimidation from the United States, pointing to a recent violation of Venezuelan airspace by an American fighter jet and Washington’s recent reactivation of its Fourth Fleet to patrol Latin American and Caribbean waters.

On Sunday, Mr. Chávez referred to critics of the intelligence law as de facto supporters of the Bush administration and of the Patriot Act, the American antiterrorism law that enhances the ability of security agencies to monitor personal telephone and e-mail communications.

Mr. Chávez’s new intelligence law has similar flourishes. For instance, it authorizes his new intelligence agencies to use “any special or technically designed method” to intercept and obtain information.

But the new law may also point to the influence of Cuba, Venezuela’s top ally, on intelligence policies. For instance, the use of community-monitoring groups to assist in gathering intelligence resembles Cuba’s use of neighborhood Committees for the Defense of the Revolution to report on antigovernment behavior.

“This is purely Cuban-style policy,” Juan José Molina, a legislator with Podemos, a leftist party that broke from Mr. Chávez’s coalition last year, said of the new intelligence law. “Our rulers want to impose old models upon us.”

Interior Minister Ramón Rodríguez Chacín announced the intelligence overhaul in a public appearance here last week, saying it was needed to combat “interference from the United States” by having intelligence agency workers imbued with “ideological commitment.”

On Monday, however, Mr. Rodríguez Chacín softened his tone, saying the law would not lead to political intimidation or restrict freedom of expression. “We are talking about the responsibility all Venezuelans have with the security of the state and the resolution of any crime,” he said.

The drafting and passage of the law behind closed doors, without exposing it to the public debate it would have had if Mr. Chávez had submitted it to the Assembly, also contributed to the public uproar and suspicion.

One part of the law, which explicitly requires judges and prosecutors to cooperate with the intelligence services, has generated substantial concern among legal experts and rights groups, which were already alarmed by the deterioration of judicial independence under Mr. Chávez.

While the language of this passage of the law, and several others, is vague, legal experts say the idea is clear: justice officials, including judges, are required to actively collaborate with the intelligence services rather than serve as a check on them.

“This is a government that simply doesn’t believe in the separation of powers,” said José Miguel Vivanco, Americas director for Human Rights Watch, the New York-based rights organization. “Here you have the president legislating by decree that the country’s judges must serve as spies for the government.”

Mr. Chávez’s opponents here grasped for reasons as to why he chose this moment for the intelligence overhaul, with his government grappling with economic problems like climbing inflation and slowing economic growth even as the price of oil, the lifeblood of Venezuela’s economy, remains near record levels.

“Even within the Bolivarian movement, this would officialize Soviet- and Cuban-style purges, accusing dissidents of being spies, traitors or agents of the imperialist enemy,” El Nacional, a normally staid opposition newspaper, said in an editorial that ended, “This is revolting.”

In some ways, the changes would merely refine the control Mr. Chávez already exerts over intelligence operations. His government has already used voter registration data to purge employees deemed disloyal to the president from the intelligence agencies and other parts of the civil service.

Several legal activists said Monday that they were studying ways to appeal the law, but the viability of a legal challenge remains unclear.

“This is the most scandalous effort to intimidate the population in the 10 years this government has been in power,” said Rocío San Miguel, a prominent legal scholar who heads a nongovernmental organization that monitors Venezuelan security and defense issues.

Ms. San Miguel said information her group had collected could be deemed illegal under the new law. The group has data from military sources showing that Mr. Chávez’s efforts to create a force of one million reservists had fallen far short.

“Under the new law, this information could be considered a threat to national security and I could be sent immediately to jail,” she said. “Effectively this is a way to instill fear in NGOs and news organizations and parts of society that remain outside the government’s reach.”
67 2008-06-03 Gas costs are less an issue for teams on the big-time circuits, like Nascar’s Sprint Cup series, because they generally have fuel provided for their racecars and have big-ticket sponsorship deals to help offset travel expenses.

But at a place like New Egypt in central New Jersey, the gas-price issue reverberates to all corners, including the track’s offices. There is some debate in the industry about whether high gas prices and a bleak economy help or hurt attendance at smaller tracks. Maybe people will forgo more expensive and elaborate entertainment options, the hope goes, and come to the track. It is too early in the season, which began in April, to know for sure.

But there is no argument about what gas prices are doing to the racers themselves. The pit areas adjacent to the track began filling up with trucks and trailers when the gates opened at 3 p.m. on Saturday, a few hours before the races began.

Harry Schaefer dragged his No. 48 super stock racecar in on an open trailer behind his pickup. A truck driver from Carteret, N.J., about 60 miles away, Schaefer comes to New Egypt every Saturday night. He wore a gray goatee and a black cap with a red 48 on it, and if he won his race, he would receive $500.

Nearby, Frank Cozze of Wind Gap, Pa., arrived after a two-and-a-half-hour drive in his customized Haulmark motorcoach. It has a kitchen and enough room to sleep his crew of five. It pulled a 35-foot enclosed trailer with two racecars inside. Cozze races his modified car here every Saturday, and spends the rest of each week traveling to other races in the region. “Cozze” T-shirts are available at the concession stand, and first place in his race was worth $2,500.

Schaefer and Cozze would seem to have little in common, other than a thing for speed. Now each faces the same rough track: trying to maneuver through unprecedented fuel costs and find other corners of their worlds to save a few dollars.

“We don’t super-size anymore,” Schaefer said with a smile. “We use Styrofoam plates instead of china. But we’re here.”

A few minutes later, Cozze sat outside his rig. A generator hummed. He pondered how higher gas prices were forcing him to scale back, too.

“Who knows how long we’re going to keep it,” he said, nodding to the motor home. “Hopefully we can survive through the year with it, but I’ve kind of got a feeling we’re going to be downsizing a little bit.”

Last year, Cozze pulled a 52-foot trailer, big enough for four cars, but decided it was not economical. “We kind of saw the gas thing coming,” he said.

Cozze usually races close to 100 times a year. He will probably race 60 times this year, choosing tracks on the basis of proximity and payouts.

“To tell you the truth, we’ve really had to do a lot of sit down and think about how we’re going to do this, and what races we’re going to be cutting out,” Cozze said.

Like others, he nearly did not come on Saturday because bands of thunderstorms throughout the day threatened the night’s schedule. He did not want to drive all that way if there was no race — and no payout.

The arithmetic of the racing business is already performed mostly with negative numbers. Gas prices are making it worse. Bryan Kobylarz, from Birdsboro, Pa., is a team manager of two midget cars that race as part of a regional tour that stopped at New Egypt on Saturday. A year ago, fuel costs accounted for about 15 percent of Kobylarz’s budget. Now it is about 25 percent, he said, and climbing.

It took about 40 gallons of diesel to get his cars to and from the track in his 40-foot trailer. His midget cars run on methanol, which cost $5.10 per gallon at the track pump Saturday. Up to 1,000 gallons of four types of race fuel is sold on Saturday nights. Kobylarz buys his elsewhere in 55-gallon drums for $206 (a little less than $4 a gallon), but he said the price of the drums had risen about $80 since last year.

“Basically, you have to finish in the top three to come out with a positive cash flow,” he said. In an average week, 28 midget cars enter the race.

The majority of racers at New Egypt are part of the weekly schedule. They have full-time jobs and tinker with their cars in their off hours. They have no substantial sponsorships. They spend their Saturdays at the track, toiling in the pits, waiting for their chance to race 20 laps in front of a few thousand fans, hoping to emerge with some points in the standings and a car free of major damage.

Gas prices are altering the dynamics. Schaefer spends about $120 in gas just to pull the trailer to and from the track each week. He pays $25 for each crew member to enter the gate. At the beginning of the season, he paid $100 for a yearlong pit pass.

Ten gallons of 110-octane race fuel cost $82.50 on Saturday. Add in tolls, food, tires, parts and labor (much of it unbilled in a do-it-yourself sport) and Schaefer is left to wonder if there is a point when gas prices will keep him home.

“Pretty high to give up the car,” Schaefer said. “What are you going to do with a $20,000 car? Let it sit again? It’s hard. It’s a big decision — whether to let it sit and do nothing, or to work other jobs, part-time jobs, and do the best we can to get down here.”

The thunderstorms turned the track to mud on Saturday afternoon. That pushed back the start of the races by 90 minutes. The uncertain weather left the bleachers mostly empty.

The sky cleared for several hours of racing, and the only threat seemed to be an 11:15 p.m. curfew mandated by the town. But at 11, rain sprinkled. Minutes later, it fell in a deluge, punctuated by lightning.

Cozze’s modified race was stopped midway through, to be continued later. And the final two races of the night, including the super stocks, were postponed until another time.

Cozze was headed to the next race, without a payout. Schaefer was left to haul his super-stock car back north to Carteret. It would cost him about $60 in gas just to return home from a race he never ran.
68 2008-06-03 WASHINGTON — Major League Baseball’s effort to maintain exclusive control of its players’ statistics failed Monday, when the Supreme Court turned down its appeal of a ruling that gave fantasy baseball leagues the right to use the data without purchasing a license.

The justices made no comment in turning down the case, which was an appeal of a ruling in October by the federal appeals court in St. Louis. The appeals court held that the First Amendment’s guarantee of free speech outweighed the “right of publicity” that team owners and the players union had invoked in arguing that the players’ names and statistics could not be used commercially without permission.

Fantasy baseball is a big business, with revenue estimated at $1.5 billion a year. League members assemble teams of actual major league players. Commercial leagues charge fees to play the game on their Web sites, sometimes with additional fees for trading players or acquiring free agents.

One of the leagues, the St. Louis-based CBC Distribution and Marketing, brought a lawsuit in 2005, after baseball’s Internet arm refused to renew a license it had granted since the mid-1990s. The major league teams had formed their own Internet company, Major League Baseball Advanced Media, and decided to run fantasy games on Major League Baseball’s Web site, MLB.com.

CBC, which operates under the name CDM Fantasy Sports, was informed that it could have a license to offer the MLB.com games on its Web site, but not to create its own.
69 2008-06-03 Expecting the director of development or director of marketing to rescue the cash-starved place is of no use: these positions were eliminated several chapters ago in earlier austerity moves.

The museum attributes its predicament to several recent challenges, not the least of which was its own ambition. Hoping to furnish a richer educational experience to a greater number of visitors, the museum opened a multipurpose visitors’ center near the original house and carriage barn in November 2003. Designed by Robert A. M. Stern, the addition cost $19 million, almost double the initial projections.

Webster Bank forgave much of what it lent to finish the job, and the state of Connecticut also helped defray $3.5 million of the debt, but Jeffrey L. Nichols, the museum’s executive director since April, says the organization was still left with a $5 million obligation that keeps it from borrowing additional funds.

Of course, less money means fewer exhibits and events, which in turn means corporate sponsors are giving less. Electric bills that devoured $100,000 a year when the visitors’ center opened have tripled as energy costs have soared. More efficient fluorescent bulbs could save $16,000 a year, but the museum does not have the $30,000 to buy them.

“It is a serious cash-flow situation,” said Mr. Nichols, who is eager not to let the organization go dark, figuratively or literally.

The state contributes about $60,000 a year toward operating expenses, a fraction of the museum’s current $2.9 million budget. In February, legislative leaders said they favored awarding an extra $230,000 to help the museum bridge a $370,000 shortfall that it foresees for the year ending next Jan. 31.

But the state’s governor, M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, and the Democratically controlled legislature then adopted what was widely called a “do-nothing” budget that left the previous year’s decisions frozen.

“That was a huge blow,” said Duby McDowell, a board member at the museum.

As a result, the museum and other needy organizations are now fending for themselves, Ms. McDowell said, noting that Edith Wharton’s house in Massachusetts was facing similar problems.

Moreover, museum officials are concerned that soaring gas prices will discourage schools from sending the usual flood of children. Last year, nearly one-sixth of the museum’s 68,000 visitors arrived on school buses.

“It would be a shame” if it closed, said K. S. Ramesh, a tourist from Bangalore who said he had studied Twain as a boy in India.

“America has only a history of 200-odd years,” said Mr. Ramesh, who toured the museum last Thursday. “This is a part of their tradition, and they should not lose it.”

What visitors find when they arrive at the house, still designated as 351 Farmington Avenue, is an eclectic residence with flourishes like the stenciled walls mimicking inlaid mother-of-pearl by Louis Comfort Tiffany as well as such avant-garde touches as gas-fired chandeliers and remnants of an early burglar alarm.

Just as impressive, Twain’s friend Harriet Beecher Stowe lived next door.

The recently married Twain financed the $40,000 house partly with an inheritance of his wife’s and partly with proceeds from the 1869 publication of “Innocents Abroad,” a well-received account of his tour of the Middle East.

“The time he lived here was his most creative time,” said Mr. Nichols, ticking off “The Adventures of Tom Sawyer,” published in 1876; “The Prince and the Pauper” in 1881; “Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” in 1885 and “A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court” three years later. “All the big books were written during his tenure in Hartford.”

A heavily carved mantelpiece that the author and his wife, Olivia, found in Scotland adorns the library. There, Twain would read Shakespeare aloud and improvise stories for his children featuring the bric-a-brac on the mantel. A brass plaque above the hearth states: “The ornament of a house is the friends that frequent it.”

Upstairs, a queen-size bed, hauled from Italy and swarming with angels, dominates the master bedroom. Museum officials have mulled whether they erred in not allowing the casino mogul Steve Wynn to spend a night in it years ago in return for a donation. But since Mr. Wynn accidentally put his elbow through a Picasso that he was about to sell for more than $100 million, perhaps it was for the best.

Seventeen years after they moved in, Twain’s family moved out because of financial hardships. An early typesetting machine he had backed nearly ruined him.

“He thought it was a wonderful thing because it wouldn’t get drunk or miss work,” said Richard Ahles, a museum trustee, “all the terrible things printers do.”

Twain left for Europe, and the lecture circuit helped revive his fortunes. Many fans recall how he famously remarked from London, after learning that a newspaper had him at death’s door, that the report was “greatly exaggerated.”

Mr. Ahles and the other trustees would like to believe that the demise of the house can turn out to be equally premature, so as not to deprive visitors of Twain’s rich legacy. Glimpses of it remain etched in the walls of the visitors’ center, including his memorable remark, “The lack of money is the root of all evil.”

“You see we’re not shy about it,” Mr. Ahles said. “It’s right in the front lobby.”
70 2008-06-03 UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. — Ron Meyer, president of Universal Studios, was not kidding when he said it would be “business as usual” here Monday, despite a weekend fire that consumed two square blocks and many structures on the studio lot.

Even as fire officials investigated the blaze — at a news conference on Monday, they said it was caused by an accident that resulted from some late-night roofing work — guides on the popular studio tour at Universal were working the disaster into their patter.

“We’re going to take you right up next to the devastated part of the lot, and give you a closeup look,” a smiling guide who identified himself as Owen told visitors as they set out in a tram shortly after noon to visit a back lot, much of which was missing.

An early stop on the tour, New York Street, was a real-life smoking ruin. Firefighters were still poking through piles of charred lumber and corrugated metal wreckage. One gigantic soundstage lacked a roof. Nobody mentioned King Kong, who, until the early hours on Sunday, had been a favorite attraction somewhere around here.

“Actually, Hollywood has a long history of back-lot fires,” said Owen. He told the visitors — who asked no questions, and seemed to take it all in stride — that filmmakers occasionally burned their own sets to get a good shot.
71 2008-06-03 BAGHDAD — Iraq’s prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, has scheduled a visit to Iran later this week and is expected to broach a subject high on the agenda of American commanders here: the allegation that Iran is supporting the insurgency in Iraq with men and weapons.

For more than a year, American generals have accused the Iranian authorities of slipping agents and weapons across the long, porous border, including a powerful type of roadside bomb called explosively formed penetrators, which can pierce the armor on American vehicles.

For the Iraqi government the issue is more fraught. Mr. Maliki’s government is composed of Shiite political parties that were sheltered in Iran, and received support from the Iranian government, during the rule of Saddam Hussein.

Mr. Maliki’s approach to Iran is less adversarial than the Americans’. He has appealed to Iran for assistance in stabilizing the country and reviving the economy. Last month, the government turned to Iran to help broker a cease-fire with Shiite militias in the Sadr City district in northeastern Baghdad.

The planned visit seemed to reflect this approach, too.

The newspaper Al Sabah quoted a government spokesman, Ali al-Dabbagh, as saying that Mr. Maliki would leave for Tehran on Saturday. The trip will also take him to Jordan.
72 2008-06-03 A prominent Uzbek human rights advocate was freed on Monday after more than two years in captivity, a release that coincided with a visit by an American official.

The advocate, Mutabar Tadjibaeva, said by telephone that she left a prison in Tashkent, the country’s capital, at 11 a.m., and was driven to her native city, Margilan, in the Ferghana Valley. She was told that she had been released for health reasons.

She was not asked to sign a confession, as is often the case in Uzbekistan, a Central Asian country whose president, Islam Karimov, has crushed all political opposition and put dozens of human rights advocates in jail.

Ms. Tadjibaeva’s release coincided with the visit of Richard A. Boucher, the assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asian affairs, who arrived in Tashkent on Friday on a four-day visit. It was unclear whether the two events were related. A state department official said Mr. Boucher discussed bilateral relations, human rights and the situation in Afghanistan with his Uzbek counterparts.

The United States has struck a softer tone toward Uzbekistan in recent months, largely because it needs Uzbek support for its war effort in Afghanistan. The two countries share a border.
73 2008-06-03 David Brooks’s column analyzing why the next president will spend “more time on Iran than any other foreign policy issue” is flawed because he doesn’t identify the fundamental reason for Iran’s surge as a regional superpower: the Bush administration’s strategic blunder of invading Iraq.

In dismantling Saddam Hussein and the country he ruled, the United States opened the door to Iran, which needed no second invitation to step in. Tehran’s nuclear program and its Hezbollah and Hamas proxies were facts of life before the invasion. But the presence of a Sunni-ruled antagonistic neighbor under a wily, if weakened, leader kept its regional ambitions in check.

The next president’s principal focus in the Middle East will not be Iran but extricating the United States from the Bush-Cheney-Rumsfeld quagmire in Iraq. Only then can a more effective relationship, using appropriate carrots and sticks, be developed with Iran.

For that, it will need a president to reclaim the reins of its Iraq policy from the United States military and lay out a new strategic and tactical map.

The writer is a former Middle East correspondent for The London Observer.
74 2008-06-03 Re “Warrior for Al Qaeda Rallies Recruits With Her Online Fury” (news article, May 28):

The irony of Malika El Aroud’s jihadist crusade is beyond delicious. She seeks the violent demise of Western democracy, the only system under which she could freely preach her brand of hate and murder all the while collecting generous monthly unemployment benefits and relying on the civil rights and protections under Belgium’s legal system. Daniel Wolf
75 2008-06-03 “It’s a cumulative effect,” Mr. Bernard said. Critics in the big media centers, he argued, have generally gotten into the habit of writing for one another more than for movie viewers. Meanwhile, audiences in regional centers like the Texas cities he has in mind for “Baghead” have become well informed about films thanks to the widespread availability of information on the Web. And the studio can generate excitement, for instance with an open-air premiere planned for “Baghead” in Austin, word of which will presumably spread to Dallas and Houston.

Sony, he said, would consider alternative releasing strategies for any film that showed promise of sparking interest outside the traditional starting points in New York and Los Angeles.

Mr. Bernard spoke by telephone from his company’s quarters in an office tower on Madison Avenue in Manhattan. But he was already getting into an Austin state of mind.

On his company’s Web site, sonyclassics.com, Mr. Bernard said, he can be found with a paper bag over his head, mimicking the namesake feature of the Duplass brothers’ loose-jointed film. Part horror film and part comic sendup, the film involves the entanglements of four would-be actor friends with a “baghead” during a weekend screenwriting retreat in the woods.

In the recent past, distributors have occasionally bypassed New York and Los Angeles with movies meant for a niche audience, like faith-driven viewers, or reckoned to stand no chance with major critics and media types like, for instance, “The Chumscrubber,” Newmarket Films’ 2005 satire of suburban life, which played in theaters around the country rather than in New York after its Sundance showing.

Thus Samuel Goldwyn Films four years ago picked up the New Age semidocumentary “What the Bleep Do We Know?” after its producers had already found an audience in the Pacific Northwest. It then expanded the release to other heartland cities but stayed out of central Manhattan, confining itself to what Goldwyn’s president, Meyer Gottlieb, called “the fringes” of New York.

“You’ve heard people say, ‘This is a New York picture’?” Mr. Gottlieb said. “Well, there’s also a term, ‘This is not a New York picture.’ ”

In June 1980, 20th Century Fox defied conventional logic by opening “The Stunt Man,” directed by Richard Rush and starring Peter O’Toole, in Seattle. Months later, when it played New York, the film was panned by The Times. The paper’s critic, Janet Maslin, wrote, “The gamesmanship of ‘The Stunt Man’ is fast and furious, but gamesmanship is almost all it manages to be.”

Yet the movie had a following by then, and picked up Oscar nominations for Mr. O’Toole and for its director and writers (Mr. Rush and Lawrence B. Marcus).

According to Mr. Bernard, other distributors tried to duplicate that success for a time by using Seattle, with its booming rock-music culture, as a launching pad for independent films. But New York and Los Angeles, where virtually all the significant distributors are based, kept their grip.

Mr. Gottlieb of Samuel Goldwyn said he expected to see more such openings as companies looked for ways to trade on an expanding film consciousness throughout the country. That Sony Pictures Classics should be heading in that direction is noteworthy, given its skill at working the New York and Los Angeles news media on behalf of hits like its best picture Oscar nominees “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon” and “Capote,” and its best foreign-language winner, “The Lives of Others.”

Conventionally, critics for The Times and other New York news media outlets review films only when they open in New York. Those outlets must now decide whether to hold their opinions while peers in Austin or Dallas pronounce on the latest from the Duplass brothers, whose 2005 film, “The Puffy Chair,” turned them into darlings of the festival circuit and leading lights of the “mumblecore” movement of understated young filmmakers.

“Baghead” has already played at the Sundance, Tribeca and South by Southwest festivals. But such appearances do not typically trigger newspaper, magazine or television reviews.

If New York and Los Angeles news organizations want to time their reviews to the Austin premiere of “Baghead,” Mr. Bernard and company do not expect to offer much help. The company’s New York screenings, for example, are largely timed to occur after the film’s release elsewhere.

“Maybe New York is not the beginning and the end,” Mr. Bernard said.
76 2008-06-03 The Obama campaign countered that Mr. McCain “stubbornly insists on continuing a dangerous and failed foreign policy that has clearly made the United States and Israel less secure,” adding that during the Bush administration Iran had made gains with its nuclear program, that it had expanded its influence in the region through groups like Hamas and Hezbollah, and that Hamas had taken over Gaza.

An Obama campaign spokesman, Hari Sevugan, said that “the war in Iraq that John McCain supported and promises to continue indefinitely has done more to dramatically strengthen and embolden Iran than anything in a generation.”

Polls show that Mr. McCain enjoys an advantage over Mr. Obama on the question of experience and who would be the most effective dealing with terrorism. But it is unclear how much of an edge that will ultimately give him in November, since economic concerns have surpassed national security as the top concern of voters.

A majority of Americans in a Gallup poll conducted two weeks ago said that it was a good idea for the president to meet with leaders of countries that are considered enemies of the United States. About two-thirds of the poll’s respondents said it was a good idea to meet with leaders of enemy countries in general, and about 6 in 10 said it was a good idea to meet specifically with the president of Iran.

Mr. McCain continued to try to shift the terms of the debate on the deeply unpopular Iraq war — which he enthusiastically supported, but Mr. Obama opposed — into a question of who would be the best leader going forward. He said that United States troops in Iraq were making hard-won progress, but that “you would never know from listening to those who are still caught up in angry arguments over yesterday’s options.”

Some of Mr. McCain’s lines of attack seemed to come right out of the Democratic primary fight — especially his criticism of Mr. Obama’s statement during a debate last summer that he would be willing to meet with the leaders of Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea without preconditions. At the time Mrs. Clinton called that statement “irresponsible and, frankly, naïve.” In recent weeks Mr. McCain has used it to hammer away at Mr. Obama, both to try to paint him as inexperienced and insufficiently tough.

Mr. Obama and his campaign now say that while he would depart from the Bush administration’s policy of refusing to meet with certain nations that fail to meet preconditions, he would not necessarily engage in presidential-level talks with them.

Mr. McCain — who has taken a hard-line stance on Iran, and who joked early in the campaign by suggesting renaming the Beach Boys song “Barbara Ann” as “Bomb Iran” — referred in his speech here to creating “real-world pressures” on Iran.

He spoke of spearheading a worldwide divestment campaign, modeled on the one that helped pressure South Africa to end apartheid . And he called for the United Nations to impose tougher political and economic sanctions, and said that if those fail the United States and its allies should impose their own sanctions, including some that he said would “impose a heavy cost on the regime’s leaders, including the denial of visas and freezing of assets.” And Mr. McCain reiterated his call for applying sanctions to “restrict Iran’s ability to import refined petroleum products, on which it is highly dependent.”

Mr. McCain also criticized Mr. Obama for opposing an amendment Mr. McCain had supported that called for designating Iran’s Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organization responsible for killing American troops in Iraq. “Over three-quarters of the Senate supported this obvious step, but not Senator Obama,” he said.

The Obama campaign shot back that Mr. Obama had supported labeling the Revolutionary Guard as terrorists, but that he opposed a provision of the amendment Mr. McCain supported that linked the troop levels in Iraq to the threat posed by Iran. It noted that Mr. Obama had called for tougher sanctions on Iran and that he had sponsored a bill in the Senate calling for divestment from Iran.
77 2008-06-03 SEATTLE (Reuters) — Microsoft has struck a deal with Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest personal computer maker, to place a toolbar on new PCs that leads to its Live Search engine, the companies said on Monday.

The deal is Microsoft’s latest attempt to chip away at the dominance of the search leader, Google.

The agreement, which takes effect next January for new PCs in the United States and Canada, displaces a similar one H.P. has with Yahoo.

Under the agreement, Microsoft’s search engine will also be the default service on the Internet Explorer browser, which is loaded on new Hewlett-Packard computers.

Microsoft did not disclose the terms of the agreement.

“This is the most significant distribution deal for Live Search that Microsoft has ever done,” said Kevin Johnson, president of Microsoft’s platform and services division.

Dell Inc. and Google have an agreement to install Web and desktop search software on Dell’s consumer computers. It expires in 2009.

A spokesman for Dell, which is No. 2 to Hewlett-Packard in computer manufacturing, said the company had not decided if it would continue with Google after the current deal expired, but said it was open to alternative partnerships.
78 2008-06-03 Re “270 Immigrants Sent to Prison in Federal Push” (front page, May 24):

Among the many outrages involved in the mass prosecution of undocumented workers for document fraud in Iowa, the greatest may be the statement by Linda R. Reade, the chief judge who approved the emergency court. You quote her as saying that immigration lawyers, concerned about the mass prosecutions, “do not understand the federal criminal process as it relates to immigration charges.”

As public defenders, we know that the immigration consequences of a criminal conviction are usually the single most important consideration for noncitizen clients: time in jail pales in comparison with the prospect of lifetime separation from family.

That is why we, and an increasing number of public defenders’ offices, employ full-time immigration lawyers to advise clients and educate prosecutors and judges about the consequences of pleading guilty.

The federal court in Iowa approved a process in which defendants who may have had valid claims to relief from deportation were railroaded through the criminal system with inadequate time to find or consult with counsel with immigration expertise to help them consider the true choices they faced.

If the federal criminal process aspires to any form of justice, then clearly it is the chief judge and prosecutors who do not understand it.

The writer is executive director of the Bronx Defenders.
79 2008-06-03 Leon Botstein closed the American Symphony Orchestra’s season on Sunday afternoon at Avery Fisher Hall with a selection of works about space: that is, about the way distances and the placement of instruments affect the sound of a work and also, at least glancingly, about the cosmos.

Those two subjects have little to do with each other. One is a matter of acoustics, the other a matter of narrative. But Mr. Botstein made the idea work by choosing pieces that mostly use acoustical effects unabashedly and also allude to space (in the planetary sense) in their titles.

He opened his program with Takemitsu’s “Cassiopeia” (1971), a percussion concerto that takes both its name and its unusual seating pattern from this W-shaped constellation. Winds were placed within the string groups, and a huge percussion array occupied center stage. But the ensemble layout barely mattered, because the orchestral writing is so thoroughly subsidiary to the percussion.

Jonathan Haas, the soloist, gave a virtuosic performance on all manner of bells, blocks, canisters (metal and wood), gongs, drums and cymbals (some suspended directly over his head) as well as a kettledrum said to be the largest in the world, with a diameter of 74 inches.

Framing the intermission, Mr. Botstein offered two large rarities. Andrzej Panufnik’s “Sinfonia di Sfere” (1975) may seem to have a spacey title, but the “spheres” are actually geometric shapes that were part of Mr. Panufnik’s conception of his score. Instrumental placement, however, is central: four brass soloists (on trumpet, horn, trombone and tuba) are seated at the front of the stage, with a pianist at the center of the orchestra and three percussionists at the sides and back. The percussion counterpoint was often arresting, and the last of the score’s three large sections presented the piano and brass players vigorously. Much of the string writing was richly textured as well, but over all the performance seemed to meander.

The same fate befell “Sfaerernes Musik” (1918), an idiosyncratic work by the Danish composer Rued Langgaard. This “Music of the Spheres” was spacey in every way: eerie, pianissimo string clusters open the work, and expand to include thundering timpani figures, rippling woodwind lines reminiscent of Debussy, and dense choral writing (sung by the Dessoff Choirs).

An ample contingent from the orchestra, along with Carolyn Betty, a powerful soprano soloist, performed from the back of the hall, in the first-tier balcony, so that during parts of the work the audience was in the middle of Mr. Langgaard’s quirky textures.
80 2008-06-03 Thirteen Republicans, including the minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, voted in opposition as did one Democrat, Robert C. Byrd, from the coal-producing state of West Virginia.

Proponents say the nation cannot afford to wait until fuel prices come down to begin to deal with these problems. Opponents argue that the bill would direct the largest changes in the American economy since the 1930s and should not be rushed through without painstaking debate.

“There’s a great feeling all across America by people in small villages and towns to large cities to state legislatures and others: we must move and move now,” Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia and a co-sponsor of the bill, said as debate opened on the floor. “Do something. Doing nothing is not an option. Let us do something.”

But critics of the bill said it would do more harm than good.

“Any action has to provide real protections for the American economy and jobs, and we must protect the American families,” said Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma. “Any action should not raise the cost of gasoline or energy to American families, particularly the low-income and elderly who are most susceptible to energy costs.”

The debate is shaping up as both a landmark moment and an opportunity for both sides to score political points. Opponents could pay a price for voting to block legislation that is intended to slow and ultimately reverse production of greenhouse gases that scientists warn are exacting an increasingly heavy environmental toll.

Even though high energy prices and an overheated political climate pose serious obstacles to such a far-reaching bill this year, whatever the Senate does will set the terms of the debate when a new Congress and president take office next January.

The heart of the bill is a plan to cap the production of greenhouse gases that scientists blame for the warming and, for the first time, force polluters to buy permits to emit carbon dioxide. For better or worse, putting a price on those emissions could be a wrenching change.

All three major presidential candidates have expressed support for the cap-and-trade concept that underlies this legislation, but all have said they would like to see changes in the current bill. The Democratic candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, would like to see its pollution targets strengthened, while Senator John McCain, a Republican, is demanding that it provide more help for the nuclear power industry.

All three candidates said that their schedules for the week were in flux but that they would participate in debates and votes if they were in Washington.

The bill’s chief promoter, Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said that the Bush administration had failed to address either energy costs or global warming and that Congress had to step into the breach now.

“There were a lot of voices saying, ‘Why do this now? Why do we have to do this now?’ ” Mrs. Boxer said, opening the Democrats’ argument for the bill. “Because it is, in fact, one of the greatest challenges of our generation and we have to respond with a landmark bill, and it will take us awhile and we must get started.”

The bill is a revision of a plan proposed last year by Mr. Warner and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut.

The measure would reduce American production of climate-altering gases by nearly 70 percent from current levels by 2050. It would provide billions of dollars in subsidies for energy conservation and environmentally clean technologies, creating millions of jobs, proponents say.

The sale of the permits would raise more than $5 trillion for the government in the coming decades, money that the bill proposes to distribute to affected industries, consumers and local governments in one of the biggest programs of redistribution of American wealth in history. The bill’s proponents say the money would help pay for a technological leap that would create millions of new jobs while cleaning the atmosphere.

Given the timing and the range of opposition, it appears unlikely that the bill will pass the Senate. (Similar efforts are under way in the House.) President Bush has stated opposition to the mandatory emissions limits and numerous other provisions.

But history shows that far-reaching environmental legislation often gets off to a slow start, then passes both houses of Congress and is signed into law when the political time is ripe. “If we get a majority or even close, we will be that much closer to addressing global warming and passing legislation in the next Congress, whoever the president is,” said David Doniger, director of climate policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “We may not get it done this year, but if not we start next year just a few steps from the finish line.”

Senator Bob Corker, a freshman Republican from Tennessee, said in an interview that he favored a cap-and-trade program in theory but found serious flaws in the bill. He will be among those seeking to derail it.

“This bill is not going to become law,” Mr. Corker said. “It has no chance, none.”

Mr. Corker is proposing a string of amendments that Democrats characterize as “poison pills” that would undermine the purpose of the legislation. His amendments would return more of the receipts from the carbon permits directly to taxpayers, eliminate the issuance of free permits and do away with the ability of American companies to meet their emissions targets by buying offsets overseas.

One of the major points of contention arises from the bill’s treatment of goods from developing countries that are among the world’s biggest carbon emitters, including China, India, Brazil and Mexico.

The measure directs the president to negotiate agreements with those countries to ensure they are imposing binding limits on carbon emissions on their own industries. If they fail to do so, the United States will impose unspecified tariffs on carbon-intensive products like steel, paper, concrete and glass from those countries. The provision was included at the behest of labor unions and American companies in those industries who would not support the bill without such a cost equalizer.

In a speech on global warming in mid-May, Mr. McCain endorsed a similar carbon tariff, then backed away from it because of objections from the free-trade wing of the Republican Party. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, courting labor support, favor tough carbon-based tariffs.

Frank Ackerman, an economist at the Global Development and Environment Institute at Tufts University, said that the nation had lost crucial time in not addressing climate change and that other nations were bypassing the United States in the development of alternative energy technologies. Mr. Ackerman acknowledged that the conversion to a low-carbon economy will be costly for many industries and consumers, but said that the cost of inaction is many times greater.

“How do you price the increased deaths, the losses of endangered species and unique habitats, the increased damages from hurricanes that are becoming more intense?” he asked. “Those numbers dwarf any reasonable estimate of the cost of doing something about climate change. The choice is a no-brainer.”
81 2008-06-03 The Obama campaign countered that Mr. McCain “stubbornly insists on continuing a dangerous and failed foreign policy that has clearly made the United States and Israel less secure,” and added that during the Bush administration Iran made gains with its nuclear program and expanded its influence in the region through groups like Hamas and Hezbollah.

Hari Sevugan, an Obama campaign spokesman, said, “The war in Iraq that John McCain supported and promises to continue indefinitely has done more to dramatically strengthen and embolden Iran than anything in a generation.”

Polls show that Mr. McCain has an advantage over Mr. Obama on the questions of who has the most experience and who would be the most effective in dealing with terrorism. But it is unclear how much of an edge that will give him in November, because economic worries have surpassed national security as the top concern of voters.

Also, a majority of Americans in a Gallup poll conducted two weeks ago said it was a good idea for the president to meet with leaders of countries that are considered enemies of the United States. Six in 10 said it was a good idea to meet specifically with the president of Iran.

But Mr. McCain hammered Mr. Obama over his calls for greater diplomacy. At a town-hall-style meeting here in Nashville, he read aloud the latest statement of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, which said Israel would “disappear.” Mr. McCain told the crowd, “It’s a very clear choice, and whether it be on Iran, or whether it be on Iraq, or whether it be on other national security issues, Senator Obama does not have the experience and the knowledge and clearly the judgment, my friends.”

Mr. Obama and his campaign now say that while he would depart from the Bush administration’s policy of refusing to meet with certain nations that fail to meet preconditions, they have added the caveat that he would not necessarily engage in presidential-level talks with Iran or leaders of other countries.

Mr. McCain, calling for “real-world pressures” on Iran, spoke of leading a worldwide financial divestment campaign, modeled on the one that helped pressure South Africa to end apartheid, and called for tougher sanctions. And he criticized Mr. Obama for opposing an amendment that called for designating the Revolutionary Guard in Iran a terrorist organization. “Over three quarters of the Senate supported this obvious step,” Mr. McCain said, “but not Senator Obama.”

The Obama campaign shot back that Mr. Obama had supported labeling the Revolutionary Guard as terrorists, but that he opposed a provision in the amendment that linked troop levels in Iraq to the threat posed by Iran. The campaign also pointed out that Mr. Obama had called for tougher sanctions on Iran, and that he had sponsored a bill in the Senate calling for financial divestment from Iran that was stymied by Republicans.

Mr. McCain has been courting Jewish voters this year, trying to make inroads with a group that has been a reliable constituency for Democrats. They have shown more of a willingness to support Republicans in recent elections, and some have expressed reservations about Mr. Obama. About 5 percent of voters in the swing state of Florida are Jewish, and their support could prove pivotal in November.

Mr. McCain continued to try to shift the terms of the debate on the deeply unpopular Iraq war — which he enthusiastically supported and Mr. Obama opposed — into a question of who would be the best leader going forward. He said in Washington that American troops in Iraq were making progress, but that “you would never know from listening to those who are still caught up in angry arguments over yesterday’s options.”

Mr. McCain argued that Mr. Obama’s calls for withdrawing troops from Iraq could endanger Israel. “He will do so regardless of the conditions in Iraq, regardless of the consequences for our national security, regardless of Israel’s security, and in disregard of the best advice of our commanders on the ground,” he said.

The Obama campaign responded that Mr. Obama had always said he would consult with military officials before withdrawing troops.
82 2008-06-03 That was the World Science Festival in New York City this past weekend: 46 shows, debates, demonstrations and parties spread over five days and 22 sites between Harlem and Greenwich Village, organized by Dr. Greene, the Columbia physicist and author, and his wife, Ms. Day, a former ABC-TV producer. Jugglers and philosophers, magicians and biologists, musicians and dancers — a feast one couldn’t hope to sample fairly.

Of course, I cannot fault Dr. Greene and Ms. Day for doing such a good job that I wanted to see much more than space and time permitted. In fact, you cannot help loving them. They are the first couple of New York science. And by their boldness and energy, they seem to have created a new cultural institution.

On Friday night, the line stretched out of the Skirball Center at New York University all the way down the block and around the corner, not for “Sex and the City” but for a scientific discussion of quantum weirdness. Most people had to be turned away. Counting a crowd estimated at 100,000 for the science street fair on Saturday, an eighth of a million people attended the festival. Every event sold out — confirmation, as Dr. Greene said, of “the public’s desire to connect with science.”

It hardly came off without a hitch. Tales were rampant in the weeks leading up to the festival of disorganization, programs planned, canceled and resurrected. The ticket lines were confusing. But the organizers got a lot of things right. The panel discussions, many of them guided by pros like Charlie Rose and Alan Alda, were for the most part actual discussions, or, better, arguments, and not a series of lectures.

There were flashy graphics everywhere.

I knew it was all working when my 6-year-old daughter, Mira, grabbed my notebook at a magic and “brain tricks” show and started taking notes.

What follows is a hop, skip and jump through that notebook, vivid impressions that leap out of a blur of 13 very different events. Detailed reports have been posted by colleagues on the blogs TierneyLab, Dot Earth and ArtsBeat.

I didn’t know quite what to expect at the Moth, an organization devoted to live storytelling, where scientists and others bravely volunteered to tell tales of experiments gone wrong. But there was James Gates, an imposing string theorist from the University of Maryland with a silvered Afro who folded his entire life as a black man and a physicist into a 10-minute tale of almost falling to his death on a mountain in Iceland. Falling off a mountain, he recalled thinking with some dismay, would be a stereotypical death for a physicist, just as being shot by the police would be for a young black, something that almost happened to him on a stroll one night through Pasadena, Calif.

“Make your own trail,” came the voice over the Icelandic mountainside when he called for help. Dr. Gates said he still doesn’t know whose voice it was.

As it happens, Dr. Gates was at the Guggenheim the next night in a more familiar role, offering physics commentary as Karole Armitage’s beautiful black-clad dancers bounced and spun off one another or melted like shadows or reflections in and out of the wings of the stage. Ms. Armitage said her dance, based on Dr. Greene’s book “Elegant Universe,” was trying to show how string theory could reconcile the quantum randomness of particles in the world with the warped space-time of Einsteinian gravity.

At the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, organ music and the voices of the crimson-robed choir bounced off the stained-glass windows as physicists and science fans stood and swayed and clapped. Getting into the spirit, Dr. Greene took the pulpit for his introduction. “I may be a Jewish scientist,” he said, “but I would be tickled silly if one day I were reincarnated as a Baptist preacher.”

Another impression was the realization that scientists are just as confused as the rest of us with the Big Questions, like free will, God or whether we will ever solve our way out of this mess.

This came out clearly at the big Saturday night conference on what it means to be human. Dr. Greene said this was the panel that everyone wanted to be on, and it showed. It had 11 panelists, as well as the moderator, Mr. Rose.

They began by locating our humanity outside of our biological selves, in language, culture and science. But the conversation devolved back inward to ourselves as biological machines. After dismissing the threat or promise of genetically tinkering with our progeny — we do not know enough yet to know what is an improvement and what is not — the panelists turned combative about free will and morality.

If we are the product of our genes and our environment, asked Paul Nurse, a Nobel Prize-winning biologist who is president of the Rockefeller University, what becomes of free will and the sense of personal responsibility on which society and the criminal justice system are based?

Daniel Dennett, a philosopher at Tufts, argued that humans are free, which he defined as the capacity to be moved by reasons. But weren’t those reasons just part of the environment? Dr. Dennett responded that we have to build the environment so that people will do the right thing.

Morality is the elephant in the room, said Francis Collins, head of the Human Genome Project at the National Institutes of Health, suggesting that humans seem to have an inbred sense of right and wrong from God.

The day before, he had won huge applause for maintaining that he did not have to choose between Darwin and God. A scientist could be religious. But this time he was hammered for failing to consider that evolution could instill such values if they proved adaptive.

“Why do you prefer God to me?” asked Marvin Minsky, a computer science professor at M.I.T. and a founder of the field of artificial intelligence.

“Do you really want to know?” Dr. Collins responded.

Before long, Mr. Rose waved his arms, saying time was up. But the panelists were having too much fun. Dr. Minsky folded his arms defiantly and said, “We should just stay here and see what they do.”

The whole audience would have stayed with him. I look forward to the arguments continuing next year.
83 2008-06-03 NEW CHIEF FOR WACHOVIAG. Kennedy Thompson was ousted as Wachovia's chief executive after the bank's board held him accountable for billions in write-offs and a plunge in the bank's stock price.      APPEAL IN GRASSO  CASERichard A. Grasso, below, ...
84 2008-06-03 A prominent Uzbek human rights advocate was freed after more than two years in captivity, a release that coincided with a visit by an American official. The advocate, Mutabar Tadjibaeva, said by telephone that she had left a prison in Tashkent, th...
85 2008-06-03 MEMIS--Stanley, on June 1, 2008 of Bayside, NY at the age of 79. Beloved husband of Elaine (nee Gross). Loving father of Lisa and Dr. Evan Mintz and Randi and Robert Schu. Cherished brother of Thelma Weil. Adored grandfather of Cassie, Shana, Harr...
86 2008-06-04 Just as atomic power was regaining ground as a source of electricity because of near-zero emissions of greenhouse gases, there was a reminder from Slovenia on Wednesday of how easily aspirations for a "nuclear renaissance" could be obliterated. Th...
87 2008-06-04 Royal Monceau The deluxe Royal Monceau in the chic 8th arrondissement of Paris is a classic hotel palace that is undergoing a major makeover. So good-bye heavy brocade drapes, presidential suite sofas and ivory mini-bars emblazoned with RM. Hello ...
88 2008-06-04 Updated: Verizon Communications is in talks to buy Alltel for about $27 billion including the assumption of debt, creating the nation's largest cellphone service company, people briefed on the matter said Wednesday. It would represent a quick exit...
89 2008-06-04 Senator John McCain issued an invitation to Senator Barack Obama Wednesday to join him in 10 joint town-hall-style meetings in which the likely Republican and Democratic nominees could discuss the issues this summer....
90 2008-06-04 Aired Tuesday night on "Jimmy Kimmel Live" on ABC: It looks like we have a Democratic nominee for president, Barack Obama. And now, Hillary Clinton is indicating privately to friends, who then blab it to the cable news channels, that she would be ...
91 2008-06-04 Securities exchange IntercontinentalExchange has entered into an agreement to buy credit processor Creditex Group in a cash and stock deal valued at $625 million, The Associated Press reported. Under the deal's terms, IntercontinentalExchange will...
92 2008-06-04 Kirin Holdings and Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory will partner to bid for Dairy Farmers, the Australian producer of Bornhoffen yogurt and the Coon and Cracker Barrel cheeses, Bloomberg reported. National Foods, the Australia unit of Japan's l...
93 2008-06-04 Senator John McCain speaks to supporters after the final primaries of the season. (Video: MSNBC)
94 2008-06-04 KENNER, La. — Senator John McCain marked the unofficial beginning of the general election with a speech here Tuesday in which he sought to distance himself from President Bush and to argue that he has stronger credentials as an independent agent of change than his all-but-certain Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama.

“For all his fine words and all his promise, he has never taken the hard but right course of risking his own interests for yours, of standing against the partisan rancor on his side to stand up for our country,” Mr. McCain said of Mr. Obama in a prime-time televised speech. “He is an impressive man, who makes a great first impression. But he hasn’t been willing to make the tough calls, to challenge his party, to risk criticism from his supporters to bring real change to Washington. I have.”

For Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, the end of the hard-fought Democratic primary season offers opportunities and dangers. His campaign will no longer be overshadowed by a Democratic primary that has often seemed to suck up all the news media oxygen. But his aides are also girding for Mr. Obama to receive a bump in the polls once his divisive nomination fight ends, and for a tough general election in which Mr. McCain is vying to succeed an unpopular Republican president and to continue an unpopular war.

Mr. McCain has worked to unite the Republican Party by vowing to continue many of Mr. Bush’s policies, including continuing the war in Iraq, extending the Bush tax cuts and appointing conservative justices to the Supreme Court. But he used his speech here to highlight his independence from the president in areas including the early handling of the war, global warming and government spending.

“You will hear from my opponent’s campaign in every speech, every interview, every press release that I’m running for President Bush’s third term,” he said, trying to pre-empt one of the central Democratic strategies of tying Mr. McCain to the unpopular president. “You will hear every policy of the president described as the Bush-McCain policy. Why does Senator Obama believe it’s so important to repeat that idea over and over again? Because he knows it’s very difficult to get Americans to believe something they know is false. So he tries to drum it into your minds by constantly repeating it rather than debate honestly the very different directions he and I would take the country.”
95 2008-06-04 But the court document also cites a conversation that a witness heard in which Mrs. Astor responded to Mr. Marshall, telling him to take $1 million and to give another $1 million to his wife.

In the indictment, Mr. Marshall, 84, and Mr. Morrissey, 65, are accused of numerous crimes over a period beginning in December 2001. The charges include getting the ailing Mrs. Astor to change her will so the two men could enrich themselves. Mr. Morrissey, charged in six of the 18 counts, even stands accused of forging Mrs. Astor’s signature on a third amendment to the will.

Mr. Marshall and Mr. Morrissey have pleaded not guilty to all charges. The indictment was unsealed just over three months after Mrs. Astor’s death last August at the age of 105.

Daniel J. Castleman, the chief of the investigation division of the district attorney’s office, said Tuesday that he had not yet read the filings and could not comment on them. Lawyers for Mr. Marshall and Mr. Morrissey asked the judge to review minutes of the grand jury proceeding and to toss out the indictment.

The indictment says that even though Mrs. Astor had diminished mental capacity, Mr. Marshall and Mr. Morrissey got her to change her will in 2004 with two amendments, one of which leaves her son her residuary estate and changes her longstanding plan to ultimately leave that money to charity.

As for the first of the two 2004 amendments, Mr. Marshall’s filing states that the evidence presented by prosecutors fails to establish Mrs. Astor was unable to understand the nature of what she was doing. The document points to a memo written at the time by G. Warren Whitaker, one of the lawyers who witnessed her signing of the amendment, known as a codicil.

According to the memo, Mrs. Astor seemed happy to be dealing with the codicil, saying “Good, I am not going to be around much longer.” Mr. Whitaker further wrote, “Mrs. Astor then read the codicil carefully, and read certain portions out loud.” She answered questions affirming that she understood the nature of the amendment.

As for the forgery charge against Mr. Morrissey — which has to do with the other codicil signed that year — he said in his court filing that there is a lack of evidence on the part of the prosecution to support the allegation.

A handwriting expert concluded in 2006 that Mrs. Astor could not have signed that codicil, based on his analysis of the signature. But Mr. Morrissey’s motion notes that the expert’s report does not suggest who else could have signed the amendment.
96 2008-06-04 After Spain’s departure, Morocco annexed most of the land, an action that no other country recognized, and the Polisario Front waged a bitter battle for independence that led to a cease-fire in 1991. There has been a political impasse over its status ever since.

In the course of the conflict, many of the Sahrawi people fled to western Algeria to live in camps administered by the Polisario Front and paid for by international and humanitarian aid. An estimated 90,000 to 160,000 Sahrawis currently live in these camps.

A delegation of six Sahrawi refugees — four women wrapped in brilliantly hued abayas and two men with somber stares — recently visited New York and Washington to talk about their suffering under the Polisario Front. In doing so, they also reflected the highly politicized tug of war over the sovereignty of Western Sahara.

They all once lived in refugee camps run by the Polisario Front in Algeria, but are now based in Western Sahara, subsisting in part on Moroccan aid. Their trip was sponsored by a lobbying group for Morocco, and they met with officials and reporters, to whom they described the camps, through an interpreter, as corruption-riddled prisons that they were not allowed to leave.

“The Polisario people to us just look like the Mafia people,” said Said Abderahman, 28, who said he left a camp with his pregnant wife, Salma Essalek, 25, last fall in what both described as a treacherous escape. “The international agencies are giving plenty of food, and the local population is not getting it.”

Another Sahrawi refugee, Brahim al-Selem, 34, said he was a policeman in the camps but had to pay a smuggler last August to flee after being imprisoned for speaking out against the Polisario Front.

But representatives of Human Rights Watch and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said they did not know of any refugees who had been prevented from leaving the camps.

Mouloud Said, who represents the Polisario Front in Washington, went further, denouncing the refugees’ statements as hyperbole and contending that they were being used for political purposes by Morocco.

“These people are brought by the Moroccan public relations companies here, so they have to mislead,” he said.

There have been various efforts over the years to resolve the Western Sahara question. After the cease-fire was brokered in 1991, a United Nations mission was set up to organize a referendum in the territory to determine Western Sahara’s future, but Morocco and the Polisario Front could not agree on who was eligible to vote.

Eric Goldstein, a research director for the Middle East and North Africa division of Human Rights Watch, said Morocco had encouraged non-Sahrawis to settle in Western Sahara, because of what Morocco views as their historic ties to the land. Sahrawis now form a minority there.

Two years ago, Morocco proposed allowing the region a measure of autonomy, under the purview of Morocco, a proposal that France and the United States backed. But the Polisario Front rejected it.

Morocco also began accusing the Polisario Front of human rights abuses in its camps in Algeria. Some critics say this was largely to distract attention from violations that Morocco itself was accused of inflicting on Sahrawis.

In a May 2008 report, Freedom House, a human rights group based in the United States, described Morocco’s treatment of the Sahrawis in Western Sahara as highly repressive and only slightly better than “the worst of the worst.”

All of which, some say, casts doubt on some aspects of the accounts provided by the delegation of Sahrawi refugees, who have since returned to Morocco-controlled Western Sahara. Mr. Goldstein and Sergio Calle-Norena, who works with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Morocco, said that while leaving the camps was logistically difficult, freedom of movement was allowed.

“I’m not doubting their individual stories, but it has to be seen in context,” Mr. Goldstein said. “The reason Morocco is funding their trip is to try to discredit the Polisario at a moment when they hope that its own proposal for autonomy will prevail.”

Interviewed in a stately conference room in Morocco’s permanent mission to the United Nations in New York, the refugees were passionate in telling their stories. But most, when asked, refused to say what should become of their homeland.

“We came here for humanitarian reasons, not to discuss politics,” said Naba Deddah el-Meki, 42, who now lives with her eldest daughter in Western Sahara. She described widespread theft in the camps of aid supplied to the Polisario Front.

The former Polisario police officer, Mr. Selem, was more direct: “We would like the Western Sahara to remain part of Morocco, of course.”

Robert M. Holley, the executive director of the Moroccan American Center for Policy, the lobbying group that organized the trip, said he selected the delegation from hundreds of refugees who flooded into Morocco from Algeria. Nearly all of them, he said, spoke of repression and corruption in the camps, and of imprisonment for those who tried to leave.

Mr. Holley insisted that his group’s decision to bring the delegation to the United States was separate from Morocco’s effort to realize its plan for autonomy in Western Sahara. The goal, he said, was simply to expose what he described as severe restrictions and harsh conditions in the camps.

“People can argue about politics, but we want people to understand the human costs,” Mr. Holley said. “The lives of these people, daily, are being destroyed.”

“These people aren’t telling lies,” he said, “they’re telling their lives.”
97 2008-06-04 New York’s homeowners can’t be blamed for wanting relief from today’s heart-stopping property-tax bills. But a new call to cap property taxes for schools is an election-year gimmick that will do far more damage than good. Gov. David Paterson, who endorsed the idea on Tuesday, should take a deep breath and then call for a broader look at ways to make taxes fairer and the state’s contributions to schools more equitable.

The proposal would allow local property taxes for schools — usually about 60 percent of the bill — to increase at no more than 4 percent each year outside of the cities. To go over that cap, at least 55 percent of local voters would have to approve it. But as communities in California and Massachusetts have learned the hard way, a tax cap is a dangerously blunt instrument.

California’s schools have been forced to slash vital services. In Massachusetts, the state has tried to make up the difference by increasing its school budget by more than 8 percent after inflation, a leap that New York is unlikely to be able to maintain.

The property-tax cap is the headline proposal from a commission on tax relief led by the Nassau County executive, Thomas Suozzi. It is as if the group decided to fix only one gear in the state’s very complicated tax apparatus. The proposal would not give any relief to property owners or even renters in urban areas of the state. Instead, if the state decides to pour more money into suddenly cash-starved nonurban school districts, the cap could well result in added burdens in the cities.

There are some aspects of the Suozzi plan that deserve serious attention. One is a proposal to overhaul the hodgepodge of property-tax rebates and exemptions, most a result of political favoritism in Albany. Another recommends incentives for helping school districts consolidate, a better way of saving taxpayer money.

The best part of the Suozzi proposal could be done more quickly. That is a “circuit breaker” program that would freeze individual property taxes when they became too large a percentage of a homeowner’s income.
98 2008-06-04 Paul Sills, a founder of the Second City theater company and the godfather of modern improvisational sketch comedy, died on Monday in Sturgeon Bay, Wis. He was 80.

The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his wife, Carol Sills.

As a founder and resident director of a series of small theater companies that began in bars, former bakeries and Chinese restaurants in Chicago, Mr. Sills taught an approach to theater that would later feed directly into the creation of “Saturday Night Live” and influence a range of artists including David Mamet and Richard Foreman. Under Mr. Sills’s direction, performances were based on games, audience suggestions and bare-bones scenarios, the basic building blocks of improv comedy.

Many of these techniques Mr. Sills learned from his mother, Viola Spolin, who had used them as a drama teacher with the federal Works Progress Administration from 1939 to 1941 and later codified them in her influential book “Improvisation for the Theater.”

But while Ms. Spolin, who worked closely with her son throughout his career, might have developed and refined the theater-game approach, it was Mr. Sills who spread the gospel, starting the careers of comedy giants like Mike Nichols, Elaine May, Barbara Harris, Alan Arkin and Paul Sand. While his influence spread, Mr. Sills continued to stick with the basics, moving on to his next opportunity as a teacher and director and remaining mostly obscure.

In 1968, Mr. Sills created the story theater form, in which actors on a bare stage narrate, mime, sing, dance and create plays based on existing stories from the Brothers Grimm, Ovid and others. In 1970, “Paul Sills’ Story Theater” appeared on Broadway; Clive Barnes, writing about it in The New York Times, said it brought back “magic and innocence to Broadway.”
99 2008-06-04 The Ambac Financial Group, the bond insurer, is writing minimal new business as it seeks to restore market confidence and stabilize its credit rating, its chief executive, Michael A. Callen, said.

Mr. Callen, who said he planned to stay in the top job at least through the end of the year, said Ambac’s share price had been pummeled by a confidence crisis though it faced no drain on its liquidity. Mr. Callen was named chief on an interim basis in January, replacing Robert J. Genader.

“I don’t think our issue is capital, and I don’t think our issue is liquidity,” Mr. Callen said, speaking at the company’s annual shareholder meeting Tuesday at its New York headquarters. “Ambac’s issue is market confidence.”

Bond insurers, including Ambac and its larger rival MBIA, stumbled after expanding into insuring securities backed by subprime mortgages and home equity loans. Ambac reported a net loss of $1.66 billion for the first quarter. It staved off downgrades of its AAA bond insurance ratings at Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s by raising $1.5 billion of capital. Both ratings companies assign negative outlooks to Ambac; Fitch cut the insurance unit to AA.

The company expects to build claims-paying resources at a pace of around $100 million a month as it frees up capital by not writing as much new business, Mr. Callen said.
100 2008-06-04 But the Sichuan earthquake appears unlikely to have a similar effect.

The China Banking Regulatory Commission has ordered banks to write off many loans to residents of the quake-affected region. Chinese insurance companies face claims on property and casualty policies and life insurance. But lending and insurance in the quake region were so meager before the earthquake that bank and insurance analysts say the effect will be negligible.

Add together all the bank loans outstanding in the three provinces in the area hit by the quake — Sichuan and neighboring Gansu and Shaanxi — and the total is less than in Shanghai alone, said Richard Lung, a specialist in Chinese financial institutions at Moody’s Investors Service.

Yet the earthquake could still have some effects on the economy, according to economists.

The main inflation problem for China over the past year has been high food prices. Most farmers’ fields in the earthquake area appear to have been spared. But the earthquake has disrupted road and rail links from Sichuan Province, a big producer of pork and grain.

“The transportation bottlenecks will make the inflation situation worse,” at least for the May inflation statistics to be released soon, said Jing Ulrich, the chairwoman of China equities at JP Morgan in Hong Kong. But she added that the government was unlikely to raise interest rates in response, limiting longer-term effects.

The earthquake’s effect on electricity generation in China, through the disruption of coal supplies and the temporary shutdown of power generation at some hydroelectric dams, remains unclear.

Rapid factory construction, combined with soaring sales of household appliances like air-conditioners, has left China chronically short of electricity since 2000. In some provinces, utilities have sometimes shut off electricity to factories for up to three days a week to avoid blackouts in residential neighborhoods — prompting factories to buy their own, heavily polluting diesel generators.

A spate of power plant construction since 2004, mostly coal-fired, has relieved the worst of the shortages. But in the past two years, another problem has appeared: China is struggling to mine enough coal to satisfy all the coal-fired plants.

Even before the earthquake, China faced the threat of serious power shortages this summer. Some power plants ran down their stockpiles to less than a week of coal; power plants in the United States are typically required by lenders to hold at least two months’ coal in reserve.

Though Sichuan Province mines less than 1 percent of China’s coal, one of the country’s main rail arteries for distributing coal runs through the quake-affected area and was temporarily blocked by quake debris, Xinhua, the official news agency, reported on Monday.
101 2008-06-04 The Australian researchers did detect trace quantities of a peppery molecule in shiraz wine, but not enough to analyze it. So they looked for the same molecule in ground white pepper, and found it at levels of a few parts per million — enough to positively identify it as a chemical called rotundone.

Most white pepper comes from Indonesia, where peppercorns are fermented in water for up to two weeks to remove the fruit layer covering the seed. Black pepper (unfermented peppercorns with the fruit left on) has rotundone, but in much smaller amounts.

Perhaps because of its low concentration, nobody had noticed the presence of rotundone in pepper before. But the Australian team found that most people can smell rotundone at levels of parts per billion, making it by far the most potent aromatic in pepper, and a significant contributor to the aroma of shiraz.

The Australian researchers analyzed the rotundone content of shiraz grapes from six vineyards and two vintages, and had trained tasters evaluate wines made from those grapes. The rotundone content and perceived pepperiness were generally higher in 2002 than in 2003, and consistently higher in some vineyards compared with others. This suggests that plant genetics, vineyard management and weather all influence the pepperiness of shiraz wines. Further research should reveal how winemakers can control these factors to fine-tune the flavors of their wines.

Rotundone was originally discovered in the 1960s by chemists in India, who identified it in the tubers of a plant called nut grass and called it rotundone after the plant’s botanical name, Cyperus rotundus.

According to “Cornucopia II,” Stephen Facciola’s essential compendium of edible plants, fresh nut grass tubers have a strong flavor that resembles Vicks VapoRub. The Australian scientists found that high concentrations of rotundone smell “harsh” and “burnt.”

So an excess of rotundone may well be the cause of what the wine writer Jancis Robinson describes as the burned rubber quality in some Rhone syrahs. And it probably contributed to the inedibility of my mashed potatoes. The Band-Aid aftertaste, meanwhile, was one of the unpleasant undertones, from medicinal to manure-like, that are produced in white pepper when peppercorns are fermented. Black pepper is pleasantly aromatic by comparison, with a kind of woody freshness.

The Australian scientists may also have discovered how these highly spiced potatoes were allowed to leave the kitchen: they tested 49 people and found that about 20 percent of them could not detect rotundone at all, even at concentrations far above what’s found in white pepper. The scientists say this shows the different experiences two people can have of the same wine, or of the same pepper-seasoned food.

A thought inspired by these statistics and those unforgettable potatoes: maybe all restaurant cooks should be routinely tested for sensitivity to the basic seasonings. We don’t want the pepper grinder to fall into the wrong hands.
102 2008-06-04 As a result, the 2,100-mile pipeline that is supposed to carry 31 billion cubic meters, or 1.1 trillion cubic feet, of natural gas a year to Europe “is now expected to reach 7.9 billion euros as of the figures of today,” Mr. Mitschek said.

He played down suggestions that the competitiveness and the economics of the project would be negatively affected. Rather, he said, “high demand for energy would lead to higher gas prices and higher transportation fees,” which would “make Nabucco considerably profitable.”

Nabucco is being built by a consortium of Austrian, German, Hungarian, Bulgarian and Turkish companies.

Aside from the spiraling costs for building the pipeline, the consortium has yet to arrange supply contracts, and more importantly, establish whether there will be enough natural gas available to fill the pipeline. Until there are such guarantees, analysts said that investors would continue to hold back.

“The biggest challenge is to secure sufficient supplies to fill the pipeline,” said Stephen O’Rourke, an energy analyst at Wood McKenzie, a consulting firm. “Enough gas must undermine a viable level of flow through Nabucco.”

The delay in reaching agreements on supplies has become entangled in the politics.

Most of the natural gas that Europe hopes to pump into Nabucco will come from Caspian and Central Asian countries, including Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and eventually Iran, if the country’s standoff with Europe and the United States over its nuclear program is resolved.

Azerbaijan, which is crucial for Nabucco’s success because it will be one of the main suppliers, also wants to become a hub for natural gas from Turkmenistan.

“The E.U. does not have gas commitments because of the political actors involved,” said Borut Grgic, founder and director of the Institute for Strategic Studies, an independent research center in Ljubljana, Slovenia. “The political actors are playing cat and mouse, trying to strike the best terms.”

European officials said Tuesday that Brussels remained committed to the project despite higher costs and the delays in reaching supply contracts.

The consortium said construction would be carried out in two stages.

The first section is intended to run from Ankara in Turkey to Baumgarten in Austria. Construction is scheduled to begin in 2010 and the pipeline should begin operating in 2013, with an initial capacity of up to eight billion cubic meters a year.

The second construction phase is expected to start in 2013, running to Ankara from Georgia and Iran, and be completed in 2014. Compressors will have to be installed along the pipeline so that annual capacity can reach 31 billion cubic meters.
103 2008-06-04 BEIJING — Two prominent human rights lawyers have lost their licenses after volunteering to defend Tibetans charged in the violent anti-China protests that erupted in March. The decision comes as Chinese authorities are tightening scrutiny over dissidents in advance of the Olympics in August.

The two lawyers, Teng Biao and Jiang Tianyong, are known for taking on politically contentious cases, including those alleging official abuses of human rights. Reached on Tuesday night, Mr. Teng said he learned last week that judicial authorities had renewed the license of every lawyer in his firm, except his own.

“Obviously, it is because of the Tibetan letter that I signed and also other sensitive cases I handled,” Mr. Teng said.

Judicial authorities could not be reached for comment on Tuesday. But human rights groups say the authorities initially considered denying license renewals for numerous lawyers, only to relent in the cases other than those of Mr. Teng and Mr. Jiang.

Lawyers are increasingly at the cutting edge of efforts to push systemic change in China. Self-styled “rights defenders” regard the law as a tool to expand and protect the rights of individuals in an authoritarian political system. But the ruling Communist Party is often wary of lawyers who try to challenge what it regards as the unassailable pre-eminence of the party in society.

In April, 18 lawyers signed a public letter volunteering free legal services to Tibetans arrested during an official crackdown against protests in western China. State media reported that 30 Tibetans, represented by government-appointed lawyers, were given sentences from three years to life during trials in April. Mr. Teng said the judicial authorities were not pleased with the offer of free legal counsel and later warned the lawyers not to get involved in the Tibetan situation.

By May, Mr. Teng said, his law firm applied for its standard annual renewal of licenses. But the firm’s licenses were suspended. “They just informed my boss that I was the reason the whole firm was in trouble,” Mr. Teng said. But on Thursday, the authorities lifted the suspension and granted renewals for the other 60 or so lawyers in the firm.
104 2008-06-04 Midtown options for lunch and takeout just improved with the opening of a rotisserie and boulangerie on one side of the new Brasserie Cognac de Monsieur Ballon, 1740 Broadway (55th Street). Organic chicken stuffed with herbs and lemon, $13.95 whole or $7.95 half, was satisfying, well flavored and moist. It comes with a little green salad. The shop’s other items, all made in-house, include breads and croissants, $1.95 to $9; sandwiches, $5.95 to $6.95; a proper salade niçoise, $6.99; and pastries like fruit and lemon meringue tartlets, $4.95. The store opens at 7:30 a.m. Monday through Friday and 8 a.m. Saturday and Sunday, and closes at 10 every night; (212) 757-3600.
105 2008-06-04 “These prices are changing consumer behavior and changing it rapidly,” Mr. Wagoner said before G.M.’s annual meeting in , Del. “We don’t believe it’s a spike or a temporary shift. We believe it is permanent.”

While already slashed its pickup and S.U.V. output last month, the deep cuts at G.M. seem to be closing a chapter in the domestic auto industry.

“I think G.M. is basically declaring the S.U.V. dead,” said John Casesa, managing partner of the auto consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group in New York. “The trend away from these vehicles is irreversible.”

The moves by G.M. underscore the radical transformation of the automotive landscape in recent months.

Where large S.U.V.’s like the and ruled the road a few years ago, sales of those vehicles and others like them are plummeting under pressure from high fuel costs.

At the same time, small cars and crossovers — car-based all-wheel-drive vehicles that use less gas than S.U.V.’s — are flying out of dealerships, with the and ranking as the two top-selling vehicles in the in May.

G.M. unveiled its latest restructuring on the same day that it reported that its United States sales plunged 30 percent in May.

But the day of reckoning for the full-size S.U.V. and its 14-miles-per-gallon fuel consumption has been coming for some time.

“At the peak in 2002, G.M. sold 600,000 full-size S.U.V.’s, but they’re on pace this year to sell less than 250,000 of them,” said David Healy, an analyst with Burnham Securities. “And the nails in the coffin are getting screwed down a little tighter.”

The production cuts will idle an estimated 8,000 workers at the plants in Janesville, Wis.; Moraine, ; Oshawa, ; and Toluca, . G.M. declined to provide details about what would happen to the workers affected.

Mr. Wagoner called the shutdowns “difficult” decisions and said it was unlikely any of the plants would receive new products to stay open.

“These moves are all in response to the rapid rise in oil prices and the resulting changes in the U.S.,” he said.

G.M. hopes to counter the drop in S.U.V. and truck sales by increasing car production and accelerating the development of more fuel-efficient models.

The automaker will add third shifts in September at plants in and Ohio that make midsize sedans and compact models.

G.M.’s board also approved production of two new small cars and a new four-cylinder, 1.4-liter engine, and gave the green light for production of the Chevrolet Volt by 2010.

The Volt, which will be powered by batteries augmented by a small gasoline engine, is the centerpiece of G.M.’s push to develop alternative-fuel vehicles.

“The Chevy Volt is a go,” Mr. Wagoner said. “We believe this is the biggest step in our industry’s move away from our historic, virtually complete reliance on petroleum to power vehicles.”

Over all, G.M. is cutting 500,000 vehicles out of its North American production capacity.

By reducing capacity to 3.7 million vehicles a year from the current 4.2 million, the automaker expects to save $1 billion on top of a target of reducing costs by $5 billion by 2011.

But even with the cuts, Mr. Wagoner declined to predict when G.M., which lost $3.3 billion in the first quarter this year, will become profitable in .

On Wall Street, G.M.’s stock rose modestly, closing at $17.58, up 14 cents.

Full-size S.U.V.’s and pickups have long been a major source of profits for G.M. and its domestic rivals, and .

“These are our most profitable vehicles, particularly the full-sized utes,” said Frederick A. Henderson, G.M.’s president. “We need to be able to produce more profitability from our passenger cars because we’ll be under pressure in terms of revenue.”

The plant shutdowns were announced days after G.M. said 19,000 of its hourly workers — a quarter of a unionized work force that already has been drastically reduced — had accepted buyouts or early retirement packages.

There was no immediate comment from the union about the factory closures. But the president of the , Basil Hargrove, strongly criticized Mr. Wagoner and his management team for shutting the Ontario plant less than a month after G.M. and the C.A.W. agreed to a new contract.

“This is a panic decision that really raises a question in my mind for the first time about the leadership at the top of the house for G.M.,” Mr. Hargrove said at a news conference Tuesday in .

Panic or not, G.M. clearly is altering its strategy on the fly in the face of increasingly tough economic conditions.

Industry analysts expect overall vehicle sales in the United States to fall below 15 million this year, the lowest point in more than a decade and far below the peak of 17.4 million in 2000. As recently as 2005, sales hit 17 million.

“This is tough stuff,” Mr. Wagoner said. “This market has radically changed.”

The decision to conduct a “strategic review” of the Hummer brand underscored the painful reality G.M. is facing.

Once considered a brand with global potential, the monster-sized Hummer has become a symbol of the decline of the large, gas-guzzling S.U.V.

Mr. Wagoner said the review of the brand could result in “a partial or complete sale” of Hummer.

That is a far cry from the ambitious goals that G.M. had for Hummer when it acquired rights to the brand nearly a decade ago.

When he joined G.M. in 2001, Vice Chairman gushed over the potential for the rugged, military-styled Hummers: “I don’t think the world realizes how big that can get.”

When the brand’s sales peaked at 71,000 vehicles in 2006, Mr. Lutz was calling for Hummer to double its two-S.U.V. lineup.

But so far this year, Hummer sales have fallen 36 percent to 14,000 vehicles.

Advertised heavily as the epitome of the “go anywhere, do anything” S.U.V., the Hummer has been a favorite target of environmentalist criticism of Detroit.

“It has come to represent all that is bad about gigantic S.U.V.’s,” said Daniel Becker, a consultant to environmental groups in . “It’s a shame it’s taken G.M. so long to face the reality that people don’t want this thing anymore.”
106 2008-06-04 THINKING SMALLER With gas near $4 a gallon, more people are deciding that the benefits of owning big vehicles are not worth the costs. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt.      General Motors announced drastic cuts in the production of sport utility v...
107 2008-06-05 It was no surprise Thursday that with the 44th overall pick in the draft (their second selection, as compensation for the loss of Luis Vizcaino as a free agent) the Yankees took a pitcher who had an elbow injury this season - the Stanford lefty Je...
108 2008-06-05 Ivan Seidenberg has come a long way since he started out as an assistant to a cable splicer in 1966 for the New York Telephone Company. The career of Mr. Seidenberg, the chief executive of Verizon Communications, has been marked by a string of mul...
109 2008-06-05 "Survivor: Gabon - Earth's Last Eden" has been plagued with several preproduction problems, host Jeff Probst told The Associated Press at a restaurant opening Wednesday: The dilemmas for the 17th season of the CBS reality show, which begins filmin...
110 2008-06-05 All the time spent fund-raising is beginning to pay off for Senator John McCain, whose campaign said Thursday that it raised a record $21.5 million in May and ended the month with $31.5 million in cash on hand....
111 2008-06-05 Seven months after buying it, the private-equity owners of Alltel have agreed to sell the company to Verizon Wireless for $28.1 billion, including assumed debt. Verizon announced the deal in a press release Thursday morning, following reports that...
112 2008-06-05 An analyst notes that were Verizon to buy Alltell, it would keep wireless prices high because there is even less competition among cellphone carriers....
113 2008-06-05 Corporate Express will open its books to unsolicited bidder Staples, a Dutch newspaper reported on Wednesday, but the U.S. office supplies company said it had yet to see any figures, Reuters reported. Staples on Tuesday raised its offer to 9.15 eu...
114 2008-06-05 Verizon Communications is near a deal to buy Alltel for about $27 billion, including the assumption of debt. Vodafone, Verizon's partner in its wireless business, confirmed the talks in a short statement Thursday, which said Verizon Wireless was i...
115 2008-06-05 Northern Rock may be getting government aid for longer than necessary, according to an official European Commission document that suggests that the nationalization of the troubled British lender faces tough scrutiny from regulators. Opening an inq...
116 2008-06-05 American International Group will start investing in new hedge funds through a joint venture with Larch Lane Advisors, a unit of Old Mutual Asset Management, AIG announced Wednesday. Larch Lane specializes in seeding start-up managers in the $2 tr...
117 2008-06-05 The market for Asian initial public offerings has reopened after a dismal start to the year, but with pricing power in the hands of investors, issuers are lowering their fund-raising expectations, Reuters reported. Last week, three companies raise...
118 2008-06-05 Credit Agricole fell to the lowest in five years in Paris trading after pricing new shares at 10.6 euros each, below its 2001 initial stock offering, to replenish capital wiped out by writedowns, Bloomberg News reported. France's third-largest ban...
119 2008-06-05 Intel on Tuesday announced that it has invested in eight new start-ups from around the world for a total of $60 million. The news came during the chip maker's Intel Capital C.E.O. Summit event in San Francisco. The moves are part of the company's ...
120 2008-06-05 Saturday in the park will offer New Yorkers a new experience — the opportunity to see the opening game of the 2008 European Championship on a big screen at the Central Park Bandshell, between 66th and 72nd Streets. ESPN is sponsoring the public viewing, which it said it believed would be the first time a soccer game has been shown outdoors in New York.
121 2008-06-05 SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — South Korea’s antitrust regulator said Thursday that it would order the Intel Corporation to pay 26 billion won ($25.4 million) for violating fair trade rules.

The Korea Fair Trade Commission said in a statement that it was issuing the order because the semiconductor giant offered rebates to South Korean computer companies and undercut a competitor, Advanced Micro Devices.

Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., criticized the ruling and said it would consider its options, including a possible appeal.

“We’re disappointed, and we completely disagree with the findings,” D. Bruce Sewell, Intel’s senior vice president and general counsel, said in Seoul.

The Korea Fair Trade Commission charged Intel with violating South Korean antitrust laws last year after completing a two-year investigation.
122 2008-06-05 So while he continued to attack Mr. Obama’s plan to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq, Mr. McCain also said he hoped that improvements in Iraq might soon allow more troops to come home.

“I am hopeful, because of the success, that we will be able to withdraw more troops,” he said — before adding the dig at Mr. Obama. “But it has to be dictated by events on the ground, not some politician’s ideologically driven schedule.”

And when he was asked about the touchy subject of immigration — his support for a bill to overhaul the system antagonized Republicans who called it amnesty, almost dooming his bid for the nomination — Mr. McCain said that he now understood that the borders must be secured first, but added that deporting all illegal immigrants, as some of his Republican rivals had wanted to do, was not feasible.

“We’re not going to round up 10 million people, my friends, and deport them immediately,” he said. “We don’t have the capacity to do so.”

Even as the McCain and Obama campaigns agreed to explore holding a series of town-hall-style meetings together, they traded attacks for much of the day. Mr. McCain said that Mr. Obama’s support for holding talks with the leaders of Iran and other adversaries of the United States showed “a naïvete and a lack of experience that Americans will make a judgment about.”

And after Mr. McCain said, in response to a question at a news conference here about why he had opposed a pair of bills to investigate the government’s response to Hurricane Katrina, that he had “supported every investigation,” the Democrats and the Obama campaign noted that he had voted twice against establishing a Congressional commission to investigate the response.

“Whether he simply wasn’t aware of his voting record again or he was intentionally misleading the people of Louisiana, John McCain certainly isn’t offering us ‘leadership you can believe in,’ ” said Hari Sevugan, an Obama campaign spokesman.

Brian Rogers, a McCain campaign spokesman, countered that “it doesn’t bode well for Senator Obama’s pledges to run a campaign of hope and change when on the first day of the general election he’s launching the same tired negative attacks that the American people are so sick and tired of.” Mr. Rogers said that Mr. McCain was unaware of the specific votes he was asked about, and that he was speaking about his support for the Homeland Security Committee’s investigation, which was under way at the of the votes.

When Mr. McCain was asked which of his policies might appeal to Mrs. Cinton’s supporters, he cited his record of reform and opposition to wasteful spending, and his opposition to holding talks with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran — a line of attack Mrs. Clinton sometimes used in the Democratic primary. He said he thought there were many Clinton supporters “who believe that I am by far best qualified to secure this nation’s future, who don’t want us to sit down with Ahmadinejad and other tyrants, who don’t want us to set a date for withdrawal and declare defeat in Iraq.”

On that last point, he may encounter trouble with many of Mrs. Clinton’s backers. She supported withdrawing the troops in Iraq, and in her speech on Tuesday night, she cited her desire to end the war as one reason she kept running.
123 2008-06-05 India and Malaysia risked the wrath of voters by raising the price of subsidized fuel, measures that could further weaken the governments of both countries, already made fragile by recent electoral setbacks.

In India, the increase was quickly condemned by political parties from all sides, two of which promised demonstrations. A Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman called the move the equivalent of “economic terrorism.”

Economists and policy makers described the increase as painful but necessary. Fuel subsidies in Malaysia alone would have totaled $17 billion this year.

Consumers in Malaysia, like the woman above, will see gasoline prices go up by 40 percent, and more increases are planned, said Shahrir Abdul Samad, Malaysia’s domestic trade and consumer affairs minister. Gas prices vary across India, but the announcement amounted to an increase of around 10 percent.
124 2008-06-05 India broke up a march to China by Tibetan exiles, arresting 260 protesters from a restricted military zone stretching to the border. The exiles began walking on March 10 from the northern town of Dharamsala, the seat of their spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, to join protests against Chinese rule inside Tibet. The march and other anti-China protests had become an embarrassment for New Delhi, which has growing trade and cultural relations with China.
125 2008-06-05 Verizon Wireless executives declined to comment. Alltel executives did not return calls seeking a comment.

Verizon and Alltel have been in a merger dance for years. Lowell C. McAdam, chief executive of Verizon Wireless, and Scott T. Ford, Alltel’s chief executive, have known each other for a long time and have been talking on and off about a combination over the last couple of years, according to a person apprised of the talks. Rumors surfaced in 2005 that Verizon and Alltel were considering a merger and talks reignited last year, before TPG and Goldman Sachs bid for the company.

Previous efforts to strike a deal faltered in part because of opposition from Verizon’s partner in its wireless business, Vodafone, which owns a 45 percent stake. Roger Entner, a senior vice president at IAG, a market research firm, said that the last time Verizon sought to acquire Alltel, Vodafone rejected the deal because the merger would have diluted its position in the combined companies. The current deal is being financed entirely by debt to avoid diluting Vodafone’s stake, people involved in the discussions said.

Analysts say that Alltel, which has about 13 million subscribers, is a logical fit for Verizon. First, they share the same cellphone technology, called CDMA, and second, Alltel has customers in regions not serviced by Verizon. The person apprised of the talks said there would be layoffs, but they would be largely limited to marketing, finance and other staff functions.

“You have to see it in context of how Verizon is trying to reinvent itself as a wireless versus a wireline company,” said Craig Moffett, a communications analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. “The more they do, the faster they do it, the better.”

Despite being privately held, Alltel files quarterly earning reports with regulators because it has some publicly held debt. The company reported a net loss of $124.9 million for the three months ended March 31, its first quarter as a private company. Many companies that have been taken private report net losses because of higher debt interest payments.

The price on Alltel’s publicly traded debt rose sharply after CNBC reported the talks on Wednesday afternoon. The company’s loans traded around 98 cents on the dollar, while bonds paying a 7 percent coupon that mature in 2012 shot up 12 cents, trading at about par, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.

Some analysts have questioned whether Alltel could continue to grow, given its buyout-related debt. The company reported nearly a tenfold increase in interest expense in its first quarter, to $496.5 million, from $46.7 million last year.

“While we believe the results were solid, the results did not address our main concerns about this company, and we continue to believe that the company’s smaller scale relative to its competitors and its high leverage mean that it will be disadvantaged in the long term,” Zhiping Zhao and Anna Basanskaya, analysts at CreditSights, wrote in a research note last month.

But unlike other companies that have been taken private, Alltel continues to pay certain bonds, known as pay-in-kind toggles, in cash rather than by issuing more notes. Issuing notes is sometimes seen as a sign of distress.

The decision by TPG and Goldman to sell their share in Alltel may also suggest what is in store as smaller, independent players find it harder to go it alone. “It makes you wonder what Goldman and TPG see which made them change their minds so quickly,” said Mr. Moffett, the analyst. “In the wireless industry there is no place for independence. It is the land of the giants.”
126 2008-06-05 “The line of the middle fault is as clear as a string,” said Li Yong, a geological expert at Chengdu University of Technology. “It suggests continuous and strong movement. Such a long and clear lineament should trigger a big quake. Other scientists have had similar ideas.”

In July, a paper by Mr. Li and another scientist raised the likelihood of a 7.0 magnitude earthquake along the Longmenshan belt, and spoke again of the dangers there at a conference in China a month before the disaster.

While many say scientists advocated stronger precautionary measures for years, some also expressed a deep sense of failure for not having warned the government in stronger terms that seismic danger there was being underestimated. The Longmenshan belt did not appear, for example, on a recent priority watch list of likely trouble spots.

“Beyond the pain felt by ordinary Chinese, we in earthquake science are guilty beyond description,” said Ma Shengli, deputy director of the Institute of Geology of the Chinese Earthquake Administration. “Our ability fell far short of what was needed, and we can’t help but cry.”

Some seismologists also say that the earthquake agency, based in Beijing, did not press the government to impose tougher building codes in the region. So even if most buildings there had been built to code — many appeared to fall far short — they might well have failed to withstand the May quake, which the Chinese government says had a magnitude of 8.0, the most powerful in China in modern times.

“The earthquake administration didn’t warn the government enough,” said Mr. Gao, the researcher with the earthquake agency. “We told them things should be built to withstand seventh-degree crack resistance, but we should have insisted on ninth degree, just as experts from the Soviet Union advised us back in the 1950s.”

Mr. Gao referred to an earthquake building code standard used in China. A building would have required construction to an 11th-degree standard to have escaped damage in last month’s earthquake. Many Chinese experts invoked the high cost of building structures to withstand major earthquakes as a rationale for the failure to do so.

Earthquake-related building codes exist throughout China, but experts say they have been applied spottily. In Beijing, where the earthquake risk is high, more strenuous efforts have been made to enforce strict building codes. In many other high-risk areas, this has not been the case.

“Standards are one thing, and the implementation is another,” said Liu Hang, a professor and senior engineer at the Beijing Construction Engineering Research Institute. “The quake-proof level for Wenchuan’s local buildings is rated Degree 7, but based on what I’ve seen on-site, the buildings there are far from reaching this standard. Let’s not talk about whether the degree of quake-proofing is high enough; the buildings in the affected areas just have no quake-proof protection at all.”

Speaking of the capital, Mr. Liu said, “Unless the epicenter of an earthquake like this occurred right in Tiananmen Square, central Beijing would not be seriously damaged.”

Officials at China’s Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development did not respond to a request for an interview. An official at Sichuan Province’s construction department who identified himself only as Lu denied there were widespread problems of enforcing building standards, but declined to say more.

In light of the huge loss of life, many said that whatever the rationale, the failure to enforce adequate building standards in Sichuan was unacceptable.

Hu Xingdou, a professor at the Beijing Institute of Technology, called the failure to enforce adequate building standards a case of “serious malfeasance” on the part of local governments.

“One of their basic responsibilities is to ensure people’s safety, which means supervising the quality of people’s homes, and making sure that new houses comply with standards,” Professor Hu said. “Even if they haven’t made the effort to cover all rural housing, initially they should make sure public buildings, such as schools and hospitals, are safe and compliant.”

China has long pushed major infrastructure and even military developments in the area despite the quake risk. The mountainous region outside Chengdu became a major military production base in the 1960s, when China feared the possibility of an attack from the Soviet Union or the United States. Nuclear design, plutonium and fighter jet production facilities were located not far from the Longmenshan belt, largely because the region, deep in central China, was far from the country’s borders and considered relatively safe from aerial assault.

Under Mao’s Third Front policy, major industrial and military facilities were located in the Chinese heartland rather than in coastal areas viewed as more vulnerable. “The awareness of earthquake risk has been a gradual process, while the construction of the Third Front was primarily a political decision,” said Ma Dingsheng, a military expert and commentator on Phoenix TV, based in Hong Kong. He said that even after the quake risk was better understood, military facilities there continued to expand.

There is no evidence of serious damage to military facilities, though information about them is highly classified in China.

On Wednesday, China’s State Council passed a draft regulation on post-quake restoration and reconstruction at an executive meeting, the official Xinhua news agency reported Thursday. It introduced special requirements on earthquake-resistance levels of infrastructure construction in the quake-hit regions, including schools and hospitals.

Local governments must organize personnel to conduct safety appraisals of all school buildings as soon as possible to ensure the safety of students as they return to school, according to the statement.

A disproportionately large number of the earthquake’s victims were children crushed when thousands of classrooms crumbled or collapsed. Facing pressure from parents over the loss of their children, this week the Sichuan Education Bureau published a list of five reasons school-related deaths were so high. The reasons included the timing of the quake, while classes were in session, and the age of school buildings. No mention was made of government failure to enforce standards, or of corruption, which are taboo subjects.

Treading carefully around a politically delicate subject, Mr. Li, the co-author of last year’s paper warning of the danger to this region, said, “Many experts have provided their knowledge and suggestions, but how much of it became a reality in these towns and villages isn’t something that’s convenient for me to say.”

Some scientists said that given the known risk, the areas with the worst damage should never have been settled. “How could a populous city be built in such a risky area, particularly right at the foot of mountains?” said Liu Jingbo, a professor at the Construction Institute of Disaster Preparation and Relief at Tsinghua University, in Beijing. “When an earthquake occurs, it’s not just the collapse of buildings that buries people, but boulders and huge rocks and mud flows follow on immediately.”

More than 15,000 people died in Beichuan, or about one-tenth of the city’s population. “The ignorance of the local government or the lack of attention to implementation of the departments with real power contributed to this tragedy,” Professor Liu said.

Beichuan, a county capital, was moved in 1952 to its present site at the foot of three mountains, from a nearby site that was prone to flooding. But concerns about the risk of a major earthquake have been voiced almost continuously since the relocation.

“Ever since I was small,” said Sun Xiaotao, director of the general office of Beichuan County’s fiscal bureau, “I’ve heard talk about how if an earthquake happened, we’d be wrapped in, just like a dumpling.”
127 2008-06-05 Still, renewed concerns about the health of the financial sector kept some buyers at bay.

“The market is not going to recover until the financials do,” said Neil Massa, senior trader at MFC Global Investment Management in Boston. “They’re not going to until all of these balance sheet items are taken care of.”

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 12.37, or 0.10 percent, to 12,390.48.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 0.45, or 0.03 percent, to 1,377.20, while the Nasdaq rose 22.66, to 2,503.14.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 4.71, or 0.64 percent, to 743.71.

Hugh Whelan, managing director at Hartford Investment Management, said Wall Street would probably remain moored at its current levels until there was a sustained pullback in oil and a more robust corporate profit picture emerged.

He said some investors were gravitating toward technology stocks, thinking that profit at such companies were likely to hold up better in a weak economy. “It’s just a sector that is not plagued by some of the worries that are foremost on people’s mind,” he said.

One financial company that weighed on the market on Tuesday showed a rebound. Lehman Brothers rose 79 cents to $31.40, after Merrill Lynch raised its rating on the company. On Tuesday, Lehman denied rumors that it had tapped the Federal Reserve’s discount window because of cash problems.

J. M. Smucker said it had agreed to buy the Folgers coffee brand from Procter & Gamble in a nearly $3 billion stock deal. Smucker rose 12 cents to $53.87, and P.& G. rose $1.04 to $66.45.

United Airlines’ parent, UAL, rose 61 cents, or 7.2 percent, to $9.14, after saying it planned to cut as many as 1,100 more jobs, remove 70 aircraft from its fleet and reduce domestic capacity in the face of energy costs. The carrier previously said it planned to cut 500 jobs and that it would mothball some of its least fuel-efficient aircraft.

The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 22/32, to 99 5/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.98 percent from 3.89 percent.
128 2008-06-05 BRUSSELS — Northern Rock may be getting government aid for longer than necessary, according to an official European Commission document that suggests that the nationalization of the troubled British lender faces tough scrutiny from regulators.

Opening an inquiry into whether the bailout broke European Union rules on state aid, the commission listed a series of reservations about the deal that shored up the mortgage lender.

Northern Rock was the worst victim in Britain of the tight credit market, which was set off by the subprime mortgage crisis that began in the United States last year. After an unsuccessful search for a buyer for Northern Rock, the British government nationalized the bank in February.

Earlier this week, another big British mortgage lender, Bradford & Bingley, had to seek emergency help from investors and cut the price of a planned share sale.

Given the scale of support to Northern Rock — the government lent it £24 billion, or $47 billion, before the nationalization — it was inevitable that the commission would investigate the legality of the bailout.
129 2008-06-05 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — GMAC said on Wednesday that it had completed a refinancing package worth more than $60 billion aimed at improving the liquidity of its struggling subsidiary, the mortgage lender Residential Capital.

As the mortgage lending market began deteriorating in mid-2007, ResCap posted large losses. It continued to struggle, losing $859 million in the first quarter. That put it in danger of failing to meet financial obligations.

Before Wednesday’s announcement, ResCap increased the size of an existing credit arrangement with GMAC and said it was selling some of its assets to GMAC and its majority stakeholder, Cerberus. General Motors, GMAC’s former parent, still has a large minority stake.

As part of the overall plan, ResCap offered to exchange as much as $14 billion in debt to extend the dates on which the notes came due. Bondholders participating in the exchange offer will get new debt at higher interest rates, which ResCap will have longer to pay back.

Additionally, GMAC provided a $3.5 billion credit line to ResCap, which includes $750 million from G.M. and Cerberus. G.M. and Cerberus would take the first loss if ResCap defaulted.

GMAC and ResCap said more than 50 institutions worldwide were participating in the plan.

ResCap said on Tuesday that it needed about $2 billion in cash by the end of June to meet liquidity demands, according to a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It previously estimated it needed just $600 million by the end of the month.
130 2008-06-05 Re “Mounting Costs Slow the Push for Clean Coal” (“The Energy Challenge” series, front page, May 30):

While coal-based power plants, both conventional and gasification-based, are encountering regulatory hurdles, the level of investment in gasification technology provides a more telling indicator. Right now, the gasification industry is moving forward on more than 10 major plants in the United States that will produce substitute natural gas from coal.

Substitute natural gas can be used in existing or new natural gas power plants and represents a viable path for power generators seeking an alternative to coal combustion. Substitute natural gas plants are able to capture and compress carbon dioxide for storage at a much lower cost because they remove the carbon dioxide from the gas stream as a part of the manufacturing process.

In addition, a number of operators of substitute natural gas plants are entering into agreements to sell their carbon dioxide for enhanced oil recovery.

While the future of gasification is promising, there is no question that significant challenges remain. Investors demand a predictable federal regulatory and legal framework governing carbon dioxide storage. Right now, that framework does not exist.

Given the demand for solutions to problems that gasification can help address, Congress has its work cut out for it.
131 2008-06-05 “In Stock Plan, Employees See Stacked Deck” (front page, May 29), about the employee stock ownership plan at U.S. Sugar, did not put the situation in context. Several academic studies of how participants fare in ESOPs show that they have about three times the total retirement assets of comparable employees in non-ESOP companies, and diversified retirement assets about the same size.

That result is because ESOP companies perform much better than non-ESOP companies.

In the specific case of U.S. Sugar, the article suggests that former employees should have been able to get the same price as the potential acquirer of U.S. Sugar offered per share for the whole company. But no acquirer would offer the same price per share for buying minority-interest individual shares that they would for buying control of the company.

If former participants got that control price, it would mean that current participant interests would be harmed, and their share value ultimately would be worth less.
132 2008-06-05 United States productivity grew at a slightly faster-than-expected rate in the first quarter, which may calm some of the Federal Reserve’s worries over elevated inflation, the government reported Wednesday.

Productivity grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate during the first quarter on stronger output than was initially gauged.

The Labor Department said in a statement that first-quarter output was revised higher to show a 0.7 percent gain at an annual rate, from the 0.4 percent previously reported. Worker hours shrank 1.8 percent as businesses cut back on labor inputs to shield profits amid a cooling United States economy. It was the third straight quarterly decline in hours.

Economists polled by Reuters expected nonfarm productivity, which measures the hourly output per worker, to rise at a 2.5 percent pace. Compared with the first quarter of 2007, productivity was up 3.3 percent, the quickest pace in nearly four years.

Both the service sector and private employment posted surprising gains for May in other reports released Wednesday.

The service sector grew in May for a second consecutive month, according to a report by the Institute for Supply Management that exceeded Wall Street expectations but showed inflation in the sector hit its highest since September 2005.
133 2008-06-05 Kuznetsova, a finalist here in 2006 and the United States Open champion in 2004, continued her comparative cruise through the draw with a 7-5, 6-2 win over the unseeded Kaia Kanepi of Estonia.

The other semifinal Thursday will be between two Serbs: No. 2 seed Ana Ivanovic and No. 3 Jelena Jankovic.

Safina’s upset of Sharapova guaranteed that Ivanovic, Jankovic or Kuznetsova would take over the top spot in the rankings next week for the first time.

The men’s semifinal lineup is also set, and the four players involved include the three men vying for command of the game and the surprise of the tournament: the unseeded Frenchman Gaël Monfils.

Rafael Nadal, the three-time defending champion, will face Novak Djokovic in the most anticipated of Friday’s semifinals. The 59th-ranked Monfils will face the No. 1 seed, Roger Federer, in the other, which just may generate more interest in France.

Federer started poorly Wednesday before recovering to win his quarterfinal, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4, against the 24th-seeded Fernando González, a big-hitting Chilean who had not lost on clay this season.

Monfils’s unexpected presence in the quarterfinals meant that Federer’s match was played on the second show court at Roland Garros, while Monfils and his fifth-seeded opponent, David Ferrer of Spain, played on center stage, on Philippe Chatrier court.

But even the partisan crowd was not quite ready for what happened next, as Monfils held up physically against one of the most indefatigable of attacking baseliners, rolling to a 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1 upset.

Monfils, once the world’s top-ranked junior, has struggled since peaking at No. 23 in the rankings in 2006.

Injuries and frequent coaching changes have knocked him back, along with a tendency to play defensively.

But he looked to be in fine form Wednesday, wearing down Ferrer, who had played consecutive five-set matches.

“It’s true that I was worn out, especially the arm,” Ferrer said. “I was tired. He, on the other hand, played very well.”

After reuniting with his coach Thierry Champion, a former French touring professional known for his success in marathon matches, the 21-year-old Monfils has whipped himself into shape and a strong state of mind. There was no hint Wednesday that this was his first Grand Slam quarterfinal.

“Thierry told me to stop playing economically,” Monfils said. “He told me to be strong in my head.”

Safina’s match against Dementieva was a much more civilized repeat of Safina’s screech-filled bout with Sharapova. But then the family connections run deep between Safina and Dementieva, whose first coach in Moscow was Safina’s mother, Rausa Islanova.

Islanova was in the stands Wednesday, although she no longer coaches Dementieva or her daughter, who is working with a Croatian coach, Zeljko Krajan. “She’s just my mother,” Safina said. “I have a coach.”

For nearly two sets, Krajan must have been suffering, as Safina got the worst of the baseline exchanges and berated herself in Russian.

Then, in a rush, Dementieva, like Sharapova, had to accept that her formerly vulnerable opponent was suddenly bearing down, hitting line after line and digging out shots in the corners. In both cases, the change came with Safina down by 2-5 in the second set.

“At 5-2, I just changed completely my game,” Safina said. “Just kept telling myself, give her one more ball, give her one more ball.”

There would be plenty more in the second set, with Safina requiring six set points to finally tie the match. Extended rallies were the rule, with each player searching for angles and Safina intent on changing pace and trajectory. The differences, in the end, were small yet visible. Dementieva’s backhand was the weak link, and her much improved serve did not produce quite enough pressure.

Then there was Dementieva’s nerve. A champion for the ages probably finds a way to get the ball in play on match point. A champion probably finds a way not to make four unforced ground-stroke errors when serving for the match at 5-4 in the next game. And a champion certainly finds a way not to drop the final set, 6-0, after allowing Safina back into the match.
134 2008-06-05 A “green revolution” about three decades ago brought vastly increased output to agriculture in much of the world, with improved agricultural techniques and fertilizers. But it did little to improve agriculture in some of the poorest parts of the world, particularly Africa, where harvests have remained stagnant under the pressures of neglect, political unrest and, now, climate change.

But in the industrialized world, farming became more of a regulated business. Farm entitlements became so entrenched that repeated efforts at reform, even in the face of soaring crop prices, have fallen flat, as evidenced by the inability to reach agreement on farming disputes at the World Trade Organization.

Against this backdrop, the food emergency has done little to prompt a consensus on a new approach that might make the world agricultural system more responsive to global food demand. There has been plenty of argument since the conference opened Tuesday over whether shortages and high prices were caused by the rush to biofuels, protective tariffs, the soaring price of oil, distorting subsidies or a market failure. But the issues appear too complex, and too heavily freighted with politics, to be addressed soon.

Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank, said money was crucial to solving the short-term need for food aid to feed the world’s hungry. But he said preventing food crises would require more difficult policy changes.

In the meantime, many representatives from poorer countries expressed frustration at the tenor of the meeting. “We believe the problem is much more political than everything else,” said Walter Poveda Ricaurte, agriculture minister of Ecuador. “We have to differentiate between the countries who are really affected by the food crisis and those who are seeing it as an economic opportunity.”

He said that when food prices were low, in recent decades, Ecuador had stopped producing its own wheat, corn and soy — favoring cheap imports instead. Now that prices of these commodities have doubled in the past year, the country can no longer afford them, he said.

The conference has raised money for emergency relief. The Islamic Development Bank pledged $1.5 million on Wednesday. Mr. Ban estimated that $15 billion to $20 billion was needed to help resolve the food crisis.

But there was little sign that the economic and political disputes that often took center stage here resulted in new compromises.

Mr. da Silva attacked the “absurdly protectionist farm policies in rich countries,” a clear reference to the United States, which protects its own corn ethanol from competition with Brazilian ethanol, made from sugar cane.

American delegates attacked barriers to trade in poorer countries as well as in the European Union. China, which has not invested heavily in biofuels, said that “grain-based biofuels has driven up grain utilization and has potential to trigger more far reaching problems.”

Officials at the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, which sponsored the meeting, were sanguine about the results. “Sometimes I think the discussion is not focused on the need of countries and poor people,” said José Maria Sumpsi, assistant director general of the organization. “But you have to take into account that you are hearing the positions of the governments — defending their political views — which is different from whether they will fund immediate action.”

The conference was preparing to issue its concluding statement on Thursday, and delegates said the wording of the section on biofuels was a point of contention. The United States said only 2 to 3 percent of the global increase in food prices was attributable to competition from biofuels. But other countries put the figure far higher.

A draft copy of the resolution, obtained by The Associated Press, calls for urgent action to address the problems associated with higher food prices, for increased food production, fewer trade restrictions and increased research in agriculture. It also calls for more research on biofuels, sidestepping what has become the most contentious issue of the conference.

“I doubt there will be a positive agreement on biofuels” from the conference, said Mr. Schafer, the American agriculture secretary, though he indicated that some “acceptable” language would be in the meeting’s final document.

There has also been only limited discussion about developing a new kind of aid program that most experts agree is needed: one that invests in developing agriculture in poor countries and that spends less money in shipping food halfway around the world to feed hungry people.

“The era of food aid is over — there is no more sending food from America to Africa,” Kofi Annan, former United Nations secretary general, said in an interview. Instead, he said, donors need to do more to improve agricultural practices in Africa and Asia, with donations of tools, fertilizers, seeds, silos and knowledge.

Officials from many major donor countries said they had been rethinking food aid policies — if only because food prices were now so high and transport was becoming increasingly costly.

Henrietta H. Fore, administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, said that transport costs were now soaking up 50 percent of its food aid money, and that the rising prices of commodities like oil were “eating away at our purchasing power.”

In the past, the program was heavily weighted toward sending food abroad, and it required that its aid be purchased in the United States and shipped on American vessels.

She said that in a bill now before Congress, 25 percent of food in a new $350 million aid package could be purchased overseas. But that has not been approved yet.
135 2008-06-05 Gasoline prices vary across India, but the announcement Wednesday amounted to an increase of around 10 percent for gasoline and diesel.

Consumers will pay about 50 rupees a liter for gasoline, or about $4.45 a gallon, well above the average $3.79 a gallon average that drivers in the United States are paying, according to the most recent figures from the Department of Energy.

The fuel price increase is expected to drive inflation up in India from 8.1 percent to as high as 10 percent, when knock-on effects are felt in manufacturing and other industries.

Chandra Prakash, a gas-pump repairman in Delhi, said that because of the price increases, he might be forced to abandon his scooter altogether and start walking from job to job. Already, he said, he is barely surviving. “It is difficult to cut back expenses any more,” he said, adding that it was the government’s job to “keep prices in check.”

The Indian minister of petroleum, Murli Deora, said Tuesday that the price increases were an “absolute necessity” due to the increase in world oil prices. But the price increase could further weaken the Congress Party government, which has been losing ground in state elections in recent months. Most recently, the state of Karnataka voted for the B.J.P. in May.

In Malaysia, the governing coalition of Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi was weakened after losing in 5 of the country’s 13 states in March elections, and Abdullah has been pressured by some senior members of his party to step down. Yet if he can hold his coalition together, cutting subsidies may benefit Abdullah and his allies in the long run.

“They will have a lot more cash to play with,” said Ibrahim Suffian, director of the Merdeka Center, an independent polling agency. The government will able to use the savings for social programs and infrastructure, moves that would please both voters and members of the governing party, the United Malays National Organization, which has been able to remain united in the past by doling out contracts.

To cushion the blow for consumers, the Malaysian government plans to offer a yearly cash rebate to owners of small cars and motorcycles. Cars with engines smaller than two liters will receive an annual payout of $200. Motorcycle owners will be given about one-fifth that amount, according to the Malaysian news Web site, Malaysiakini.

Anwar Ibrahim, the head of the largest opposition party and a former finance minister, said he feared that the billions of dollars the government will save by cutting subsidies would be wasted.

In the past, he said, Malaysia’s oil revenues were “disbursed for megaprojects and projects that benefit the rich and the cronies.”

“People can be persuaded to accept the gradual reduction of subsidies,” he said by telephone from his home in Kuala Lumpur. “But not when the funds are not disbursed in a transparent manner.”

Gas costs about $2.20 a gallon in Malaysia, among the cheapest prices in Asia. The government in recent days has sought to clamp down on drivers from neighboring Thailand and Singapore from crossing the border to fill their tanks. Late Wednesday, after the measure was announced, long lines could be seen forming at gas stations around Kuala Lumpur as drivers tried to beat the midnight deadline for the new prices.

Removing subsidies is likely to hit some Malaysians hard because the price of transport, food and electricity are all expected to rise. Malaysia relies heavily on subsidized natural gas to generate electricity.

Prime Minister Abdullah said the price increases would propel the country’s inflation rate to as high as 5 percent this year, from just 2 percent last year.

The national oil company, Petronas, has subsidized the natural gas at a cumulative loss since 1997 of more than $19 billion. Much of the gas was from Malaysian offshore wells, but some was bought from Vietnam and Indonesia at market prices and then sold locally for one-quarter of that price, according to Hassan Marican, president and chief executive of Petronas.

Malaysia has been a net exporter of oil in recent decades and more than one- third of the government’s budget is derived from oil revenues but the country’s demand for energy will outstrip its supply as soon as two years from now, according to Petronas calculations.

The removal of subsidies may reduce Malaysia’s demand for energy and thus extend its reserves. Globally, the scaling back of subsidies in Malaysia, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and a handful of other developing countries is too small to have a significant impact on world prices, Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, said in a report released Monday. The report did not take into account the price increase in India.
136 2008-06-05 Wednesday’s sweep is the first time any of the group’s members have been taken into custody, although its leader had been jailed briefly in 2004. No arrests were made in response to attacks by the group on a number mosques, schools, and followers of the minority Muslim sect Ahmadiyah over the past few years.

“I appreciate the work of the police to detain these people, it is the first time any of its members have been detained. But it is not enough,” said Uli Parulian Sihombing, a human rights lawyer who was at Sunday’s rally. “The Defender’s Front should be banned, they are a dangerous organization that commits violence against other groups and religions.”

The leader of the Islamic Defender’s Front, Habib Rizieq, said at a news conference that the attack at Sunday’s rally, held by the National Alliance for the Freedom of Faith and Religion, was in response to support of Ahmadiyah, which has been targeted by hard-line Muslims for what they call its “deviant” beliefs.

He said his group would wage a war against Ahmadiyah if it did not disband within three days.

Ahmadiyah, whose members number about 200,000 across Indonesia, don’t believe that Muhammad was the last prophet, a central tenet of Sunni and Shiite Islam. The group is banned in Pakistan but has, until recently, lived peacefully in Indonesia where it was established in the 1920s. Recent attacks on Ahmadiyah followers have led many of them to go into hiding.

Indonesia has the largest population of Muslims in the world but is not an Islamic state. Its Constitution guarantees freedom of religion, though only five religions are recognized legally — Islam, Catholicism, Protestantism, Buddhism and Hinduism.

That law, coupled with the harassment of Ahmadiyah and other minority Muslim sects over the last few years, have raised concerns among human rights lawyers about the government’s commitment to religious freedom.

But analysts said Wednesday that the strong reaction to Sunday’s attack might indicate growing frustration among Indonesia’s moderate Muslims and a shift away from the government appeasement that hard-line groups like the Islamic Defender’s Front have often enjoyed.

“There is a growing solidarity among the majority of people against such violence and intolerance here,” said Ahmad Suaedy, director of the Wahid Institute, an Islamic think tank. “But the government should be more active in preventing these situations from the beginning, they shouldn’t wait until the pubic demands it.”
137 2008-06-05 The city’s 311 complaint line received about 3,000 complaints about dog waste last year, up from 2,100 in 2004, and so the Sanitation Department has added seven agents to the task force. In the first 11 months of the current fiscal year, which ends on June 30, they handed out 869 summonses, an increase of roughly 40 percent over the same period a year before.

The maximum fine, $100, which has not changed since the law was passed, is likely to go up soon: A bill increasing it to $250 is awaiting Gov. David A. Paterson’s signature. A spokesman for the governor said on Wednesday that Mr. Paterson was reviewing the measure.

The most summonses have been issued in the Bronx, with 335 in the first 11 months of this fiscal year, compared with 215 in Brooklyn, 157 in Queens, 109 in Manhattan and 53 in Staten Island.

“The more people you put out there, the more summonses you get,” said Sanitation Commissioner John J. Doherty, who wrote his first ticket as a sanitation enforcement agent in 1973 to a couple who didn’t curb their dog. Curbing dogs, or making them go in the gutter as opposed to the sidewalk, was the law at the time. (It is still on the books, but rarely enforced.) “We put more people on it. But still it’s not always easy to catch someone.”

To issue a summons, the agent must witness the dog doing its business and the owner walking away. With about a half-million dogs spread across the city’s 305 square miles and an offense that can take less than 30 seconds, the odds are against the agents. Most agents find only one or two so-called K-9 violations in progress each day. (The task force also issues $200 fines for dogs that are off-leash, and for throwing household trash in city garbage cans.)

“We try to do the best that we can, but it’s hard out there,” said Mr. Otibu.

The difficulty of Mr. Otibu’s job is some measure of how much the law has become second nature to the city’s dog owners since 1978. When Section 1310 of the State Public Health Law — the scooper law — went into effect, the violations were more widespread, and more conspicuous.

“It was infuriating,” said Roberta Pliner, an Upper West Side resident. “People would get dressed up for work, dressed up for the theater, and you’d take one step outside and step into it.”

A consumer advocate, Fran Lee Weiss, lobbied heavily for the law, saying children were being infected by a roundworm often found in dogs, Toxocara canis, via excrement. (Health officials determined at the time that the threat from roundworm larvae was real, but not as widespread as Ms. Weiss often suggested.)

While she raised the ire of many dog owners, Ms. Weiss, the president of a group called Children Before Dogs, found support among her neighbors. Ms. Weiss, who is 98 and now lives in California, “was known as the Pooper Scooper Lady,” her son Barry Weiss said. “People would come up to her on the street and shake her hand.”

After the law passed, pet stores began to sell scooping tools, and from 1978 to 1980, at least five New Yorkers received patents.

While virtually no dog owner cleans up with anything more than a plastic bag or a piece of paper now, a bow to the more “refined” methods can be found on the Sanitation Department’s aging signs, which depict a stooped stick figure behind his dog, broom and waste pan in hand. The department does not have a budget for new signs.

By 9 o’clock, prime dog-walking time was waning and Mr. Otibu still had not found any violators. He was anxious. He sped to a spot in Bushwick that he had visited earlier in the day and is popular with dog walkers.

Suddenly, as he made a second trip around the corner of Bushwick Avenue and Seigel Street, he spotted a man in gray sweat pants with two dogs, one of which was crouching, off-leash. “I have him for the off-leash, but now I’m going to wait to see if he picks up.”

He watched as the man turned from the pile and headed toward the agent’s car. It was the moment Mr. Otibu had been waiting for. “I’m going to write him a ticket,” he said, getting out of the car.

The man showed Mr. Otibu his identification and a Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association card. He said that he was a police officer, but that he had forgotten his badge in his apartment. As he went with his dogs to retrieve it, Mr. Otibu wrote him a $200 ticket for not having a dog on leash. When the man returned, he still did not have his badge. He took his ticket and went home.

“I’m not sure he’s a real cop,” Mr. Otibu said. “But that’s not my problem. My problem is to give out a ticket.”

A little later on a nearby corner, he spotted another crouching dog. The owner was on his cellphone, another tip-off. Mr. Otibu watched as the dog deposited in the grass. Not a bag in sight.

Mr. Otibu approached and asked for picture identification. Without identification, agents cannot write summonses, and a number of dog owners sometimes refuse to show ID or claim to have left it at home. Leaving dog waste is a health code violation, not an arrestable offense, so in those cases, agents have to let the matter drop.

The man told Mr. Otibu that he had left his identification at home. He then found a piece of paper on the street, picked up his dog’s small offense, and began to walk away, promising to return with his ID.

Mr. Otibu followed him, at a distance, down the block. Then he stopped and watched the man go. He sensed it would not be worth waiting and turned back toward his car.
138 2008-06-05 THE FOOD CHAIN  A few big private investors are buying farmland, fertilizer, grain elevators and shipping equipment, betting that the world's need for food will greatly increase.      Monsanto said it would develop by 2030 new strains of corn, soy...
139 2008-06-05 KING--Jeremiah M. 1941-2008. Died at the home of his sister, Joyce Berkley in Dallas, TX....
140 2008-06-05 APPLEMAN--Mark. Who has made the most significant difference in my life and left treasured memories of us that remain indelible. Love you forever, Marguerite...
141 2008-06-06 There are several names being mentioned as possible successors to Mike Tranghese...
142 2008-06-06 Financial stocks bounced off their lows in March, after the Fed bailed out the creditors of Bear Stearns. That was taken as a sign that the Fed would prevent disaster. That confidence has been shaken this week. And today the S.&P. 500 financials i...
143 2008-06-06 John McCain's campaign has sent seemingly conflicting signals on the issue in recent days....
144 2008-06-06 Today's employment report wasn't as bad as the markets seem to have thought: the big jump in the unemployment rate was due to a jump in labor force participation - maybe by teens looking for gas money? - rather than a large drop in employment. The...
145 2008-06-06 The jobs report today has depressed the stock market, for obvious reasons. The popular theory that we would avert a recession and the economy would pick up in the second half now looks very dubious. To make it worse, oil is soaring again, and the ...
146 2008-06-06 Carl Icahn said that Yahoo should offer to sell itself to Microsoft for nearly $49.5 billion and laid out his plan for the company, where he to succeed in taking control of it. Interestingly, Yahoo didn't say the price was too low....
147 2008-06-06 Up Next in Op-Ed Contributors
148 2008-06-06 Discovery Communications' Planet Green debuted on Wednesday. Planet Green, the first 24-hour channel about the environment, debuted on Wednesday with the flick of a cable operator's switch. The channel, which replaced Discovery Home in 50 million ...
149 2008-06-06 What a difference a few years makes. Just look at NYSE Euronext, the company that runs the New York Stock Exchange. Not that long ago, it was at the center of a firestorm marked by accusations of boardroom cronyism and greed. Now, the company is b...
150 2008-06-06 Casino Drive did not train Friday morning because of a problem with his left hind leg....
151 2008-06-06 A Republican ad focuses on McCain's experience as a prisoner of war...
152 2008-06-06 For Democrats, the upside and downside of Barack Obama's candicacy appear equally steep....
153 2008-06-06 Also in Morning Buzz: The climbers at The Times; corporate sponsorships for high school sports teams; and other headlines from the New York papers....
154 2008-06-06 UBS said Thursday it would close its municipal bond business after failing to find a buyer for what was the third-largest underwriter of American state and local government debt last year. UBS, based in Zurich and Switzerland's largest bank, will ...
155 2008-06-06 The Securities and Exchange Commission sided with activist hedge fund The Children's Investment Fund on Thursday in a legal dispute over when investors should disclose stakes in companies, MarketWatch reported. The issue focuses on equity swaps, a...
156 2008-06-06 The chief executive of Value Partners Group, Asia's second-largest hedge fund manager by assets, told Bloomberg News that lackluster returns in the industry may lead smaller firms to be acquired by their bigger rivals. "I think the industry may go...
157 2008-06-06 Lee Shyan-Yuan, a commissioner at Taiwan's Financial Supervisory Commission is actively courting hedge funds to invest in the country and raise money from investors in that market. Mr. Lee's move is a bold one coming from a regulator, Asian Invest...
158 2008-06-06 The military intercepted a ballistic missile in the first such sea-based test since a Navy cruiser shot down an errant satellite this year. The military fired the target, a Scud-like missile with a range of a few hundred miles, from a decommissioned amphibious assault ship near Kauai. The guided-missile cruiser Lake Erie, based at Pearl Harbor, fired two interceptor missiles that shot down the target in its final seconds of flight about 12 miles above the Pacific Ocean. The test showed Navy ships are capable of shooting down short-range targets in their last phase of flight using modified missiles on hand, the military said.
159 2008-06-06 Evander Holyfield’s desire to keep fighting at age 45 may be fueled by financial problems. Holyfield’s $10 million estate in suburban Atlanta is under foreclosure, the mother of one of his children is suing for unpaid child support, and a Utah consulting company has gone to court claiming he failed to pay back more than a half-million dollars for landscaping.

A legal notice that ran Wednesday in a small local newspaper said Holyfield’s estate would be auctioned off “at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash” at the Fayette County courthouse on July 1. The 54,000-square-foot home — on Evander Holyfield Highway — has 109 rooms, including 17 bathrooms, 3 kitchens and a bowling alley.

Holyfield’s handlers allegedly told the mother of one of his children that he will no longer be able to make his $3,000-a-month support payment. Holyfield has at least nine children.
160 2008-06-06 The former N.F.L. linebacker Steve Foley was charged with a felony after his pit bulls bit a woman and killed her puppy in Richmond, Tex. He surrendered at the Fort Bend County Jail on Wednesday and was released on $10,000 bond, a sheriff’s spokeswoman said. Two pit bulls belonging to Foley attacked a neighbor, causing serious injury when they bit her, according to court documents. Foley, 32, played with Cincinnati, Houston and San Diego. His career ended after he was shot by an off-duty police officer in San Diego in 2006. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of drunken driving and was sentenced to five years’ probation.
161 2008-06-06 In an interview about his views on the limits of executive power with The Boston Globe six months ago, Mr. McCain strongly suggested that if he became the next commander in chief, he would consider himself obligated to obey a statute restricting what he did in national security matters.

Mr. McCain was asked whether he believed that the president had constitutional power to conduct surveillance on American soil for national security purposes without a warrant, regardless of federal statutes.

He replied: “There are some areas where the statutes don’t apply, such as in the surveillance of overseas communications. Where they do apply, however, I think that presidents have the obligation to obey and enforce laws that are passed by Congress and signed into law by the president, no matter what the situation is.”

Following up, the interviewer asked whether Mr. McCain was saying a statute trumped a president’s powers as commander in chief when it came to a surveillance law. “I don’t think the president has the right to disobey any law,” Mr. McCain replied.

David Golove, a New York University law professor who specializes in executive power issues, said that while the language used by Mr. McCain in his answers six months ago was imprecise, the recent statement by Mr. Holtz-Eakin “seems to contradict precisely what he said earlier.”

Mr. McCain’s position, as outlined by Mr. Holtz-Eakin, was criticized by the campaign of his presumptive Democratic opponent in the presidential election, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois. Greg Craig, an Obama campaign adviser, said Wednesday that anyone reading Mr. McCain’s answers to The Globe and the more recent statement would be “totally confused” about “what Senator McCain thinks about what the Constitution means and what President Bush did.”

“American voters deserve to know which side of this flip-flop he’s on today, and what he would do as president,” Mr. Craig said in a phone interview.

Tucker Bounds, a McCain campaign spokesman, said Mr. McCain’s position on surveillance laws and executive power “has not changed.”

“John McCain has been an unequivocal advocate of pursuing the radicals and extremists who seek to attack Americans,” Mr. Bounds wrote in an e-mail message, adding that Mr. McCain’s “votes and positions have been completely consistent and any suggestion otherwise is a distortion of his clear record.”

Asked whether the views Mr. Holtz-Eakin imputed to Mr. McCain were inaccurate, Mr. Bounds did not repudiate the statement. But late Thursday Mr. Bounds called and said, “to the extent that the comments of members of our staff are misinterpreted, they shouldn’t be read into as anything otherwise.”

Neither Mr. McCain nor Mr. Holtz-Eakin, a former head of the Congressional Budget Office who primarily advises the campaign on economic issues, was available for comment, Mr. Bounds said.

Mr. McCain has long distanced himself from the Bush administration on legal issues involving detention and interrogation in the fight against terrorism, an approach that has sometimes aroused suspicion among conservative supporters of the Bush administration.

But more recently, as Mr. McCain has worked to consolidate his party’s base, he has taken several positions that have won him praise from his former critics while drawing fire from Democrats.

In February, for example, Mr. McCain voted against limiting the Central Intelligence Agency to the techniques approved in the Army Field Manual on Interrogation, which complies with the Geneva Conventions. Mr. McCain said the C.I.A. needed the flexibility to use other techniques so long as it did not abuse detainees.

He also voted for legislation that would free telecommunications companies from lawsuits alleging that they illegally allowed the N.S.A. to eavesdrop on their customers’ phone calls and e-mail without a warrant. The legislation would also essentially legalize a form of surveillance without warrants going forward.

But Mr. McCain had previously stopped short of endorsing the view that Mr. Bush’s program of surveillance without warrants was lawful all along because a president’s wartime powers can trump statutory limits.

Andrew C. McCarthy, a National Review columnist who has defended the administration’s legal theories, wrote that Mr. Holtz-Eakin’s statement “implicitly shows Senator McCain’s thinking has changed as time has gone on and he has educated himself on this issue.”

And Glenn Greenwald, a Salon columnist and critic of the Bush administration’s legal claims, wrote that the statement was a “complete reversal” by Mr. McCain, accusing the candidate of seeking “to shore up the support of right-wing extremists.”

The reaction to Mr. Holtz-Eakin’s statement is the latest link in a chain of disputes over Mr. McCain’s positions on surveillance over the past two weeks.

On May 23, the McCain campaign sent a volunteer lawyer, Chuck Fish, to be the candidate’s surrogate at a conference on computer policy. Mr. Fish spoke at a panel discussion on whether phone and Internet companies should be granted immunity from lawsuits for having helped Mr. Bush’s surveillance program.

Mr. Fish suggested that Mr. McCain wanted to impose conditions — like Congressional hearings — that would ensure that such “forgiveness” would not signal that the telecoms should feel free to disregard communications privacy laws in the future if a president tells them to.

After Wired magazine wrote about Mr. Fish’s remarks on its blog, raising the question of whether Mr. McCain’s position had become more skeptical about immunity, the McCain campaign put out a statement saying that Mr. Fish was mistaken. Mr. McCain supported ending the lawsuits without conditions and his position had not changed, the campaign said.

On May 29, The Washington Post quoted Mr. Holtz-Eakin as saying that Mr. McCain did not want the telecoms “put into this position again” and that “there must be clear guidelines for their participation and sufficient vetting” in any future situation.

Mr. Holtz-Eakin’s comments in turn drew fire from Mr. McCarthy. In a blog posting on the National Review Web site, he demanded to know whether Mr. McCain believes the Constitution authorizes a president to lawfully go “arguably beyond what is prescribed in a statute” during a national security crisis.

Mr. Holtz-Eakin laid out Mr. McCain’s position on the president’s claimed constitutional powers to bypass surveillance laws in a letter to Mr. McCarthy, who this week called the statement “extremely significant” and said it “marks a welcome evolution on the senator’s thinking about executive power.”
162 2008-06-06 Melancon, 23, is the reliever most likely to succeed Mariano Rivera as the Yankees’ closer, and he could make an impact sooner. He worked three scoreless innings for a win Wednesday and is 4-0 with a 2.30 earned run average in 19 games between Trenton and Class A Tampa.

Because Chamberlain and others jumped from Trenton to the majors last summer, General Manager Brian Cashman has not ruled out a contribution this season by Melancon or J. B. Cox, a right-hander for Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.

Others are more conservative. Mark Newman, who oversees the farm system as the senior vice president for baseball operations, said Melancon would not take over as the Yankees’ setup man this season.

“It’s asking too much,” Newman said. “He’s coming off an injury. I don’t see that.”

Maybe not, but in the two years since the Yankees drafted him out of the University of Arizona knowing he might need reconstructive elbow surgery, Melancon has met every challenge. There may be no prospect in the organization who elicits as much excitement or praise.

“He’s got a presence about him,” Cashman said. “He’s got real positive energy, and his mental makeup is off the charts. He’s a man with a plan, and he’s very focused.”

The Yankees have a plan for Melancon, too, and it is similar to the well-known Joba Rules of 2007. To protect Chamberlain’s arm, the Yankees insisted that once he reached the majors, he rested one day for each inning he worked. Melancon (pronounced muh-LANCE-in) said he was also supposed to have one day off for each inning pitched. He may project best as a closer, but he has worked at least two innings in all six of his outings for Trenton.

“He’s getting extended right now in Double-A,” said Jeff Patterson, the Yankees’ West Coast scouting supervisor, who helped sign Melancon. “He’s definitely not a guy who can only pitch one time through a lineup. He can turn a lineup over.”

Against San Francisco Giants minor leaguers Wednesday, Melancon allowed one hit and faced the minimum nine batters. He mixed changeups and curveballs with a fastball between 91 and 94 miles per hour, and threw just 32 pitches.

“He can be a different kind of pitcher, depending on the situation,” Trenton catcher P. J. Pilittere said. “He can be a punch-out guy, or he can be an early-in-the-count, one-pitch, groundball guy. He’s got so much action on his fastball, and he does such a good job of throwing strike one. That’s what we’ve noticed, probably more than anything else, is that he throws strike one very, very well.”

When Newman watched Melancon pitch in spring training, he sat beside Rivera in the stands. The stuff was good, Rivera told Newman, but he also mentioned how closely Melancon was listening in camp, how hard he was working. It was the only game Melancon pitched for the Yankees before his assignment to the minors. But three months later, Rivera’s memory was clear.

“The stuff has to be there, but you have to have the will and the determination to get better,” Rivera said. “You don’t see that a lot in the rookies and minor leaguers. He always asks questions, interesting baseball questions.”

That serious and inquisitive side of his personality is one reason the Yankees have always trusted Melancon, who grew up near Denver and never knew how crisp his curveball was until the first time he played at sea level. They gave him a $600,000 signing bonus — second-round money — despite picking him in the ninth round because of the elbow problem. Newman said the Yankees took the gamble because Melancon rated highly in four intangible qualities — preparation, competitiveness, leadership and commitment to growth.

“We look for guys that are strong on all four counts, and he is,” Newman said. “It’s like Derek Jeter is.”

Melancon pitched briefly for rookie-level Staten Island after the draft, but his elbow gave out in the Hawaiian winter league and he had Tommy John surgery on Oct. 31, 2006.

The Yankees send almost all of their injured players to Tampa, Fla., and that was where Melancon went for a while. He was committed to becoming healthy, but the monotony made him restless. In his spare time, Melancon visited Key West, sleeping in his car on a bridge and waking up to fish off the side; attended the Pepsi 400 at Daytona International Speedway; and made three trips to Cape Canaveral.

“I was kind of jealous,” said Mark Littlefield, the head trainer in Tampa. “I’ve been here 16 years and I’ve never seen a space shuttle take off, except on TV. He’s seen it like three times.”

By mid-December, Littlefield was comfortable enough with Melancon to let him rehabilitate in Tucson while he worked toward a degree in family studies. Melancon roomed with a trainer, took 21 hours of course credit and practiced yoga every night.

“We’d rather keep guys under our own watch,” Littlefield said. “But this guy was so determined to get through this whole process, and so meticulous in the way he goes about his business.”

Melancon says his stuff is better now than it was before the injury, because he developed the changeup while he was hurt. He throws his curveball across his body now instead of fully extending his arm, which led to the elbow damage.

Asked about the possibility he may someday replace Rivera, Melancon thought for a moment. He mentioned Rivera’s unflappable demeanor and the way he located his pitches with precision.

“To fill Mariano’s shoes would be a dream come true, for sure,” Melancon said. “But to learn from him would be even more special, I think, just because he has a lot to offer on and off the field.”

Whether those lessons continue this summer in New York — or wait until next spring in Tampa — could be a pivotal decision for the Yankees.
163 2008-06-06 Senator John McCain’s presidential campaign raised at least $21.5 million in May — its best fund-raising month yet — in a sign that its effort to draw donations in tandem with the Republican National Committee is yielding dividends.

The two organizations raised a combined $45 million last month, campaign officials said Thursday. That left the campaign with $31.5 million in the bank at month’s end and the Republican National Committee with $53.6 million, much of which can be used to help Mr. McCain.

Mr. McCain’s organization struggled to raise money for much of the campaign, and even his record take — at least $3 million more than his previous best, in April — is less than Senator Barack Obama has been raising in recent months. Mr. Obama reported raising $31 million in April, for instance, and ended that month with $37.3 million on hand. The Obama campaign has not yet released its May numbers.

But after Mr. McCain became the presumptive Republican nominee, his campaign began raising money in conjunction with the Republican National Committee and several state parties. That has allowed some well-off donors to write checks of as much as $70,000 — far more than the $2,300 maximum that can be given to a general election campaign — with the money then split among the campaign and state and national parties.

The Republican National Committee has been far more successful at raising money this year than the Democratic National Committee, giving the McCain campaign hope that it will be able to compete on even terms should it continue to raise less than Mr. Obama.

Mr. Obama’s huge fund-raising advantage makes it now seem unlikely that he will stand by his earlier agreement to accept federal campaign financing, and its accompanying spending limits, should the Republican nominee do the same. Mr. McCain still appears to be leaning toward accepting the federal money.
164 2008-06-06 The 264-year-old Baltic Exchange is happy to be back on the map, said Jeremy Penn, the exchange’s chief executive. The Baltic started in 1744, as the Virginia and Baltic coffee house. Shipowners would meet merchants there to haggle over the cost of chartering ships to transport their goods, mainly tobacco from Virginia and fur from the Baltic region. Back then, the 300 or so members of London’s shipping community closed deals with a handshake.

Today, the Baltic remains the world’s main provider of maritime market information and controls the process of the daily freight rate fixing. Every day before 1 p.m., the exchange polls about 57 shipbrokers from 15 countries, including Norway, France, Japan and Australia, on the prices for more than 50 shipping routes and about eight types of ships.

Visitors to the headquarters of the exchange are reminded of its long history. By the entrance is the bell from the ship Baltic Importer, recalling the heyday of London shipping, during the Edwardian era, when the city’s port was one of the largest in the world. Nearby is a water fountain rescued from the rubble of the exchange’s former trading hall, a cavernous affair that was destroyed in a bombing by the Irish Republican Army in 1992.

The booming economy of China has transformed the once sleepy exchange. Because most of the dry goods transported by sea are somehow linked to the steel industry, and China is the world’s biggest producer of steel, the Baltic index has become a proxy for the state of the Chinese economy.

But China is not the only reason freight rates are soaring. As global demand for raw materials rises, many goods must be shipped further than in the past, keeping ships at sea longer. Recent strikes at ports and infrastructure problems have delayed loading. The credit squeeze and the reluctance of banks to lend will make it more difficult to raise the $350 billion needed to finance an estimated 10,000 ships on order.

As shipping rates have climbed, the market for freight derivatives, largely dormant since the 1980s, has sprung to life.

“Shipping is naturally a volatile industry,” Mr. Penn said. “But as demand increases it happens more often than not that there is a shortage of ships for a particular period, and prices can shoot up just because people need to transport their goods somehow.”

The volume of dry freight derivatives, a market estimated at $50 billion in 2006, is growing because those in the shipping industry need to hedge their risks. Investment banks and hedge funds are also looking to profit by speculating on shipping rates the way they do on stocks, bonds or oil. UBS, JPMorgan Chase and Barclays are among banks that announced plans to expand their shipping investment products.

“I’ve been in shipping for 20 years, and this is the busiest I’ve seen it by far,” said Tor A. Svelland, head of freight derivatives at the Carnegie Group in Oslo. “And there are still many players, like the Middle East, that are not even represented in the market yet.”

Shipowners have ordered ships in record numbers. But many shipyards are already working at capacity. Some of the Chinese shipyards that have agreed to build vessels have not even been constructed. Most of the ships on order will not be delivered until 2010. The backlog is raising concern about a possible oversupply of ships in the future.

“There’s no doubt that 2010 is a risk point,” said John Luke, head of shipping at KPMG in London. “The big question, is will China keep buying bulk?”

For some in the industry, the large order books are bringing back memories of the 1980s, when a recession and an oversupply in vessels kept thousands of ships in port.

“Shipping has a very bad record when it comes to boom and bust, and that’s because shipowners always get too excited when there is a shortage of ships,” Mr. Penn said.

Shipping rates may come down if China’s growth slows, too many ships flood the market, or the United States economy sinks into a deeper downturn, Mr. Luke said. But “even if rates come down by 50 percent, they would still be at a historical high, and at the moment there is little if not nothing to indicate that even that would happen.”
165 2008-06-06 Ms. Fiorina’s official title is chairwoman of the Republican National Committee’s “Victory ’08” committee dedicated to electing Mr. McCain as president, and she is typically described as an economic adviser to the candidate. To some extent, she is. But Mr. McCain’s campaign advisers say her real role within their testosterone-heavy circle matters more: A high-profile female face for a candidate whose support among women lags substantially behind that of his Democratic rivals.

“She has a great feeling for the economy, for technology and probably what women think about these things, and she’s wired in,” said Thomas J. Perkins, a pioneer venture capitalist and a leader on the Hewlett-Packard board in Ms. Fiorina’s ouster. (In the past, Mr. Perkins acknowledged, “we’ve had words and we’ve sort of attacked each other in print.”)

In turn, a number of Republicans say Ms. Fiorina is using the McCain campaign to rebuild her image after her explosive tenure at Hewlett-Packard. They also say it is hard to see why a woman widely criticized for mismanaging one of Silicon Valley’s legendary companies is advising and representing a candidate who acknowledged last year that he did not understand the economy as well as he should.

“Well, see, the good news about business is, results count,” Ms. Fiorina, 53, responded briskly in a recent interview in her office at Republican National Committee headquarters on Capitol Hill. “And the results have been very clear. The results have been crystal clear. From the day I was fired, every quarter, even before they had a new C.E.O., has been record after record. That doesn’t happen unless the foundation’s been built.”

Opinion is still split on whether Ms. Fiorina or her successor as chief executive, Mark V. Hurd, deserve credit for Hewlett’s success after Ms. Fiorina drove through the company’s $25 billion acquisition of Compaq in 2002. By many accounts, Ms. Fiorina was superb at marketing, mixed on strategy, bad at execution — and extraordinarily successful in unifying the board against what Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld of the Yale School of Management calls her “street bully” leadership style.

“What a blind spot this is in the McCain campaign to have elevated her stature and centrality in this way,” said Mr. Sonnenfeld, the senior associate dean for executive programs at the management school and one of Ms. Fiorina’s sharpest critics. “You couldn’t pick a worse, non-imprisoned C.E.O. to be your standard-bearer.”

But Mr. McCain, as Ms. Fiorina put it, does “clearly not” share the views of her critics. To the contrary, he so proudly calls on Ms. Fiorina in her regular appearances with him on the campaign trail — he calls her an American success story “who began as a part-time secretary” — that he seems to be suggesting that Ms. Fiorina, true or not, might have a role in a McCain cabinet.

As a result, Ms. Fiorina has been buzzed about as a potential commerce or Treasury secretary or even as a McCain running mate, although some Republicans close to Mr. McCain swiftly dismiss the idea of her as vice president. But the view within the campaign is that it can only help Mr. McCain’s standing among women to have Ms. Fiorina mentioned as a possibility for high-profile office in a McCain administration, particularly when he is trying to win over the supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.

In the meantime, Ms. Fiorina has done little to tamp down speculation that she might run for office herself, including the California governorship in 2010.

“I would be disingenuous if I said it has never occurred to me,” Ms. Fiorina said about running in general. “And in part it occurs to me because people keep asking. When I give speeches, people raise their hand — ‘run, run, run.’ ” For now, she said, “I’m focused on getting McCain elected.”

Ms. Fiorina has been a regular at the campaign’s Saturday policy sessions at headquarters in Arlington, Va. — she was part of a group, including the candidate, behind Mr. McCain’s sharp pivot from warning against government intervention in the mortgage crisis to calling for government aid to people in danger of losing their homes — but she does not serve as a bridge for the candidate to the business or financial community, in large part because of her tenure at Hewlett-Packard.

“It’s difficult to say that she is the unequivocal success figure that resonates with Wall Street,” said A.M. Sacconaghi, an analyst who tracks Hewlett-Packard for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company

Ms. Fiorina, whose late father, Joseph T. Sneed 3rd, was a conservative federal appeals court judge and a member of the panel that appointed Kenneth W. Starr as a special prosecutor into the Clintons’ Whitewater dealings, first met Mr. McCain after she testified on Capitol Hill in 2000. Mr. McCain had just abandoned his presidential run against George W. Bush and Ms. Fiorina, who asked to see the senator in his office, left impressed that he was savvy to technological innovation. “He just got it,” she said.

Ms. Fiorina, who is married to a former AT&T executive, Frank J. Fiorina, and has two stepdaughters, now divides her time between a condominium in Washington and a home in Silicon Valley. She received a severance package from Hewlett-Packard worth more than $42 million (Mr. McCain denounced excessive executive pay in an economic speech in Pittsburgh last month) and said in the interview that one of the biggest differences between her new life and her old is that “I’m not deciding.”

That was clear on a recent morning on the McCain campaign bus, when the candidate summoned Fortune’s onetime “most powerful woman in business” to sing to him and an audience of reporters in the back. The selection was “We’re Strong for Toledo,” which Mr. McCain had heard from Ms. Fiorina at an Ohio fund-raiser the night before.

Ms. Fiorina, embarrassed but not at all shy, did as she was told.

“Now we know the secret of her success,” Mr. McCain enthused when Ms. Fiorina was done with her serenade.
166 2008-06-06 Matthew J. Bruccoli, whose biography of F. Scott Fitzgerald and outpouring of scholarly essays and critical editions made him the dean of Fitzgerald studies in the United States, died at his home in Columbia, S.C., on Wednesday. He was 76.

The cause was a glioma, a tumor of the brainstem, said his wife, Arlyn.

Mr. Bruccoli (pronounced BROOK-uhly), who taught at the University of South Carolina for nearly 40 years, wrote more than 50 books on Fitzgerald or Hemingway, notably “Some Sort of Epic Grandeur: The Life of F. Scott Fitzgerald,” published in 1981. He and his wife donated 3,000 books and periodical publications by and about Fitzgerald to the university.

Matthew Joseph Bruccoli was born in the Bronx, where his father ran a drugstore and where he attended the Bronx High School of Science. He earned his bachelor’s degree at Yale University in 1953 and briefly attended graduate school at Cornell University before transferring to the University of Virginia, where he received a master’s degree and a doctorate.

“It took me seven years because I kept taking time off to write books,” he told The New York Post in 1978.

After teaching at Ohio State University for eight years, he joined the English department at the University of South Carolina in 1969. He retired in 2005 as the Emily Brown Jefferies Distinguished Professor of English but continued to cut a dash on campus, instantly recognizable by his vintage red Mercedes convertible, Brooks Brothers suits, Groucho mustache and bristling crew cut that dated to his Yale days. His untamed Bronx accent also set him apart.

In the publish-or-perish world of academia, Mr. Bruccoli set a daunting example. In addition to his voluminous work on Fitzgerald and Hemingway, he wrote biographies of John O’Hara, James Gould Cozzens and Ross Macdonald, compiled descriptive bibliographies of several authors and edited the letters and notebooks of many others, including Vladimir Nabokov, whose literature courses he took at Cornell.
167 2008-06-06 Mike Tranghese, the commissioner of the Big East, who has been with the league from its inception through its revival, announced Thursday that he would step down in June 2009.

Tranghese, 64, joined the conference as its first full-time employee in 1979 and has served as the commissioner since his friend and mentor Dave Gavitt left in June 1990.

Along the way, Tranghese has built a reputation as one of the nation’s sharpest administrators, known for his affable and blunt nature and his ability to connect with presidents and coaches alike. His tenure is likely to be defined by his rebuilding of the conference after Miami, Virginia Tech and Boston College left for the Atlantic Coast Conference.

“He’s almost an irreplaceable guy,” said Syracuse’s men’s basketball coach, Jim Boeheim, who has worked with Tranghese for Tranghese’s entire tenure. “He was instrumental with the founding with Dave, and when the league was in a very precarious position, he pulled it all together in a very short period of time. I don’t think the league has ever been stronger.”

But not long ago, there was pressure to deprive the Big East of its bid in college football’s Bowl Championship Series. Amid the fallout from the defections to the A.C.C., Tranghese spent three weeks in the summer of 2003 devising a tactful way to dissolve the conference, if doing so were to become a necessity.
168 2008-06-06 The Robert F. Kennedy Bridge needs no explanation, but people honored by some other local bridges might need introductions:

KOSCIUSZKO BRIDGE A native Pole, Tadeusz Kosciuszko (ka-SHUSH-ko) was an American Revolutionary War hero who returned to Poland to lead a doomed insurrection against Russian and Prussian occupiers.

PULASKI BRIDGE Like Kosciuszko, Kazimierz Pulaski was a Pole who fought for the colonies in the Revolution; also a hero of the Polish anti-Russian insurrection of 1768.

VERRAZANO-NARROWS BRIDGE Giovanni da Verrazano was a Florentine explorer and mapmaker who sailed into New York Harbor in 1524.

OUTERBRIDGE CROSSING Not a geographical description, it honors Eugenius H. Outerbridge, the first chairman of what was then known as the Port of New York Authority and a Staten Island resident.

THROGS NECK BRIDGE Derived from John Throckmorton, who settled in the Bronx in 1643.

TAPPAN ZEE BRIDGE Named for the Tappan tribe of Indians; “zee” (sea) is the Dutch name for an open expanse of water. In 1994, the bridge was renamed the Gov. Malcolm Wilson Tappan Zee Bridge in honor of the former New York governor.
169 2008-06-06 UBS said Thursday it would close its municipal bond business after failing to find a buyer for what was the third-largest underwriter of American state and local government debt last year.

UBS, based in Zurich and Switzerland’s largest bank, will lay off about 280 people, a spokesman, Doug Morris, said.

“UBS explored a number of alternatives to exit the institutional municipals business and determined that because of the complexities of selling the business in the current market and limited market capacity for a business of this size, a sale of the business was unlikely in the near term,” the company said in a statement.

UBS will move some of its municipal bond personnel to its wealth management operations, the statement said.

The company’s share of the municipal bond business has declined, and it now trails Citigroup and Merrill Lynch, after ranking first in 2004, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters.

Also on Thursday, the top two bond insurers, MBIA and Ambac Financial, were downgraded by Standard & Poor’s, taking with them the credit ratings on more than $1 trillion of securities they guarantee.

The ratings were lowered two levels, to AA, and will remain under review, S.& P. said.

Ambac, which pioneered municipal bond insurance in 1971, and MBIA, which followed three years later, have experienced a loss of confidence after straying into backing securities linked to subprime mortgages and home equity loans, which are now defaulting at record rates.
170 2008-06-06 The deal appears to be driven in part by Goldman Sachs and several of the large banks that financed the original deal seeking a way out of it. Citigroup, Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland and others were never able to sell all of the debt, which was sitting on their own books at a loss.

Verizon and Alltel have been in a merger dance for years. Mr. McAdam and Scott T. Ford, Alltel’s chief executive, have known each other for a long time and have been talking on and off about a combination over the last couple of years, according to a person apprised of the talks before the deal was announced. Rumors surfaced in 2005 that Verizon and Alltel were considering a merger and talks reignited last year, before TPG and Goldman Sachs bid for the company.

Previous efforts to strike a deal faltered in part because of opposition from Verizon’s partner in its wireless business, Vodafone, which owns a 45 percent stake. Roger Entner, a senior vice president at IAG, a market research firm, said that the last time Verizon sought to acquire Alltel, Vodafone rejected the deal because the merger would have diluted its position in the combined companies. The current deal is being financed entirely by debt to avoid diluting Vodafone’s stake, people involved in the discussions said.

Analysts say that Alltel, which has about 13 million subscribers, is a logical fit for Verizon. First, they share the same cellphone technology, called CDMA, and second, Alltel has customers in regions not serviced by Verizon. The person apprised of the talks said there would be layoffs, but they would be largely limited to marketing, finance and other staff functions.

“You have to see it in context of how Verizon is trying to reinvent itself as a wireless versus a wireline company,” said Craig Moffett, a communications analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. “The more they do, the faster they do it, the better.”

Despite being privately held, Alltel files quarterly earning reports with regulators because it has some publicly held debt. The company reported a net loss of $124.9 million for the three months ended March 31, its first quarter as a private company. Many companies that have been taken private report net losses because of higher debt interest payments.

The price on Alltel’s publicly traded debt rose sharply after CNBC reported the talks on Wednesday afternoon. The company’s loans traded around 98 cents on the dollar, while bonds paying a 7 percent coupon that mature in 2012 shot up 12 cents, trading at about par, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.

Some analysts have questioned whether Alltel could continue to grow, given its buyout-related debt. The company reported nearly a tenfold increase in interest expense in its first quarter, to $496.5 million, from $46.7 million last year.

“While we believe the results were solid, the results did not address our main concerns about this company, and we continue to believe that the company’s smaller scale relative to its competitors and its high leverage mean that it will be disadvantaged in the long term,” Zhiping Zhao and Anna Basanskaya, analysts at CreditSights, wrote in a research note last month.

But unlike other companies that have been taken private, Alltel continues to pay certain bonds, known as pay-in-kind toggles, in cash rather than by issuing more notes. Issuing notes is sometimes seen as a sign of distress.

The decision by TPG and Goldman to sell their share in Alltel may also suggest what is in store as smaller, independent players find it harder to go it alone. “It makes you wonder what Goldman and TPG see which made them change their minds so quickly,” said Mr. Moffett, the analyst. “In the wireless industry there is no place for independence. It is the land of the giants.”
171 2008-06-06 Bicyclists in New York are known to possess an evangelical fervor. Now another fervor-driven environmentally friendly transportation group is growing up behind them: the scooter obsessives.     A surge in gas prices has turned people toward gas-si...
172 2008-06-06 The American ambassador to Iraq dismissed any suggestion that the Bush administration was maneuvering to set up permanent military bases in Iraq. ''I'm very comfortable saying to you, to the Iraqis, to anyone who asks, that, no indeed, we are not ...
173 2008-06-06 HIGHER PRICES, FEWER CHOICES Many airlines have decided that less is more; for passengers, it means cheap and plentiful flights are slipping away.       EXECUTIVE INDICTED Henry T. Nicholas III, below, the co-founder and former chief executive of ...
174 2008-06-07 It looks as if every horse in the Belmont Stakes on Saturday is a descendant of Native Dancer....
175 2008-06-07 Credit: Patrick Salisbury for The New York Times
176 2008-06-07 O. J. Mayo has new representation — LeBron James’s agent, Leon Rose. Mike Woelfel, a lawyer for Mayo’s family, confirmed the signing, which was first reported by The Herald-Dispatch of Huntington, W.Va. Mayo and the agent Calvin Andrews of Bill Duffy Associates parted ways last month.
177 2008-06-07 Microsoft is closing Windows Live Expo, the classified advertising Web site that was initially seen as a potential competitor to Craigslist, the San Francisco-based online classified service. The service, started in February 2006, will close on July 31, a post on the site said Friday. Live Expo was one of a series of services Microsoft started to beef up its online presence.
178 2008-06-07 Overstock.com, the online seller of excess inventory, said the Securities and Exchange Commission did not plan to file a complaint after completing an investigation of the company and its officers. Overstock disclosed the inquiry in 2006, saying the S.E.C. was examining its accounting policies and its complaint against research company Gradient Analytics. Patrick Byrne, Overstock’s chief executive, has accused hedge funds, analysts and financial journalists of spreading negative information about his company so that short-sellers can profit from a drop in its stock. The S.E.C. ended a related inquiry of Gradient last year and also declined to take action.
179 2008-06-07 The brash Dutrow, of course, has always believed that he currently has the best 3-year-old on the planet. He said so before the Kentucky Derby, then watched Big Brown blow away 19 challengers by four and three-quarter lengths. He promised a walkover in the Preakness. He got it when Big Brown blasted to a five-and-a-quarter-length lead even though his jockey, Kent Desormeaux, wrapped the colt up in the stretch and coasted him home.

“He is my Secretariat,” said Dutrow, invoking the 1973 Triple Crown champion. “I’m not saying he is as good as him, I’m just saying he is my Secretariat.”

By winning all five career starts by a combined 39 lengths, Big Brown has made a strong case that he is a preternatural horse. Two weeks ago, he developed a slight quarter crack — a vertical crack in the hoof wall between the toe and the heel — that kept him away from the track for three days of training.

Big Brown also missed 90 days of training in the fall and the winter with far more severe wall separations in both front hooves.

“You do get worried whenever you have to mess with his feet,” said Michael Iavarone, co-president of International Equine Acquisitions Holdings, one of Big Brown’s owners. “We have been on top of it, and Ian is the best there is, and he tells us everything is great.”

On Friday, McKinlay removed the steel sutures holding the crack together, cleaned Big Brown’s hoof and laced the hoof wall together with new sutures. He applied an acrylic and fiberglass patch that was sealed within five minutes with adhesive.

“It’s picture perfect,” said McKinlay. “This was a minor, minor injury — on the scale of 1 to 10, this was maybe a 3. He was healed two days ago. Things couldn’t be better. It’s time for history.”

The connections of Casino Drive were also trying to make history. The colt’s mother, Better Than Honour, had produced Rags to Riches, who last year became the first filly in 102 years to win the Belmont, and Jazil, the winner in 2006.

Casino Drive, with Edgar Prado aboard, was expected to look Big Brown in the eye, something the colt had never experienced.

“I thought he was the one horse running who would go with Big Brown head to head, and give us a chance to find out more about Big Brown,” said Dave Litfin, the Daily Racing Form’s handicapper for the New York circuit. “Now we are not sure if Casino Drive will run, and what we’ll ever find out about Big Brown.”

Whether Casino Drive makes it to the starting gate was of little concern to some of Big Brown’s rival trainers.

The trainer of Tale of Ekati, Barclay Tagg, made it clear he thought he was saddling a horse with a chance to beat Big Brown and whoever else was running.

Tale of Ekati is 2 for 2 on this track, won the Grade I Wood Memorial and finished fourth in the Derby. Tagg also knows how difficult it is to hold a horse together during a Triple Crown campaign: In 2003, he trained Funny Cide to Derby and Preakness victories but finished third in the Belmont.

Asked whether Tale of Ekati was a formidable challenger, Tagg parroted two of Dutrow’s favorite expressions. “We’re all in, Babe,” he said.

Dutrow made it clear that he was not going to lose any sleep over the status of Casino Drive or any other rival. He does not intend to tell his jockey, Kent Desormeaux, how to guide Big Brown around the track.

“I’ll give him a leg up in the paddock,” he said. “He knows the horse. Kent knows what’s going on. So does the horse.”

In fact, the outspoken Dutrow was downright serene, explaining how the last five weeks had been a ride of a lifetime, and expressing sadness that it was coming to an end. “It’s been nothing but thrilling,” he said.

Dutrow said he intended to spend the entire day in Barn 2 with Big Brown. He intends to send an assistant to the paddock to saddle one of his better horses, Benny the Bull, in the Grade II $250,000 True North Handicap.

“I want to be there with him,” he said of Big Brown. “It’s too special a feeling to leave him.”
180 2008-06-07 “This whole thing got started because of bad recruiting practices,” Richard Marler, the chief executive of Signal, said in an interview. “I wanted these workers to be happy employees. Why would I bring someone in and make them unhappy so they would be less productive in their work?”

Most of the workers, who are metal fitters and welders, lost their legal immigration status when they left their jobs. They adopted the risky strategy of a public hunger strike, they said, to step up pressure on the Justice Department, which has the power to allow the workers to remain in the United States during an investigation of their case.

In a letter this week, three top Democrats in the House of Representatives — George Miller and Zoe Lofgren of California, and John Conyers Jr. of Michigan — asked the Justice Department and immigration officials to investigate the workers’ fraud accusations and offer them protection as victims. The Justice Department this week confirmed it had opened an investigation.

Since May 14, 5 of the 16 workers who participated in the hunger strike have been hospitalized. Mr. Konar fasted the longest, taking no food for 23 days until Thursday, when he was hospitalized with abdominal pain. He was released in the evening.

The Indian workers, among 100 or so who left their jobs in March, were taken to Signal shipyards in Pascagoula and in Orange, Tex., in late 2006 and early 2007. They said they lived in sweltering labor camps, crowded 24 workers to a room, under curfew and restricted from leaving the yards, with $1,050 a month deducted from their paychecks for their upkeep.

They said they learned only after they were here that they would not receive visas, known as green cards, to remain in this country. In March, the workers brought a federal lawsuit against Signal and the recruiters, claiming they were defrauded and exploited.

Among those sued by Signal are Michael Pol, a labor recruiter in Mississippi whose company is Global Resources; Malvin C. Burnett, an immigration lawyer in New Orleans; and Sachin Dewan, a labor recruiter based in Mumbai, India.

Signal executives disputed the workers’ claims, saying they gave medical and other payroll benefits, hired an Indian chef and invested $4 million to provide new modular barracks for the workers at a time when housing was critically scarce along the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina.

Before coming to the United States, many of the Indians had been guest workers in other countries, where, they said, they had never been able to bring their families.

So they jumped at offers by Mr. Dewan’s company, in newspaper advertisements in India and the Middle East, for “permanent lifetime settlement in U.S.A. for self and family,” in the words of one 2004 ad. A copy was provided by the immigrants’ lawyers.

Through Mr. Dewan, the workers said, they initiated applications for employment-based green cards. In one letter, also provided by the immigrants’ lawyers, a worker, Rajan Pazhambalakode, was ordered by Mr. Dewan to pay $4,595 each to Mr. Pol and Mr. Burnett. “The company shall proceed with your green card for the United States of America,” the letter said, referring to Signal.

“I sold my home to raise that money,” said Mr. Pazhambalakode, 43, who is one of the protesters and has a wife and child. “I can’t go home empty-handed because of that great debt.”

Meanwhile, on the Gulf Coast, Signal was seeking skilled workers, overwhelmed with orders for repairs on oil rigs battered by Katrina.

“We were on our knees,” Mr. Marler said, “and we wanted to contribute to turning the Coast around. We were approached by these labor providers, and we jumped at the chance.”

While the workers said they were told they would be entering the United States on temporary visas, they believed that Signal would help them convert to green cards. But in general there is no legal route to switch from a temporary H-2B visa to a permanent green card, which allows immigrants to bring immediate family members.

After arriving at Signal, the workers soon realized the company was not moving to secure any green cards. They maintain that Signal was aware of the recruiters’ visa promises. The company, in its court papers, said its managers learned of the workers’ hopes only when they began to express their discontent.

The workers said the barracks where they were housed were isolated, and company officials told them they would be deported if they left the shipyards.

“It was a scary situation in that company,” Mr. Pazhambalakode said, speaking in Malayalam through an interpreter. They contacted the New Orleans Workers Center for Racial Justice, a nonprofit group. Their lawsuit was brought by the Southern Poverty Law Center.

In a statement, Stephen H. Kupperman, a lawyer for Mr. Pol and Global Resources, said the company “never in any way misled any person, either in India or in the U.S.” He said the contract between the company and Signal ended in 2006.

Ralph R. Alexis III, a lawyer representing Mr. Burnett, said it was his policy not to comment on active cases. There was no answer at telephone numbers for Mr. Dewan in India.
181 2008-06-07 A federal audit of Teach for America, a nonprofit that recruits college graduates to teach in low-income schools, has found that the organization did not properly account for $775,000 in government money it says it spent for summer training sessions and related purposes.

A regional inspector for the Education Department’s inspector general outlined the findings on Thursday in a letter to Wendy Kopp, Teach for America’s founder.

“T.F.A. did not fully comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding its discretionary grant expenditures,” the letter said. “As a result we could not determine whether $774,944 was spent for the intended grant purposes.”

Steve Mancini, a spokesman, said that Teach for America did not dispute that there had been accounting failures, but that the money in question had been correctly spent.

“There was no misappropriation of funds,” Mr. Mancini said.

In their inquiry, government auditors scrutinized $1.5 million in Teach for America spending, of a total of $6 million the group received in three government grants from 2003 through 2005. The group was unable to provide documents to support roughly half its claimed spending, $775,000 of the $1.5 million sampled, the report said.

Mr. Mancini said Teach for America would submit the additional documentation.
182 2008-06-07 Switzerland The captain and striker Alexander Frei (Dortmund) is back at 100 percent after missing much of the European season with a thigh injury. Arsenal defender Philippe Senderos (who speaks six languages) has yet to find personal success with club or country.

Croatia Finished atop its qualifying group, wrapping up play last year with an enervating victory over England at Wembley. Coach Slaven Blic has rebuilt a squad that has largely underachieved since finishing a surprising third in the 1998 World Cup in France.

Germany There is a new coach (Joachim Löw replaced Jürgen Klinsmann) but the same expectation: victory über alles. The Germans are a 4-1 favorite to win the tournament and it is hard to see where the team might have a weakness. In a twist of geography and history, three of Germany’s players — Lukas Podolski (Bayern Munich), Miroslav Klose (Bayern Munich) and Piotr Trochowski (Hamburg SV) — are of Polish origin.

Poland Coach Leo Beenhakker has a reputation for tactical acumen. After a shocking 3-0 loss at home to the United States in a friendly, Poland did not lose in its final five Euro qualifiers.

Austria The co-host has virtually no chance to progress beyond the group stage.

Italy Stacked with stars, but there always seem to be clouds hanging over the head of Coach Roberto Donadoni, 44, who played 63 times for Italy’s national team. Italy got off to a dreadful start in qualifying, but rallied to win 9 of 10 qualifiers in its group and emerge as one of the most exciting and stylish teams in Europe.

France Les Bleus (who apparently will be wearing a new red jersey instead of their traditional blue) are seeking their third Euro title after having won in 1984 and 2000.

The Netherlands Marco van Basten, who scored perhaps the greatest goal in tournament history, a stunning volley in the championship in 1988, will leave as national team coach after the tournament to take over at Ajax Amsterdam. This squad is powerful on the attack, but suspect in the back.

Romania Two players — midfielder Banel Nicolita and defender Dorin Goian — could play a huge role for Romania, the outsiders in the group. Goian is a 6-foot-4 central defender who has a knack of getting forward into dangerous positions.

Spain Coach Luis Aragones and Spain have hitched their wagon to the dynamic and marauding striker Fernando Torres (Liverpool), one of the leading scorers last season in the English Premier League.

Russia Expected starters on defense are drawn from a single club — CSKA Moscow. From goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev, to the defenders Sergei Ignashevich, and the twins Alexi and Vasily Berezutsky, Coach Guus Hiddink should have no worries about communication on the back line.

Sweden Key players are the same ones the team has depended on for the past eight years or so — strikers Zlatan Ibrahimovic (Inter Milan) and Henrik Larsson (Helsingborg), midfielders Kim Kallstrom (Lyon) and Freddie Ljungberg (West Ham United), and defender Olof Mellberg (Aston Villa). So either Sweden is chock full of experience or has too many players who are past their prime.

Greece No team will be caught unaware by Greece this time. Four years after its surprise championship in Portugal, Greece will be trying to conjure new magic, but it is unlikely to make it out of the first round.
183 2008-06-07 Carl C. Icahn told Yahoo on Friday that it should offer to sell the company to Microsoft for $34.375 a share, or about $48.7 billion.

In his latest letter to Roy J. Bostock, Yahoo’s chairman, Mr. Icahn said that if Microsoft did not accept the offer “in a friendly and cooperative transaction,” he would push Yahoo to do a deal with Google if he won control of the Yahoo board.

Mr. Icahn, who has offered a dissident slate to replace Yahoo’s board at its annual meeting on Aug. 1, had not previously named a price at which he believed Yahoo should agree to a sale.

Microsoft walked away from a $33 a share, or $47.5 billion offer, on May 3, after Yahoo demanded $37 a share.

Yahoo shares closed in trading up 11 cents to $26.44.

Mr. Icahn, a veteran of many shareholder campaigns, renewed his attack on Yahoo and its co-founder, Jerry Yang, whom he accused of “sabotaging” the possibility of a deal with Microsoft. Investment funds controlled by Mr. Icahn hold about 59 million shares and options, or about 4.28 percent of the company.
184 2008-06-07 This is a television advertisement for the campaign of Senator John McCain, and it is the start of Mr. McCain’s first major advertising push of the general election. It was released Friday morning on the Internet.

THE SCRIPT Mr. McCain says, “Only a fool or a fraud talks tough or romantically about war. When I was 5 years old, my father left for war. My grandfather came home from war, and died the next day. I was shot down over Vietnam and spent five years as a P.O.W. Some of the friends I served with never came home. I hate war, and I know how terrible its costs are. I’m running for president to keep the country I love safe. I’m John McCain, and I approve this message.”

ON THE SCREEN The 30-second spot begins with a somber Mr. McCain, wearing a dark suit and purplish striped tie, facing the camera in front of an inky black background. As Mr. McCain speaks, a series of black-and-white images appear behind him, depicting his father, wearing a military uniform and surrounded by exuberant soldiers; his grandfather, also in uniform and gazing at the camera; a video clip of Mr. McCain himself, lying on a cot as a prisoner in North Vietnam; and, finally, a picture of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial framed by the Washington Monument in the background. (A caption reminds viewers, “Military images do not imply endorsement by D.O.D. or service branch,” referring to the Department of Defense.)

ACCURACY Mr. McCain’s claims about his family military history and time as a prisoner of war are true.

SCORECARD If Mr. McCain has developed a reputation as a warmonger, with his strong support of the Iraq war and his campaign-trail jokes about bombing Iran (to the tune of the Beach Boys song “Barbara Ann”), this advertisement is an effort to smooth over that perception. It also puts the best possible spin on his support for the unpopular Iraq war, a position that could be a political liability in November. Drawing on the McCain family’s history of military service sends the message that Mr. McCain is rich in experience and strong on national security, two areas that have formed the core of his argument against Senator Barack Obama.
185 2008-06-07 The left-wing opposition argues that Mr. Calderón’s plan, which would streamline procedures for outside contractors and reward them for finding new oil, is a disguised attempt to privatize Pemex. The left believes the government is manipulating the figures to make Pemex look worse than it is in order to bolster the case for private investment.

Despite the opposition’s doubts, many outside analysts accept the government’s explanation for the vanished windfall. “The numbers are quite clear,” said Carlos Elizondo, a political analyst at CIDE, a Mexico City research organization.

Though oil prices are up, Mexico is exporting less crude oil and importing more refined gasoline, which it does not have the capacity to refine itself, raising the cost of subsidizing Mexico’s below-market gasoline prices.

Congress budgeted for crude oil production of 3.2 million barrels a day this year, and exports of 1.7 million barrels a day.

But production in the first quarter was only 2.911 million barrels a day, down 7.8 percent from the first quarter of 2007. First-quarter exports were 1.5 million barrels a day, down 12.4 percent from first quarter last year.

Andrés Manuel López Obrador, a former presidential candidate who has never recognized his 2006 loss to Mr. Calderón, has led public protests against the energy bill that would overhaul parts of Pemex, demonstrations which have given his movement renewed vigor.

At a rally this week, Mr. López Obrador demanded the government account for what he said was $20 billion in missing oil revenues, money he argued could go to rebuilding Pemex.

Rogelio Ramírez de la O, an economist who has advised Mr. López Obrador on energy, said the government’s accounting was correct under the letter of the law here, but that it was not transparent. The result has been to create suspicions among opposition legislators.

“The finance ministry has taken the role with Congress of an accountant who is annoying the client with technicalities,” he said.

The ministry’s explanations have failed to quiet complaints. “The deficit this year is totally atypical under the scenario of record oil prices,” said the Mexico City finance secretary, Mario Delgado, announcing on Wednesday that he asked the head of Pemex for an explanation on behalf of other state finance secretaries.

Each year, the Mexican congress projects how much the government will earn from oil by estimating the price Pemex will get for each barrel, how much it will produce and how much it will export. The windfall is calculated based in part on what Pemex earns over that estimate.

In the first quarter, the price for Mexican oil averaged 40 percent more than the budget’s estimate — a jump that should have delivered an extra $3 billion to the treasury. But declining production meant that Pemex exported almost 12 percent less crude than Congress estimated when it passed the budget last year.

But along with declining production and exports, the cost of gasoline imports spiked 39 percent due to higher volumes and prices than legislators had estimated. A strong peso hurt too, because Mexico received less in peso terms for its dollar-denominated oil sales.

The result, the finance ministry said, was a shortfall of about $800 million.

Miguel Messmacher, a top finance ministry official, said that the formula used to calculate the oil windfall, which is the same this year as in years past, is confusing.

“The mechanisms are complex,” he said. “But they are made with the idea that the windfall isn’t distributed unless you have it.”

This year, for the first time, the costs of subsidizing controlled gasoline prices have shown up very significantly in the books — at a cost of about $5 billion to the government in the first quarter.

Officials have been meeting with state governors and opposition politicians to explain the accounting. “Nevertheless, the governors are not happy and they will continue to make noise,” Mr. Messmacher said.

Dr. Elizondo, the political scientist, said he doubted the spat over the windfall by itself would swing the debate over the energy bill.

Mr. Calderón’s conservative government needs support from the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, to pass the Pemex proposal. But some PRI factions have also backed away from the bill.

The PRI’s response will depend “on if the government is able to convince people that we can’t pay for Pemex,” Dr. Elizondo said.
186 2008-06-07 David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox was supposed to try to mimic Babe Ruth during a Call Your Shot promotion in next month’s All-Star Game festivities at Yankee Stadium. After the Yankees protested and Ortiz was injured, officials decided to have two players replace him.

Unlike Ortiz, who was selected by State Farm for the promotion in the Home Run Derby, the players who take his place will have to earn their chance to get one swing to go deep. Once the eight competitors are whittled to two finalists, the drama will escalate as they try to bash a ball to a location chosen by a fan.

While Major League Baseball does not know who will compete in the derby because the All-Stars have not been picked, Josh Hamilton of the Texas Rangers has expressed interest in the event. Chase Utley of the Philadelphia Phillies is also expected to be invited. Hamilton leads the majors with 68 runs batted in while Utley is the home run leader with 21.

When Ortiz was first publicized as the face of the promotion, the Yankees were incensed because they found out about it from a reporter. Because the game is being played in New York, it would be sensible for a Yankee to be involved. Alex Rodriguez is the obvious choice, but he is not fond of participating in derbies. Hideki Matsui could be a candidate to represent the Yankees.

One of Ortiz’s teammates could be asked to compete. The organizers would be interested in having Manny Ramírez, who grew up near the Stadium and who recently hit his 500th career homer. But Ramírez has never competed in the derby for the Red Sox. Ortiz, who is on the disabled list with a wrist injury, will remain a spokesman for the July 14 event.

Fans can sign up for the contest at www.sfcallyourshot.com. The winner will get a trip to New York and tickets to the game — and will be on the field picking a spot where the players must try to deposit a ball. If the first player does it, the promotion ends. If either player succeeds, the fan receives a 2008 Chevrolet Tahoe hybrid vehicle and a 2009 season-ticket package for any team.
187 2008-06-07 PITTSBURGH (AP) — Dwight White, the Steel Curtain defensive end known as Mad Dog who helped lead the Pittsburgh Steelers to four Super Bowl titles in the 1970s, died here on Friday. He was 58.

The Steelers said White died after surgery at a Pittsburgh hospital, but did not disclose the cause.

White is the second member of the original four-man Steel Curtain to die this year. Defensive tackle Ernie Holmes died Jan. 17 in a car accident in Texas. The others in the foursome were defensive tackle Joe Greene and defensive end L. C. Greenwood.

White — who played in two Pro Bowls, in 1972 and ’73 — gained his nickname because of his intensity. He was best known for climbing out of a hospital bed to play in the Steelers’ first Super Bowl victory, 16-6, over the Minnesota Vikings in 1975. He lost 18 pounds after learning he had pneumonia and a lung infection, yet played nearly the entire game.

White, who stood 6 feet 4 inches and weighed 250 pounds, made three tackles and gave up no yards as the Vikings ran seven of their first eight running plays his way. Minnesota went on to finish with only 17 yards rushing on 21 attempts. White also accounted for the only points of the first half when he tackled Fran Tarkenton in the end zone for a safety.

White’s 46 sacks from 1971 to 1980 are the seventh most in Steelers history. He had 33 ½ sacks from 1972 to 1975, with 3 in the Steelers’ 21-17 victory over the Dallas Cowboys in the 1976 Super Bowl. He also played on the Steelers’ championship teams in 1979 (again defeating Dallas) and 1980 (defeating the Los Angeles Rams).

White joined the Steelers as a fourth-round draft pick from East Texas State (now Texas A&M-Commerce), where he had been a first-team all-Lone Star Conference player and a team captain. The oldest of three children, he grew up in Hampton, Va., and Dallas. Survivors include his wife, Karen, and their daughter, Stacey, according to the Steelers’ Web site.
188 2008-06-07 Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from May 30 through June 6:

1. Your Money: Negotiating for a House? Start With ‘Dear Seller’

3. Big Vehicles Stagger Under the Weight of $4 Gas

4. The Huge Hybrid: A New Twist on S.U.V.’s Finds Few Takers

5. Advertising: For Dunkin’, a Tempest in an Iced-Coffee Cup

9. G.M. Shifts Focus to Small Cars in Sign of Sport Utility Demise
189 2008-06-07 The pronounced volatility in energy markets in recent weeks continued to puzzle traders. Prices kept rising despite a lack of shortages in the market and strong evidence of lower consumption in industrialized countries. But investors are caught in a bullish mood, focusing on the perceived risks to future oil supplies and the growth in oil demand from emerging economies, where fuel prices are subsidized.

Even as uncertainties abound about the fundamentals of the energy market, geopolitical tensions in the Middle East regained center stage after Israel’s transportation minister and a deputy prime minister, Shaul Mofaz, said Friday that an attack on Iran’s nuclear sites looked “unavoidable” if Iran did not abandon its nuclear program.

Iran is the second-largest oil producer within the OPEC cartel and exports nearly two million barrels a day. Because the world has few supplies to spare, any interruptions in Iran’s exports could push prices to higher levels. The world currently has about three million barrels a day of spare capacity, and consumes 86 million barrels a day of oil.

“The return of the Iranian risk premium calls for a careful assessment of the potential oil supply impact of military strikes on Iran,” said Antoine Halff, an analyst at Newedge, an energy broker. The “comments bring home the point that the dispute over Iran’s nuclear program remains unresolved and that the risks of military confrontation are indeed increasing.”

Investors also reacted to the latest forecast by a large Wall Street bank that oil prices would keep rising. Morgan Stanley predicted that prices would spike to $150 a barrel in the next month because of strong demand in Asia.

The threat of a strike by Chevron’s workers in Nigeria also raised concerns that some production could be shut down. A similar strike by Exxon Mobil workers last April, which lasted a week, reduced Nigerian output by 800,000 barrels a day, or nearly a third of the country’s daily exports.

A strike may delay the start of Chevron’s 250,000 barrels-a-day Agbami project, the country’s largest offshore venture, which is to begin June 15.

One view gaining ground is that the commodity market is caught in a speculative bubble akin to the recent housing bubble or the technology bubble of the late 1990s. That theory was raised by politicians in Washington and by OPEC producers, who blame speculators for the staggering oil rally. Speaking before Congress recently, George Soros, a prominent hedge fund investor, said the current oil markets presented some characteristics of a bubble.

“I find commodity index buying eerily reminiscent of a similar craze for portfolio insurance, which led to the stock market crash of 1987,” Mr. Soros said this week. But he cautioned that an oil market crash was not imminent. “The danger currently comes from the other direction. The rise in oil prices aggravates the prospects for a recession.”

But many analysts say that fundamentals, not speculation, are driving prices.

“I don’t know how else to say it, this is not a bubble,” Jan Stuart, global oil economist at UBS, said. “I think this is real. There is a whole bunch of commercial buyers out there who are spooked and are buying. You are an airline, right now, you’re scared. I don’t see who would buy at these prices unless they need to.”

Jeffrey Harris, the chief economist at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, who was speaking before a Senate committee last month, said he saw no evidence of a speculative bubble in commodities. Instead, Mr. Harris pointed to a confluence of trends that has contributed to the oil price rally, including a weak dollar, strong energy demand from emerging economies, and political tensions in oil-producing countries.

“Simply put, the economic data shows that overall commodity price levels, including agricultural commodity and energy futures prices, are being driven by powerful fundamental economic forces and the laws of supply and demand,” Mr. Harris said. “Together these fundamental economic factors have formed a ‘perfect storm’ that is causing significant upward pressures on futures prices across the board.”
190 2008-06-07 Monfils, ranked 59th and a former world junior champion, was an elastic-limbed, defensive marvel on Friday. Again and again in the final three sets, he chased down Federer’s spinning forehands and backhands, He even dived after a few.

But he also played offense when necessary, slamming 10 aces with his big serve and keeping Federer off balance with a flat forehand.

“He fought and hung in there, and it almost paid off,” Federer said. “I’m very relieved.”

Federer was the more constant aggressor, which is a good warm-up for Nadal if he does not keep Federer pinned too deep with his topspin. Federer also put 71 percent of his first serves in play, another figure he may need to match against Nadal. Despite all his gaffes at the net, Federer won 76 percent of the points when he pushed forward.

But Nadal’s play on Friday should look ominous to Federer’s fans. Not even Djokovic, the rising power in men’s tennis, could manage to take a set off Nadal. All he could do was get close, recovering from a two-break, 0-3 deficit in the third set to push Nadal into a tie breaker.

But Nadal, on this surface and in this place, is a history-gobbling intimidator, capable of making his half of the court look unsettlingly small to the overmatched, overwrought man on the other side of the net.

He swept aside Djokovic’s only set point with a forehand winner and then swept aside Djokovic in the tie breaker after roaring to a 6-0 lead. He finished with an overhead and then fell on his back on the clay, the sort of extravagant gesture usually reserved for a championship.

“It wasn’t a final, but it was very important for me,” Nadal said after his victory. “I was still fighting for my second spot in the rankings.”

Last month in , , in a much closer semifinal, Nadal also held on to his No. 2 spot by beating the third-ranked Djokovic. But this was a best-of-five-set encounter, and Nadal’s record on clay in that format is an astonishing 40-0.

He is 27-0 at Roland Garros and has yet to drop a set at this tournament. Can he be stopped by Federer, who has beaten him only once on clay in nine matches?

“Everything is possible, but the way he plays now, it’s really tough,” Djokovic said of Nadal.

After a close opening set with each player taking ample time before each serve, Nadal began to dominate in the second, breaking Djokovic in the opening game and then breaking him again at love to go up by 4-1 on his way to reeling off 11 straight points.

Nadal reeled off 11 consecutive points again early in the third set, racking up two more breaks of serve and a 3-0 lead. But by taking more risks from the baseline, Djokovic found a way to calm the hurricane at least for a few games.

“I didn’t want to give up, it’s semifinals of the Grand Slam,” said Djokovic, a 20-year-old Serb.

Djokovic succeeded in breaking Nadal’s serve for the first time in the next game and then broke him again later in the set to get to 5-5.

But after failing to convert on that set point at 5-6 on Nadal’s serve, Djokovic was soon in a tie breaker and Nadal was soon whipping off his headband and jogging to the net.

“I was playing incredibly the first two sets; they were by far the best two sets of the tournament for me,” Nadal said. “Everything was working perfectly, but then I played a horrible game at 3-0, and against a player like that, you can’t give them a second chance. I suffered a lot.”

Just imagine how actually being pushed to a fourth set might feel. Federer has taken him there in the last two finals here. He has also pushed Nadal hard in their two clay-court finals this season before blowing leads in Monte Carlo and Hamburg.

But Federer insisted that he felt capable of not only opening the door but slamming it shut.

“It’s always interesting to play Rafa because of the physical challenge,” Federer said. “I know I can hold up. I’ve beaten him on all surfaces. That’s the advantage I have over him. His advantage is that he’s beaten me a lot more on clay than I’ve beaten him. But I think the results depend on the day, and I hope this time it will be good for me.”
191 2008-06-07 The investigation, into accusations that Intel’s pricing is intended to maintain a near monopoly on the microprocessor market, was authorized by William E. Kovacic, the new chairman of the trade commission, and has the support of the agency’s other commissioners, officials said.

It reversed a decision by his predecessor, Deborah P. Majoras, who had been blocking the formal inquiry for many months, frustrating other senior commission officials and some lawmakers on Capitol Hill.

Ms. Majoras, a former senior official in the antitrust division at the Justice Department, where she was an architect of the Bush administration’s antitrust settlement with Microsoft in 2001, left the commission two months ago, and the seat remains vacant.

Since it will almost certainly be many months before the commission decides whether to make a case against Intel, as European and Asian regulators have already done, the investigation could mark an important early test for the next administration on antitrust policy.

Among the states, only the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, has publicly signaled his intention to review the matter. Other states have declined to take action. When the attorney general of California, Jerry Brown, rejected A.M.D.’s complaint this year, he said in The San Francisco Chronicle that he was “not barking at every truck that comes down the street.”

A.M.D. has accused Intel of systematically giving its customers — the world’s leading personal computer makers — large discounts, at times below Intel’s own manufacturing costs, in exchange for commitments not to do business with competitors. Intel has responded that its discounts were legitimate incentives, not offered below cost, and benefiting customers who can buy computers at lower prices.

Intel has also maintained that A.M.D. tried to make up in the courts for its failures in the marketplace.

While Intel has denied the allegations, A.M.D. executives are hoping the case will present an easy opportunity for the next administration to take a noticeably more aggressive approach to competition issues. Technically independent of the White House, the trade commission is led by appointees of the president.

D. Bruce Sewell, Intel’s senior vice president and general counsel, said that because American and foreign antitrust law are fundamentally different, the company is confident of vindication, regardless of the leadership of the Federal Trade Commission next year, when the new president can fill the vacant seat and name its own chairman.

Still, Intel has been planning to increase the size of its Washington operations, a move that could be helpful both for the antitrust case and a variety of other issues before Congress and the regulators that are important to the company.

The official signs of the heightened scrutiny by the commission came in recent days when Intel, Advanced Micro Devices, and several of the world’s largest personal computer makers that buy semiconductors from the two companies began to receive subpoenas from the agency.

Commission officials have also been working closely with their foreign counterparts, and have had access to the same evidence that is being used abroad to make the cases against Intel.

Mr. Sewell said that Intel had been working closely with the trade commission on a less formal review that had been under way since 2006. He said the company would continue to cooperate with authorities.

A.M.D. executives said they were pleased with the commission’s decision.

“Intel must now answer to the Federal Trade Commission, which is the appropriate way to determine the impact of Intel practices on U.S. consumers and technology businesses,” said Tom McCoy, executive vice president for legal affairs at A.M.D. “In every country around the world where Intel’s business practices have been investigated, including the decision by South Korea this week, antitrust regulators have taken action.”

The fight between the two companies is among the largest antitrust matters pending before American and foreign regulators, and is considered to be among the most important since the antitrust cases brought against Microsoft in the 1990s.

A.M.D.’s latest success abroad came just this week, when the Korean Fair Trade Commission said it would order Intel to pay more than $25 million for violating its fair trade laws.

The Korean commission found that Intel had violated antitrust law when it offered $37 million in rebates to the personal computer makers, Samsung Electronics and the Trigem Company, from 2002 to 2005 in return for a pledge not to buy microprocessors from A.M.D. Intel responded by saying it was disappointed with the decision and would probably appeal.

Lawyers involved in the proceedings say they expect that later this year European regulators will expand their statement of objections, or official charge sheet, against Intel. Last year, the European Commission said the company had engaged in anticompetitive conduct by providing rebates to customers that limit their business with rivals and by paying computer makers to either delay or cancel the release of products that used A.M.D. microprocessors.

The European complaint said that Intel had abused its market dominance “with the aim of excluding its main rival from the market.” The complaint was the culmination of a six-year investigation.

A.M.D. has also sued Intel in Federal District Court in Delaware. As a result of the crushing amount of evidence being gathered by both sides, a special master in that case this week delayed the start of the trial to early 2010. The trial had originally been scheduled for next spring.

Intel, which was founded by engineers who were leaders in developing and advancing computer chip technology, controls 80 to 90 percent of the microprocessor market. American antitrust law permits a company to hold a monopoly, but it forbids a company from leveraging its dominance to restrict competition.

A.M.D. has asserted that Intel offers rebates and discounts that, in effect, result in its chips’ being sold at prices below the cost of production, a practice that some courts in cases involving other companies have said can be a violation of antitrust law.

Intel denies that its discounts and rebates drive its prices below cost, or to predatory levels. Intel has said that it offers legitimate discounts based on the volume of chips that have been purchased by companies, and that consumers benefit when personal computer manufacturers — using the discounts — are able to lower the cost of their products.

Intel executives have also said that, to the extent the foreign antitrust regulators have come down harder on the company than American officials, it was a reflection of the different approach toward antitrust law. The American approach toward antitrust has been historically aimed at protecting competition, while the others use antitrust often to protect rival companies.
192 2008-06-07 “Oil prices have reached the tipping point,” said Richard Sparks, an analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research. “Prices have rallied for a good two months, but now it’s really weighing on the market.”

Friday’s session wiped out the gains the markets had Thursday, and left all three major indexes down for the week. The Dow fell 3.39 percent for the week, the S.& P. 500 was off 2.83 percent and the Nasdaq had a loss of 1.91 percent.

Wall Street has run into choppy waters over the last two weeks after a period of relative calm. Friday’s decline was a return to the triple-digit collapses of February and March, when the market was rocked by the Bear Stearns bailout and significant interest rate cuts from the Federal Reserve.

The last time the Dow fell this much was at the beginning of the subprime mortgage crisis in February 2007.

On Friday, the blue-chip index was dragged down by shares of American International Group, the big insurer, which stumbled after accusations that the company may have overstated the value of contracts tied to subprime mortgages.

A.I.G.’s shares fell $2.48, or nearly 7 percent, to close at an 11-year low of $33.93.

Shares of financial firms and companies that depend on discretionary spending were the hardest hit, as investors worried that the weak labor market was likely to raise anxieties among some Americans and put a pall on spending habits.

Friday’s report from the Labor Department said that the economy lost jobs for the fifth consecutive month and the unemployment rate surged to 5.5 percent in May, from 5 percent in April, the sharpest monthly rise in 22 years.

Investors are also worried that high energy prices will further slow the economy.

“If oil prices stay this high, you’re going to have to re-examine your estimates for G.D.P., inflation and consumers’ ability to spend outside of nondiscretionary items,” Ms. Krosby said. “This has all of the elements of an investor’s worst-case scenario.”

Oil prices surged almost 8 percent, to $138.54 a barrel after a senior Israeli politician raised the specter of an attack on Iran and the dollar fell against the euro.

“As soon as that news hit the tape, oil spiked about $6,” said David Kovacs, an investment strategist at Turner Investment Partners.

Prices were buoyed further by a report from Morgan Stanley that predicted oil would reach $150 a barrel by July 4 because of higher demand in Asia.

Shares of General Motors, whose fortunes can depend on oil prices, fell more than 4 percent, to $16.22.

Mr. Sparks added that the market was also taking a hit from a string of bad news that came out earlier this week, including Standard & Poor’s downgrading of Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley and the ousting of Wachovia’s chairman.

“All of this has culminated and it’s bringing the boogeyman back out of the closet,” he said.

Bond prices jumped on Friday as investors sought the safety of Treasuries in the volatile market.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 1 2/32, to 99 23/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.91 percent, from 4.04 percent.
193 2008-06-07 The second chart shows the 12-month change in home prices, adjusted for inflation. The home price index used is the national median price for existing homes, an index that recently has not gone down as much as some other indexes that may be more reliable, like the Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller index. To smooth the data, the chart is based on three-month moving averages of the price.

Over the 12 months through April, the median price, measured that way and adjusted for inflation using the consumer price index, fell 12.2 percent, the largest decline in the history of the data, which goes back to 1969. Until the current cycle, the largest such decline was 6.7 percent, in the 12 months through December 1990, another time when financial institutions had become reluctant to lend and the economy was weak.

The charts also show recessions. In the 1970s and 1980s, consumers’ approval of economic policies tended to rise rapidly after the ends of recessions, but in the early 1990s the recovery did not begin until 18 months after the recession was over.

In the current administration, approval of the president’s economic policies actually peaked during the 2001 recession, although that fact shows that many consumers may be thinking of things other than the economy when they answer that question. The peak came in October 2001, just after the Sept. 11 attacks, when criticizing the president seemed unpatriotic to many.

The 2001 recession was also unusual in other ways, as is shown in the charts. It was the first one in which the real price of homes did not fall, and it was the first one in which the percentage of respondents thinking the president’s economic policies were poor never rose above the number viewing them as good.

Since then, the trend in the economic approval rating has been generally down, although the percentage approving of the government’s economic policies rose in late 2006, only to turn lower as it became clear housing prices were falling and talk of recession increasing.
194 2008-06-08 “Our strategy is to raise prices and improve the mix to offset the cost of raw materials,” said Keith Price, a Goodyear spokesman. “No one has predicted how long we can continue to do that.”

The sense that many companies may be hitting a wall is palpable. Corporate profits peaked last spring and have shrunk since then, Moody’s Economy.com reports, drawing on Commerce Department data.

The housing crisis and the weakening economy are big reasons, but oil prices are adding greatly to the pressure on profits as retailers fail to pass along higher prices to consumers. That helps to explain why expensive oil has not yet pushed up the inflation rate.

So far this year, the nation’s employers have been cutting jobs at an accelerating pace, particularly last month, when the unemployment rate jumped to 5.5 percent from 5 percent. But with the vise on corporate profits tightening and the price of oil continuing to climb, more dire action, including job cuts and higher prices, may be in store, economists say, although there is still room to avoid such steps.

“Companies came into this period with extraordinarily high profit margins,” said Edward McKelvey, chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs, “and some of the surge in raw material costs will be absorbed by lowering those profits.”

Still, the prevailing attitude that the economy could just keep absorbing higher oil prices is being tested — for the first time in nearly 30 years. Adjusted for inflation, a barrel of crude is now more expensive than it was in 1980, the previous peak.

“The conventional wisdom a couple of years ago was that oil did not have that much leverage over the economy,” said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. “But now it plainly does. People are suddenly paying much more attention to their energy costs and trying to figure out how to manage them.”

Goodyear has kept its head above water in part by passing along some of the higher prices to dealers. The dealers, however, have not been able to pass along all of those increases to consumers and are absorbing the difference in lower profits.

Since last spring, the average profits of the nation’s corporations — from behemoths like Goodyear to small neighborhood retailers — have declined at an annual rate of nearly 6 percent, government data show.

Even companies that have been performing well in the economic downturn are sounding notes of caution. Take Costco, the discount retail chain, which offers a wide array of consumer goods, food, wine, furniture, appliances, beauty aids and much more.

Costco’s profit was up in the first quarter, but James D. Sinegal, the chief executive, says he is “starting to be confronted with unprecedented price increases” for the merchandise that Costco buys to stock its stores. His first response has been to buy in extra large quantities so that he has stock on hand to carry him through subsequent price increases.

“We just made a big purchase of Tumi luggage,” Mr. Sinegal said.

Procter & Gamble finds itself in a similar predicament. For its fiscal year beginning next month, it expects to spend an additional $2 billion on oil-based raw materials and commodities. That is double last year’s increase, and it is carved from total revenue of just under $80 billion.

Price increases have helped to offset this cost. They have averaged nearly 5 percent for paper towels, bath tissues and diapers, all made with chemicals derived from oil, said Paul Fox, a company spokesman.

Natural oils have been substituted for ingredients made from petroleum; for example, palm oil now goes into a variety of laundry soaps. But like rubber, the cost of palm oil and other natural commodities is rising.

Trying to hold down raw material costs, Procter & Gamble has resorted to “compacting” a few laundry products, Mr. Fox said, so that the same amount of detergent fits into smaller and less costly containers made of plastic, which is derived from oil.

Still, the company’s operating profit edged down to 20.1 percent of revenue in the first quarter, from 21.9 percent in each of the two previous quarters. “That 20.1 percent was down, but it was an improvement on the advance guidance we had given for that quarter,” Mr. Fox said.

No business in America produces more of the oil-based ingredients that go into the nation’s products than the Dow Chemical Company, based in Midland, Mich. From Dow’s petrochemical operations come the basic ingredients of a wide variety of plastic bottles and packaging, including numerous containers once made of glass or tin.

Indeed, paint, computer and television screens, mobile phones, light bulbs, cushions, paper, mattresses, car seats, carpets, steering wheels and polyesters are all made with ingredients that Dow and other chemical companies refine from oil and natural gas.

Dow normally raises prices piecemeal. Last month, though, the surge in the cost of oil and natural gas, the company’s principal raw materials, produced a rare across-the-board price increase of as much as 20 percent.

“We have taken out head count, automated, been very diligent on cost control,” said Andrew Liveris, Dow’s chairman and chief executive, “but these surges in energy prices are just one surge too many.”

Dow’s sweeping price increases will probably have a domino effect, resulting in higher prices or, more likely, shrinking profits, analysts say. Constrained by the weak economy and fewer wage earners among their customers, the nation’s retailers have so far not been able to pass on to consumers much of the rising cost of products that depend on oil. The Consumer Price Index, minus food and energy, is barely rising.

“One of the surprises,” said Patrick Jackman, a senior economist in the consumer price division of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, “is that the oil price surges of the 1970s passed through fairly quickly into consumer prices, and this time that is not happening.”
195 2008-06-08 Pepe and Raul Meireles scored second-half goals to give Portugal a 2-0 win over Turkey in Group A of the European Championship in Geneva. In Basel, Vaclav Sverkos made his first goal for the Czech Republic a memorable one, scoring in a 1-0 victory over co-host Switzerland.
196 2008-06-08 But high turnover at the department’s Cranes and Derricks Unit suggests that it has been in turmoil for months, raising questions about the division’s ability to monitor the more than two dozen tower cranes at work across the city.

On Friday, James Delayo, the acting chief inspector for the unit, was arrested and charged with taking bribes to approve cranes under his review, and with taking money from a crane company that sought to ensure that its employees would pass the licensing exam, an official involved in the case said. Mr. Delayo could face up to seven years in prison if convicted. The charges against him do not involve tower cranes like those that collapsed last week and in March, the authorities have said.

On March 19, four days after a crane collapsed on East 51st Street, killing seven people, a crane inspector was arrested and charged with faking a report that he had visited a construction crane at that site on March 4. The inspector, the authorities said, never visited the crane.

The arrests have contributed to a significant staff upheaval at the division, which has also seen its director, its executive director and another chief inspector replaced in the past 15 months.

Even before the turnover, Buildings Department statistics have shown that the number of crane inspectors has barely changed since the 1980s, even as the city has experienced a historic building boom. Last year, the department issued 902 crane permits, 40 percent more than in 2003. Today, the cranes division has just four inspectors, although the agency recently hired a private firm to assist in inspections. The number of in-house inspectors has been as high as eight in the past 25 years.

Many construction experts and building industry officials say the city’s crane inspectors lag well behind private-sector inspectors in training and pay. Even Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg suggested that New York may have to bolster its inspection process to better police the city’s tower cranes.

“It may be that the procedures are as comprehensive as they can be,” Mr. Bloomberg said last week at City Hall. “It may be that we don’t have all of the checks and balances that we should have, and that’s why we’re trying to gather information.”

Members of the Building Trades Employers’ Association echoed that sentiment last week when they discussed hiring third-party inspectors to police their construction sites.

“It gets back to the buildings inspectors’ technical competence,” said Louis J. Coletti, president of the association, which represents union contractors. “Welding is a very particular area. It’s not the kind of review that lends itself to a building inspector or even a professional engineer.”

The Buildings Department has said it plans to hire a consultant to review the way it monitors crane operations and other high-risk construction activities.

Certified third-party crane inspectors are required in other states. In Washington State, beginning in 2010, the roughly 10,000 cranes there will have to be certified by third-party inspectors who must pass two written examinations, including one that deals specifically with the cranes they inspect.

Prompted by a crane collapse in San Francisco in 1989, California, which has some of the toughest crane regulations, requires third-party inspectors to sign off on cranes after every 750 hours of operation, or every three months, in addition to an annual inspection, said Charles B. Scarrott, a state-certified inspector from Simi Valley, Calif.

“Outside inspectors is the right way to do it,” he said. “City and state people don’t have the experience.”

The requirements to be a New York City crane inspector have not changed in recent years. Candidates must have five years of full-time paid experience as a rigger handling gear and equipment in the hoisting and rigging business or as an inspector of hoisting and rigging; or three years of experience plus two years of college engineering courses.

Crane inspectors at the Buildings Department earn $47,882 to $74,224.

Still, industry experts say it is not certain that additional city inspectors, or third-party inspectors, would have prevented the 91st Street accident. The insurance company for New York Crane said that the welds on the repaired turntable were tested by two independent firms for imperfections and that they passed both times.

What is clearer is that the crane unit has been under considerable stress.

The close call on 46th Street led to months of discussions with members of the crane industry, according to an executive in the industry who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the current investigation. Last summer, Ms. Klein assembled key crane and construction executives to hear a presentation by the engineering firm Lucius Pitkin, which was hired by New York Crane to examine the damaged turntable. The firm concluded that damage from the lightning strike appeared to have led to the crack.

After the turntable was removed, the cab and boom from the original crane were set on top of a new turntable. The crane operated with that configuration for several months, and, according to city records, it was taken down in early September.

The damaged turntable was sent to Brady Marine, a welding company in Elizabeth, N.J. There, a new bearing assembly was welded onto the turntable’s base. Several calls to Brady Marine were not answered.

On March 15, a crane toppled at East 51st Street. The buildings commissioner, Patricia J. Lancaster, ordered the inspections of all cranes in use. Ms. Lancaster also increased the demands on crane inspectors. Less than a week later, the crane inspector was arrested for faking a report, leaving the already understaffed crane unit with five inspectors. Then, on April 22, Ms. Lancaster stepped down under pressure and was replaced by her first deputy, Robert LiMandri.

On April 17, the cranes division approved the installation of the crane at East 91st Street. Officials have said that it received a routine inspection and was cleared to be set up on April 20.

A former crane unit chief, Leo Y. Lee, said that type of inspection typically would have involved checking markings on each of the major parts, including the turntable, against a list provided by the owner, to make sure they all belonged to the same crane. The inspectors would also have looked for visible signs of damage. Experts say that kind of visual inspection probably would not have discovered a faulty weld.

Officials at the Buildings Department would not provide more information about the inspections done on the crane, which is identified in city permits as No. CD1895, or say whether the officials who approved the crane’s installation were aware of its history.

Ms. Klein was the one city employee who may have been most aware of the crane’s troubled past. But she left the crane unit last fall and quit the Buildings Department to work for a private construction firm shortly before the crane was erected on East 91st Street. She did not return calls for comment.
197 2008-06-08 BAGHDAD — In a shakeup at the top of Iraq’s Shiite power structure, former Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari was expelled from the governing Dawa political party, officials said Saturday.

Dr. Jaafari, a physician who was an Iraqi exile leader for decades before returning in 2003 to serve as prime minister, was expelled for creating a political movement that had opened talks with rivals of Dawa’s leader, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a senior party member, Haider al-Abadi, said in a telephone interview.

Dr. Jaafari had fallen out with Mr. Maliki last year, when the party elected Mr. Maliki secretary general. This spring, he formed his own movement, the National Reform Movement. “He cannot be in Dawa and another organization at the same time,” Mr. Abadi said. He said the party was considering expelling three other members affiliated with Dr. Jaafari, but played down the possibility of wider expulsions.

Still, the shakeup may resonate more widely in Iraqi politics.

It comes at a delicate political moment. Tension among Shiite political leaders — most notably from the military operations that Mr. Maliki has ordered against the cleric and political power broker Moktada al-Sadr — may offer Dr. Jaafari the chance to lure support away from Mr. Maliki. And at the same time, Mr. Maliki is negotiating a long-term security agreement with the United States that is unpopular.

The proposed security agreement would cover the status of American troops in Iraq, control of Iraqi airspace and immunity for security contractors after a United Nations resolution governing American forces in Iraq expires in December.
198 2008-06-08 PRISTINA, Kosovo (AP) — Attackers who were trying to break into the home of Kosovo’s prime minister exchanged gunfire with guards, but the leader was away and his family was not hurt, the police said Saturday.

The government condemned the assault late Friday as a direct attack on the prime minister, Hashim Thaci, and in a statement it said, “It goes beyond any political hatred.”

The police said Mr. Thaci’s security guards spotted one person trying to break into the two-story house through the balcony of the top floor. They exchanged fire with an unknown number of attackers, who did not get into the house. The attackers escaped but at least one was believed to be wounded, as traces of blood were found, the authorities said.

Mr. Thaci, the former political head of Kosovo’s ethnic Albanian rebels, the Kosovo Liberation Army, is regarded as the key figure in pushing for Kosovo’s independence from Serbia.

Kosovo declared independence on Feb. 17 after close coordination with Western capitals. The declaration is fiercely opposed by Serbia.
199 2008-06-08 With all this as backdrop, and with Woods and Mickelson paired with Adam Scott, the third-ranked player, in the first two rounds, the potential for an epic Open is real and the course could hardly be more fitting.

Mike Davis, the senior director of rules and competitions for the United States Golf Association, has overseen the setup at Torrey Pines the past two years. He has gone over every aspect of the course, looking for any flaw the way a parent combs through a child’s hair for head lice. On Friday, he stood next to the 18th green, in the shadow of a huge grandstand that will seat 4,000, appearing calm for someone whose work is about be closely scrutinized.

“I’m really pleased with how it has turned out,” he said. “A couple years ago I was thinking, ‘Gosh are we going to be anywhere close?’ Now I’m thinking, ‘What’s out there that we could do any better?’ I’ve done a lot of talking with some of the pros that have been out there, and I have yet to hear anything from anyone that wasn’t right.”

With input from current and past players, Davis has refined the setup — the height and thickness of the graduated rough, the speed of the poa annua greens and the preferred placement of the tees on holes. He has attempted to cover every base by analyzing data from player tests and sifting verbal input from those who have played the course.

He has arrived at a course that the former world No. 1 Greg Norman on Friday called, “the toughest, fairest test” he had ever seen for an Open course.

The rough, a mixture of rye and Kikuyu grass, will be cut at three heights: a first cut of one and three-quarter inches with a width of two yards; a first cut of primary rough that recently was allowed to grow a quarter-inch higher to two and a half inches; and a ball-gobbling primary rough of three and a half inches and higher to penalize wild drives.

What this means is that players who barely miss the fairways — which will be anywhere from 24 to 33 yards wide — will still be able to play into the greens, though with less control because some grass will get between the clubhead and the ball, reducing spin.

“We want to give these players who just miss the fairway the opportunity to demonstrate their extraordinary skill as shotmakers, and we think they will still be able to do that,” Davis said.

The fairways will be firm. “They’re not quite to the point we would like to see them yet,” Davis said, but with a weather forecast for a sunny week of high skies and mild breezes, chances are they will be by Thursday. Davis said the greens are running at “low 13s,” on the Stimpmeter, which translates into fast, but not so treacherous that balls will be sliding around, even if the winds come up.

The course was recently rated by officials of the Southern California Golf Association, and the numbers are startling: 79.7 is the course rating, 153 is the slope rating, which would rank Torrey among the world’s most difficult courses. Does this mean the best players will be humiliated and an over-par score will win the Open for the third straight year?

Not necessarily. The fairways at Torrey are wide enough, the graduated rough fair enough and the greens good enough that someone is likely to break par. But not by much.

“I think the guys really have a lot of room to play golf here,” Norman said.

That premise has been pretty thoroughly vetted. The par-5 18th hole will be set up so that some players will be able to reach it in two shots, creating the potential for a finish featuring a historic first: an eagle to win the Open.

“I’d love to see that happen,” Davis said.
200 2008-06-08 Faced with unanticipated adversity, Hillary and Bill Clinton took the low road too often, and voters noticed. So did the party leadership and superdelegates, who abandoned her and the idea of a Clinton Restoration.

Barack Obama’s candidacy was the Clintons’ worst nightmare. They had dreamed of the day when an African-American could be elected president. But they never anticipated it would happen on their watch and were utterly confounded.

— CARL BERNSTEIN, the author of “A Woman in Charge.”
201 2008-06-08 Of course, this isn’t to say that high inflation is welcome. The mere fact that inflation can cut into returns, sometimes significantly so, is enough for investors to be worried.

So stock investors may want to consider several factors in the coming weeks and months:

THE 4 PERCENT THRESHOLD Is inflation running at 4 percent or more? “That seems to be the line in the sand,” said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research.

Mr. Stovall studied past periods of inflation going back to 1960, using the overall — or “headline” — Consumer Price Index as a gauge. He found that when the C.P.I. was rising at no more than a 4 percent annual pace, the S.& P. 500 gained about 1 percent a month, on average.

But when the price index grew 4 to 6 percent annually, stocks lost an average of 0.3 percent a month. Stocks fared even worse at higher rates of inflation.

According to the Labor Department’s most recent assessment of consumer prices, based on April data, the price index was growing at a 3.9 percent clip. That’s just under the 4 percent threshold and still within what Mr. Stovall calls the sweet spot for inflation: the 2 to 4 percent range.

A MATTER OF DIRECTION Which way is inflation headed? “There’s a big difference in the level of inflation and the direction of inflation,” said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist for LPL Financial in Boston. For example, when inflation is painfully high but falling, stocks can do quite well, Mr. Kleintop said.

In 1980, the Consumer Price Index rose by more than 12 percent, but stocks still gained more than 32 percent, according to Ibbotson Associates. Why? Perhaps because in 1979, inflation was even higher, at more than 13 percent.

And while the average rate of inflation throughout the 1980s was an uncomfortable 5.6 percent, it still turned out to be a great decade for stocks: the S.& P. 500 rose by an average of 12.6 percent a year. The key may have been that inflation was declining throughout the decade.

In periods of low-but-rising inflation, stocks can feel a pinch. Ned Davis Research of Venice, Fla., recently studied the performance of stocks between the first quarter of 1926 and the first quarter of 2008. In periods when inflation accelerated, stocks gained less than 0.5 percent a year, on average, Ned Davis found.

By comparison, in periods when the inflation rate fell, stocks soared by an average of nearly 10 percent.

THE CORE RATE A big complaint these days is that economists don’t understand how painful inflation is to the average family, because they tend to focus on core inflation, which strips out the volatile prices of food and energy.

But in measuring the macro economy, said Mr. Skrainka at Edward Jones, core inflation is a “better indicator of long-term trends because it tells us if higher energy and food costs are feeding through to the rest of the economy.”

Investors also need to pay attention to core inflation because the Federal Reserve Board does. And “if inflation pressures remain high or rise to the point where the Fed is forced to raise interest rates, then you’ll see a direct negative impact on stocks,” said James B. Stack, editor of the InvesTech Market Analyst, a newsletter.

There’s another reason to be mindful of core inflation.

“There’s a perfect inverse relationship” between core inflation and stock market valuations, said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab.

Ms. Sonders has discovered that since 1960, whenever core inflation has hovered between 2 and 3 percent, the average price-to-earnings ratio of the S.& P. 500 has been 19.7, based on trailing 12-month earnings. But when core inflation jumps to between 4 and 5 percent, the average P/E falls to 14.8.

Where is core inflation now? The government says it’s running at an annual pace of about 2.3 percent. That’s the good news — at least so far.
202 2008-06-08 Lauren Anne Weiss, a daughter of Ilene S. Weiss and Stephen P. Weiss of Southampton, Pa., was married on Saturday to David Aviram, the son of Anny Aviram and Eli Aviram of Kings Point, N.Y. Rabbi Joel Alpert officiated at the Four Seasons Hotel in Philadelphia.

The bride and bridegroom met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which both graduated.

Mrs. Aviram, 29, recently finished her first-year studies for an M.B.A. at Columbia. She is a summer intern in the financial planning and analysis department at Chanel, the fashion company, in New York.

Her father is a partner in Fox Rothschild, a Philadelphia law firm. Her mother is a medical assistant in the plastic surgery practice of Dr. Eric A. Marchant in Doylestown, Pa.

Mr. Aviram, 28, is an associate at Eastdil Secured, a real estate brokerage and investment services business in New York. He provides financial analysis and helps commercial building owners sell or refinance properties. He received an M.B.A. from Columbia.

His mother is a conservator of paintings at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. His father is a founder and the president of Spark Creations, designers and manufacturers of women’s jewelry, in New York.
203 2008-06-08 Sulochana Ruth Asirvatham and Daniel John Havlik were married on Saturday evening in Fort Tryon Park in Manhattan. The Rev. Joanna Rose Schaap, an interfaith minister, officiated.

Dr. Asirvatham, 38, is keeping her name. She is an assistant professor of classics at Montclair State University in Montclair, N.J. She graduated from Barnard College and received her doctorate in classics from Columbia.

She is a daughter of Dr. Maxwellin Asirvatham of Redlands, Calif., and Dr. Jawahar J. K. Asirvatham of Durham, N.C. The bride’s father retired as a surgeon in private practice in Orange, N.J. Her mother retired as an obstetrician and gynecologist in private practice in East Orange.

Mr. Havlik, also 38, is the technology editor at Photo District News, a trade magazine in Manhattan. He is also the editor of DemystifyingDigital.com, a consumer education Web site. He graduated from Bennington College.

He is a son of Nancy L. Havlik and Dr. Richard J. Havlik of Chevy Chase, Md. The bridegroom’s mother is the artistic director of the Dance Performance Group, a dance and theater company in Washington. His father retired as the chief of the epidemiology, demography and biometry laboratory at the National Institute on Aging in Bethesda, Md.
204 2008-06-08 Jennifer Perry McCarthy and Charles Robert Doyle were married on Saturday by James Pringle, a Massachusetts justice of the peace, at the Harbor View Hotel in Edgartown, Mass.

The bride and the bridegroom graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., where they met 25 years ago.

Mrs. Doyle, 43, is the director of marketing in Connecticut for Business Capital, a San Francisco financial firm. Mr. Doyle, 44, is the firm’s managing director.

The bride is the daughter of Patricia P. McCarthy and Thomas A. McCarthy of Suffield, Conn. Her father is a professor at Yale and the author or co-author of several books, including “Critical Theory” (1994) and “Ideals and Illusions: On Reconstruction and Deconstruction in Contemporary Critical Theory” (1991). Her mother retired as a reading teacher at East Prairie School in Skokie, Ill.

The bridegroom is on the board of Raphael House, which provides shelter and other services to homeless families in San Francisco.

He is a son of Richard M. Doyle of West Roxbury, Mass., and the late Eileen Tamposi of Nashua, N.H. The bridegroom’s mother was a teacher at Sunset Heights Elementary School in Nashua. His father is a retired lawyer. He worked in Boston.
205 2008-06-08 “I had an evening event, and I was in the hotel gift shop looking for something,” she said. “I saw this little black stuffed kitty, and that was going to be my bag.” Hours later, the kitty had been crudely but successfully transformed: “The cat bag was the absolute bomb.”

“Then there came this kind of evolution — now what’s going to be my day bag?” A fuzzy white dog, as it turned out. “I carried it every day to L’Oréal. People loved it.”

Ms. Brennan, who formerly owned a home furnishings store, Homefront America, in Warwick, N.Y., and who also lives in Lafayette, said the goal of Fuzzy Nation was “to make it so women can wear dogs without feeling embarrassed.”

Given that one new product is a $32 plaid newsboy cap adorned with a miniature stuffed dog peeking over the brim, that goal may not be attainable. But, as Ms. Brennan said, “The typical woman who’s buying our bags is somebody who wants attention.”

“It’s not that she wants attention,” said Ms. Liu, who often contradicted Ms. Brennan during a recent interview at the store. (Together, Ms. Liu and Ms. Brennan, who met when Ms. Liu was considering a career as a chandelier designer and consulted with Ms. Brennan at Homefront America, come across as a modern-day Ethel and Lucy, bickering freely but with a sisterly rapport.)

“No, the Fuzzy Nation woman is someone like us,” she said. “She likes attention, but she’s not exactly starved for it. She just likes to engage people in conversation.”

Business was “gangbusters” from the first show in Atlanta, Ms. Liu said. Her mother, Barbara Goodyear, who lives in California, is a partner in the company, which has sold $15 million worth of products to date, according to Lee Makofsky, a spokeswoman.

Now, Fuzzy Nation boasts 28 breeds in its lines, including a disturbingly realistic Chinese Crested purse that real dogs, allowed to roam with their owners in the Lafayette store, sometimes sniff suspiciously.

Ms. Liu travels to China every five weeks, overseeing production there. “This is such a competitive business — I’m on the phone with my lawyer every day,” she said. “Do this, and you’re going to get wrinkles.”

Still, Ms. Liu and Ms. Brennan enjoyed reminiscing about the 2007 holiday season, when Macy’s Herald Square in Manhattan featured Fuzzy Nation bags in its display windows and the designers watched as tourists clamored to be photographed with the bags.

“Dogs erase all the typical boundaries between people,” Ms. Liu said. “People come up to us whipping out their cellphone with their doggie picture saying, ‘Can you do a dog like my dog?’ They’ll hug you, tell you their whole history. Dogs have star power.”
206 2008-06-08 AMONG the newest of the 50-odd restaurants in Huntington Village, Sri Thai is holding its own against the competition.

The décor of the small storefront, which opened in April, is rather upscale — wallpaper in a brocade pattern, large mirrors with carved wood frames, pictures of Thai scenes highlighted with gold paint. Carpet helps keep the noise level under control. In contrast to these upscale touches, tablecloths are covered with glass topped with paper placemats, and napkins are paper as well.

Given the restaurant’s size and policy on reservations (taken only for five or more), it’s wise to go early. On weekends, lines start to form about 7 p.m. The crowd is mostly local and very gregarious. When we visited, two soccer moms at adjacent tables were negotiating child transportation arrangements for the following week; one person in our party ran into a colleague from work, and our doctor was among those in line at the door.

Sri Thai is owned by Watcharee and Jennifer Hattakitkosol, sisters who also have two other restaurants, Simply Thai in Rockville Centre and Tiny Thai in Farmingdale. Their experience shows in the smooth running of the Huntington restaurant. Servers know the menu and deliver the food with dispatch. Water, however, is by request only, as are refills.

The menu is coded with chili peppers indicating spicy dishes. Sri Thai lives up to its code. If a menu item is marked with one chili pepper, it is hot; if it has two, watch out.
207 2008-06-08 Re “That License to Kill Is Unexpired” by Charles McGrath [June 1]:

While Mr. McGrath’s knowledge of Ian Fleming’s work is commendable, it is however, a bit incomplete.

The meaning of “Quantum of Solace” can be found in a James Bond short story of the same name. It was originally published in 1959 in Cosmopolitan, later combined with four other stories and published under the title “For Your Eyes Only.” A character in the story invented a theory titled the Law of the Quantum of Solace, dealing with human relationships. “The amount of comfort” in a relationship, as Bond interpreted it.
208 2008-06-09 Credit: James Patterson for The New York Times
209 2008-06-09 Gas prices are high throughout the country, but how hard they hit individual families depends on income levels, which vary widely.
210 2008-06-09 Ralph de la Vega, chief executive of AT&T, said that the carrier's deal with Apple was changed because a $199 upfront price will attract a lot more customers. Existing iPhone users are welcome to upgrade, but if they do, they won't be able to get ...
211 2008-06-09 AT&T is trying to wean corporate customers from their BlackBerries with the new iPhone model, but even if the phone giant fails, it wins -- it sells both....
212 2008-06-09 Apple C.E.O. Steve Jobs discusses the new iPhone and more with CNBC's Jim Goldman.
213 2008-06-09 Apple C.E.O. Steve Jobs discusses the new iPhone and more with CNBC's Jim Goldman.
214 2008-06-09 The "Hockey Theme" has moved from CBC, Hockey Night in Canada and Saturday night to CTV, TSN and Wednesday night....
215 2008-06-09 Big Brown may have failed to complete his Triple Crown sweep on Saturday - indeed, he came in dead last. But hasn't slowed down what appears to be a burgeoning new sector: the race-horse hedge funds. Big Brown's owner, International Equine Acquisi...
216 2008-06-09 Talk to any restructuring expert today, and you'll be told that two of the sectors most in trouble are real estate and retail. That seemed as true as ever on Monday, as LandSource Communities Development, a California property developer backed by ...
217 2008-06-09 Somebody shot a hole in a Navy helicopter flying on a humanitarian mission in the southern Philippines....
218 2008-06-09 Apple is showing new ways for the iPhone to check news, sports and e-mail. But it appears to be willing to ask users to pay fees to do so rather than subsidizing content and services with advertising....
219 2008-06-09 Moving into general-election cycle mode, Barack Obama shared his economic plan in a speech in which he asserted that John McCain would lead the country down a path toward further fiscal troubles....
220 2008-06-09 My colleague Nick Kristof weighs in on Scott McClellan's book, and says: I think we in the press were indeed too docile in the aftermath of 9/11, although I think that is partly explained by the lack of Democratic Party opposition to White House p...
221 2008-06-09 Speedo's LZR Racer not only led to a slew of broken records in Tokyo over the weekend, it sent at least one stock soaring on the Tokyo Exchange....
222 2008-06-09 William Shatner's current best seller, "Up Till Now," begins with Koko the gorilla grabbing the author's genitals and ends with Shatner facing some existential enigmas: I recognize that I'm getting older. And I do think about my own mortality. And...
223 2008-06-09 Warren Buffett, a longtime critic of the fees charged by some money managers, has put his own cash on the line - or, at least, a small chunk of it - in an attempt to prove his point. Fortune.com reports that Mr. Buffett, the legendary value invest...
224 2008-06-09 Timothy F. Geithner has lived through the rockiest moments of the credit squeeze that have battered the global financial system, leading to the collapse of Bear Stearns. Now he has some ideas to help prevent a future crisis. In Monday's Financial ...
225 2008-06-09 House Democrats hope to revive measure to increase unemployment benefits; Senate Republicans and Democrats feud over oil and energy bill....
226 2008-06-09 The Royal Bank of Scotland said Monday that 95.1 per cent of shareholders had subscribed to its record $23.5 billion rights issue – a level seen by many analysts as in line with their expectations. The share sale was Europe's biggest and the fir...
227 2008-06-09 A Swiss investment company said on Sunday it had made an offer to buy and relaunch Britain's business class-only airline Silverjet which collapsed last month. Ireland-registered Kingplace, which is managed by Swiss trust and management company Her...
228 2008-06-09 Informa, the publisher of the Lloyd's List maritime newspaper, said it is in "preliminary discussions" with United Business Media about a possible all-share merger worth about 3 billion pounds ($5.9 billion). There is no certainty that any transac...
229 2008-06-09 The Turkish unit of Bahrain's Taib Bank has acquired corporate finance advisors PDF Kurumsal Finansman Danismanlik Hizmetleri AS of Istanbul. Taib Bank is controlled by Dubai's ruling sheikh, Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. Taib Yatirim AS, the br...
230 2008-06-09 But recent shocks over gas prices, global warming and the tenuous hold many people have on their mortgaged homes seem to have brought new urgency to the idea — at least among professional worriers about the suburbs.

Though there was nothing groundbreaking about Friday’s meeting in Nassau County — no programs unveiled, no new money dedicated — it seemed to reflect what Bruce Katz, vice president and director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution, called an emerging consensus among planners about how the suburban landscape needs to change.

“Suburbanites need to understand that if they want their adult children to live nearby, if they want tax relief, environmental sustainability, there has to be a different approach,” he said.

With a political future to consider, Mr. Suozzi voiced many of the same convictions, but with a different emphasis on the pre-eminent suburban political issue, which is taxes. By building apartments near commuter rail lines and attracting young people to suburban downtowns with “fantastic restaurants and small shops,” he said at the conference, “our major purpose is to expand our tax base and lower taxes.”

“We need places to eat that you can walk to,” he said. “Downtowns that make people want to live in them. We need cool downtowns!”

The assembly comprised about 200 men in dark suits and women in sensible shoes who represented the township, village, zoning and planning boards of many of Nassau County’s more than 70 incorporated communities.

Engineering “cool” downtown life might not seem to be the first job one might imagine for them, but they were enthusiastic and earnest.

At times, they erupted in applause when speakers uttered phrases like “commercial-facade- improvement tax districts,” or “benefit-assessment-basis taxation.” The notion of “multiyear capital improvement programs” was also quite popular.

At other times, they seemed darkened by a sense of almost existential frustration, as if they were cosmologists trying to understand a phenomenon — a world of 2.8 million inhabitants, Long Island — that is simultaneously densely packed and yet lacking gravitational force.

“Everything is so interconnected, so you feel sometimes that you can’t fix anything until you fix everything,” said Mayor Ernest J. Strada of the village of Westbury, talking at one point about a zoning question, but really addressing a deeper issue — the lack of a central planning authority on Long Island, a problem that exists in many suburbs. Each of the more than 100 communities of Nassau and Suffolk Counties have zoning and planning agencies that govern development within their own borders.

“So sometimes you feel like, well, since you can’t fix everything, you can’t do anything at all,” Mayor Strada said.

Jon Kaiman, supervisor of the town of North Hempstead, underscored the political perils of trying to change the suburban landscape. People in the suburbs like the way things are in the suburbs, he said — the big malls, the strip malls, the three-car garages, the three cars that go inside them.

“They do not want more kids in the schools,” he said.

“I want to get re-elected. Tom Suozzi wants to get re-elected. So, what is the answer?” Mr. Kaiman asked to a murmur of nervous laughter.

Mr. Katz, of the Brookings Institution, said that sweeping demographic changes would eventually make inevitable, and reduce opposition to, some of the changes proposed at the Cool Downtowns conference.

The increasing racial and cultural diversity of the suburbs would be the main engine of change, he said. “And people are not having children the way they used to,” he added. “The idea that the schools will become overcrowded is not supported by the evidence.”

When the conference concluded, Ms. Clark’s song permeated the room once more with the rhythm of a gentle bossa nova as Mr. Suozzi and about 50 other officials stepped outside for a walking tour of downtown Rockville Centre, one of four Nassau County communities identified at the meeting as having already achieved some measure of downtown cool.

Its downtown is a grid of about six square blocks, with a train station at the center.

When told what the impromptu parade of darkly dressed people was all about, some passers-by gave a thumbs up to the mission.

Robert Bernstein, a 19-year-old student from neighboring Oceanside, said he had no opinion about the mission, but did have a thought about the marketing strategy behind the word “cool.”

“It is just so old,” he said. “Maybe they should have consulted somebody.”
231 2008-06-09 The campaign has been peppering over 600 socially conservative grass-roots and national leaders with regular e-mail messages — highlighting, for example, Mr. McCain’s statement criticizing a May 15 decision by the California Supreme Court overturning the state’s ban on same-sex marriage, or his recent speech on his judicial philosophy. It has also held briefings for small groups of conservative leaders before key speeches. Charlie Black, one of Mr. McCain’s senior advisers, recently sat down with a dozen prominent evangelical leaders in Washington, where he emphasized, among other things, Mr. McCain’s consistent anti-abortion voting record.

Mr. McCain’s outreach to Christian conservatives has been a quiet courting, reflecting a balancing act: his election hopes rely on drawing in the political middle and Democrats who might be turned off should he woo the religious right too heavily by, for instance, highlighting his anti-abortion position more on the campaign trail.

“If McCain tried Bush’s strategy of just mobilizing the base, he would almost certainly fall short,” said John C. Green, a senior fellow at the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life. “Because the Republican brand name is less popular and the conservative base is restive, McCain has special needs to reach out to independent and moderate voters, but, of course, he can’t completely neglect the evangelical and conservative base.”

The instrumental role of evangelicals in Mr. Bush’s victory in 2004 over Senator John Kerry is an oft-repeated tale at this point. Mr. Bush’s openness about his personal faith and stances on social issues earned him a following among evangelicals, who represented about a quarter of the electorate in 2004. Exit polls in the 2004 election found that 78 percent of white “born again” or evangelical Protestants had voted for Mr. Bush.

In contrast, Mr. McCain’s relationship with evangelicals has long been troubled. In 2000, when he was running against Mr. Bush for the Republican nomination, Mr. McCain castigated Pat Robertson and the Rev. Jerry Falwell as “agents of intolerance.”

In a sign of the lingering distrust, Mr. McCain finished last out of nine Republican candidates in a straw poll last year at the Values Voter Summit in Washington, a gathering for socially conservative activists.

James C. Dobson, the influential founder of the evangelical group Focus on the Family, released a statement in February, when Mr. McCain was on the verge of securing the Republican nomination, affirming that he would not vote for Mr. McCain and would instead stay home if he became the nominee. Dr. Dobson later softened his stance and said he would vote but has remained critical of Mr. McCain.

“For John McCain to be competitive, he has to connect with the base to the point that they’re intense enough that they’re contagious,” said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council. “Right now they’re not even coughing.”

The balancing act Mr. McCain faces in appealing to both moderate voters and evangelicals was starkly illustrated last month when he rejected the endorsements of the Rev. John Hagee and the Rev. Rod Parsley, prominent evangelical leaders, after controversial statements by the two came to light. Mr. Parsley has been vocally anti-Islam and Mr. Hagee, in a sermon, said Hitler and the Holocaust had been part of God’s plan to drive the Jews to Palestine.

Mr. McCain’s actions complicated his relationship with evangelical leaders, some of whom said in interviews that the senator’s actions contributed to the impression among some evangelicals that he did not know or understand them. They argued that he should have stood by them, while making clear that he did not necessarily agree with all of their views.

“I think that was a stumble that will add to the challenges here,” said Gary Bauer, president of the group American Values, who in February became arguably the most visible evangelical leader to begin actively working on Mr. McCain’s behalf. “Those are both very influential men and it will just make things more challenging to accomplish between now and November.”

Unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain is decidedly reticent about religion on the stump. Mr. McCain grew up Episcopalian and shifted to a Baptist church after marrying his second wife, Cindy, but has not been baptized into the denomination. When asked about his personal faith at town hall forums, he often relates a familiar story. When Mr. McCain was a prisoner of war in Vietnam, a guard who had once loosened his bonds while he was being tortured sidled up to him on Christmas Day and drew a cross on the dirt in front of them. But some evangelical leaders say the account sheds more light on the guard’s faith than on Mr. McCain’s.

Nevertheless, a small group of McCain staff members and surrogates have begun stepping up, largely behind the scenes, his outreach to evangelicals and other social conservatives.

The group includes Marlys Popma, a prominent socially conservative leader in Iowa who has been with the campaign since the beginning but about a month ago took on the title of national coordinator for evangelical and social conservative outreach; Robert C. Heckman, the campaign’s director of conservative outreach who was the political director of Mr. Bauer’s presidential campaign in 2000; and Brett O’Donnell, the campaign’s director of messaging who was a debate coach at Liberty University, Mr. Falwell’s institution.

Former Senator Dan Coats of Indiana, a graduate of Wheaton College, an evangelical school, is also playing an active role, as is Senator Sam Brownback, a Kansas Republican and a longtime social conservative stalwart.

The initial outreach plans call for replicating the campaign’s approach in the Republican primary, creating “Family Issues Leaders for McCain” committees for each state made up of key social conservatives who have endorsed him.

About a dozen people, including staffers and socially conservative leaders who are advising the campaign, have begun a weekly conference call to plot strategy.

Mr. McCain’s advisers said they were in a talking and listening mode with evangelical leaders, as opposed to seeking endorsements aggressively, in part out of recognition that many Christian conservatives remained suspicious of him.

Mr. McCain may be aided by Mr. Obama’s own problems lately among religious voters. Mr. Obama, who speaks comfortably about his own Christian faith, was once seen as the kind of candidate who could help Democrats close the gap with Republicans among weekly churchgoers, who voted for Mr. Bush in droves in 2004. But those efforts have been complicated by the incendiary remarks by Mr. Obama’s former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., and the comments by Mr. Obama at a fund-raiser in the Bay Area about people in small towns clinging to guns and religion.

Nevertheless, the Obama campaign plans to add a full-time evangelical-focused staff member to its existing religious outreach team and is rolling out an effort over the summer to organize over a thousand house parties built around an hour-and-a-half-long curriculum on faith and politics. With the broadening of the evangelical agenda to include issues like poverty, global warming and AIDS, Mr. Obama’s advisers hope to peel off more moderate evangelical voters.

David Brody, a political correspondent for the Christian Broadcasting Network, said he believed Mr. Obama’s comments had hurt his chances among evangelicals, but he added, “I think Obama has a great opportunity still, with the Jeremiah Wright controversy behind him, to re-introduce himself with the American people, especially with his spiritual walk.”

To make Mr. McCain’s case, his supporters highlight his speech on his judicial philosophy, in which he vowed to appoint judges with a “commitment to judicial restraint,” as well as his anti-abortion voting record, though his critics argue he has hardly been passionate about the issue over the years.

In 2006 Mr. McCain was featured in television advertisements supporting a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage in Arizona, but he argued vigorously against a federal ban on the Senate floor that year, breaking with Mr. Bush and the Republican leadership, citing his belief that states should decide the issue.

Many conservative activists revile Mr. McCain for his sponsorship of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance overhaul measure. Similarly, his support for federal financing of embryonic stem cell research puts him at odds with many conservatives.

Mr. McCain’s supporters, however, contend that if they simply outline Mr. McCain’s policy stances on issues that matter to social conservatives and make clear where Mr. Obama stands, the choice will be obvious.

“It’s my job to make sure the people out there in the leadership and the grass roots get a chance to know John McCain for what he really is,” Ms. Popma said.
232 2008-06-09 “Russia should be a country that people want to live in,” Mr. Shuvalov said in remarks that seemed uncharacteristically self-deprecating for a top Russian official these days.

Mr. Shuvalov’s audience filled less than half of the hall. It had been packed on Saturday when the new president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, took subtle aim at the United States, suggesting that the world might be in the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and that a revived Russia could offer solutions to problems that have underscored America’s shortcomings.

But the crowd on Sunday was rapt as Russian and Western business executives peered out to make projections on Russia’s state and standing in 2020.

So much has changed, so fast, in the past decade here that there is little clarity on how to proceed. As one Russian participant, Alexander V. Izosimov of the cellphone operator VimpelCom, said, “The road to hell is paved with good intentions.”

Jim O’Neill, who is the chief economist of Goldman Sachs — and credited with coining the phrase “BRIC countries” to describe Brazil, Russia, India and China becoming leaders among world economies — surprised the crowd by predicting a conservative overall average of 3.3 percent annual economic growth in Russia by 2020, down from growth around 8 percent now.

Russia, Mr. O’Neill said, will have a 4 percent share of world’s gross domestic product then, compared with 2 percent now. But he said it would be weaker relative to Brazil, India and China because of far fewer people at work. India alone is expected to grow by 300 million people — twice Russia’s current population.

Michael Klein, chairman and chief executive of the institutional clients group of Citigroup, was more ebullient: “The future will exceed by a big stretch the plans for 2020” — the Russian government’s target date for certain improvements.

“Russia is clearly one of the most successful economic stories of the decade,” he said, and possibly “the first scale economy to sustainably avoid the resource curse,” the evils often brought by easy money from commodities like oil and natural gas.

Anatoly B. Chubais, a former deputy prime minister despised by many Russians over the inequities of the 1990s privatization program he led, even broached a subject normally taboo: the moribund, regimented state of politics, which has crystallized around the Kremlin and Vladimir V. Putin, the prime minister and previous president (who this weekend left his protégé, Mr. Medvedev, to shine alone in their hometown).

“We can’t avoid discussing the political component of the state’s impact on the economy,” Mr. Chubais said in careful language. “The state must be judged from the point of view of quality of services that it provides for the country as a whole. In my understanding, it is impossible to evaluate the quality of this service without real give and take and a truly competitive political mechanism.”

Few in today’s Russia — from those surviving on the equivalent of $158 a month to a tiny elite used to the really good life — worry publicly about political freedoms.

Many are still simply poor. Some are consumed with consuming; others worry about how to lock in economic gains.

There is much talk of the rule of law, but mostly in connection with property rights. Indeed, this is a lesson that Russia’s current elite — headlong in its embrace of new fads and the world’s new economic order — has absorbed from the West.

If the big-energy men gathered over the weekend had a clear worry, it was this: that the huge investments they must make to get to Russia’s oil and natural gas would fail to yield returns because the government changed the rules. That is what happened, most recently, to Shell over its investments on Sakhalin Island and may now be happening to BP. In both cases, the Kremlin asserts that it has not interfered directly.

But, like some Europeans in the military and energy spheres, the companies are wary.

Rex Tillerson, chairman and chief executive of Exxon Mobil, stressed that Russia “must improve the functioning of its judicial system and its judiciary. There is no respect for the rule of law in Russia today.”

In both cases, differences stretch back beyond the past decade of prosperity to the 1990s. In the West today, some paint Russia as newly defiant of NATO expansion, ignoring that Russia in the 1990s was equally defiant but too weak to be convincing.

As Mr. Klein of Citigroup put it, for the West the 1990s was the “period of transformation in Russia,” when Communism crumbled and free markets and democracy got their start.

He suggested that Russians preferred to emphasize the radical changes of the 2000s. But these successes are based on the export of such basic resources that Western consumers, attuned to China’s conspicuous brands and advances, are almost suspicious, he said.

“The High Street and Main Street do not understand the Russian achievement,” he said.

In the same vein, Alexei Miller, chairman of Gazprom, said he found it “simply astounding” that anyone should fear its advance from energy supplier into direct deliverer to European customers.

Misunderstanding has plagued Russia’s complex relations with the outside world for centuries. In St. Petersburg, Peter the Great’s window to the West, the weekend produced a royal show of at least momentary unity. Foreign and Russian business elites plunged together into a world where their money might talk even more loudly than the military prowess from which Russia historically has drawn strength.
233 2008-06-09 The unbeaten welterweight Floyd Mayweather Jr. retired again over the weekend, although it’s impossible to know whether he will stay retired. The era’s most popular star, Oscar De La Hoya, is on a farewell tour and plans to fight two more bouts, one of which was supposed to be against Mayweather. And 43-year-old Bernard Hopkins appears to be at the end of his career.

Then there’s the Pride of Wales, Joe Calzaghe, the unified 168-pound champion, who is coming off a light heavyweight win over Hopkins. He wants to retire after this year, too, and a return to the United States for a big-money pay-per-view bout with a young fighter who is suddenly one of the most popular and bankable stars in the sport may be a fitting closing note.

“If we can get that done, that’s going to dwarf anything you see now,” the Top Rank promoter Bob Arum said. “That’s going to be a monster.”

Not quite Godzilla, but perhaps the next best thing.

Arum planned to travel to Canastota, N.Y., on Sunday with the British promoter Frank Warren, who is being inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame. They have had several discussions about putting Calzaghe and Pavlik into the ring in what could very well be the stiffest test either of them has faced.

“I have to say, the talks so far have been very productive, but we’ll see,” Arum said. “He has to consult his fighter. Joe Calzaghe has never ducked anybody, and we have to see if we can put it together.”

There are issues to resolve. Money is sure to be a sticking point, with Pavlik’s value skyrocketing after he took home $2.5 million for his overwhelming win over Lockett. And Calzaghe is already a major drawing card for fans from Britain who have proved willing to spend money to follow their charismatic star.

“He’s road show Joe,” said Warren, who also promotes Lockett. “He’s willing to go anywhere.”

Arum said Oct. 18 would be the target date for Pavlik-Calzaghe, but he is hedging his bets.

If the fight falls through, Pavlik will stay at middleweight and could fight someone like the Irishman John Duddy, who has a big following in New York; the gritty Ricardo Mayorga; or the contender Marco Antonio Rubio, who showed up at Pavlik’s postfight news conference Saturday.

The defense of Pavlik’s World Boxing Council and World Boxing Organization belts will probably come in September, meaning he could also fight again in December, perhaps in a bid to unify the division, against the World Boxing Association champion Felix Sturm or the International Boxing Federation champion Arthur Abraham.

“They do got the other two belts,” Pavlik said. “I think people already recognize me as the undisputed middleweight champion, but I do want their belts. They’re nice belts. I’ll put them in my trophy case.”
234 2008-06-09 Lukas Podolski scored both goals Sunday to give three-time champion Germany a 2-0 win over Poland in its opening game at the European Championship in Klagenfurt, Austria. Podolski was born in Poland but went to Germany in his childhood and became a German citizen. In Vienna, Luka Modric scored on a penalty kick in the fourth minute as Croatia beat Austria, 1-0.
235 2008-06-09 BAGHDAD — Iraq’s prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, sought to soothe Iranian opposition to a long-term American military presence in Iraq by offering assurances in Tehran on Sunday that American bases would not be used to attack Iran.

“We will not allow Iraq to become a platform for harming the security of Iran and its neighbors,” Mr. Maliki said, according to the Iranian state-run news agency, IRNA, which reported that he met with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on the second day of a three-day visit.

The Iraqi prime minister also held talks with Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki and Vice President Parviz Davoudi, among other officials.

Iran has made no secret that it opposes a long-term security pact, currently being negotiated by American and Iraqi officials, which among other things would address the future of American bases in Iraq. Iranian authorities have spoken against the agreement in the past week, saying it would harm the interests of the Iraqi people.

There was no direct reference to the pact during the meeting between Mr. Ahmadinejad and Mr. Maliki, but the ISNA news agency quoted Mr. Ahmadinejad as saying, “Iraq must reach a certain level of stability so that its enemies are not able to impose their influence.”
236 2008-06-09 CAIRO (AP) — Mustafa Khalil, a former Egyptian prime minister who helped negotiate the 1979 Camp David peace treaty between Egypt and Israel, has died. He was 88.

Mr. Khalil died late Saturday in a Cairo hospital, where he was being treated for an unspecified illness, MENA, the Egyptian state news agency, said.

As secretary general of the governing Arab Socialist Union, Mr. Khalil accompanied Sadat in his historic visit to Jerusalem in November 1977. The visit paved the way for the negotiations mediated by President Jimmy Carter.

Mr. Khalil served as prime minister from 1978 to 1980.

“Khalil contributed in serving the country for over 50 years and took part in making peace and building the basis of development,” said Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the former United Nations secretary general, according to MENA.

“We continued negotiations together that ended in the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty that launched the peace process in the region,” said Mr. Boutros-Ghali, who, as deputy prime minister for foreign affairs, also went with Sadat to Jerusalem and participated in the negotiations.

More recently, Mr. Khalil was deputy chairman of the governing National Democratic Party. He stepped down in November.
237 2008-06-09 WASHINGTON — The presidential campaigns of Senators Barack Obama and John McCain on Sunday rejected an invitation for a town-hall-style meeting in Manhattan that had been proposed by ABC News and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.

The invitation came in the form of a joint letter on Sunday to the campaigns from Mr. Bloomberg and David Westin, president of ABC News. The two had proposed a 90-minute session at Federal Hall National Memorial in Lower Manhattan that would be moderated by Diane Sawyer, one of the hosts of “Good Morning America” on ABC.

The letter followed a proposal by Mr. McCain last week that the candidates hold a series of town-hall-style meetings, a format in which Mr. McCain has long demonstrated expertise and wooed voters. In New Hampshire, for example, Mr. McCain used those forums from town to town to resurrect his flailing presidential bid and ultimately won the state’s primary in January.

In response to Mr. McCain’s idea, the Obama campaign said it preferred settings more akin to the Lincoln-Douglas debates.

As for the New York proposal, both campaigns issued statements Sunday saying that they had agreed that any sessions between the two would not be moderated by an individual network or news organization as a sponsor. They did not dismiss the locale, however.

Bill Burton, a spokesman for the Obama campaign said, “Both campaigns have indicated that any additional appearances will be open to all networks for broadcast on TV or Internet like the presidential commission debates rather than sponsored by a single network or news organization.”
238 2008-06-09 The leaders of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA), which represents 70,000 actors, ratified a tentative prime-time television contract with Hollywood’s major studios on Saturday, The Associated Press reported. The three-year pact includes more money for Internet work. A team of negotiators reached an agreement with studios, represented by the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, last month, and Saturday’s vote was the final step before a full membership vote. Meanwhile the leadership of the Screen Actors Guild, which represents about 120,000 members and is stuck in its own talks with producers over a contract that expires June 30, has called the other union’s agreement “inadequate” and has decided to start a campaign against the AFTRA contract, Variety reported. Since about 44,000 actors are members of both unions, a lack of support for the AFTRA deal — something SAG leaders are encouraging — could help SAG’s attempt to win a better deal. SAG will hold a rally at its Los Angeles headquarters on Monday, and a town hall meeting is planned for Wednesday. The Writers Guild of America, which was supported by SAG during its recent strike, has urged its members to attend the rally. The AFTRA board said in a statement that it would “view any attempt by SAG or its leadership to undermine or interfere with our ratification process as a violation of both the law and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Constitution.” ... The Milken Institute, an economic research organization, has released a report that found the three-month Writers Guild of America strike that ended in February resulted in a loss of more than $2 billion, pushing California into a recession and costing 37,700 jobs, Reuters reported.
239 2008-06-09 PARIS — So what was Roger Federer to do with the elusive French Open trophy once again in sight and Rafael Nadal still looming so very large on the other side of the net?

Stay back and rally? Definitely not. Nadal was too quick and too steady, with unforced errors surfacing as rarely as sunshine in Paris during this tournament.

Why not attack the net? More sensible indeed, yet Nadal’s dipping passing shots were so precise, so forceful that they kept forcing the swooping Federer to dig balls out of the dirt or twist his neck — elegantly of course — to watch a winner land on the sideline or even the baseline.

No, the answer for all the millions of Federer fans worldwide who would like nothing better than for their man to win the only Grand Slam title he lacks is that there was no solution available to Federer in his current state of form and Nadal’s current state of grace.

In a final that only rarely resembled anything other than one-way traffic, Nadal was at his suffocating finest as he won his fourth straight French Open by beating up on his erratic, increasingly dispirited Swiss opponent. The final score — 6-1, 6-3, 6-0 — was the most lopsided result in their rivalry that now spans 17 matches, and it was the finishing touch on one of the most dominant performances in Grand Slam history.
240 2008-06-09 NEWSPAPER CUTBACKSSam Zell, chief executive of the Tribune Company, and Randy Michaels, chief operating officer, said last week they planned  to trim 500 pages of news each week from the company's dozen papers, heightening a lively debate about th...
241 2008-06-10 The European Union struggled for years to convince car companies to lower emissions from their vehicles without much success. Early this year, the EU got tough and proposed a binding target of 120 grams per kilometer by 2012 that each automaker wo...
242 2008-06-10 Gov. David A. Paterson named 12 members to a panel that will look at the M.T.A.'s capital needs. Richard Ravitch, a former M.T.A. chairman, will lead the panel....
243 2008-06-10 Don't forget, I'll be in Rome this Friday-and I'd like you to meet up with me if you're in the city. Bruschetteria degli Angeli. This Friday, June 13, come have a glass of wine and a snack on me at the Bruschetteria degli Angeli (Piazza Bennedetto...
244 2008-06-10 Aired Monday night on NBC: Hillary Clinton's campaign camp, or Hillary Clinton's camp, I guess, has said today she is not actively seeking the vice presidential nomination even though she's the most qualified and would be ready on day one! And Joh...
245 2008-06-10 Aired Monday night on "The Late Late Show With Craig Ferguson" on CBS: For the first time ever, the national average price for a gallon of gasoline is over $4, which explains the new nickname for gasoline - Starbucks for your car....
246 2008-06-10 The sordid story of Bayou Group, the defunct hedge fund founded by Samuel Israel III, has taken a macabre twist. On Monday, a car registered to Mr. Israel was found abandoned on a bridge that spans one of the deepest stretches of the Hudson River ...
247 2008-06-10 Scientific academies seek action on global warming, global health....
248 2008-06-10 Tax reform is at the center of McCain's plan to boost the ailing American economy....
249 2008-06-10 Steve Jobs points to a new focus on overcoming the latest challenge in computer processing speeds....
250 2008-06-10 The presumptive Republican nominee will tout his economic plan in a speech to a small business group today....
251 2008-06-10 Big companies spin off units all the time. But Credit Suisse is trying something different: It is cleaving off virtualization technology developed in-house into a new company, DynamicOps, to be backed by its own venture fund, Next II. According to...
252 2008-06-10 The British Bankers' Association, yielding to pressure from investors and regulators, will increase the number of banks that set the London interbank offered rate in the biggest change to Libor in 10 years, Bloomberg News reported The London-based...
253 2008-06-10 JetBlue Airways, the U.S. discount carrier, agreed to buy Verizon Communications's Airfone business to offer e-mail and messaging services aboard planes. The purchase lets JetBlue expand an in-flight messaging service it started testing in Decembe...
254 2008-06-10 A mini-boom is under way in the business of providing hedge funds with seed capital as investors become less willing to put money into start-ups without a track record or expensive risk control systems, according to The Financial Times. Seed capit...
255 2008-06-10 Britain's Financial Services Authority last week took the unprecedented step of pressuring the country's five biggest banks into supporting the rescue capital-raising at Bradford & Bingley, the troubled British lender, according to The Times of Lo...
256 2008-06-10 The Federal Reserve moved Monday to overhaul the financial apparatus behind derivatives trading, a regulatory step intended to assure that the failure of a major bank or investment firm would not create the systemic threat seen in March after the ...
257 2008-06-10 Citigroup will reportedly issue as much as 100 billion yen ($940.6 million) in samurai bonds on July 1, its first such offering aimed at Japanese retail investors since 2000. With interest rates low in Japan, Citigroup has determined that it can r...
258 2008-06-10 London is the most influential financial center in the world for the second year running, according to MasterCard's second annual survey. European and Asian cities dominated the list as U.S. cities hit by the weak dollar tumbled in the rankings re...
259 2008-06-10 NYSE Euronext, the transatlantic exchange group, will on Tuesday step up its efforts to become a one-stop shop for U.S. equity trading in the face of mounting competition by announcing a partnership with Progress Software, a company specializing i...
260 2008-06-10 Now that we know who I will be facing in the general election, the real debate over economic policy can begin. And as you may have heard, Senator Obama and I might well be meeting soon in a series of town hall discussions. Just the two of us, in direct conversation with voters. No need to turn it into a big media-run production with process questions from reporters, a spin room, and all the rest of it. To keep things friendly, I also suggested that my opponent and I travel to these town hall meetings together in the same plane.

Our disagreements in these town hall meetings will be civil and friendly, but they will also be clear for all to see. On tax policy, health-care reform, trade, government spending, and a long list of other issues, we offer very different choices to the American people. And those choices will have very different consequences for American workers and small business owners.

No matter which of us wins in November, there will be change in Washington. The question is what kind of change? Will we enact the single largest tax increase since the Second World War as my opponent proposes, or will we keep taxes low for families and employers? This election offers Americans a very distinct choice about what kind of change we will have. This is especially true for the small business community.

Let me speak to you about the change I will seek.

As president, I intend to act quickly and decisively to promote growth and opportunity. I intend to keep the current low income and investment tax rates. And I will pursue tax reform that supports the wage-earners and job creators who make this economy run, and help them to succeed in a global economy. Serious reform is needed to help American companies compete in international markets. I have proposed a reduction in the corporate tax rate from the second highest in the world to one on par with our trading partners; to keep businesses and jobs in this country.

One of the most crucial economic issues in this campaign is the ability of American workers to benefit from exports to other nations, and how government policy can help them to do so. And here, too, I welcome the debate with the Democratic nominee.

I want to break down foreign trade barriers, so that America's small businesses can compete abroad. When new trading partners can sell in our market, and American companies can sell in theirs, the gains are great and lasting. The strength of the American economy offers a better life to every society we trade with, and the good comes back to us in many ways -- in better jobs, higher wages, and lower prices. Free trade can also give once troubled and impoverished nations a stake in the world economy, and in their relations with America.

At the same time, we have to help displaced workers at every turn on a tough road, so that they are not just spectators on the opportunities of others. And I have made that commitment with reforms to expand and improve federal aid to American workers in need. We need to help millions of workers who have lost a job that won't come back find a new one that won't go away.

Unfortunately, Senator Obama has a habit of talking down the value of our exports and trade agreements. He even proposed a unilateral re-negotiation of NAFTA -- our agreement with Canada and Mexico that accounts for 33 percent of American exports. But we have a sharp disagreement here that I look forward to debating. If I am elected president, this country will honor its international agreements, including NAFTA, and we will expect the same of others. And in a time of uncertainty for American workers, we will not undo the gains of years in trade agreements now awaiting final approval.

And as we expand markets for Americans products, we must do more tax reform here at home. I will propose and sign into law a reform to permit the first-year expensing of new equipment and technology. We're also going to keep the low rate on capital gains, so that businesses like yours can expand and create jobs instead of just sending more of your earnings to the government. And so parents can spend and save more for their own children, I will propose to double the size of the child tax exemption. I will also propose as well a middle-class tax cut -- a phase-out of the Alternative Minimum Tax to save more than 25 million middle-class families as much as 2,000 dollars in a single year.

Another of my disagreements with Senator Obama concerns the estate tax, which he proposes to increase to a top rate of 55 percent. The estate tax is one of the most unfair tax laws on the books, and the first step to reform is to keep it predictable and keep it low. After a lifetime building up a business, and paying taxes on every dollar that business earns, that asset should not be subjected to a confiscatory tax.

It is not enough, however, to make little fixes here and there in the tax code -- especially if you're a small business owner filing under the individual tax. What we need is a simpler, a flatter, and a fair tax code. As president, I will propose an alternative tax system. When this reform is enacted, all who wish to file under the current system could still do so. And everyone else could choose a vastly less complicated system with two tax rates and a generous standard deduction.

Americans do not resent paying their fair share of taxes. What they do resent, and especially if they're trying to run a business, is being subjected to thousands of pages of needless and often irrational rules and demands from the IRS. We know from experience that no serious reform of the current tax code will come out of Congress, so now it is time to turn the decision over to the people. We are going to create a new and simpler tax system -- and give the American people a choice.

Senator Obama's plans would add to the difficulties of small business in other ways, too. Currently, there are the 21.6 million sole proprietorships filing under the individual income tax. When Senator Obama talks about raising income tax rates on those making over 250,000 dollars -- that includes these businesses as well. He also proposes increases in dividend and capital gains taxes. Under Senator Obama's tax plan, Americans of every background would see their taxes rise -- seniors, parents, small business owners, and just about everyone who has even a modest investment in the market. He proposes to eliminate the Social Security earnings cap, and thereby to increase the tax on employers. He proposes to eliminate the secret ballot for union votes, and to raise the minimum wage and then index it, which is a sure way to add to your costs and to slow the creation of new jobs. You work hard in small businesses to grow and to create new jobs and opportunities for others -- and the federal government shouldn't make your work any harder.

As for health care policy, I believe that the best way to help small businesses and employers afford health care is not to increase government control of health care but to bring the rising cost of care under control and give people the option of having personal, portable health insurance.

As it is, the traditional tax-subsidy that supports private insurance is concentrated on a subset of American workers and a portion of our businesses. My health care reform will end that unfair bias in the law, while helping to make health insurance more affordable for every American. We're going to offer every individual and family in America a large tax credit to buy their health care, so that their health insurance is theirs to keep even when they move or change jobs. My plan would allow those who want to stick with employer provided health insurance to do so. But I want to give individuals greater choice, rather than give small business no choice at all.

For too long, government has been the voice of big business, not small business. And to make matters worse, even when very large businesses violate their trust, they seem to be held to a different standard -- getting away with conduct that would leave any small business owner broke. We need rules that assure fairness and punish wrongdoing in the market, and hold every business person in America to the same fair standards.

In times of hardship and distress, we should be more vigilant than ever in holding corporate abuses to account, as in the case of the housing market. Americans are right to be offended when the extravagant salaries and severance deals of CEO's -- in some cases, the very same CEO's who helped to bring on these market troubles -- bear no relation to the success of the company or the wishes of shareholders. Something is seriously wrong when the American people are left to bear the consequences of reckless corporate conduct, while the offenders themselves are packed off with another forty - or fifty million for the road.

If I am elected president, I intend to see that wrongdoing of this kind is called to account by federal prosecutors. And under my reforms, all aspects of a CEO's pay, including any severance arrangements, must be approved by shareholders.

In so many ways, we need to make a clean break from the worst excesses of both political parties. And for Republicans, it starts with reclaiming our good name as the party of spending restraint. Somewhere along the way, too many Republicans in Congress became indistinguishable from the big-spending Democrats they used to oppose. The only power of government that could stop them was the power of veto, and it was rarely used. If that authority is entrusted to me, I will use the veto as needed. I will veto every bill with earmarks. I will seek a constitutionally valid line-item veto to end pork-barrel spending once and for all. And I will lead broad reforms that remove the many corporate tax loopholes that are costly, unfair to smaller business competitors, and inconsistent with a free-market economy.

The recent 300 billion-dollar farm bill was a case in point. Family farmers are America's original small business owners, and many are struggling to survive. But nowadays, small farmers have been forgotten, and instead the Congress sends a steady supply of subsidies to agribusiness. It would be hard to find any single bill that better sums up why so many Americans in both parties are so disappointed in the conduct of their government, and at times so disgusted by it. Even as American families struggle to buy food, because of rising prices, Congress refuses to place real limits on farm subsidies or end tariffs on imports that drive grocery bills higher.

When both parties carry on like this, there is only one proper response -- a presidential veto. That is exactly what I will do as president, with any bill that serves only special interests and corporate welfare. On my watch there will be no more subsidies for special pleaders, no more corporate welfare, no more throwing around billions of dollars of the people's money on pet projects, while the people themselves are struggling to afford their homes, groceries, and gas. We are going to get our priorities straight in Washington -- a clean break from years of squandered wealth and wasted chances.

To control spending, I will also order a thorough review of the budgets of every federal program, department, and agency, and I will post the results of these reviews on the Internet for every American to see. While that review is underway, we will institute a one-year pause in discretionary spending increases with the necessary exemption of military spending and veterans benefits. "Discretionary spending" is a term people throw around a lot in Washington, while actual discretion is seldom exercised. Instead, every program comes with a built-in assumption that it should go on forever, and its budget increase forever. My administration will change that way of thinking. We will ensure that federal spending serves the common interests, that failed programs are not rewarded but reinvented or ended, and that discretionary spending is going where it belongs -- to essential priorities like job training, the security of o ur citizens, and the care of our veterans.

These are among the many serious issues at stake in this election. All of these challenges, and more, will face the next president, and I will not leave them for some unluckier generation of leaders to deal with. For too long government has been more interested in protecting its budget and its interests rather than the interests of small businesses and the family budgets that depend on your growth. And partisanship in Washington is less focused on your future than it is on the next election.

My goal, however, is not to denigrate government but to make it better, not to deride it but to restore its good name. Government should be on your side, not in your way. It will be hard work, but it is a cause worthy of our best efforts. And if we do it well, in the right spirit, it will be because we have again put our country's interests before the interests of parties, bureaucracies and self-interest. And then we will finally reclaim the confidence of the people we serve. Thank you.
261 2008-06-10 In his first speech since the Democratic nomination fight was settled, Mr. McCain vowed that the town hall meetings the two campaigns have said they will hold would be “civil and friendly.”

“But they will also be clear for all to see. On tax policy, health care reform, trade, government spending, and a long list of other issues, we offer very different choices to the American people.” Mr. McCain spoke on the day after Mr. Obama began a two-week tour to highlight his own economic proposals, and to blast Mr. McCain as an heir to the Bush administration policies who would enact more tax cuts for corporations and the rich.

While Mr. Obama was trying to tie Mr. McCain to President Bush, Mr. McCain and his campaign were likening Mr. Obama to another president unpopular in tough economic times: Jimmy Carter.

Former Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger made the comparison at a fund-raiser with Mr. McCain in Richmond, Va., on Monday. Mr. McCain repeated it in a television interview that evening. And a campaign spokesman, Tucker Bounds, issued a statement Tuesday morning saying Mr. Obama’s call for higher energy taxes was “a scheme last tried under Jimmy Carter that only increased our dependence on foreign oil.”

In his speech to the small business group, Mr. McCain denounced Mr. Obama’s plan to pay for his economic stimulus plan by increasing taxes on people making more than $250,000 a year, arguing it would harm businesses, as well. “Under Senator Obama’s tax plan, Americans of every background would see their taxes rise,” he said, “seniors, parents, small business owners, and just about everyone who has even a modest investment in the market.”

Mr. McCain said he would enact reforms that would allow people the option of either filing under the current tax system, or choosing a “vastly less complicated system with two tax rates and a generous standard deduction.”

He accused Mr. Obama of “talking down the value of our exports and trade agreements.”

While Mr. Obama has talked of renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta, Mr. McCain vowed that “in a time of uncertainty for American workers, we will not undo the gains of years in trade agreements.”

Mr. McCain also used the speech to portray himself as a reformer and an early and fierce crusader against government waste.

“Somewhere along the way, too many Republicans in Congress became indistinguishable from the big-spending Democrats they used to oppose,” he said. “The only power of government that could stop them was the power of veto, and it was rarely used.”

“On my watch there will be no more subsidies for special pleaders, no more corporate welfare, no more throwing around billions of dollars of the people’s money on pet projects, while the people themselves are struggling to afford their homes, groceries, and gas. We are going to get our priorities straight in Washington — a clean break from years of squandered wealth and wasted chances.”

He promised a thorough review of the budgets of “every federal program, department, and agency,” the results of which would be posted on the Internet. During that review, he said, there would be a one-year pause in so-called “discretionary spending” increases, except military spending and veterans’ benefits.

“ ‘Discretionary spending’ is a term people throw around a lot in Washington, while actual discretion is seldom exercised,” he said.

The audience of several hundred in a basement hotel ballroom greeted Mr. McCain with a warm standing ovation, laughing when he said he had never run a “small struggling enterprise — unless you count my presidential campaign last year.”

When his speech was interrupted by protesters wearing the trademark shade of the anti-war group Code Pink yelling “End the war!” the crowd booed them and applauded him.

He parried the protesters well. When they first interrupted him, Mr. McCain paused and then improvised remarks about the importance of civil public discourse: “Americans want people to stop yelling at each other.” When another began shouting a few moments later, Mr. McCain cited what he called one of his favorite quotes from Ronald Reagan: “There you go again.” And when a third began hollering and was dragged out, Mr. McCain quipped, “I’m running out of funny lines.”

He came up with one, unintentionally, a few moments later. “I intend to veto every beer,” he said, prompting appreciative laughter from the audience even before he corrected himself: “I intend to veto every bill with earmarks.”
262 2008-06-10 Howard Marder, a spokesman for the authority, said of the center: “We expect construction to be completed at the end of September, but it doesn’t mean that the center will open. We don’t have the funding to operate the center and its programs unless a group comes forward with funding.”

The center has been under a cloud from the start. Building inspectors found construction flaws in the steel frame of the building, and it had to be taken down. After the original contractor went bankrupt, Emco Tech Construction was hired to complete the project, which resulted in cost increases, Mr. Marder said. Now all that is left to be done is completing the painting and adding electrical wiring and plumbing.

After the dire financial picture that Tino Hernandez, the housing authority’s chairman, presented to the City Council last month, staff members of the agency and the Council began a series of meetings to discuss the authority’s budget needs.

In the past, the city has provided one-time allocations to help bridge shortfalls, and a clearer picture of the agency’s budget status should emerge this month, said Councilman Erik Martin Dilan, whose district includes East New York.

“N.Y.C.H.A. has taken a big hit,” Mr. Dilan said. “The children’s programs are obviously in jeopardy, and unless we save them, we might as well set up gang recruitment centers. Kids need their community centers to stay out of trouble.”

Among residents of Marcus Garvey there is still hope that money will emerge from the agency’s budget discussions with the city and that their long-awaited community center will open. “This should be the last place they should think about shutting down,” said Jessie Hilliard, 67, the treasurer of the Marcus Garvey Tenants Association, who has lived in the Garvey Houses for 32 years. “We’ve been waiting almost nine years. The little kids don’t have anywhere to play — just the sidewalk.”

Every day, Janette Moore and her daughter Klarissa, 8, are reminded of why the community center is needed. After school, Ms. Moore, 43, and her daughter walk several blocks from Public School 327 along Pitkin Avenue and past three weather-beaten benches a few hundred feet from the center, where the new basketball courts are surrounded by fences and an unfinished park and garden.

“There is no place to ride my bike, and my mom doesn’t like me riding on Pitkin Avenue,” said Klarissa, who is in the third grade.

“She stays in the house because there is nothing to do outside,” said Ms. Moore, who grew up in Marcus Garvey. “It’s a shame.”

Brunilda Ocasio, 59, a resident, said she would accept a rent increase if it could offset budgets cuts that would prevent the center from opening. A rent increase for tenants with the highest income is another step that the authority has said it may have to take.

“My concern is for the kids,” Ms. Ocasio said. “The kids play in the buildings. They play handball in the hallways and run up and down the stairs playing tag. It’s ridiculous.”
263 2008-06-10 She looked like a different golfer than the one who came to Maryland last year for the L.P.G.A. Championship. That week, she seemed uncomfortable in her swing thoughts, posting scores of 73, 74, 83 and 79 at Bulle Rock Golf Course to finish last among 84 golfers.

The 18-year-old Wie last contended in a major in 2006, when she finished tied for third at the United States Women’s Open. Since then, two teenagers, Morgan Pressel and Yani Tseng, have won a Grand Slam title. Wie is not yet a sophomore in college, but she has been tested like a graduate student.

“I like the struggling,” she said, chuckling, “but it feels good to be playing well.”

Tseng, who defeated Maria Hjorth of Sweden in a four-hole playoff at the L.P.G.A. Championship on Sunday, is a long hitter who giggles her way through news conferences. She carries herself as if all the world is her playground, the way Wie used to before expectations and injuries took a toll on her swing and her psyche.

Last spring, when Wie returned to competitive play after taking time off to heal a broken wrist, it was almost as hard to coax a smile out of her on the course as it was a birdie. After posting a sixth-place finish at a Ladies European Tour event in Munich two weeks ago and following it with a solid performance here, Wie is more relaxed, and it shows.

In an interview with reporters after finishing her 36th hole, she was asked what her plans were for the next two weeks. She said she would return to Florida on Monday night to resume practicing. “I’m going to smell on the plane,” she added with a laugh.

Wie said she was happy to be back in the United States Open field after withdrawing from last year’s event.

“It feels good to be playing well,” she said. “I think confidence is a big part of my game, and I’m starting to feel confident over my shots.”

That is not to say that she did not sweat Monday. In fact, it was a two-shirt and 12-pack-of-water day, with a Code Red alert in effect in Montgomery County, causing the cancellation of all public high school and youth-league competitive events in the area.

“It was really hot,” said Wie, whose putter seemed to get hotter as the heat index climbed. She one-putted six of her last seven greens. Her caddie, Harms, who also works for Hale Irwin on the Champions Tour, said Wie’s game had improved in the weeks since she played in an L.P.G.A. Tour event on a sponsor’s exemption and missed the cut by four strokes.

“She’s coming along really strongly,” he said.

When Wie played her first hole, shortly before 8 a.m., she had 12 people in her gallery, including her parents, B. J. and Bo. By the time she finished her 36th hole around 6 p.m., there were nearly 200 people following her, including a gaggle of giggly girls who had identical star-struck looks.

Wie was around their age — in the eighth grade — the last time she participated in United States Open sectional qualifying. Watching her grind for a spot in a major was like seeing a major leaguer on a rehab assignment in Class A. Wie was here working her game into shape for a return to the big stage.

“I want be in contention,” Wie said. “I want to win. I want to feel like I’m the best player out there.”
264 2008-06-10 UNITED NATIONS — The online advertisement that appeared Monday on The Economist magazine’s Web site seemed straightforward enough, seeking candidates for the position of United Nations high commissioner for human rights.

The advertisement, however, was a fake, a protest paid for by Avaaz.org, an online advocacy group. The organization is among a number of human rights organizations, United Nations diplomats and other watchdog groups critical of what they call the lack of transparency in selecting the next commissioner, one of the highest-profile and most delicate jobs in the United Nations hierarchy.

“It is a general problem that top appointments in the United Nations system are often made in back rooms behind closed doors where candidates who meet the lowest common denominator win,” said Ricken Patel, a Canadian who is the executive director of Avaaz.org. “A more open process requires bad candidates to face the test of public scrutiny.” The advertisement, which cost about $10,000, also ran in this week’s print edition of the magazine and carried a disclaimer identifying it as having been written and paid for by the group.

Those tracking the selection of the high commissioner were expecting greater transparency after the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, circulated a letter in March announcing that the search would be an open process and that it would include comment from governments and outside organizations.

His predecessor, Kofi Annan, had made it a practice to publicize short lists of candidates for top jobs, but Mr. Ban has been more circumspect. Senior aides to Mr. Ban declined to comment.
265 2008-06-10 “We did not arrive at the doorstep of our current economic crisis by some accident of history,” Mr. Obama said here to 900 invited guests, a relatively small audience for him. “This was not an inevitable part of the business cycle that was beyond our power to avoid. It was the logical conclusion of a tired and misguided philosophy that has dominated Washington for far too long.”

He added a moment later: “We were promised a fiscal conservative. Instead, we got the most fiscally irresponsible administration in history. And now John McCain wants to give us another. Well, we’ve been there once. We’re not going back.”

Leading Congressional Democrats indicated on Monday that they planned to work hand-in-glove with the Democratic standard-bearer on a range of economic issues, including gas prices and increasing joblessness.

On Monday, House Democrats said they intended to force a separate vote this week — possibly Thursday — on extending unemployment benefits for those whose aid is running out.

Though President Bush and many Republicans in Congress have resisted the extra benefits, Democrats say they believe that rising unemployment will strengthen their hand and provide political ammunition should the president veto the bill.

And on Tuesday, the Senate will vote on whether to take up a package of energy initiatives that includes a new tax on so-called windfall profits of big oil companies and provisions to reduce speculation in oil futures, which some analysts say have contributed to price increases.

In a conference call with reporters on Monday, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, echoed Mr. Obama when he said, “People understand that, as these energy prices go through the roof, as the stock market craters, as we have the highest unemployment figure increase in recent years, the Bush economic policies have failed.”

And Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who is leading the campaign effort of Senate Democrats, said coordinated messages by Mr. Obama and the Democratic majority in Congress would yield big gains in November. “We in the Senate relish the opportunity to work with Senator Obama,” Mr. Schumer said in the call. “Now that the primary season is over, there is going to be a clear voice.”

Democratic Congressional leaders and Howard Dean, the party chairman, also set a joint press conference for Tuesday afternoon to lay out the party’s economic policies and to try to draw a contrast with Mr. McCain.

Mr. McCain, who attended fund-raising events in Washington and Virginia on Monday, issued a statement criticizing Mr. Obama’s approach.

“While hard-working families are hurting and employers are vulnerable, Barack Obama has promised higher income taxes, Social Security taxes, capital gains taxes, dividend taxes and tax hikes on job-creating businesses,” a McCain spokesman, Tucker Bounds, said in a statement issued before Mr. Obama’s remarks. “Barack Obama doesn’t understand the American economy, and that’s change we just can’t afford.”

Mr. Obama’s address came as many Americans were grappling with gasoline prices of more than $4 a gallon and a weakening employment picture. Before Mr. Obama spoke, Pamela Cash-Roper, an unemployed nurse, told of the economic pain caused by family medical crises. Mrs. Cash-Roper, who described herself as a lifelong Republican, said she had turned to the government for help, “but help was nowhere to be seen.” She said she supported Mr. Obama because he had been working for “hard-working Americans like us for more than two decades.”

The pieces of the economic program Mr. Obama laid out on Monday were not new, but the context was. This is the first full week of the general election campaign, and the candidates are beginning what promises to be an intense fight over the economy and the Iraq war. Mr. Obama, by focusing on economic issues, was trying to move those concerns ahead of Iraq and national security matters, where Mr. McCain has more experience.

Mr. Obama proposed a number of short-term measures to relieve the hardships of American families and rescue the economy from the brink of recession.

In addition to his proposal for $50 billion more in immediate stimulus programs and relief for homeowners facing foreclosure, he proposed new rules to prevent mortgage and credit card fraud and tax reductions for middle-income families and retirees.

He said he would preserve Social Security by requiring higher payments from the wealthy. He vowed to resist all efforts to privatize the program or raise the retirement age. He also vowed to repeal the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest citizens and noted that Mr. McCain had originally opposed the Bush tax breaks because, as Mr. Obama put it in a rare verbal slip, they were “too skewered” to the rich.

Obama advisers said the new programs would be paid for by a combination of tax increases, elimination of waste and savings from the reduction of American troops in Iraq. Mr. Obama has said in the past that he would allow the tax cuts enacted in the Bush administration to expire and impose higher taxes on some investment income.

Senator Richard M. Burr, a North Carolina Republican who supports Mr. McCain, said in a conference call Monday afternoon that Mr. Obama was simply casting blame for the nation’s economic woes and making promises he could not pay for. “I think the speech we heard today is what the American people are sick and tired of,” Mr. Burr said.

Mr. Obama posed the choice between him and Mr. McCain as a fundamental one between the future and the past, the ground on which he hopes to fight the campaign.

“That is the choice we face right now,” Mr. Obama said. “A choice between more of the same policies that have widened inequality, added to our debt and shaken the foundation of our economy, or change that will restore balance to our economy, that will invest in the ingenuity and innovation of our people, that will fuel a bottom-up prosperity to keep America strong and competitive in the 21st century.”

“It is not an argument between left or right, liberal or conservative, to say that we have tried it their way for eight long years and it has failed,” he added. “It is time to try something new. It is time for a change.”

Mr. Obama praised Mr. McCain’s years of military and government service, but his generosity quickly gave way to an assault on Mr. McCain’s economic theories and credentials.

“John McCain and I have a fundamentally different vision of where to take the country,” Mr. Obama said “Because for all his talk of independence, the centerpiece of his economic plan amounts to a full-throated endorsement of George Bush’s policies. He says we’ve made great progress in our economy these past eight years. He calls himself a fiscal conservative, and on the campaign trail he’s a passionate critic of government spending, and yet he has no problem spending hundreds of billions of dollars on tax breaks for big corporations and a permanent occupation of Iraq — policies that have left our children with a mountain of debt.”
266 2008-06-10 Not quite. At least not yet. A recent Orbitz survey conducted with Business Traveler magazine found that more than two-thirds of over 600 business travelers said they were now staying at less expensive hotels or, when possible, leaving and returning the same day to avoid a hotel altogether.

Dropping down a notch, say from a four-star to a three-star hotel brand, is usually not a problem for me. I recently stayed for two nights at a sprawling four-star resort where everything was a big production, including finding breakfast, and where the not-quite-reliable Internet hookup cost $12.99 a day.

On two subsequent nights, I stayed at a far cheaper roadside Hampton Inn where the Internet was free and reliable, and so was the breakfast. I’d opt for the Hampton every time.

And as far as confining travel to a single day, that eliminates the hotel. But it also means you’re more likely to be rolling out of bed at 4 a.m. — something that nobody who isn’t working in a firehouse should be required to do. And you’ll probably be rolling home in time for “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart” at 11.

And arranging a same-day trip to save money is tricky now that the airlines have revived the Saturday night and other minimum-stay requirements that make it far more difficult to get a cheap fare without spending the weekend on the road.

I looked at two other surveys. In one, by American Express, working with CFO Research Services, most respondents said they expected to get “more from their travel dollars” by tightening controls on spending.

“We’re seeing a focus on discretionary spending on travel to conferences and noncritical meetings,” said Gunther Bright, a senior vice president at American Express.

The survey also showed that companies were tightening spending for first-class and business-class travel on long-haul flights. Many companies used to allow premium-class travel on flights over six hours. “Now that’s being extended to seven, eight or nine hours,” he said.

Still, 19 percent of companies in the United States said they expected their international business travel to increase over the next 12 months, and 41 percent said they expected it to remain the same.

Mr. Sivley at Orbitz, agreed that companies were raising the bar for premium international travel. Others, he said, were adding incentives like a “take somebody along” offer. Opt to fly coach and not business class, and the company will pay for a spouse or other companion to accompany the employee.

Not all the projections were as upbeat about the prospects for business travel. The Association of Corporate Travel Executives, in an informal survey of members last week, found than more than half of the 128 corporate respondents said they had already cut back on business travel. Nearly two-thirds said the reduction in airline schedules and service, especially in smaller markets, was adversely limiting their options to meet directly with manufacturers, suppliers and buyers.
267 2008-06-10 I’M obsessive about frequent-flier status. During the summer, I travel extensively for our Boom Boom HuckJam Tour and that helps me rack up some miles. I like the shorter lines and priority seating that 1K frequent-flier status offers. Yes, I am one of those who gets to board the plane by walking on the pretentious red carpet.

It’s tough for me to even think about not being at the top tier of frequent-flier programs. To make sure we keep our status current, my wife and I have made many unnecessary trips from Carlsbad to Los Angeles so we can earn at least 100,000 miles a year, the requirement for 1K members. Though we may be seated up front, we still order the $5 economy-class snack boxes. I recommend the “mini meals.”

Depending on where I’m going and what I’m doing, not everything is frequent-flier comfortable. Or easy.

I flew to Freetown, Sierra Leone, a few years ago for a charity visit. At the time, there were only two flights to Freetown a week, both from Brussels. Once we arrived, we were shuffled like sheep to a heliport that links the airport to the city. The helicopter was an aged Russian Mi-8 and our boarding passes were red wooden sticks. Get the picture?

Without my skateboard, I never would have been able to see so many different places in the world for competition, exhibitions and charity work. It always amazes me how skateboarding transcends cultures. I’ve seen kids in Serbia and Thailand with skateboards, and there’s supposedly a blossoming skateboarding scene in Romania.

The scene is a lot different than when I started out. So is traveling.

There was a time when I never worried about taking my skateboard on the plane with me. The boards are tuned to my liking, and if my board got lost in transit, trying to break in a new one in front of thousands of people would be a nightmare.
268 2008-06-10 MIAMI — With Democrats in Congress demanding a get-tough-or-else approach to the oil industry, Larry Klayman decided he’d had enough. It was time to call gasoline prices what he thinks they are — economic terrorism.

So, after spending $66 to fill up his Cadillac CTS sedan, Mr. Klayman, a lawyer and conservative gadfly, filed a federal lawsuit here on Monday accusing the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries of price fixing.

“It’s now quite obvious that what they’re doing is intentional,” he said. “What they’re trying to do is bring Western economies to their knees. It’s extremely clever.”

Mr. Klayman said OPEC countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela in particular hoped to extract concessions from the United States by highlighting America’s energy vulnerabilities. With Democrats likely to benefit on Election Day, he said, he sued, arguing OPEC has violated American antitrust laws, partly to goad Republicans to action.

“This is going to cost them the election,” he said. “We haven’t seen an economy this bad since Jimmy Carter.”
269 2008-06-10 For decades, scholars and scientists have argued that the exiled dictator, who died in 1821 on the remote island of St. Helena in the South Atlantic, was the victim of arsenic, whether by accident or design.

The murder theory held that his British captors poisoned him; the accident theory said that colored wallpaper in his bedroom contained an arsenic-based dye that mold transformed into poisonous fumes.

The evidence behind both theories was that scientists had found arsenic in hairs from Napoleon’s head, which diminished the idea that he had died of stomach cancer. Arsenic is highly toxic, and its poisoning symptoms include violent stomach pains.

“There is nothing improbable about the hypothesis of arsenic poisoning,” wrote Frank McLynn in “Napoleon: A Biography” (Arcade, 2002). “Science gives it rather more than warranted assertibility.”

But now, a team of scientists at Italy’s National Institute of Nuclear Physics in Milan-Bicocca and Pavia has uncovered strong evidence to the contrary. They conducted a detailed analysis of hairs taken from Napoleon’s head at four times in his life — as a boy in Corsica, during his exile on the island of Elba, the day he died on St. Helena, at age 51, and the day afterward — and discovered that the arsenic levels underwent no significant rises.
270 2008-06-10 Senator John McCain apparently now believes that President Bush acted lawfully when he authorized the National Security Agency to violate the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Senator McCain says that only “the A.C.L.U. and trial lawyers” believe that the warrantless wiretapping program was illegal.

In fact, the proposition that the president can violate statutory law was rejected by the framers of the Constitution and has repeatedly been rejected by the Supreme Court.

After the American Civil Liberties Union challenged the N.S.A.’s program, two federal judges — the only judges who considered the question — both concluded that the program was unconstitutional.

Of the many aggressive legal arguments that the Bush administration has advanced over the last seven years, none is more dangerous and more contemptuous of foundational democratic principles than the argument that the president is above the law.
271 2008-06-10 As researchers ponder growing evidence that blacks have worse outcomes than whites in the treatment of chronic disease, they often theorize that members of minorities suffer disproportionately from poor access to quality care. Now a new study of diabetes patients has found stark racial disparities even among patients treated by the same doctors.

The lead author of the study said in an interview that he attributed the differences less to overt racism than to a systemic failure to tailor treatments to patients’ cultural norms. The problem, said the author, Dr. Thomas D. Sequist, an assistant professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School, may be that physicians do not discriminate in the way they counsel patients.

“It isn’t that providers are doing different things for different patients,” Dr. Sequist said. “It’s that we’re doing the same thing for every patient and not accounting for individual needs. Our one-size-fits-all approach may leave minority patients with needs that aren’t being met.”

For instance, he said, counseling black or Latino patients with diabetes to lower their carbohydrate intake by cutting rice from their diets may not be a realistic strategy if rice is a family staple.

“We may be listing fruits and vegetables that are part of one person’s culture but not another,” Dr. Sequist said. “We’re not really giving them information they can use.”
272 2008-06-10 Pacific-10 Commissioner Tom Hansen announced Monday that he would retire in July 2009, the second major change in college athletics leadership in less than a week.

In a telephone interview, Hansen, 70, described his 26-year stay atop the conference as “a wonderful run.”

He will retire at nearly the same time as Big East Commissioner Mike Tranghese, who announced last Thursday that he would step down in June 2009.

During Hansen’s tenure, the conference’s teams won more than 200 national titles. Another part of his legacy will be his staunch opposition to a playoff system in college football.

Despite strong public and news media criticism, Hansen never wavered on protecting the Pac-10’s and the Big Ten’s relationship with the Rose Bowl.

“It’s been a good system,” Hansen said of the Bowl Championship Series. “It addresses the obvious need we have to determine a national championship.”
273 2008-06-10 “We did not arrive at the doorstep of our current economic crisis by some accident of history,” Mr. Obama said here to 900 invited guests, a relatively small audience for him. “This was not an inevitable part of the business cycle that was beyond our power to avoid. It was the logical conclusion of a tired and misguided philosophy that has dominated Washington for far too long.”

He added a moment later: “We were promised a fiscal conservative. Instead, we got the most fiscally irresponsible administration in history. And now John McCain wants to give us another. Well, we’ve been there once. We’re not going back.”

Leading Congressional Democrats indicated on Monday that they plan to work hand-in-glove with the Democratic standard-bearer on a range of economic issues, including gas prices and increasing joblessness.

On Monday, House Democrats said they intended to force a separate vote later this week — possibly Thursday — on an extension of unemployment benefits for those whose aid is running out.

Though President Bush and many Republicans in Congress have resisted the extra benefits, Democrats say they believe that rising unemployment will strengthen their hand and provide them with some political ammunition should the president veto the bill.

And on Tuesday, the Senate will vote on whether to take up a package of energy initiatives that includes a new tax on so-called windfall profits of big oil companies and provisions to tamp down speculation in oil futures, which some analysts say have contributed to the run-up in prices.

In a conference call with reporters on Monday, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, echoed Mr. Obama when he said, “People understand that, as these energy prices go through the roof, as the stock market craters, as we have the highest unemployment figure increase in recent years, the Bush economic policies have failed.”

And Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who is leading the campaign effort of Senate Democrats, said coordinated messages by Mr. Obama and the Democratic majority in Congress would yield big gains in November.

“We in the Senate relish the opportunity to work with Senator Obama,” he said in the call. “Now that the primary season is over, there is going to be a clear voice.”

Democratic Congressional leaders and Howard Dean, the party chairman, also scheduled a joint news conference for Tuesday afternoon to lay out the party’s economic policies and try to draw a contrast with Mr. McCain.

Mr. McCain, who attended fund-raising events in Washington and Virginia on Monday, issued a statement belittling Mr. Obama’s approach.

“While hard-working families are hurting and employers are vulnerable, Barack Obama has promised higher income taxes, Social Security taxes, capital gains taxes, dividend taxes and tax hikes on job-creating businesses,” a McCain spokesman, Tucker Bounds, said in a statement issued before Mr. Obama’s remarks. “Barack Obama doesn’t understand the American economy, and that’s change we just can’t afford.”

Mr. Obama’s address came as Americans were grappling with $4-a-gallon gasoline and a weakening employment picture. Before Mr. Obama spoke, Pamela Cash-Roper, an unemployed nurse, told of the economic pain caused by a series of medical crises in her family. Mrs. Cash-Roper, who described herself as a lifelong Republican, said she had turned to the government for help, “but help was nowhere to be seen.” She said she supported Mr. Obama because he had been working for “hard-working Americans like us for more than two decades.”

The pieces of the economic program that Mr. Obama laid out on Monday were not new, but the context was. This is the first full week of the general election campaign, and Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain are beginning what promises to be an intense fight over the economy and the Iraq war. Mr. Obama, by focusing on economic issues, was trying to move those concerns ahead of Iraq and national security matters, where Mr. McCain has more experience.

In his remarks, Mr. Obama proposed a number of short-term measures to relieve the hardships of American families and rescue the economy from the brink of recession.

In addition to his proposal for $50 billion more in immediate stimulus programs and relief for homeowners facing foreclosure, Mr. Obama proposed new rules to prevent mortgage and credit card fraud and tax reductions for middle-income families and retirees.

He said he would preserve Social Security by requiring higher payments from the wealthy. He vowed to resist all efforts to privatize the program or raise the retirement age. He also vowed to repeal the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest citizens and noted that Mr. McCain had originally opposed the Bush tax breaks because, as Mr. Obama put it in a rare verbal slip, they were “too skewered” to the rich.

Obama advisers said the new programs would be paid for by a combination of tax increases, elimination of waste and savings from the drawdown of American troops in Iraq. Mr. Obama has said in the past that he would allow the tax cuts enacted by the Bush administration to expire and impose higher taxes on some investment income.

Senator Richard M. Burr, a North Carolina Republican who supports Mr. McCain, said in a conference call on Monday afternoon that Mr. Obama was simply casting blame for the nation’s economic woes and making promises he could not pay for. “I think the speech we heard today is what the American people are sick and tired of,” Mr. Burr said.

Mr. Obama posed the choice between him and Mr. McCain as a fundamental one between the future and the past, the ground on which he hopes to fight the campaign.

“That is the choice we face right now,” he said near the end of his 40-minute address. “A choice between more of the same policies that have widened inequality, added to our debt and shaken the foundation of our economy, or change that will restore balance to our economy, that will invest in the ingenuity and innovation of our people, that will fuel a bottom-up prosperity to keep America strong and competitive in the 21st century.”

“It is not an argument between left or right, liberal or conservative, to say that we have tried it their way for eight long years and it has failed,” he added. “It is time to try something new. It is time for a change.”

Mr. Obama praised Mr. McCain’s years of military and government service, but his generosity quickly gave way to a harsh attack on Mr. McCain’s economic beliefs and credentials.

“John McCain and I have a fundamentally different vision of where to take the country,” Mr. Obama said “Because for all his talk of independence, the centerpiece of his economic plan amounts to a full-throated endorsement of George Bush’s policies. He says we’ve made great progress in our economy these past eight years. He calls himself a fiscal conservative and on the campaign trail he’s a passionate critic of government spending, and yet he has no problem spending hundreds of billions of dollars on tax breaks for big corporations and a permanent occupation of Iraq — policies that have left our children with a mountain of debt.”
274 2008-06-10 Iranian officials strongly oppose the American military presence in Iraq, which they consider a major threat on their border. Yet it was the American-led effort that overthrew their hated enemy, Saddam Hussein, and brought about a coalition government in Baghdad dominated by Shiite political leaders, including Mr. Maliki, with strong ties to Iran.

“When a foreign force gradually increases its interference and domination in all the affairs of Iraq, it becomes the most important obstacle in development and prosperity of the Iraqi people,” the ayatollah said, without directly referring to the security agreements.

The Iranian accounts of the meeting between Ayatollah Khamenei and Mr. Maliki did not give Mr. Maliki’s response. But he had assured Iranian authorities on Sunday that his country would not become “a platform for harming the security of Iran and its neighbors.”

Tensions between the governments in Tehran and Washington have escalated under the Bush administration, which has accused the Iranians of working on a nuclear weapons program in secret and of financing and supplying deadly weapons to anti-American militants in Iraq. Iran denies the accusations.

In Iraq, negotiations over the security pact have become a major political issue, further splitting Shiite allies of Mr. Maliki and the political movement of Moktada al-Sadr, the radical Shiite cleric.

The New York Times reported last month that aides to Mr. Maliki from his Dawa Party said that American negotiators were demanding continued control of Iraqi airspace, immunity for American soldiers and security contractors, authority for more than 50 long-term bases, and the right to continue to carry out unimpeded military operations.

Iraqi officials object to those terms, and are particularly insistent about limiting immunity for security contractors and ensuring that future American military operations are restricted and have the blessing of the Iraqi government, according to Ali Adeeb, a senior Dawa official close to Mr. Maliki. Some Iraqi officials have also complained that while the American military would maintain a large presence under the pact, it would not be obligated to protect the Iraqi government from aggression, either from outside or inside its borders.

American officials have denied any plans for long-term military bases, but have acknowledged that they are seeking some other terms that Iraqi officials object to. The Sadrists have long opposed the occupation, and they also complain that Mr. Maliki’s recent operations against Sadr militiamen in Basra and Baghdad never would have succeeded without the backing of American military forces.

During Friday Prayer last week, Sadrist clerics excoriated Mr. Maliki’s political allies over their recent criticism of elements of the proposed security pact, saying that their public comments were only a pretense and that they were sure to sign the agreement after making minor changes.

“Shall we follow those who refuse the agreement totally, or shall we follow those who temporarily refuse it, but who will later agree to it after making some amendments?” Sheik Salah al-Obaidi, a top Sadrist official, said during prayers in Kufa, where he singled out Mr. Maliki’s Dawa Party and the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, another powerful Shiite party.

Also on Monday, Iraqi security officials said three people were killed, including an Iraqi soldier, and 12 were wounded by a car bomb in central Baghdad. Gunmen also killed three people during a robbery at two gold shops in Baghdad. And three unidentified bodies were found in the capital.

In the northern city of Mosul, gunmen killed two sheiks from nearby Tal Afar who were visiting the city and who had been important leaders of reconciliation efforts in Tal Afar and in the fight against Sunni militants, according to Tal Afar officials.
275 2008-06-10 The Dow Jones industrial average on Monday recovered from some of Friday’s big losses after oil prices retreated, but the broader stock market remained mixed as financial stocks continued to tumble.

The Dow, which took its biggest hit in 15 months on Friday, finished higher 70.51 points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,280.32. Earlier in the day, the blue-chip index was up as much as 1 percent, bolstered by shares of Alcoa, McDonald’s and Exxon Mobil.

But analysts said the Dow’s slight gains on Monday were not cause for celebration.

“The financial stocks that are bad are really bad, and they’re getting hammered,” said William Rhodes, an investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics.

Other indexes opened slightly higher but were mixed by the close. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 1.08 points, or 0.08 percent, to 1,361.76, while the technology-laden Nasdaq fell 15.10 points, 0.6 percent, to 2,459.46.

A larger-than-expected loss from Lehman Brothers added to continued concerns about credit markets. The bank announced a surprising $2.8 billion loss and said it planned to raise $6 billion in capital, sending its shares tumbling nearly 9 percent, to $29.48, a five-year low. Lehman is down 55 percent this year.
276 2008-06-10 Today, most electronic health records are maintained by health providers and insurers, allowing individuals access to their records through the Web. But those records are typically controlled by the institutions, and are not portable when a person changes insurers or health providers or moves to another part of the country.

Both Microsoft and Google have previously announced collaborative pilot projects with other health providers. For Microsoft, they include the Mayo Clinic and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. For Google, they include the Cleveland Clinic and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.

But the Kaiser move, analysts say, is significant given the California-based health company’s size and its reputation as an innovative user of information technology.

In the mid-1990s, Kaiser began offering its members the ability to ask health questions to nurses over the Web. In the last few years, it has gone much further with its Web-based My Health Manager personal health record, which enables patients to make appointments, send e-mail questions to doctors and place prescription orders online.

The adoption of Kaiser’s internal health record is growing at 100 percent a year, with 2.25 million of its patient members using it to date, Ms. Silvestre said.

Linking the consumer-controlled personal health record with the Kaiser record opens the door to sharing and supplementing information from the Kaiser system with other personal health information. The proliferation of personal health monitoring machines, from blood pressure machines to pedometers, could be included, along with records of diet and exercise routines.

The goal, health experts say, is to give people useful information so they can be more active in managing their own health. The biggest payoff would be in improving the self-management of chronic ailments, like diabetes, asthma, congestive heart disease and hypertension, which account for the majority of the nation’s health care bill.

“We think we can start to transform the management of chronic diseases,” said Peter Neupert, the vice president in charge of Microsoft’s health group.

The Kaiser partnership is a success for Microsoft’s early efforts to forge ties with health providers. Such information-sharing collaborations, analysts say, are crucial to the use of consumer-controlled personal health records, because individuals are not expected to type in large volumes of health information themselves.

Kaiser chose the Microsoft technology, even though Ms. Silvestre is a member of a group of health professionals advising Google. Ms. Silvestre said Kaiser had also looked closely at Google, but had been particularly impressed by Microsoft’s technology for protecting the privacy and security of personal data. And she said that Microsoft and Kaiser were using the same Web-based format, called a Continuity of Care Document, or CCD.

Ms. Silvestre said Google was initially focusing its efforts on a different format for Web health records, called Continuity of Care Record, or CCR.

But these different Web standards, analysts say, are not a long-term obstacle to the ability of consumer health records from rival companies to share and view information. Google, for example, is committed to supporting both formats, and so is Microsoft.

“Google will certainly be a player in this, and we look forward to working with them,” Ms. Silvestre said. “We’re all for consumer choice.”
277 2008-06-10 Sticking to the Mediterranean diet — rich in olive oil, grains, fruits, nuts, vegetables and fish, and low in meats and dairy — may lower the risk for diabetes.

Scientists followed 13,380 healthy Spanish university graduates for an average of four and a half years, tracking their dietary habits and confirming new cases of diabetes through medical records. The study was published online May 29 in The British Medical Journal.

The researchers ranked the strictness of adherence to the diet on a 10-point scale, and found that those with the highest scores reduced their relative risk of diabetes by 83 percent compared with those with the lowest.

The authors acknowledge that the number of cases of diabetes they found was small, which limits the statistical power of the finding, and that the nutritional information is based on self-reporting, which is not always reliable.

Still, the large sample and the finding of a dose-response relationship between stricter adherence to the diet and lowered risk of diabetes give the study strength.

“There are good fats, like those in olive oil, that are quite healthful,” said Miguel A. Martínez-González, the lead author and a professor of epidemiology at the University of Navarra. “We have to change this belief that a low-fat diet is the key to good health.”
278 2008-06-10 Factor V Leiden is more often than not a hidden disorder, until someone in a family — often someone like Mr. Bloom, who was athletic and healthy — develops a deep vein thrombosis or another unexpected clot. Because screening for this problem is not routine, factor V Leiden is usually not detected until several members of a family develop clots or one person develops a succession of clots.

Even then, a possible carrier of the gene defect may not be tested.

Dr. Rinah Shopnick, medical director of the Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center of Nevada, described the case of Ann, 20, who reported to the center about her doctors’ reactions to her family history. Ann told doctors that her otherwise healthy cousin had suffered a major heart attack in his 40s and was found to have factor V Leiden. Her grandmother died while pregnant, and her aunt, uncle and grandfather died of heart problems.

Ann reported that she had had blood pressure problems since age 8, and developed a serious blood pressure disorder during pregnancy and that her brother had just tested positive for the defect.

Yet she was advised by two doctors not to be tested, she said. The reasoning was that the disorder was rare, that she would have to pay for the test (it is not expensive) and that if she was found to carry the gene it could affect her ability to buy affordable life and health insurance. (Federal legislation has just been passed to protect against discrimination in employment and health insurance.)

In someone with factor V Leiden, clots can arise in veins anywhere. The abnormality can increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, miscarriage, gallbladder dysfunction and toxemia of pregnancy. Clots are also more likely to develop after surgery and childbirth and in women taking oral contraceptives or estrogen therapy.

The disorder results from a mutation in the factor V gene that participates in forming clots in response to an injury, for example. Without two fully functional factor V genes, the body’s ability to put a brake on clot formation is inhibited.

Normally, a molecule called activated protein C, or APC, prevents clots from becoming too large by inactivating coagulation factor V. But factor V Leiden impairs this protein’s ability to suppress the coagulation factor because it is longer lasting and stickier.

A parent who carries the mutated gene has a 50 percent chance of passing it on to each child. Someone who inherits one mutated gene faces a five- to seven-fold increased risk of developing a serious and potentially life-threatening clot. Someone with two of the damaged genes has a 25- to 50-fold increased risk. Approximately one person in 5,000 among whites in the United States and Europe has two of the mutated genes.

Because the risk of suffering a clot is about one in 1,000 people a year in the general population, the increased risk associated with factor V Leiden is not to be taken lightly: 5 to 7 in 1,000 people each year for those with one mutant gene and 25 to 50 per 1,000 in those with two mutant genes. The risk is greatest in individuals who have more than one clotting defect, as well as in people who smoke or are overweight.

A Danish study of 9,253 adults found that in people who did not smoke, were not overweight and were younger than 40, the 10-year risk of clots and emboli was 1 percent in those with one mutated gene and 3 percent in those with two damaged genes. But the risk increased to 10 percent in people with one mutated gene and 51 percent in those with two abnormal genes if they smoked, were overweight and were older than 60.

Two blood tests can detect factor V Leiden. One, the APC resistance assay, is 95 percent accurate and could be used for screening. It measures the anticoagulant response to activated protein C. A definitive but more costly diagnosis, also performed on blood, can be made by genetic analysis of the factor V gene.

One or both tests is recommended for people with D.V.T., pulmonary embolism, premature stroke, repeated miscarriage, a family history of clots or a known factor V mutation in a blood relative. Thus, Mr. Bloom’s three daughters should be tested, because each has a 50 percent chance of carrying the defective gene.

For people with a personal or family history of clots, testing can help avert clotting complications when they undergo major surgery, are treated for cancer, anticipate pregnancy or plan to take oral contraceptives, estrogen therapy or a drug like tamoxifen.

In women with factor V Leiden, for example, treatment with an anticoagulant during pregnancy can reduce the risk of pregnancy loss. Women needing contraception might be wise to avoid birth control pills and instead choose a method that would not increase their risk of clots. And a person who is hospitalized or needs surgery can be treated with blood thinners and mechanical compression boots.

Though factor V Leiden alone does not seem to raise the risk of arterial clots, something as simple as daily therapy with low-dose aspirin may help prevent a heart attack or stroke in people with factor V Leiden if they have additional risk factors.

Preventive action is also important during long periods of immobilization, including long car and plane rides. Drinking plenty of water to prevent dehydration, avoiding alcohol, taking frequent walks and wearing elastic stockings can lower the risk of clots on such excursions.
279 2008-06-10 In another sign of uneasiness, interest rates soared on two-year Treasuries, with yields rising more than a third of a percentage point. It was the largest gain for the two-year rate since 1996.

The leap in the yield meant that investors were selling off their Treasury holdings in anticipation of the Fed raising interest rates in the latter half of the year. Some forecasters predict that inflation will worsen on the back of high oil prices, prompting the Fed to increase rates in an effort to cool off price increases.

While a rate increase is far from certain, Fed officials have emphasized concerns over inflation in recent days. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed’s chairman, told a conference on Cape Cod Monday night that the Fed “will strongly resist an erosion of longer-term inflation expectations” in light of higher commodity prices, which he said had “added to the upside risks to inflation.”

Mr. Bernanke said last month’s spike in unemployment had not affected his optimistic forecast for the economy, which he said was likely to “avoid a substantial downturn” and slowly recover in the second half of the year.

Mr. Geithner, speaking in Midtown Manhattan, also expressed concern, saying that foreign central banks might be forced to raise rates to combat a “sustained rise” in prices.

But he stopped short of suggesting the Fed would raise rates, citing a more complicated economic situation in the United States. “So far we do not see evidence yet of a significant acceleration in inflation,” he said. He also pointed to the current weakness of the American economy as a reason to hesitate.

Mr. Geithner’s remarks came after a speech to the Economic Club of New York in which he called for a more stringent and broadly reaching oversight plan for the government and the Fed.

He called for a significant overhaul in the regulation of the financial industry, declaring that the current system of supervision was “confusing” and generated “perverse” incentives for financial participants.

Among his recommendations were placing investment banks and other major private-sector financial players under a single regulatory umbrella; “strengthening shock absorbers within institutions” by raising the required levels of capital reserves; and streamlining a system of oversight that, he said, had ballooned into “an enormously complex web of rules.”

Mr. Geithner had little overt praise for a reform platform put forward in March by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., saying the proposal “stimulated a very constructive set of discussions.” Instead, he called for the Fed to have more authority in overseeing the stability of global markets.

Mr. Geithner, 46, has been at the center of a closely watched policy debate that arose from the ashes of Bear Stearns, the venerable investment bank that nearly defaulted at the height of the winter’s credit crisis. The Fed’s bailout of Bear, orchestrated by Mr. Geithner, raised questions about the role of the central bank.

Mr. Geithner acknowledged that central bankers faced a delicate balance in seeking to avoid either suppressing innovation or rewarding reckless behavior. “We have to distinguish carefully between problems the markets will solve on their own and those markets cannot solve,” he said.

But he said the shocks of the last few months were reason enough “to require significant changes to the way we regulate and supervise financial institutions.”

He said the Fed planned to extend and expand upon the financial faucets it put into place since the summer’s mortgage meltdown, to provide banks with a wide range of sources of liquidity. “The major central banks should put in place a standing network of currency swaps, collateral policies and account arrangements that would make it easier to mobilize liquidity across borders quickly in crisis,” he said.

Responding to a question, Mr. Geithner said the evidence he had seen indicated the run-up in oil prices was not caused by speculation, but instead resulted from a substantial increase in global demand, as well as from expectations of future increases
280 2008-06-10 As widely anticipated, the phone will run on so-called 3G wireless networks that allow much faster Internet connections than the original iPhone. During a 110-minute presentation, Mr. Jobs went to some lengths to compare the speed of the new iPhone 3G to the current phone and to rival phones like the Nokia N95 and the Palm Treo 750. He called downloads “amazingly zippy.”

The phone, sleeker than the original, will also have built-in Global Positioning System capability to allow location-based services. It will also have a longer battery life in some cases, five hours for talking on the 3G network and 24 hours for playing music on the phone.

The announcements came on the opening day of Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference, where several developers showed off software that turned the iPhone into a game console and a musical instrument. Others demonstrated programs that used the phone’s ability to locate its users on a map.

At one point during his demonstration, Mr. Jobs showed a tracking feature making it possible to watch on a Google map as an iPhone user drove down Lombard Street, the twisty tourist attraction in San Francisco.

Mr. Jobs also indirectly challenged Microsoft with a mobile Web service call MobileMe, intended to permit a user to synchronize a phone, calendar and contact information on the iPhone and multiple devices including PCs and other iPhones. The service, which will costs $99 a year and comes with 20 gigabytes of data storage, is similar to a service offered by Microsoft.

Apple’s obstacle in offering the new service is that its competitors, like Google, offer similar services for less. Google offers 10 gigabytes of e-mail storage for $20 a year.

Apple announced that it would begin selling the iPhone in 70 countries this summer; the current phone is being sold in six countries.

“Given the feature set, ecosystem partners, launch countries and the pricing of the iPhone, they are likely to hit the 10 million mark by September-October,” said Chetan Sharma, an independent consultant on the wireless data communications industry.

The company, based in Cupertino, Calif., announced on Monday in a regulatory filing that it would sell the 3G phones under different business arrangements in the United States. In the past, Apple shared service plan revenue with AT&T and other cellular firms. The second-generation iPhone will be sold without the recurring revenue streams and without the exclusivity arrangements it was previously able to command.

While trying to convince cellular carriers around the world that they should carry the iPhone, Apple realized that it needed to change the financial deal that it had with the carriers in the first six countries.

“We’ve changed our business model, from getting a cut of the future revenues to just a more traditional model,” Mr. Jobs said in an interview on Monday. “That’s enabled us to roll out around the world much faster.”

AT&T said it would subsidize the phones to attract consumers. Under the plan, unlimited iPhone 3G data plans for consumers will be available for $30 a month, in addition to voice plans starting at $40. Business users will be charged $45 a month for data.

By giving back the revenue to the carriers, which they may use for subsidies, Apple is hoping to dramatically increase its volume, as well as sell more Macintosh computers to iPhone users.

“It’s not about the iPhone,” said Charles Wolf, a financial analyst at Needham & Company. “There’s a tradeoff that Apple is making. The iPhone halo effect will be far more powerful than the iPod halo effect was. It’s going to stimulate Mac sales among iPhone users.”
281 2008-06-10 LONDON — The Royal Bank of Scotland said Monday that 95.1 per cent of shareholders had subscribed to its record $23.5 billion rights issue — a level seen by many analysts as in line with their expectations.

The share sale was Europe’s biggest and the first by a British-based bank since the credit crunch sent shock waves through the banking sector.

Royal Bank of Scotland launched the rights issue at 200 pence per share to raise capital badly depleted by its takeover of ABN AMRO bank in the Netherlands last year and by writedowns. It offered 11 new shares for every 18 existing shares.

The subscription left a so-called “rump” of almost 300 million shares, held by the underwriters of the issue — Merrill Lynch, UBS and Goldman Sachs.

“There’s always demand for fairer-priced shares even in an unloved sector like this one,” said James Eden, an analyst at Exane BNP in London. “Given that only about 10 percent of the bank’s shareholders are retail shareholders, this seems to be a rather unsurprising outcome.”

Two other banks planning rights issues, HBOS and Bradford & Bingley, “have more retail shareholders so you would expect the take-up not to be so high. What is more important for them is that their share price does not trade above the rights issue price.”

Traders had been forecasting a take-up of around 95 percent and said that level would be sufficient for the rights offer to be considered successful.
282 2008-06-10 “I would never leave my children a second time,” said Ms. Delgado, 38, a nanny who has been raising others’ children while aching for her own. “I’m sorry I did it.”

Though both husband and wife favor legalization, they differ on the critics’ main complaint — that “regularizations” attract more illegal migrants.

“I don’t think so,” said Mr. Cantos, 43, a truck driver who argued that migrants moved out of desperation, not legal expectations. “I didn’t even know what a regularization was.”

But Ms. Delgado said repeated amnesties could act as a magnet. “People are thinking they’ll be able to get their papers almost immediately,” she said.

The United States has an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, a record number. Its last mass amnesty program, which began in 1987, legalized 2.7 million. President Bush proposed an immigration plan that would give some workers a path to legalization. But it died last year under assault from people who said it would lead to more illegal immigration.

Europe has held at least 20 legalizations in the past 25 years, giving residency papers to about four million people. Italy and Spain account for about two-thirds of the total, to the consternation of northern Europeans who see the south as the Continent’s weak back door. With free movement across much of Europe, legalized immigrants can easily head north, alarming those worried about job competition, welfare costs, cultural clashes or terrorist threats.

Southern Europe’s tolerance for illegal immigration has several explanations. Its aging populations and booming economies created a need for foreign workers. Its proximity to northern and eastern Europe places it close to countries that supply them. And its economies have traditionally depended more on off-the-books workers.

No country has run more legalization programs than Spain, which has carried out six since 1985. As recently as a decade ago, immigrants made up less than 2 percent of the population. Now they are more than 10 percent. About 40 percent come from eastern and northern Europe; 38 percent come from Latin America; and 20 percent from Africa.

Despite the rapid change, until recently there was little political conflict, with legalizations occurring under both conservative and socialist governments. Spain even offers immigrants free , whether they are legal or not.

“The attitude toward unauthorized migrants is much more relaxed than in the United States,” said Joaquín Arango, a sociologist at Complutense University in Madrid.

The acceptance has been attributed to newfound prosperity, the need for workers, the progressive culture of post-Franco Spain and the shared language with Latin Americans, which spares Spain a major source of tension in the United States.

But with the economy slowing, attitudes appear to be changing. The unemployment rate among foreigners is now 14.7 percent, compared with 8.7 percent among Spaniards. Nearly 40 percent of the recent jump in unemployment has occurred among the foreign-born.

“People are starting to say: ‘We don’t need immigrants. They should return to their country,’ ” said Sebastián Salinas, a lawyer with the immigrant rights group Acobe.

Immigration emerged as an election issue in Spain this year for the first time. Mariano Rajoy, a conservative challenger to Prime Minister José Luiz Rodríguez Zapatero, said the 2005 legalization had attracted more illegal immigrants and increased social tensions. “We are heading toward a situation of enormous problems,” said Mr. Rajoy, who narrowly lost.

Likewise, with Italy’s economy faltering, Prime Minister recently promised a new crackdown on illegal immigrants.

Mr. Cantos, in moving to Spain, traded one set of problems for another. One of 11 children born to poor farmers, he finished most of high school and landed a job collecting insurance premiums. But he lost it in 1999 when bank runs, a currency plunge and soaring unemployment sent hundreds of thousands of Ecuadorians to Spain, which they could enter without visas at the time.

Mr. Cantos joined them in 2001 after borrowing the air fare from a sister in . (She had moved there illegally and become legalized, but warned him that the border was now too dangerous to cross.) He found piecemeal work in Madrid passing out leaflets, and Ms. Delgado, needing money, reluctantly followed.

Life was miserable. They lived in a two-bedroom apartment with seven other migrants. They went to work fearing arrest. Ms. Delgado had lived in Madrid for two years when Spain put into effect the legalization, which covered only migrants with jobs. Of the 570,000 successful applicants, two-thirds came from five countries: Ecuador (21 percent), (17 percent), (13 percent), (8 percent) and (7 percent).

The government argued that underground work reduced tax revenue and gave lawbreaking employers a competitive edge, through lower labor costs. But officials say their main goal was social, not economic.

“If you practice exclusion, you risk the future of your country,” said Jesús Caldera, who ran the program when he was labor minister. “You risk terrorism, violence.”

Still, there have been costs. The slowdown in construction has idled Mauricio Velasco, a housepainter from Ecuador, who now draws unemployment benefits. Jorge Salinas brought his mother from Bolivia, but she soon needed a , which the Spanish government provided without charge. His mother, Miriam Vaca, 70, now gets free treatments three times a week. “The ambulance comes to get me,” she said. “They are very, very kind.”

French, German and Dutch officials criticized the Spanish move, fearing an increase in illegal immigration that would cross their borders. Some domestic critics said the program also attracted illegal workers dwelling elsewhere in Europe.

“They came by land, air and water,” said Ana Pastor, a legislator from the conservative Popular Party. “There was a massive influx.”

Lorenzo Cachón, a sociologist at Complutense University, analyzed the program’s “call effect” by studying municipal records. Most immigrants in Spain, legal or not, register with local governments to obtain benefits like health insurance. Their numbers grew 20 percent the year after the program was announced, compared with 3 percent the year before.

“That means the maximum call effect is 17 percent,” he said. In practice, he said, much of that growth came from migrants already living in Spain, who registered as part of legalization. “I consider that a small call effect.”

He, like most scholars, said migrants were mainly lured by jobs. But the region’s history of repeated legalizations, he added, may add to the pull. “It produces in the imagination of the immigrant the possibility that there might be a regularization,” he said.

A 2007 report by the Council of Europe, an organization of European states, concluded that the Spanish program may have had a small “pull effect” but called it a “positive experience from which many European states can learn.”

For the Cantos family, the program brought an uphill fight. Mr. Cantos paid $1,200 to a lawyer who never filed his application, which he discovered only when stopped by the police. Finding him absent from the list of pending cases, they jailed him overnight and started deportation proceedings.

Ms. Delgado did get her papers filed, only to discover that her employer failed to sign them. She says her boss “forgot” — drawing quotation marks with her fingers and rolling her eyes — “because she knew I wanted to travel back to Ecuador, and she didn’t want me to go.” She won a long appeal, and Mr. Cantos was legalized as her spouse.

Their combined income quickly rose about 30 percent, as employers had to pay more to keep them. With annual earnings of about $44,000, they make about 20 times what Mr. Cantos made in Ecuador as the family’s sole provider.

Mr. Cantos said legalization had brought him “a sense of peace,” as he no longer feared arrest. But Ms. Delgado wears the willed smile of a woman trying to hide her sorrow. Her visit to Ecuador reminded her of how much she had missed of her children’s lives. “You go back and you don’t find them the way you left them,” she said.

Their income allowed the couple to bring just one child to Spain, and they brought their youngest, Allan. Arriving in March, he found the weather cold, the food strange. Puzzled by his parents’ fourth-floor walk-up, he said, “The houses are high.”

Fearful of losing his mother again, he grows jealous when his father hugs her. He exploded one night when he heard his parents laughing in the next room.

“He ran out of the bathroom and said, ‘You two are happier without me!’ ” Ms. Delgado said. “He still asks us to this day, ‘Why did you leave us behind?’ ”

With another willed smile, she added, “We’re so happy to have at least one of them back.”
283 2008-06-10 WOMEN MOVE TO SMARTPHONES About a third of the people buying Apple's new iPhone are women, who have become eager buyers of other smartphones like BlackBerrys, Treos and other models for both business and family reasons.       Apple will sell a spe...
284 2008-06-11 About 75 minutes before the Cubs and Braves played at Wrigley Field on Wednesday night, I saw Alfonso Soriano in the Chicago clubhouse. Soriano was sitting by himself at a long table, eating yogurt. I approached Soriano, the former Yankee, to say ...
285 2008-06-11 Meghan McCain just finished writing a flattering children's picture book about her father's life, set to come out just as Senator John McCain accepts the Republican nomination....
286 2008-06-11 Matt Welch of Reason, left, and Ramesh Ponnuru of National Review debate John McCain's foreign policy instincts.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
287 2008-06-11 Patricia J. Lancaster, who was forced out of her post as buildings commissioner, was feted by industry professionals in Midtown....
288 2008-06-11 A federal court judge ruled in favor of CSX in the railroad operator's battle with a pair of activist hedge funds that are seeking to oust five members of its board. (Download the opinion as a PDF here.) The hedge funds, The Children's Investment ...
289 2008-06-11 Laurence D. Fink is no stranger to rough markets. As The New York Times reported last month, the chairman and chief executive of BlackRock is known for his emphasis on risk, making him a go-to figure during the credit market turmoil. Now that the ...
290 2008-06-11 A Web site ranks radiation emitted by virtually every brand and model of cell phone....
291 2008-06-11 BlackRock's chief executive, Larry Fink, talks with CNBC's Maria Bartiromo about Lehman Brothers and what investors should consider.
292 2008-06-11 Freshly squeezed orange juice for 40 cents? Barney Greengrass, and Upper West Side institution, is celebrating its centennial by bringing back "1908" prices....
293 2008-06-11 Daniel W. Drezner, a political economist at Tufts University and a veteran blogger, has posted a provocative essay about public intellectuals on his site...
294 2008-06-11 Hedge fund managers are better known for making money - scads of it - than for giving it away. The truth is a bit more nuanced. While the industry has produced few mega-philanthropists along the lines of Bill Gates or, to go back a few years, Andr...
295 2008-06-11 "Home," the well-received new memoir by Julie Andrews, pulls back the curtains on her early years, before Hollywood and her megamusicals. It's an honest book, but it's no sloppy tell-all. The famously composed Ms. Andrews serves up her revelations...
296 2008-06-11 The collapsed business class airline Silverjet plans to be back in the skies within weeks after its administrators accepted a buyout offer from a Swiss investment firm. The appointed administrator, Begbies Traynor, which took control of Silverjet ...
297 2008-06-11 Dell'Anima has gotten a little better....
298 2008-06-11 Most New York State Democrats in the new survey said that Barack Obama should pick Hillary Rodham Clinton as his running mate, while Republican voters and independent voters opposed the idea....
299 2008-06-11 Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram Pandit, on Tuesday called for a "vigorous" debate on regulatory oversight as the crisis in the financial services industry continues, Dow Jones Newswires reported. Speaking at the British Bankers' Associations' ...
300 2008-06-11 Investors withdrew a net amount of nearly $6 billion from hedge funds in April, according to a report from TrimTabs Investment Research and BarclayHedge. It was the first time in more than two years that outflows outpaced inflows, according to Fin...
301 2008-06-11 The Commodities Futures Trading Commission said Tuesday that it is establishing a task force to study the role of speculators and index traders in commodities that will include representatives of the Federal Reserve, the Securities Exchange Commis...
302 2008-06-11 Soaring commodity prices have triggered an avalanche of coal miners looking to go public in Canada, including a Pennsylvania producer considering a listing that could value the company at about 1 billion Canadian dollars ($981 million), according ...
303 2008-06-11 In an effort to examine one part of this equation, the wine panel recently tasted 25 bottles of malbec from Argentina that cost no more than $25 each. This is a particularly rich vein to mine, as Argentina’s currency is one of the few in the wine-producing world against which the dollar still retains good value. For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Laura Maniec, director of wine and spirits for B. R. Guest Restaurants; and Jean-Luc Le Dû, owner of Le Dû’s Wines in the West Village.

Malbec, as you’ve no doubt heard, is Argentina’s great success story. It came to Argentina in the 19th century from France, where nowadays it’s the leading grape in Cahors and a minor variety in Bordeaux and the Loire. But in Argentina it has found a home and become the country’s all-important signature wine, setting Argentina apart from other New World producers.

We were all pleased by the quality of the winemaking we found. Those we liked most showed balance, liveliness and structure and were characterized by attractive aromas and flavors of plum, flowers, dark fruit, mint and licorice. Few were exaggerated in terms of size or sweetness. Jean-Luc called them amicable and Florence modest.

On the down side was a certain amount of uniformity, although, paradoxically, Laura said, that is a significant source of its popularity in the restaurant trade.

“We sell so much malbec,” she said. “It plays the medium card — it’s middle of the road but not especially distinctive. Everybody likes it because it’s not displeasing.”

If that’s damning with faint praise, so be it. But if you’re looking for a red wine that can play comfortably in a supporting role and that goes well with meats on the grill and with other summer cookout staples, many of these inexpensive malbecs would make fine choices. Four of our top five wines, in fact, were $12 or less, which, in a sense, demonstrated my cheapness theory in microcosm, as only six of the 25 wines in the tasting were in that price range. Of the 11 wines in the tasting that were $15 and under, five made the list, while the remaining five were from the 14 wines that were $16 to $25.

Our favorite wine, the 2004 Zagal from Hacienda del Plata, at $12 was also our best value, dense and fruity yet well balanced and structured, avoiding the too common pitfalls of sweetness and flabbiness. Hacienda del Plata is a fairly new winery, one we were unfamiliar with, but the rest of our top five comprised fairly well-known Argentine names. The 2005 Trapiche Broquel, also $12, offered winning aromas of violets, lavender, licorice and berries, while our No. 3 wine, the 2005 Ox Gran Reserva from Sur — just $10 — seemed, like many of these wines, to scream out for grilled beef.

The best Argentine wines, including nine of our top 10, come from the Mendoza province at the foot of the Andes range, which forms a natural border with Chile. The exception was our No. 7, the 2004 Grand Reserve from Graffigna in San Juan, an area better known for table grapes, raisins and wines used for brandies. The Graffigna was lively and pleasing, though at $18 it was one of the more expensive bottles in our top 10.

The wine that came closest to straying into the “expensive wannabe” category was, fittingly, at $25, the most expensive wine we tasted, the 2005 Mendel. The problem was the powerful oak flavors transmitted to the wine through aging in new barrels; luckily, the wine’s sturdy flavors of licorice and eucalyptus were able to stand up well to the oak. It’s not a wine for every taste, but if you don’t mind a significant oak component, it’s a good bottle.

The cheapness theory doesn’t always fit, but it is occasionally useful: I like to apply it to Italian barberas, to some Riojas and occasionally to California wines. I think it works with Argentine malbecs, too, where more expensive bottles do tend to take on the polished veneer of expensive international-style wines. Such wines are fine if your tastes run that way, but for me, throw some fangs and a few tentacles on one of those new oak barrels and you’ve got the perfect movie monster. Run!

Dense, aromatic and full of fruit; beautifully balanced and dry. (Importer: Cana Selections, New York)

Balanced and well structured with aromas of violets, lavender, licorice and berries. (Frederick Wildman & Sons, New York)

Big and tannic yet pure with well-balanced fruit and herbal flavors. (Mediterranean Wine Company, Dover, N.J.)

Balanced, lingering flavors of plums, licorice and oak with an earthy edge. (Paul Hobbs Imports, Napa, Calif.)

Inviting and easy to drink with attractive wild cherry, anise and plum aromas. (Billington Imports, Springfield, Va.)

Light-bodied and well balanced with sedate, subtle aromas and flavors. (Southern Grapes, Wilmington, Del.)

Lively and balanced with cherry, berry and licorice flavors. (Pernod Ricard, Purchase, N.Y.)

Structured but oaky with licorice and eucalyptus flavors. (Vine Connections, Sausalito, Calif.)

Nice structure with flavors of black cherry and mint. (Don Cano Wine Import, Woodside, N.Y.)

Soft yet attractive with flavors of sour cherries and licorice. (Testa Wines of the World, Oyster Bay, N.Y.)
304 2008-06-11 WASHINGTON — The war over the war exploded anew here on Wednesday. Advocates and spinmasters for both presumptive presidential nominees jumped into all-out battle after Senator John McCain, when asked whether he now had a better idea when American troops could return home from Iraq, replied, “No, but that’s not too important.”

Mr. McCain quickly added that American forces were still in South Korea, Japan and Germany long after the wars there, able to remain because they had no fear of casualties. His comments were not much different from what he has said before — that troop presence in a pacified country is not problematic — though he no longer suggests that Americans might still be in Iraq in 100 years.

“We will be able to withdraw,” the Republican senator told an NBC interviewer, “but the key to it is we don’t want any more Americans in harm’s way."

But Senator Barack Obama’s campaign used part of its concerted instant-response approach that is notable for its speed, volume and intensity — the type of approach that has come to characterize both sides . It quickly set up a conference call with reporters in which Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and two foreign-policy specialists, both veterans of the Clinton administration, skewered Mr. McCain for his comment.

Mr. Kerry called Mr. McCain’s statement “unbelievably out of touch and inconsistent with the needs and concerns of Americans,” particularly military families, who he described as caring very much indeed about getting the troops home soon.
305 2008-06-11 OAO Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest producer of nickel and palladium, reported an unexpected decline in profit for 2007 after cutting almost $2 billion off the value of mining and power companies it bought last year. Net income fell 11 percent, to $5.32 billion, or $29.20 a share, from $5.97 billion, or $31.70 a share, a year earlier, said the company, which is based in Moscow.
306 2008-06-11 German wholesale prices jumped 8.1 percent in May compared with a year ago, the biggest increase in 26 years, the Federal Statistics Office said. The increase reflected a 33.4 percent increase in prices for grain, seed and animal feed, along with a 16.4 percent increase in dairy products, eggs and food oils. It was the biggest annual rise since February 1982, the agency said.
307 2008-06-11 Washington Wizards guard Gilbert Arenas opted out of his contract, giving up a $12.8 million deal to become a free agent on July 1. Arenas, a three-time All-Star, has had two operations on his left knee in the past 14 months and missed most of last season. He has said he will seek a rich long-term deal but will take less money to stay in Washington so that the Wizards can have more money to re-sign forward Antawn Jamison. Arenas has averaged 22.8 points in his seven-year career, but managed 19.4 a game in 13 games last season.
308 2008-06-11 French industrial production rebounded in April from a decline in the previous month, led by output of cars, electrical equipment and chemicals. Production at factories and utilities, which accounts for 15 percent of the economy, gained 1.4 percent from March, when it fell 1 percent, said the national statistics bureau, Insee.
309 2008-06-11 The legislative maneuvering, conducted as operatives for the two presidential candidates confer daily with their allies on Capitol Hill, is a response to what lawmakers describe as widespread public outrage over the price of gasoline and general anxiety about the economy.

“You know, you cannot walk around America right now without being assaulted by people,” said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri. “As I went to the grocery store this weekend, as I went to the mall with my daughter, people that had no idea for sure who I was but thought I might be somebody because they maybe recognized me confronted me with incredible passion and frustration.”

Republicans are pushing back. Deeming the legislation they blocked Tuesday as insufficient and shortsighted, they say that Democrats are proposing nothing that would lower the cost of gasoline in the short term and that by refusing to open more of the American coastline and a strip of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil production, the majority is thwarting any increase in domestic supplies.

“Let the states have the option of exploring off the coasts,” said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Senate Republican. “Let’s look at ANWR, which is a grassy plain, 2,000 acres in the middle of an area the size of the state of South Carolina, if that will make us more energy independent. Let’s set a goal for America: energy independence in 10 years.”

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said, “We have a winning argument as long as we keep making it.”

In the House, Republicans have undertaken a coordinated effort to remind the public that it is Democrats who have run Congress during the last 17 months as gasoline costs have jumped. Democrats respond that the cost of gasoline has risen to over $4 a gallon from $1.46 at the start of the Bush administration.

At the same time, Republicans have some internal conflicts. Senator John McCain of Arizona, the party’s presidential choice, has opposed opening the Arctic refuge to drilling in the past, splitting with many of his colleagues who see production there as the holy grail of new domestic sources of oil. In addition, Mr. McCain indicated on Tuesday that he would favor an extension in unemployment benefits.

And another Republican, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, was critical of the decision Tuesday to block the extension of tax credits for alternative energy.

“This issue whether to extend critical tax incentives right now should be, frankly, a straightforward decision,” Ms. Snowe said. “This country is in an energy crisis, but by the way Congress acts, you wouldn’t know.”

As the Senate fought over oil, top Democrats gathered down the street at national party headquarters to show that they were rallying together now that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York had dropped her presidential bid, leaving Senator Barack Obama of Illinois as the party’s presidential contender.

The Democratic leaders of both the House and the Senate joined with the party chairman, Howard Dean, and Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, chairman of the Democratic Governors Association, to make clear that they would be working in concert with Mr. Obama to ensure his election.

Because of the extended primary fight, Congressional Democrats are only now putting together a framework for coordinating their efforts with Mr. Obama, but they intend to be as cooperative as possible.

Mr. Obama has close Illinois colleagues in top slots both in the Senate, where Senator Richard J. Durbin is the No. 2 Democrat, and in the House, where Representative Rahm Emanuel heads the Democratic caucus. Party aides said they would move beginning this week to focus the party’s regular strategy conference calls on how better to mesh the messages of the Congressional majority with those of the presidential campaign.

Republicans have been engaged in their own such effort for weeks, with a regular daily conference call involving Republican communications aides, party officials and the McCain campaign, as well as a weekly opportunity for senators to hear from senior party strategists.

With time running out in the Congressional schedule, both sides expect the fight over gasoline prices and the economy to continue, with the bills blocked Tuesday making a reappearance.

“We are going to bring them back,” said Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee. “We are going to bring them back because it is the right thing to do.”
310 2008-06-11 Something is very wrong with how buildings are going up in New York City. After 15 deaths of construction workers and bystanders this year, the city is just beginning to get serious about making construction safety a priority. It must do more to fix not just questionable equipment, but a broken system.

New Yorkers were rightly appalled when shortly after the second of this year’s two deadly crane accidents, the city’s chief crane inspector was charged with taking bribes. The disclosure suggests that the city’s Buildings Department, which is supposed to prevent unsafe construction, may be a large part of the problem.

The Bloomberg administration and the City Council have proposed good reforms, including tracking contractors’ safety records, shutting down repeat offenders and heavier fines — all designed to hold builders more accountable. Extra training for crane operators would become mandatory.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg deserves credit for doubling the number of building inspectors, but the more than 400 now on the job is still about half the number on duty a decade ago. That is not enough to monitor New York City’s construction boom, and the new mandates will put further pressure on an ill-equipped agency.

New Yorkers are especially worried about crane safety; nine of the fatalities came in crane accidents. The city has depended on just four crane inspectors, who cannot possibly keep up with the 200 or so cranes used citywide. Beefing up their ranks needs to be a priority. We also would like to see stringent checks on cranes by qualified specialists and a system — similar to those for used cars — that tracks repairs. The investigation of last month’s accident on Manhattan’s East 91st Street is still going on, but some reports suggest that the mishap may have been caused by a bad weld on a crane part.

There also needs to be tougher penalties for builders who run unsafe work sites. Right now, the fines are so low that contractors see them as one more cost of doing business. Any contractor involved in bribing an official should face criminal charges and be stripped of the right to build in New York.
311 2008-06-11 LOS ANGELES — The Metropolitan Water District of Southern California issued a water alert on Tuesday, asking communities to modernize and toughen their water conservation rules.

The district, the wholesale supplier of water to urban centers in six counties in Southern California, warned that mandatory rations could go into effect throughout the district next summer if the region’s 19 million or so urban residents did not cut back on water use.

Tuesday’s alert follows the governor’s declaration of a drought last week and is the last step before water rations and fines for noncompliance, said Bob Muir, a spokesman for the water district.

In 2009, the district “will assess reserve levels and supply from the Colorado River and the state,” Mr. Muir said. “If dry conditions continue, we could move to rations by next spring.”

In a normal year, California’s water reserves are at 2.2 million acre feet. Last year, the water district pulled half a million acre feet from the reserves, said Jeff Kightlinger, the district’s general manager. Mr. Kightlinger said he expected to match that amount this year if city ordinances and outreach efforts did not reduce demand. That would bring state reserves to emergency levels in the next two years, he said.
312 2008-06-11 “Here is a government that has mismanaged the economy so badly that not only the poor but also the middle classes are seeing their purchasing power eroded due to spiraling prices,” the opposition leader, Lal Krishna Advani, told his party faithful this month.

In fact, income has grown more over the last four years than it did under the six years of the preceding government, led by the B.J.P. The finance minister, Palianappan Chidambaram, denounced the opposition’s criticism as “an exercise in self-deception.”

One government minister, who did not want to be quoted by name criticizing his own government, played down the political impact of the food and fuel price increases, but only because the government’s popularity had already fallen so low.

The government has used its handsome new tax revenues to benefit voters at the vast bottom of the pyramid with an ambitious public works program in the countryside, increased spending on health and education and, most recently, a wide-scale waiver of farm loans.

But despite those efforts and the vast strides in the economy, the government minister reasoned, most Indians have not felt the benefits of the government’s welfare programs and “are still struggling with poverty.”

“Had things been going hunky-dory as far as the bulk of the electorate was concerned, then this might have been just a rude shock,” the minister said of the fuel price increase. “But coming on top of their feeling that we are not really doing much for them, this becomes one more straw on the camel’s back.”

In addition, the government faces new pressure to rein in inflation, but any move to do so — by, say, raising interest rates — could slow the growth that many Indians have yet to feel.

Since the central government’s announcement last week, several state governments have swiftly moved to cushion the blow of the price increase by lowering state fuel taxes. Mr. Singh has directed cabinet ministers to tighten their belts, including canceling foreign trips.

The political cost, some argue, would not have been so dire had the government seized on the chance to reform the bulky discounted-fuel pricing structure when it first came into office.

“One did not reform it when the going was good, when oil prices had not come close to $150 a barrel, when inflation was not a problem, when the growth story was good,” said Bibek Debroy, an economist at the nonpartisan Center for Policy Research here. “Now one is stuck in this perverse kind of situation.”

Failing to raise prices at this stage, analysts also argue, would have been so fiscally imprudent that it could have invited potentially dire economic consequences, including capital flight. “This is firefighting,” said Subir Gokarn, chief economist for Standard & Poor’s in Asia. “This is not reform. In the absence of any action, the fiscal situation was going to deteriorate.”

To speak to many Indians about their economic fortunes over the last four years is to hear of frustration and ambivalence.

In Delhi, Virender Kumar, 29, an auto rickshaw driver, rattled off the improvements in his life in the five years since he moved here from rural Punjab State. He bought his first cellphone last year and upgraded it several times. He moved with his wife and mother from a one-room apartment to a two-room apartment. He bought a pension plan, and his rising income allowed his family to afford meat as often as twice a week.

Then came the squeeze. “The price of rice,” he said this week, “is killing us.”

In Mumbai, Amit Talreja, 62, a car dealer, complained of having been doubly hit. Higher fuel prices drove up his own transportation costs and shrunk his revenues because potential customers became skittish about buying cars. He said he usually sells 30 to 50 cars a month.

But in the last week, since the fuel price increase, he said, he had not had a single buyer walk in the door. Instead, about 10 people came looking to sell.

The fuel price increase, he said, “is a bad decision, and it will create a lot of problems for the common man.” He said he was considering voting for the B.J.P. for the first time.

Hasan Ansari, 42, who runs a restaurant down the road, disagreed. The government, he said, was simply passing on the burden of high world oil prices. “Why should I be angry with the government?” he said. “Should they give it to us from their own pocket?”

He then took a pen and asked whether the government was expected to continue subsidizing pens if the price of pens went up on the world market.

The sharp rise in food and fuel prices worldwide is made worse, argued T. N. Ninan, editor of the Delhi newspaper The Business Standard, by a peculiar paradox facing Mr. Singh’s government. Eager to be seen to eschew the “India Shining” slogan of its predecessor, the government is unable to boast of the country’s prosperity. In an editorial last Saturday, he described Mr. Singh’s government as being “determined to focus on failure, rather than success.”
313 2008-06-11 According to Japan’s Supreme Court, the number of lawsuits filed against employers rose 45 percent from 1997 to 2005, to 2,303 cases. In 2006, that number increased 21 percent, to 2,777 cases if lawsuits heard by a newly created labor arbitration court are included.

Adding to the alienation between employee and company has been a growing sense of resentment that workers have not benefited from the nation’s economic rebound in the last half decade.

While corporate profits have soared, wages have remained stagnant, feeding a perception that companies have failed to share the good times with employees. This has led some to seek a bigger piece of the pie, say legal and labor experts.

There is also a feeling that as companies have cut costs to remain competitive with the cheaper China and South Korea, they passed too much of the burden onto employees. In particular, many of the recent lawsuits involve a practice known as “service overtime,” in which workers were silently pressured into logging long hours of unpaid overtime as a display of loyalty, say labor experts.

“Japanese companies have used the silence of their loyal employees as a weapon in international competition,” said Kiyotsugu Shitara, head of the Tokyo Managers’ Union, a small white-collar union that helped with Mr. Takano’s lawsuit against McDonald’s. “Employees are tired of being used like that.”

Mr. Shitara and other labor experts said the recent rise in lawsuits was also the latest step in a longer-term move toward a more American-style workplace — also apparent in the recent rise in midcareer job hopping, once a rarity here.

Still, many employees involved in the lawsuits describe themselves as reluctant revolutionaries, dragged into a new, more legalistic era to which they have no choice but to adapt.

Some, like Mr. Takano, blame the indifferent attitudes of companies for forcing them to fight back when they would just as soon return to the old, cozy relationship between employer and employee.

“I didn’t want to do this,” said Mr. Takano, 46, who still manages a McDonald’s store in a Tokyo suburb. “The company was treating me too coldly, so I had to start protecting my own rights.”

Another reluctant plaintiff was Hiroko Uchino, who filed a lawsuit against the government after her husband, Kenichi, 30, a quality control officer at Toyota, died at his office six years ago. Ms. Uchino wanted a government labor agency to legally recognize that he had died from overwork, something so common that there is a Japanese word for it, karoshi.

She took legal action after the company said her husband’s death was not because of overwork, and that he had only worked about 38 hours of overtime in January 2002, the month before he died. She said the company ignored her when she tried to submit gas station receipts and other evidence to show he had worked much longer hours: 155 hours that January, by Mr. Uchino’s calculation. She said the company said he stayed after work voluntarily, and was not entitled to overtime pay.

Despite her outrage, Ms. Uchino could not bring herself to legally challenge the auto giant, which dominates the central city of Nagoya, where she lives, and had employed not only her husband but his father and grandfather before him. She sued the labor agency instead to receive more of his overtime pay.

Ms. Uchino’s case won wide sympathy, including a meeting with the labor minister, who gave her words of support. In March, a court in Nagoya ruled her husband’s death had been work-related, and that he had worked 93 hours of overtime in his final month, entitling his widow to additional overtime pay. Toyota had no comment on the case.

“His father would never have turned to the courts, no matter what,” said Ms. Uchino, 38. “But Toyota never would have treated him this way, either. These days, all the company talks about is reducing expenses.”

She added, “If my husband had known how the company would react, he never would have shown all this fruitless loyalty.”

Mr. Takano, the McDonald’s manager, said he had been working from 6 a.m. to 1 a.m. managing two stores before his lawsuit, in some cases seven days a week. McDonald’s Japan said that as a white-collar manager he was not entitled to overtime pay. After a doctor warned him he was at risk of a stroke, Mr. Takano said he had wavered on whether to file a lawsuit — he liked McDonald’s and wanted to keep his job. Now, he hoped the case would improve working conditions for all managers.

The company had no comment on the case.

After the court victory, four other former McDonald’s store managers filed a similar suit demanding pay for overtime pay. Legal experts say more could come throughout the fast-food industry.

“I want Japan to become a society where employees can sue their own company,” Mr. Takano said. “That’s why I’m doing this.”
314 2008-06-11 Once again, Donna Damon, a substitute teacher here, is leading the Crown Pilot cause. The goal, Ms. Damon said, is to have Kraft Foods either reintroduce the cracker or give the recipe to a local bakery, which can make and sell the crackers.

“People up and down the coast have been calling me,” Ms. Damon said. “It’s the buzz right now. We did this once before. We have the passion and tradition to do it again.”

Kraft Foods, however, does not have the same desire.

“We do not have plans to bring the product back,” said a spokeswoman, Laurie Guzzinati.

Ms. Guzzinati said demand for Pilot crackers was now half of what it was 12 years ago. According to newspaper articles about the 1996 discontinuation, the company sold about 241,000 pounds of Pilots a year.

“Unfortunately we no longer manufacture the Crown Pilot crackers,” Ms. Guzzinati said. “The size of the Crown Pilot business declined so much we are no longer able to produce it. We have seen that folks in that region have highlighted how there is a very loyal customer base, but even within that region demand for the product has declined significantly.”

But don’t tell that to people on Chebeague, a small island whose only connection to the mainland is a 15-minute ferry ride. “It’s a staple on Chebeague,” Ms. Ross said. “It’s been passed down through the generations. It’s Pilot crackers everybody wants to put in their chowders and their fish stews.”

Joan Robinson, a lifelong resident of Chebeague, near Portland, explained the importance of the cracker to the area. “Some people say, ‘Why don’t you just use saltines?’ ” Ms. Robinson said. “They just don’t work. They’re good with sardines, but they just don’t go in a chowder.”

A managing partner at the Chebeague Island Inn, Ed Jarrett, agrees. He planned the entire dinner menu for the inn’s restaurant around Pilot crackers — all of the restaurant’s seafood stuffings contained the crackers, and they were the base for all five of its soups.

“It put a major scrimp in what I was planning,” Mr. Jarrett said. “It was in our baked stuffed lobster, baked stuffed haddock, all of our soups. I wanted to put that story of the island and the Pilot crackers into our menu. The vision got crushed.”

Mr. Jarrett is thinking about donating some proceeds from a charity event at which children from the island are going to build a 25-foot-tall lighthouse out of sand to help get the cracker back.

“If we have to do a phone bank with 1,000 people calling Nabisco, we’ll do it,” Mr. Jarrett said. “Whatever it takes to get the cracker back.”

May Hall and other residents are dialing away. “The operator asked me where I was from,” Ms. Hall said. “I started to spell Chebeague, but the operator already knew how.”

Residents are also frantically trying to replicate the recipe in their kitchens — the secret ingredient is molasses, they say — but with little success.

Cal Hancock of the Hancock Gourmet Lobster Company, which used to include Pilot crackers with its chowders and sell boxes of the cracker on its Web site, sold out of crackers (at $3.69 a box) less than 24 hours after word of the Pilot’s demise spread.

“The thing I remember most about Pilots is my dad getting up in the middle of the night and going down to the kitchen and having a Pilot cracker with peanut butter,” Ms. Hancock said. “You always have at least one box of Pilot crackers in the house, no question. They’re bland, but I have a box at home, and I’m savoring it.”
315 2008-06-11 BRUSSELS — The European Union’s competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, delivered an unusually blunt rebuke to Microsoft on Tuesday by recommending that businesses and governments use software based on open standards.

Ms. Kroes has fought bitterly with Microsoft over the last four years, accusing the company of defying her orders and fining it nearly 1.7 billion euros, or $2.7 billion, on the grounds of violating European competition rules. But her comments were the strongest recommendation yet by Ms. Kroes to jettison Microsoft products, which are based on proprietary standards, and to use rival operating systems to run computers.

“I know a smart business decision when I see one — choosing open standards is a very smart business decision indeed,” Ms. Kroes told a conference in Brussels. “No citizen or company should be forced or encouraged to choose a closed technology over an open one.”

She did not name Microsoft in advance copies of her speech, but she made her meaning clear by referring to the only company in European antitrust enforcement history that has been fined for refusing to comply with orders — a record held by Microsoft.

“The commission has never before had to issue two periodic penalty payments in a competition case,” she said.

Europe has previously ruled against Microsoft, saying it had abused its dominance in software to play music on computers and to communicate with powerful server computers on a network.
316 2008-06-11 Many performers can recall that inspirational flashpoint when the future revealed itself and they beheld what they wanted to be. The Broadway belter Martin Vidnovic chose as his role model the now half-forgotten Italian tenor Sergio Franchi, whom he discovered while in high school in Virginia in the early 1960s.

Remembering Mr. Franchi at the Metropolitan Room on Monday night, where he gave the first of four weekly performances of a show emphatically titled “What Matters to Me,” Mr. Vidnovic recalled meeting his idol, then paid him worshipful tribute with a lusty performance of “Core’ngrato” (“Ungrateful Heart”), one of Mr. Franchi’s signature songs.

Mr. Vidnovic, 60, who is accompanied on a piano by James Followell, does nothing halfway. With a voice whose middle register suggests a thornier Robert Goulet and at its piercing top end echoes Mandy Patinkin, he declaims songs with the swagger of a drugstore cowboy contemplating a postcard of the wide-open spaces. If his delivery is commanding, his voice is somewhat weather-beaten and has developed a slight wobble.

The show’s broad comic strokes were as old-fashioned as his aggressively heroic ballad style. He donned a crumpled cowboy hat and sucked in his upper lip to sing “The Dying Cowboy (Take My Bridgework Back to Mother),” a 1938 obscurity by Richard Lewine and Ted Fetter, whose narrator bequeaths his dentures to his toothless mother. The old Tom Jones hit “Delilah” became maniacal comic shtick.

In addition to Sergio Franchi and Rodgers and Hammerstein (“Lonely Room,” “We Kiss in a Shadow,” “Some Enchanted Evening” and “This Nearly Was Mine”), what matters most to Mr. Vidnovic in the show is his daughter, Laura Benanti, who plays Louise in the current revival of “Gypsy.” Mr. Vidnovic did an extended Marx Brothers routine (dialogue and all) that he used to perform with his daughter as a lark when she was a little girl. It was capped by a flowery, overblown rendition of “Laura,” a ’40s reverie whose mystique was trampled under Mr. Vidnovic’s declamatory bray.

Mr. Vidnovic has charisma, but his voice is too big for such an intimate room. Once again, that old saw “Less is more” applies.
317 2008-06-11 A little more than an hour before a former hedge fund manager was to report to federal prison on Monday, his sport utility vehicle was found abandoned on a bridge over the Hudson River with the phrase “Suicide Is Painless” written in dust on its hood.

But the authorities said they had not yet determined whether he committed suicide. No body has been found.

The 2006 GMC Envoy was registered to Samuel Israel III, 48, co-founder of the Bayou Group, a Connecticut-based hedge fund. He had been sentenced in April to 20 years in prison for his role in a scheme to cheat investors out of $450 million and was scheduled to report to federal prison in Ayer, Mass., by 2 p.m. Monday.

Bruce Cuccia, an investigator for the New York State Police, said that no one had reported seeing anybody leave the vehicle or jump off the Bear Mountain Bridge, about 40 miles north of New York City.

The police found Mr. Israel’s burgundy sport utility vehicle on the shoulder of the two-lane road at 12:30 p.m., “a couple of moments” after it had been parked, Mr. Cuccia said. The engine was off but the keys were in the ignition. “Suicide Is Painless,” the title of the theme song for the television show “M*A*S*H,” was written in the dust on the vehicle’s hood.
318 2008-06-11 Banks’ reluctance to lend to each other because of fear that they would need the money pushed up the London interbank offered rate, known as Libor, and made it more expensive for banks to borrow from each other. Banks use the Libor to set interest rates for products ranging from mortgages and student loans to corporate debt. Tighter lending conditions and higher borrowing rates prompted the biggest decline in British housing prices in more than a decade and weighs on British households, which are among the most indebted in the developed world, slowing economic growth.

In an attempt to strengthen the Libor and the confidence of its users, the association said it would start to ask banks to justify any rate discrepancies. The association calculates the Libor every day for 15 different borrowing periods ranging from a day to a year in 10 different currencies by polling banks about how much it would cost them to borrow money. It also plans to increase the number of banks it surveys and add more members to the Foreign Exchange and Money Markets Committee, the independent panel that oversees the process to calculate the Libor.

At least two more changes are being considered. The association asked for comment Tuesday from banking officials about introducing a second rate-fixing process for the dollar lending rate after the stock markets open in the United States. The association, which had always published each quote it received from banks, is also rethinking this level of transparency after some analysts said keeping the quotes secret would help banks to avoid being stigmatized.

In a speech on Tuesday at the annual conference of the British Bankers’ Association, Mr. King of the Bank of England said that any system would “need the right pricing structure” and would “need to overcome the ‘stigma’ problem that has affected access to all central banks during the current crisis.”

The central bank also grapples with the problem that many needy financial institutions “are global in scope but the responsibility for both regulation and rescue remains firmly at national level,” he said. A further challenge is how to ensure liquidity at all times without encouraging irresponsible risk-taking.

“If banks feel they must keep on dancing while the music is playing and that at the end of the party the central bank will make sure everyone gets home safely, then over time the parties will become wilder and wilder,” Mr. King said. “That might not matter were the consequences limited to the partygoers. But they are not.”
319 2008-06-11 HONG KONG — Chinese stocks plummeted 8.1 percent on Tuesday, their biggest single-day drop in nearly 16 months, leading a broad downturn in Asian stock markets.

The plunge in the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets followed an increase in Chinese bank reserve requirements, increased worries about high food and oil prices, and fears about exports to the United States. The Hong Kong stock market also fell 4.1 percent.

The Nikkei stock market index in Tokyo dipped 1.1 percent, the South Korean market declined 2.1 percent, the Taiwanese market was down 2.5 percent and the Australian stock market fell 2.8 percent.

Major markets across Europe were down about 1 percent in early trading as well.

Stock markets in mainland China and Hong Kong had been closed on Monday as a continuation of the dragon boat festival on Sunday. So part of the fall in these markets reflected a belated reaction to Wall Street’s plunge on Friday after the Labor Department announced a sharp increase in unemployment, to 5.5 percent.

But economists attributed the steepness of the Chinese market’s plunge to broader worries among investors about how far the Chinese government will go to slow the economy to prevent food and oil prices from triggering a broader rise in inflation. Chinese stock markets have lost 45 percent of their value since setting a record last October during a period of feverish speculation when many small investors began buying stocks for the first time.
320 2008-06-11 BRUSSELS — Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes of the European Union delivered an unusually blunt snub to Microsoft on Tuesday by recommending that businesses and governments use software based on open standards.

Ms. Kroes has fought bitterly with Microsoft over the past four years, accusing the U.S. software giant of defying her orders and fining the company nearly $2.68 billion for violating European competition rules. But the speech was her strongest recommendation yet to jettison Microsoft products, which are based on proprietary standards, and to use rival operating systems to run computers.

“I know a smart business decision when I see one — choosing open standards is a very smart business decision indeed,” Ms. Kroes told a conference in Brussels. “No citizen or company should be forced or encouraged to choose a closed technology over an open one.”

Ms. Kroes did not name Microsoft in advance copies of her speech, but she made her meaning clear by referring to the only company in the history of EU antitrust enforcement that has been fined for refusing to comply with commission orders — a record held by Microsoft.

“The commission has never before had to issue two periodic penalty payments in a competition case,” she said.
321 2008-06-11 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Hundreds of Pakistani lawyers began a two-day march from the southern city of Karachi to Islamabad, the capital, on Tuesday to demand the reinstatement of 60 judges removed by President Pervez Musharraf.

The march is the first large-scale protest against the governing parliamentary coalition elected in February, and it is the coalition’s first test in handling a highly emotional public issue that fatally wounded the government backed by Mr. Musharraf. Organized by Aitzaz Ahsan, a prominent politician and the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, the march is a response to the failure of the new government to meet its promises to reinstate the judges.

The marchers include the suspended former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who is considered a national hero for his resistance to Mr. Musharraf’s autocratic decrees.

Relying on the enormous public support for the suspended chief justice, the “long march,” as it has been dubbed, is now pitted against the new government. Thousands of lawyers, chanting “We are out to save the country: come join us!” were joining the march as it moved from Karachi on to Lahore before moving on the capital on Thursday.

The coalition government, led by the late Benazir Bhutto’s Pakistan Peoples Party, had promised to reinstate the judges once in power but it has repeatedly failed to meet the deadlines it has set. The junior coalition party, the Pakistan Muslim League led by Nawaz Sharif, a former prime minister, supports the reinstatement of the judges, and Mr. Sharif has said he will join the lawyers on their march.

The lawyers are demanding an independent judiciary and an end to the history of military coups, and some are calling for Mr. Musharraf to be impeached and even tried for treason. A number of retired generals will be among those joining the march; some have been calling for Mr. Musharraf to be held accountable for his actions of the past eight years.
322 2008-06-11 LIGHTENING LOADS Faced with the financial pain of higher fuel prices, airlines are looking for cost-saving measures wherever they can find them.      SPINNING OFF CIGARETTES The Tisch family completed its plan to spin off the tobacco unit, Lorilla...
323 2008-06-12 A majority of voters supported a governor’s order that agencies recognize same-sex marriages performed elsewhere. And Mayor Bloomberg leads a list of choices to be the next governor....
324 2008-06-12 A grand jury dismissed misdemeanor charges against a stuntman who scaled the Times Building last week, but told the district attorney to proceed with disorderly conduct charges....
325 2008-06-12 The nattering nabobs of negativism, as a vice president once said, have been talking down the American economy. But Bloomberg reports that a truly famous economist weighed in today, saying they are wrong. Edward Prescott, who has won more-or-less ...
326 2008-06-12 From Eric Dash, a DealBook colleague: What do you call a hedge fund that has no outside investors? Closed. Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, knows that answer all too well. On Thursday, the bank announced that it was shutting down Old...
327 2008-06-12 After he faked external audits for years, a real external audit reveals the losses to the House Republicans' campaign arm....
328 2008-06-12 The Italian prime minister jokes about the Republican candidate during a meeting with President Bush....
329 2008-06-12 The talks are dead. Really, this time they are dead. Yahoo is preparing to announce that it has ended its talks with Microsoft over a search-related deal as well as the sale of the entire company, people involved in the discussions said. Yahoo is ...
330 2008-06-12 A long-distance witness to village destruction in Ethiopia....
331 2008-06-12 The better he performs, the more people expect of a young Mets pitcher....
332 2008-06-12 The fight between the CSX Corporation and two hedge funds seeking to win a proxy fight at one of the largest railroad companies in the nation, it seems, may not be over, despite a ruling Wednesday by a federal judge that the two activist funds ad ...
333 2008-06-12 Wednesday proved to be another grim day for Lehman Brothers as the investment bank's shares continued their plummet downward. Shares of the bank plunged 13.6 percent yesterday, bringing their total loss in the past four days to more than 25 percen...
334 2008-06-12 A prominent Washington lawmaker said Wednesday that he would propose next week to ban large institutional investors, including index funds, from the nation's booming commodity markets. The idea is one of several outlined by Senator Joseph I. Liebe...
335 2008-06-12 Houston Nutt's arrival has created excitement around a Rebels program that has been moribund for the past three seasons....
336 2008-06-12 The Parliament granted gay and lesbian couples the right to marry and to adopt children on an equal basis with heterosexual couples. The country’s new universal marriage act, which also allows lesbians to be artificially inseminated in Norwegian medical facilities, supersedes a domestic partnership policy. “No longer will there be different classes of love,” Erling Lae, the chief commissioner of Oslo, told an online newspaper minutes after the Parliament’s 84-41 vote, adding that he now plans to marry his male companion of 26 years.
337 2008-06-12 About two dozen guest workers from India who said they were victims of human trafficking at an oil rig construction company in Mississippi ended a hunger strike in Washington. The workers said the protest was to pressure the Justice Department to allow them to remain legally in the United States while their case is under investigation. They were brought to this country in 2006 and 2007 under temporary visas to work at Signal International, based in Pascagoula. Twenty workers fasted for varying periods over 29 days; five were hospitalized, said Stephen Boykewich of the New Orleans Workers’ Center for Racial Justice, which organized the protest. After a rally outside the department on Monday, justice officials agreed to meet with workers’ representatives.
338 2008-06-12 “I was fortunate enough to shoot two 70s and get into the field. It’s pretty cool, cool to be here, to be honest with you, because this is Torrey Pines and it’s a special event, for sure. This setup is great — tough, but not so brutal there’s no chance if you miss a shot.”

Then there is the U.S.G.A. plan to move tees around to create variety in how the players approach the course. The thought of a hole playing 158 yards shorter one day to the next — as will happen at the 435-yard, par-4 14th hole when it plays as a 277-yard, reachable par 4 — would have been fanciful just a few years ago.

The reality is that No. 14 is one of five holes where there may be a marked difference in the actual yardages from those on the scorecard. The par-3 third hole will be played at 142 or 195 yards, a potential four-club difference between a 5-iron or 9-iron. No. 13, which plays at 613 yards from the back or 539 from the front is a 74-yard spread. The 16th hole could have a 32-yard difference from 225 yards or 193 yards. And the 18th hole, which is 573 yards from the back, could be moved up to make it more tempting for players to take a shot at the green in 2 — bringing eagle into the equation, almost unheard of for a finishing hole at an Open.

There will be times when risk may outweigh reward or vice versa, quite a departure from the Open days when a golfer’s most difficult decision was whether to chop a wedge out of the rough or give a go with an 8-iron.

Not everyone is enamored of all the possibilities. Mickelson, for example, says the back tee at No. 13 should never have been built, calling it “terrible.” Such a statement in the days of yore might have assured that the tee would be there all four days, but the new, more benign U.S.G.A. takes a more moderate view.

“We’ll agree to disagree,” said Jim Hyler, the vice president of the U.S.G.A. “We like the back tee there.”

Mickelson’s criticism of the new tee at No. 13 is about the only controversial statement about the course. That in itself demonstrates how times have changed. With more opportunities for creativity, shotmaking, risk-taking and birdie-making, this second United States Open to be played at a municipal course has a very good chance of generating added interest among golfers and spectators who had grown weary of over-par bogeyfests.

And though the event will almost certainly be won by one of the younger players in the field, another of the older heads had a veteran’s take on why this will be an Open to remember.

“This has been phenomenal,” said Brad Bryant, 53, in the field as the Senior Open champion. “I think we’re going to see some exciting U.S. Opens over the next few years, because this graduated rough idea, firming up the greens, doing some things a little differently, is just wonderful.

“We are playing a U.S. Open golf course this week where there’s going to be several times where guys are going to roll the ball on to the green. That is unheard of in a U.S. Open.

“It’s about time that we brought that back as part of the game. And I’m really excited about it.”
339 2008-06-12 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed new rules on Wednesday intended to stem conflicts of interest, expand disclosure for Wall Street’s credit rating industry and flag the ratings of more complex securities.

The S.E.C. is seeking to make the ratings business more open while also encouraging new firms to enter. The three firms that dominate the $5 billion-a-year industry — Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings — have been widely accused of failing to identify risks in subprime mortgage investments.

The most contentious element of the proposal would require ratings of complex securities, like those underpinned by mortgages or student loans, to be distinguished from those for more traditional securities, like corporate or municipal bonds. It drew an opposing vote from one of the three S.E.C. commissioners at a public meeting and a swift condemnation from a major Wall Street lobbying group.

The three ratings agencies have downgraded thousands of securities backed by mortgages as home loan delinquencies have risen and the value of those investments has plummeted. The downgrades have contributed to hundreds of billions in losses and write-downs at major banks and investment firms.

The ratings agencies are crucial financial gatekeepers, issuing ratings on the creditworthiness of public companies and securities. Their grades can determine a company’s ability to raise or borrow money and which securities, at what cost, will be purchased by banks, mutual funds, states or local governments.

The vote was 3 to 0 to tentatively approve the proposed rules related to disclosure and conflicts of interest. Commissioner Paul S. Atkins cast the only vote against the proposal requiring ratings for complex securities to be distinguished from others, because the proposal could hurt the capital-raising efforts for mortgages, student loans, auto loans and other debt.
340 2008-06-12 The Obama campaign jumped in with a conference call for reporters, with Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic Party’s nominee in 2004, and two Obama foreign policy advisers.

“It is unbelievably out of touch with the needs and concerns of Americans, particularly of the families of the troops that are over there,” Mr. Kerry said. “To them it is the most important thing in the world.”

Mr. Kerry, who considered having Mr. McCain as his vice-presidential nominee in 2004, said that military officials had said that they could not sustain the troop levels in Iraq and that the demands of that war had left the United States unable to react to other crises or meet the needs of the war in Afghanistan.

The Obama advisers argued that Mr. McCain has several times seemed “confused” about the situation in Iraq, noting that he has confused Sunnis for Shiites and incorrectly identified whom Iran was supporting.

“On critical, factual questions that are fundamental to understanding what is going on in Iraq and the region, Senator McCain has gotten it wrong and not just once but repeatedly,” said Susan Rice, a former assistant secretary of state.

Shortly after, Mr. McCain, at a town-hall-style meeting with about 500 people at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, took pains to acknowledge the sacrifices the war has demanded.

“Nothing is more precious than Americans, and I know that it has caused great heartache and pain,” he said, “but I also want to tell you that I believe in the conflict in Iraq with this new strategy, we are succeeding.

“Every American is precious, every casualty is someone that pains and grieves us, no one more than a veteran,” said Mr. McCain, who spent five years as a prisoner of war during Vietnam. “But the consequences of failure would be chaos and genocide in the region.”

Reflecting the rapid-response nature of the race, the McCain campaign then arranged a conference call of its own to defend and explain his comments.

“The obvious fact is that more than most any American, Senator McCain knows the sacrifices that our men and women in uniform make and the burden that their families bear and it really is wrong to suggest otherwise,” Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut said in the call. Mr. Lieberman, a former Democrat, was re-elected in 2006 as an independent after being defeated in the Democratic primary largely because of his support for the war.

The war had receded somewhat as an issue in the campaign as the economy and record gas prices had dominated the discussion. But it is the issue that most starkly divides the candidates. Mr. McCain has been a long supporter of the war — though he criticized the Bush administration for the first four years of the war for not providing enough troops; he has argued that the increase in troops last year has helped to reduce casualties and move Iraq toward stability. Mr. Obama was not in the Senate when the war began but was outspoken in his opposition to it early on.
341 2008-06-12 Critics say the S.B.A. needs to broaden access to federally guaranteed loans, which carry lower interest rates and lower fees than their commercial counterparts, so that they are more attainable for entrepreneurs and small-enterprise owners.

Minority business owners also complain the agency is not doing enough to help them find financing and contracts. Female entrepreneurs are angry that the S.B.A. has not done more to help deliver a higher percentage of contracts, even though the agency was ordered to do so by Congress eight years ago.

While Mr. Preston faced no opposition at his confirmation hearing for the job at HUD, Representative Nydia M. Velázquez, Democrat of New York and head of the House Small Business Committee, gave his stewardship of the S.B.A. an incomplete. “Unfortunately, he was not at the agency long enough to have a lasting effect,” she said.

Jovita Carranza, now the acting administrator and a former executive of United Parcel Service, is likely to run the agency until a new administration arrives.

Even with Mr. Preston’s efforts to speed up disaster assistance, Congress recently pushed ahead with provisions, part of the farm bill, that amounted to its own overhaul of the S.B.A. disaster loan program.

The legislation’s provisions, said Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, would “cut through red tape, increase resources, bring private lenders into the response and help bridge that gap while disaster victims begin the process of building their lives.”

And last week, the Senate voted to add $101 million to the agency’s budget. The move was also supported by Senator Kerry’s Republican counterpart on the committee, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine. Both senators argue that the agency needs to step up its efforts since less capital is available elsewhere in the current sluggish economy.

“There is a contraction in the lending program, which I think is antithetical to what the S.B.A. is supposed to be doing,” Mr. Kerry said. “This is a moment where the credit crunch requires the S.B.A. to fill the gap.”

The number and amount of federal loans under the main loan guarantee program, called 7 (a), has fallen to 50,546 through the end of May this year, from 63,945 loan approvals through the end of May 2007. The loan amounts dropped as a well, to $8.24 billion from almost $9 billion.

“Our overall lending volume is down 8 percent,” Mr. Preston said in an interview last week. “And the dollar volume from the riskiest lenders is down 34 percent because they have pulled back the most.”

The agency, he said, has adopted procedures for greater automation, which should streamline lending and make it more attractive for banks to handle S.B.A. loans.

But small-business owners like Frances Richards, who heads Arlean & Company, a construction program management firm in Las Vegas, say they do not see any relief. Her efforts to tap into the area’s commercial expansion have been thwarted by difficulties in getting a $25,000 loan to hire the employees necessary to qualify for a subcontract.

“I’m in a Catch-22 because I’m not going to get a contract unless I have the capacity to handle it,” Ms. Richards said. “But that requires more money than I can get from my credit cards.”

The S.B.A. loan program is also contentious because of accusations of inadequate oversight of lending institutions. The agency’s inspector general found recently that flawed oversight had resulted in a $329 million loss in recent years. Mr. Kerry and Ms. Snowe this month asked the Government Accountability Office to investigate the S.B.A.’s system for monitoring lender portfolios and identifying risky lenders.

“The whole process of overseeing lenders is under review,” Mr. Preston said. “We’ll be putting clear rules in place to determine what we should do for lenders,” although he said he would not be around to see it through.

The most vociferous criticism has been about the S.B.A.’s handling of government contracts, about $400 billion yearly — 23 percent of that is supposed to be for small businesses. The American Small Business League, which sued and won release of S.B.A. data, maintains that large corporations are receiving contracts meant for small business.

Last year, the agency changed its rule to require businesses to certify their size every five years to prevent large corporations from winning contracts.

Female business owners are pursuing legal action to force agency compliance with Congress’s directive, passed in 2000, that they receive 5 percent of federal contracts. This year, the agency issued a regulation that included only four industries, infuriating female business groups.

If anything, minority small businesses are even more irate at the S.B.A., though the agency this year started an initiative aimed at helping inner-city enterprises. For minority businesses, “the S.B.A. isn’t even in the picture,” complained Harry C. Alford, president and chief executive of the National Black Chamber of Commerce. “We are not looking for giveaways, but in contracts and loans we are looking for them to loosen rules and make them more accessible.

“So right now, we’re not counting on the S.B.A.”
342 2008-06-12 The biggest loser among the 30 Dow components was the aluminum producer Alcoa, which fell $3.40, or 8 percent, to $39.32, after it lowered its earning expectations because of a power curtailment in Western Australia and a JPMorgan analyst said it was not planning to sell itself or spin off part of its business.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 22.95 points, or 1.69 percent, to close at 1,335.49, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 54.93 points, or 2.24 percent, to 2,394.01.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 14.74 points, or 2.01 percent, to 717.88.

“There are not a lot of positive things you can point to right now,” said Michael Binger, portfolio manager at Thrivent Investment Management in Minneapolis. “We have commodity prices higher, inflation up, the prospect of the Fed raising interest rates instead of lowering, a worldwide slowdown and an economic slowdown in the U.S.”

Mr. Binger said that one weak spot on Wall Street — the financial sector — was faced with a new worry of higher interest rates while still trying to navigate a tight credit market and fallout from bad bets on home loans.

“If the Fed starts to raise rates because of inflation, not because the economy is good, that is not a positive on the financial stocks,” he said.

Janna Sampson, director of portfolio management at OakBrook Investments, said that there probably would not be another reduction in interest rates, but that she did not see anything dire enough in the beige book to suggest that the Fed would raise rates at its meeting later this month. Rising prices appear to still be “fairly well confined to commodities,” she said.

In corporate news, Corporate Express, the office supplies distributor based in the Netherlands, accepted a sweetened $2.6 billion buyout bid from the office supplies retailer Staples. Shares of Staples rose $1.23, or 5.3 percent, to $24.38.

Lehman Brothers fell for the fourth consecutive session. The company reported this week that it lost more than $2.8 billion for the fiscal second quarter, which ended May 31, and announced plans to raise $6 billion in capital to help its balance sheet. The stock declined $3.75, or 13.6 percent, to $23.75.

The price of the 10-year Treasury bond rose 8/32, to 98 12/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 4.07 percent, from 4.10 percent.
343 2008-06-12 Weikel-Magden came from an eastern Oregon town so small the closest movie theater was two and a half hours away. He sent a recruiting tape to Stanford coaches filled with all his losses and somehow managed to secure a scholarship.

Miranda arrived from Silicon Valley, the only female on the team, the daughter of Brazilian immigrants, including a father who once threatened to sue the school district if she wrestled.

She had decided not to date teammates, out of respect for team chemistry, but something kept drawing Miranda and Weikel-Magden together. They started dating shortly after a Halloween party at which Weikel-Magden showed up at her dormitory room without a costume and ended up borrowing her clothes to dress in drag.

Miranda, who turned 29 on Tuesday, can pinpoint when she knew they would make a life together. The summer after their freshman year, after her future husband had cracked the varsity lineup “looking like a 12-year-old, still a year away from puberty,” she received a telephone call from his parents.

Levi is in the hospital ... Crohn’s Disease ... massive infection ... complications ... surgery.

Upon hearing the predicament, her father, incapable of anything other than brutal truth, said, “Oh, that one’s gone.”

Earlier that day, Weikel-Magden’s small intestine ruptured. He spent nearly three hours on the couch, pain. Family members rushed him to the hospital.

“I’m screaming bloody murder,” he said. “I wish I was tougher. But screaming at the top of my lungs was all I could do to make it manageable.”

Doctors diagnosed Crohn’s, an autoimmune disease that confuses the immune system and causes inflammation in the digestive track. By the time Miranda arrived the weekend after the operation, Weikel-Magden had lost 30 pounds.

They were lying together on the hospital bed when doctors explained that Weikel-Magden would live with the disease the rest of his life. Weikel-Magden flashed, of all things, a smile. He considered himself fortunate.

“That’s when I knew,” Miranda said. “I’d rather spend 10 years with him than 50 with anyone else I ever met.”

After graduating from Stanford, Weikel-Magden went to law school at Virginia, while Miranda deferred her enrollment at Yale to train for the 2004 Athens Games — the Olympic debut for women’s wrestling. He helped coach her to the bronze medal, the first Olympic medal for an American female wrestler.

Miranda then retired and went to Yale Law, adding to an undergraduate degree in economics and a master’s degree in international policy.

She missed wrestling, but not in the way that she expected. She did not miss the glory, the accolades or the applause, she said. Rather, she missed the serendipity that came with being a world-class athlete — being stranded in a Russian airport while the airline lost her luggage, bumming around Sweden for a week while waiting for teammates to arrive.

Mainly, she missed the moments shared. And Weikel-Magden, in the persuasive argument, wanted to share them with her.

The pitch: “You are so close to just dominating,” he said he told her.

“He’s a good salesman,” Miranda concedes now. But for the first six months of the experiment, she wished she had stayed retired.

Folding the worlds of husband and wife, coach and athlete proved difficult. She promised trust but felt betrayed when her husband scolded her at practice, only to later feel like a failure for not trusting more.

This spilled into their home life. One time, Weikel-Magden took home a new toothbrush and started teaching Miranda how to use it. “You can’t coach me on how to brush my teeth!” she said.

Early on at Stanford, the couple shared a wrestling weakness: too much thinking in a sport where instinct dominates. During matches, they would think about things like the color of the ceiling, what they would tell their parents if they lost, whether the sweat on their coaches’ hands indicated frayed nerves.

“It’s overthinking, and it’s intellectual,” Weikel-Magden said. “And wrestling is anything but intellectual. We can be our own worst enemies that way.”

He taught himself to compete instinctively, and something surprising happened. Weikel-Magden found he loved fighting, enduring pain and hurting people. Even after surgery, he did not miss a practice.

He needed to tap into Miranda’s violent vein, conjure emotions like anger and hatred. This did not come naturally for Miranda, who took a personality test at Yale expecting to score opposite her classmates because of wrestling. Instead, she scored similarly to them.

“It’s actually very counterintuitive, but it’s learning to be poised and angry and relaxed,” Weikel-Magden said. “It’s not being more focused. It’s not doing more work.”

Added Matt Huttner, a friend, “Even in the toughest times in their relationship, what made it work is Levi had a plan.”

To stop her from worrying and overthinking, Weikel-Magden took over the household chores, cooking and cleaning, and imploring Miranda to rest. Eventually, Miranda started to catch on. She breezed through the nationals and now needs to win only twice this weekend to qualify for the Olympics. Along the way, they learned a level of trust neither knew existed.

Weikel-Magden said that this made for a stronger marriage, that it would make them stronger parents. Miranda said her first thought every morning was, “Wow, I’m so lucky to have you.”

Three years after the persuasive argument, Weikel-Magden admits to dreaming about the end — his wife, on the podium, in part because of him.

“They’ve put together quite a trophy case,” their friend McPherson said. “That would be like the crown jewel. All the years they put in, all the sacrifices they’ve made. They put everything on hold for this one goal, this one dream. It’s right there.”

Both the principals agree. For once, there is no argument.
344 2008-06-12 A prominent Washington lawmaker said Wednesday that he would propose next week to ban large institutional investors, including index funds, from the nation’s booming commodity markets.

The idea is one of several outlined by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, who is chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. That committee will hold a hearing on June 24 to continue examining whether financial speculation is affecting the prices of crops and fuel.

“There is excessive speculation in the commodity markets that is driving up the cost of food and energy,” the senator said in an interview. “The question is, do large institutional investors play a positive role?” His concern, he said, is that they do not.

Over the last five years, hundreds of billions of dollars have flowed into commodity futures markets, which play an important role in setting world benchmark prices for a variety of materials, including corn and crude oil.

One steady source of money has been the growing number of new funds that mirror specific commodity indexes, like the Standard & Poor’s Goldman Sachs Commodity Index. More recently, exchange-traded funds — popular new investment vehicles that trade on stock exchanges but track commodity prices — have followed the index funds into the market.
345 2008-06-12 HANOI, Vietnam (Agence France-Presse) — Vo Van Kiet, the former Vietnamese prime minister who led the country through vital economic reforms and opened up its foreign policy, died Wednesday in Singapore. He was 85.

His death was announced in a statement from Vietnam’s Foreign Ministry.

Mr. Kiet, a former wartime Vietcong revolutionary in South Vietnam, was considered the chief architect of the doi moi, or renewal, market reforms of the late 1980s and 1990s that replaced the Soviet-style government-controlled economy.

He served as prime minister from 1991 until 1997, when he stepped down to be replaced by his deputy, Phan Van Khai. After that he remained an outspoken reformist commentator, arguing for a free press and dialogue with dissidents.

As prime minister, Mr. Kiet presented to the world the pragmatic face of Vietnamese Communism, traveling widely in Asia and Europe to drum up investment and seal new relationships as the country emerged from years of isolation.

His open public style and enthusiasm gave him the look of a campaigning politician in contrast to the severe Marxist mandarins who preceded him. It was during his watch in 1994 that the United States under President Clinton lifted its trade embargo against Vietnam and restored diplomatic ties the following year.

Mr. Kiet was also successful in pushing for better ties with other Asian countries, developing close relations with a former adversary, the Singaporean leader Lee Kuan Yew, who visited Vietnam several times to offer advice.
346 2008-06-12 Corn for July delivery closed on the Chicago Board of Trade at $7.03 a bushel, up 30 cents. Next year’s corn was trading even higher, finishing at $7.47 a bushel and above. Soybeans, which rose 70 cents, to $15.16 a bushel, are now less than a dollar short of their winter record.

Even wheat, which had fallen in recent months as traders and growers predicted a big crop, rose 60 cents to $8.69 a bushel.

Meanwhile, oil futures jumped $5.07 to close at $136.38 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The immediate catalyst was an Energy Department report showing commercial oil stockpiles in the United States fell 4.56 million barrels, to 302.2 million last week, a much bigger drop than analysts had expected.

In the previous two days, oil prices had retreated from Friday’s record of $138.54 a barrel. Some traders say that the market is now gearing for a quick rise to $150 a barrel.

The high oil prices are translating into acute pain at the pump, with gasoline hitting a nationwide average of $4.05 a gallon on Wednesday, a record. Diesel hit $4.79 a gallon, also a record.

A steep drop in the dollar this year has pushed up prices for oil, gold and other commodities as investors seek assets that provide a hedge against the falling American currency. Not coincidentally, the dollar, which had appreciated in recent days, fell against the euro on Wednesday.

“This is just crazy volatility,” said Stephen Schork, an independent energy analyst. “At this point, this is absolutely a bubble. High prices have become a justification for higher prices and $150 a barrel is quickly turning into a self-fulfilling prophecy.”

Not all analysts believe the oil price is a bubble, however. Many point to frenzied growth in oil consumption in Asia, which they fear will outstrip the ability of oil companies to add new supplies.

While demand has been falling in the United States, global oil consumption is still expected to rise this year because of growing demand from emerging economies that subsidize fuel prices, like China and some Middle Eastern countries.

On Wednesday, China said that its crude oil imports had surged 25 percent last month as the country coped with the aftermath of the devastating earthquake that struck in May.

“What we’re seeing is a very painful experiment to see what price will get demand to slow down,” said Adam E. Sieminski, chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank. “Four dollars a gallon is slowing consumption in the United States. But there is an awful lot of people in the developing world and they all want a car and they all want a better diet. That is putting a lot of pressure on food and energy prices.”

After years of oversupply, there is now not enough food to go around. Expectations for the 2008 harvest are rapidly declining.

The Agriculture Department this week cut its yield expectations for corn by 5 bushels an acre, to 148.9 bushels, a big drop for a growing season that has just begun. It now estimates the 2008 crop at 11.7 billion bushels, down 390 million bushels from what it was expecting last month.

Since the rain has not yet let up, these figures could prove optimistic. In its weekly crop rating, the Agriculture Department said that the quality of the corn was notably lower this year, with the amount deemed “excellent” only half that of the 2007 crop.

Rick Corners of Centralia, Ill., had to replant all 500 acres of his corn after it rotted, something he had never done in 33 years of farming. He finished last week, a month behind schedule, and considered himself lucky.

“I heard about a farmer in northern Illinois who had to plant his corn three times, and now he’s under water again,” Mr. Corners said.

Soybeans are generally planted after corn but their price is also being pushed up by the weather and other developments, including a report that China increased its soybean imports in May by 45 percent from the previous month. A strike by Argentine farmers is also serving to limit the world’s supply.

Palle Pedersen, an agronomist at Iowa State University in Ames, said 20 percent of the soybean crop in the state still had to be planted or replanted.

“Every day it rains, the chances of an average crop get smaller and smaller,” Mr. Pedersen said.

The abundance of rain in the corn and soybean belt for the last six weeks — accompanied until recently by chilly temperatures that impeded crop progress — was highly unusual, said Dale Mohler, a meteorologist with AccuWeather.com. “A wet spell of this magnitude in the Midwest probably only happens once every 50 years,” he said.

However belated, relief might be on the way for beleaguered farmers. The meteorologist said he expected drier weather to prevail next week.

The crop news is not entirely bleak. This week, the Agriculture Department raised by 2 percent its forecast for the size of the winter wheat harvest, which is now under way.
347 2008-06-12 Judge Kaplan all but invited CSX to appeal his decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The judge said he believed that he could not stop the funds from voting their shares, largely because of a Second Circuit precedent. If he could have done so, the judge said, he would have issued such an injunction.

The judge did bar the funds from future violations of the securities laws, but said no new disclosures were required because all relevant facts were now public. “Any penalties for defendants’ violations must come by way of the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Department of Justice,” the ruling said.

That put the ball squarely in the S.E.C.’s court. Evidence in the case showed that CSX had been trying for months, without success, to persuade the commission to act. The only public role of the S.E.C. so far came when a staff member, responding to a request from the court, sent a legal interpretation that largely agreed with the position of the hedge funds.

The case drew attention far beyond the ranks of those who care whether the hedge funds can win the fight and gain board representation. While that would not give the funds control, it would give them a place inside the company to push for management changes.

The fight pitted the two best-known legal scholars in the area — professors who have written major papers jointly — against each other. A former member of the S.E.C., Joseph Grundfest, who is now a law professor at Stanford, argued that a victory by the hedge funds “would render compliance” with the disclosure requirements “essentially voluntary.”

Wall Street lined up behind the hedge funds, arguing that it could create chaos if the disclosure requirements were broadened.

Central to the case is the nature of equity swaps, in which one party — typically a brokerage firm — promises to pay the other — in this case a hedge fund — all the economic rewards of owning a stock, and the fund promises to compensate the firm if the stock loses value.

There are reasons to buy swaps aside from evading disclosure rules. A fund can use more leverage, and a foreign-based fund can avoid paying withholding taxes on dividends.

An equity swap holder does not have voting rights. Normally, the brokerage firm that writes the swap will buy the stock, but it does not have to do so, if it is willing to take the risk or in the unlikely event that it has another customer who wants to use a swap to short the same stock.

That lack of voting rights was critical, in the view of the hedge funds. Securities laws require that “beneficial ownership” be disclosed, and define such as including both voting rights and economic benefits.

CSX argued that the brokerage firms, which nominally own the shares although they have no economic stake in the company, had good business reasons to vote as the hedge funds wish. If they did not do so, such firms would risk losing business from the hedge funds.

Judge Kaplan said there were “persuasive reasons” for concluding that the funds “beneficially owned at least some and quite possibly all” of the shares bought by the brokerage firms to hedge their swap positions. But, he said, there was no need for him to rule on that issue.

He pointed to a S.E.C. rule that provides that anyone who enters into “an arrangement that prevents the vesting of beneficial ownership as part of a plan or scheme to avoid” disclosing a position, is deemed to be a beneficial owner. “That is exactly what the defendants did here,” he said.

He also found that the defendants had formed a group “many months before they filed the necessary disclosure statement.” He said their “protestations to the contrary” were largely based on the claim they started every meeting by saying there was not a group. “But the Exchange Act is concerned with substance, not incantations and formalities,” the judge wrote.

The judge said his ruling largely agreed with the S.E.C. staff position, which was set out in a letter from Brian V. Breheny, the deputy director of the commission’s Division of Corporation Finance, even though the letter had concluded that “as a general matter, a person that does nothing more than enter into an equity swap should not be found to have engaged in an evasion of the reporting requirements.”

The funds had done more than enter into the swaps, Judge Kaplan said. But a precedent in the Second Circuit in which the court refused to find “a degree of effective control” when a shareholder accumulated a 31 percent stake without making the required disclosures, made it unlikely, the judge said, that the court would find that there was sufficient control to warrant blocking the voting of the shares. But he said that testimony that a hedge fund executive had warned that the future of CSX’s chief executive was “bleak” if the funds won the proxy contest made it possible that the appellate judges could find there was irreparable harm if the funds were allowed to vote the shares.

In court filings, the proper interpretation of the law was disputed by Bernard Black, a law and finance professor at the University of Texas, and Henry T. C. Hu, also a University of Texas law professor. Together, they have written major articles on the ways derivatives have enabled hedge funds and others to separate voting from economic interests. Mr. Black said that swaps did not need to be disclosed, while Mr. Hu argued that disclosure was required in very limited cases where there was clearly an intent to influence the company. He was supported in that view by Mr. Grundfest.

In a statement, the funds said they were pleased that the judge allowed the shareholder vote to proceed, but added, “We strongly believe we have complied with all securities laws and plan to appeal.”

CSX issued a statement quoting parts of the ruling that criticized the funds, but that did not discuss an appeal.

But in a hearing Tuesday, its lawyer, Rory O. Millson of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, said CSX would appeal if the judge ruled in the way he did. If nothing more than belated disclosure by the funds is required, Mr. Millson said, “they’ll look up and go, ‘Wow, what a deal,’ and then they can steal the election.” He added, “There has to be something that says you can’t profit in this way.”
348 2008-06-12 Mr. Obama had defended Mr. Johnson as recently as Tuesday, saying that he had only a “tangential” role and that the campaign would not hire people to, as Mr. Obama put it, “vet the vetters.”

But as questions about Mr. Johnson grew, Mr. Obama felt he had to move quickly to rid the campaign of a man who had come to symbolize the Washington fixers that Mr. Obama was running against, aides said. One aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, said that Mr. Obama, a relative newcomer to Washington, had little loyalty to Mr. Johnson, a major presence in Democratic politics for more than two decades.

But the loss will carry some costs for the Obama team. The controversy is the latest example of the demonization of so-called Washington insiders, who both profit from the political system and bring irreplaceable experience and insight to it.

Mr. Johnson, in a statement issued Wednesday afternoon, said he was leaving the campaign not because he had done anything wrong but to save Mr. Obama further grief.

“I believe Barack Obama’s candidacy for president of the United States is the most exciting and important of my lifetime,” he said. “I would not dream of being a party to distracting attention from that historic effort.”

He added: “I am extremely proud of my service to Fannie Mae and in other important dimensions of public service. This withdrawal should in no way imply that I accept the blatantly false statements and misrepresentations that have been written about me in recent days.”

Mr. McCain and national Republican officials, who had seized on the questions being raised about Mr. Johnson, gloated over his departure on Wednesday.

“The American people have reason to question the judgment of a candidate who has shown he will only make the right call when under pressure from the news media,” Tucker Bounds, a McCain spokesman, said in a statement.

Mr. Obama’s spokesman, Bill Burton snapped back a few minutes later in an e-mail message: “We don’t need any lectures from a campaign that waited 15 months to purge the lobbyists from their staff, and only did so because they said it was a ‘perception problem.’ ”

Although Mr. Obama’s campaign is known for its stability and cohesiveness, Mr. Johnson is at least the second high-profile adviser to step down in the wake of controversy. In March, Samantha Power, a close friend and foreign policy adviser, resigned after referring to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as “a monster.”

Mr. Johnson, who for nearly two months has been quietly arranging a network of lawyers as he built a confidential vice-presidential vetting system, informed the campaign of his decision on Wednesday. He angered some Obama campaign advisers, officials said, by failing to disclose specific information about his business dealings. A visit to Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill this week also attracted unwanted attention, officials said, and was at odds with Mr. Obama’s desire to keep the search for a running mate secret.

The decision to resign was Mr. Johnson’s, campaign officials said privately, but advisers believed it was the only way to end the controversy.

Mr. Johnson, 64, is the vice chairman of Perseus, a $2 billion private equity fund in Washington. A native of Minnesota, he began his career as a Senate staff member and became a policy aide to Vice President Walter F. Mondale. In 1981, he left the government, founding Public Strategies, a corporate consulting firm, and later was a managing director at Lehman Brothers before joining Fannie Mae.

As chief executive of Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored organization that guarantees mortgages for millions of homeowners, Mr. Johnson earned a lucrative paycheck, even by private-sector standards. In 1998 alone, he earned $21 million, according an analysis by federal regulators.

After Mr. Johnson left in 1998, Fannie Mae was caught up in an accounting scandal in which federal regulators found that the company had manipulated its earnings to provide large bonuses for Fannie Mae executives.

While Mr. Johnson was not implicated in the accounting scandal, federal regulators said he had created a culture of arrogance at the company that contributed to its fall from grace.

In Mr. Johnson’s tenure at Fannie Mae, he became close to Countrywide, the hobbled mortgage lender now at the center of the subprime mortgage crisis. Countrywide was Fannie Mae’s largest mortgage provider, which brought Mr. Johnson into contact with Angelo R. Mozilo, Countrywide’s chief executive.

Through that relationship, Mr. Johnson received three home mortgages totaling at least $2 million at rates that appear to be lower than the prevailing mortgage rates at the time. When the story about the personal mortgages broke in The Wall Street Journal last weekend, Mr. Johnson’s business relationships began to draw greater scrutiny.

In addition, Mr. Johnson served on the boards of a number of corporations that were at the center of a furor over excessive executive compensation, a subject that has been not only a campaign cause for Mr. Obama but also the subject of major legislation he introduced in the Senate to rein in such high-dollar pay packages. Mr. Obama’s “Say on Pay” legislation calls for greater shareholder oversight of executive compensation.

Perhaps the best-known case was Mr. Johnson’s board seat at UnitedHealthcare, a Minneapolis company where he headed the compensation committee. In that position, he oversaw and approved executive pay packages that have since come under fire, even becoming symbols of corporate excess and greed.

In years past, Mr. Johnson’s ties hardly raised an eyebrow. But a combination of the ethical standards that Mr. Obama set for his campaign and an explosion of readily available information on the Internet contributed to the controversy.

“Candidates themselves are setting standards that their campaign may not be able to live up to,” said David B. Cohen, an associate professor of political science at the University of Akron. “In politics, you often reap what you sow. And that is the situation that Obama finds himself in right now with Jim Johnson. The rhetoric is idealistic, but the actual practice of politics is different.”
349 2008-06-12 The Semiconductor Industry Association on Wednesday cut its forecast for growth in global sales of semiconductors in 2008, citing lower prices because of competition in the memory chip sector.

The trade group said it now expected 2008 chip sales to grow 4.3 percent, to $266.6 billion, down from a forecast of 7.7 percent in November.

In a midyear update to its annual forecast, the trade group said it also expected chip sales to show a compound annual growth rate of 6.1 percent through 2011.

The slower growth for 2008 is expected despite healthy demand for products like cellphones and personal computers, it said.

Revenue from memory chips “declined by 34 percent even as unit shipments increased by more than 30 percent in the first four months of 2008 compared to the same period last year,” the president of the group, George M. Scalise, said in a statement.

The group said unit sales of PCs are on pace to grow 10 percent this year to about 300 million, while mobile phone unit shipments are expected to grow 12 percent to more than 1.3 billion.
350 2008-06-12 TEHRAN — As President Bush pressed European leaders to adopt a tougher posture toward Iran, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Wednesday brushed aside pressure to curb Tehran’s nuclear ambitions, saying the West “cannot do anything” and “all their plans have failed.”

At a European Union summit in Slovenia on Tuesday, Mr. Bush won a pledge to consider additional punitive sanctions against Iran, including restrictions on its banks, if Iran rejects a package of incentives to suspend its uranium enrichment program.

But in a speech in the western Iranian city of Shahr-e Kurd, reported by the IRNA news agency, Mr. Ahmadinejad told a crowd, “With God’s help, today the Iranian people have gained victory and the enemy cannot do anything.”

“They imposed the toughest economic sanctions since the revolution and tried to make you change your path through military threats, psychosocial and political pressure,” he said.

“Today they know all their plans have failed.” While the United States and many other governments accuse Iran of seeking to develop nuclear weapons, Tehran insists that its nuclear program is exclusively for civilian purposes, mainly generating electric power.
351 2008-06-12 COMMODITY PRICES SURGE Corn futures rose above $7 a bushel for the first time, hitting a record after heavy rains in the Midwest prompted the Department of Agriculture to lower its 2008 output estimate.       Seeking to reduce speculation, Senator...
352 2008-06-13 Photograph by Kevin Van Aelst The reason bartering can work in villages - including, during various periods, Greenwich Village, the Haight-Ashbury and Burning Man - is that village neighbors make and need comparable products. Some corn, some carpe...
353 2008-06-13 In the wake of Yahoo's decision to embrace a Google partnership in its ad search business, many have wondered what Microsoft will do next. In an internal letter to Microsoft employees, Kevin Johnson, the president of the software giant's platform ...
354 2008-06-13 From our colleagues at Bits: Some morning-after thoughts on the Yahoo-Google advertising deal: Wall Street hates the deal. Actually, what Wall Street seems to hate is the fact that Microsoft and Yahoo appear to have broken up for good. The deal wi...
355 2008-06-13 As Yahoo's shares continued to fall Friday, an analysis of the Microsoft-Yahoo-Google situation suggests that the long saga isn't over yet....
356 2008-06-13 "We will regret very much in the days and months ahead this decision by the Supreme Court," Senator John McCain said of the United States Supreme Court decision on enemy combatants' rights....
357 2008-06-13 Neither campaign could find common ground on proposals for a series of town hall meetings and debates....
358 2008-06-13 The Fox News Channel's unusual broadcast of a town hall meeting by John McCain on Thursday is attracting predictable criticism. But the network itself was quick to note that audience for the broadcast was not as diverse as the the McCain campaign ...
359 2008-06-13 The Daily Mail of London on a teacher who may have seen too many Jack Black and Robin Williams films: The secret of being a good teacher is said to be finding a way to get the children's attention. But stripping off in front of a class of unruly p...
360 2008-06-13 Companies traditionally get loans from banks, but with so many lenders stretched and with credit so tight these days, businesses are turning to what might seem like an unlikely source for cash: hedge funds. According to a report in The New York Ti...
361 2008-06-13 KeyCorp shares fell the most in a quarter-century after the Ohio-based lender said it needs to raise $1.5 billion and slashed its dividend by half because it lost a tax case. KeyCorp, which is based in Cleveland, will sell common shares and conver...
362 2008-06-13 UBS has wrapped up a 16 billion franc ($15.4 billion) rights issue, the Swiss bank's second effort to resuscitate finances that have been ravaged by the global markets crisis. It is the latest in a line of major banks including Britain's Royal Ban...
363 2008-06-13 A manhunt continued on Thursday for Samuel Israel III, a hedge fund manager who disappeared Monday, hours before he was to have reported to prison to serve a 20-year federal sentence for conspiracy and fraud in a scheme to cheat investors out of $...
364 2008-06-13 Pfizer may bid for Ranbaxy Laboratories, countering a $4.6 billion offer by Japan's Daiichi Sankyo for the Indian generic drug maker, the Business Standard newspaper said. Ranbaxy's shares jumped nearly 5 percent on the report while Daiichi Sankyo...
365 2008-06-13 Justin Hicks, who is ranked No. 722, emerged as the leader at the end of Day 1 at the U.S. Open....
366 2008-06-13 The Nets plan to give away more than $250,000 worth of gasoline to new season-ticket holders. The Nets will give back 10 percent of the total ticket price in the form of gas cards to fans who buy a season ticket through June 26.
367 2008-06-13 Human rights advocates on Thursday said that Ethiopia has been committing “crimes against humanity,” including the torture, murder, rape, and forced eviction of civilians, in its crackdown on insurgents in the country’s isolated eastern Ogaden desert region.

The group Human Rights Watch, in a 130-page report released in Nairobi, Kenya, and posted online at hrw.org, cited independent analysis of satellite photographs by an American scientific group as support for its conclusion that many villages had been razed.

The Ethiopian government has routinely rejected such claims. Calls and e-mail messages to the Ethiopian Embassy in Washington were not returned.

The image analysis was led by Lars Bromley, the director of the science and human rights program of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, based in Washington.

Guided by eyewitness accounts gathered by the human rights investigators, the scientists tracked down satellite images of particular villages in the region from before the most recent army campaign and commissioned private providers of satellite images to take fresh satellite photographs of the locations.

Comparisons confirmed that dozens of structures in eight communities identified as attacked by witnesses had vanished, and the images also revealed signs that buildings had been burned, Mr. Bromley said.
368 2008-06-13 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates joined NATO defense ministers in an effort to push forward a design for missile defenses that would protect all alliance nations from a potential Iranian ballistic missile attack. A senior Defense Department official traveling with Mr. Gates said the United States would press alliance members to agree on options for a defensive system against short- and medium-range ballistic missiles. That future NATO missile defense system would cover territory across the southeastern rim of the alliance: Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey. Parts of those nations — including almost all of Turkey — would not be covered by a longer-range system that the United States hopes to install in Poland and the Czech Republic.
369 2008-06-13 A manhunt continued on Thursday for a hedge fund manager who disappeared Monday hours before he was to have reported to prison to serve a 20-year federal sentence for conspiracy and fraud in a scheme to cheat investors out of $450 million.

A wanted poster released by the United States Marshals Service called the manager, Samuel Israel III, 48, “armed and dangerous.”

Mr. Israel helped found the Bayou Group, a hedge fund that was based in Connecticut. “Almost always when someone becomes a fugitive, they’re dangerous, they’re hiding and they don’t want to get caught,” David Turner, a spokesman for the service, said.

“If they have access to a weapon, and he certainly does, they’ll probably find a way to get one.”

Mr. Israel’s sport utility vehicle was found abandoned on the Bear Mountain Bridge over the Hudson River less than two hours before he was expected to report to a federal prison in Ayer, Mass., Monday afternoon.
370 2008-06-13 Mr. Obama has been dogged by potent, fast-moving rumors about his religion, his birthplace and his patriotism, to name a few, for more than a year. More recently his campaign has confronted persistent but unsubstantiated reports about Mrs. Obama using angry and derogatory language about white people.

Until now, the Obama campaign has tried to confront Internet rumors with a more local, less visible approach, quietly encouraging supporters to forward misleading e-mail messages to their local field organizers, who in turn would notify the campaign’s research department. Then the research department would respond with a factual rebuttal, which would then be e-mailed back to every recipient of the original e-mail message.

While the campaign considered this tactic effective in the early primaries, especially in the days leading up to the Iowa caucuses in January, the general election was seen as requiring a more robust response mechanism, so the campaign created the Fight The Smears Web site. Details of fightthesmears.com were first reported by Time magazine.

The campaign unveiled the new Web site amid indications the general election could be as much of a slash and burn affair as any of its recent predecessors, despite assertions from both Mr. Obama and his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, that they intend to elevate the political discourse.

On Wednesday, James A. Johnson, a longtime fixture in Democratic political and business circles, stepped down as the head of Mr. Obama’s vice-presidential search committee after Republicans used news reports about Mr. Johnson’s business dealings to suggest that he had ethical problems.

On Thursday, Mr. McCain, at a news conference, raised questions about another member of the search committee, Eric Holder, noting that he had played a role in President Bill Clinton’s last-minute pardon of the fugitive financier Marc Rich in 2001.

Mr. Obama’s campaign and its allies have displayed an aggressive streak this week as well, hitting Mr. McCain hard on Wednesday after he replied to a question about when American troops might come home from Iraq by saying it was “not too important,” then suggesting that what was important was the level of casualties.

In a conference call about the statement, Mr. Obama’s advisers on several occasions referred to Mr. McCain as being “confused” about some key Middle East questions, a statement some took to be a veiled reference to his age and acuity.

But the final straw for Mr. Obama, his aides said, was the story circulating on conservative blogs that a video existed showing Mrs. Obama making a racially tinged speech at their former church, Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago.

Mr. Obama was visibly irritated by the rumor when a reporter asked him about it last week.

“It is a destructive aspect of our politics right now,” Mr. Obama told reporters last week as he flew through Virginia. “And simply because something appears in an e-mail, that should lend it no more credence than if you heard it on the corner. And you know, presumably the job of the press is to not go around and spread scurrilous rumors like this until there’s actually anything, one iota of substance or evidence that would substantiate it.”

The Web site devotes its most prominent space on the home page to that rumor. “The Smear,” it begins. After describing the smear in a point-by-point fashion it concludes, “The Truth: No Such Tape Exists.”
371 2008-06-13 He got into this field by surviving a playoff in the sectional qualifier at Columbus, Ohio, two weeks ago — 11 players, 7 spots available. He birdied the first playoff hole with a 15-footer. Was he shocked to now be holding the lead by one stroke over the PGA Tour winners Rocco Mediate, Stuart Appleby, Geoff Ogilvy and Eric Axley?

“Hopefully not too surprised,” he said. “I thought it was a pretty good round. I guess, you know, certainly I’m not shocked, but a little bit surprised at the thought of it, at the top of the leader board currently.”

So, for that matter, was Streelman, whose tie for 29th at the Buick Invitational was his second-best result of the season, bettered only by his tie for 28th at the Mayakoba Golf Classic, a second-level event played the same week in February as the WGC-Accenture Match Play in Tucson.

“I don’t think what happened today has quite sunk in yet,” Streelman said.

“I won’t have too much time to let it sink in because I’ve got to go early tomorrow morning. I’m going to try to get a quick meal and a great night’s sleep and hopefully see you guys tomorrow again.”

That could well happen. But for Streelman, who has one career finish in the top 25 on the PGA Tour, and Hicks to be sharing the lead in a field as strong as this on a golf course as strong as this is something that strains credulity. But it is entertaining, as was much of what went before it on an absolutely perfect day for golf.

It started with the top three players in golf battling the course and one another to a relative standoff — 71 for Mickelson, 72 for Woods and 73 for Scott. With thousands lining the fairways and encircling the greens, filling every available line of sight at Torrey Pines, there were a few flashes of the transcendent brilliance of which Woods is capable. But he was not himself, and it showed from the beginning.

He hit a pull hook that bounced off a tree into a bad lie in the primary rough on his first tee shot. A pitch out into the fairway, a wedge that took one bounce and hopped into the heavy stuff behind the green, and he was en route to a two-putt double.

“It’s just a terrible way to start,” said Woods, who hit just 6 fairways and 11 greens in his first round of competitive golf since the Masters. “It’s one thing to hit the ball left off the first tee, that’s fine, pitch out. But the wedge shot, I had all the room short of the hole and I fly it past the hole. That’s just a terrible mistake.”

Woods flashed some of the old stuff with a birdie at No. 4, hitting his approach from a fairway bunker 209 yards to 4 feet from the hole.

Mickelson then reeled off three consecutive bogeys starting with a three-putt at No. 5, ramming a 40-footer about 8 feet past the hole, failing to get up and down from the high rough short of the green at No. 6 and adding another at No. 7.

“I don’t know whether that was rust or just bad decision making on my part,” he said. “I guess I could say I just made a couple of dumb mistakes. But the back nine, I got it turned around and hit some good shots.”

Woods made his second double bogey of the day. It happened at the 14th hole with a drive into the left fairway bunker, a heavy second shot just short of the green, a flubbed chip shot into the heavy rough short of the hole, a chip on, and two putts.

Mickelson birdied the hole with two lasers to within 4 feet to pull even at 1-over, and it all came down to the 18th, which Mickelson and Scott birdied and Woods parred.

After a 360-yard drive at 18, Woods winced in pain, later saying, “It didn’t feel very good, no.” But neither he nor Mickelson consider themselves out of it, something that will come as no surprise to the surprising two leaders.
372 2008-06-13 BOSTON — The presidential candidates took differing positions Thursday on the Supreme Court decision granting foreign terrorism suspects at Guantánamo Bay a right to challenge their detention in civilian courts. Senator John McCain expressed concern about the ruling, while Senator Barack Obama lauded it.

Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama have both long advocated closing the Guantánamo detention center but have disagreed on the rights of prisoners there.

Mr. McCain said here Thursday morning that he had not had time to read the decision but that “it obviously concerns me,” adding, “These are unlawful combatants; they’re not American citizens.”

Mr. McCain said he thought “we should pay attention” to the dissent by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., which argued that the steps established by the administration and Congress in creating review tribunals run by the military were more than sufficiently generous as a way for detainees to challenge their status.

Still, the senator said, “it is a decision the Supreme Court has made, and now we need to move forward.”
373 2008-06-13 “You’re talking to people who are very thirsty or hungry to get double-digit returns,” said Ed Banks, chief investment officer of Washington Corner, a hedge fund in New Jersey. “And they know you’re coming hat in hand.”

Economists predict that it is only a matter of time before the cutback in bank lending causes a slowdown in industries far from Wall Street. Just over half of domestic banks reported that they tightened standards on commercial lending in April in a Federal Reserve survey, up from 30 percent in January.

But hedge funds may fill a small part of the void. The number of hedge funds that specialize in what is called “asset-based lending” has quadrupled in the last three years, according to HedgeFund.net, a hedge fund information service owned by Channel Capital Group. New funds of this sort include the Weston Fund in Riverside, Conn., founded in January, and the Genesis Merchant Partners fund, which opened in Greenwich, Conn., last week.

These banklike hedge funds had about $12 billion in assets to lend as of the end of last year, up from $900 million three years ago, according to HedgeFund.net. Big funds like Citadel and private equity giants like Cerberus Capital Management have even more. Unlike banks, which raise money from depositors, hedge funds are not regulated. The funds get their capital from wealthy investors.

Y. Judd Shoval founded a lending hedge fund, Ambit Funding, in early 2005 after a career running local banks. Consolidation in the banking industry left a niche for hedge funds for a variety of loan types, he said, and his fund makes commercial loans in 12 states.

Mr. Shoval does much the same type of lending he did at banks. His depositors are not banking customers who can access their money 24 hours a day, but rather investors who have a six month lock-up on their money. And he charges the standard hedge fund fees to investors.

“We are a hedge fund, but we look at each situation through the prism of a bank,” Mr. Shoval said.

To be sure, there were hedge funds that jumped in during the loose lending of recent years and lost money on loans, just as the banks did. And hedge funds may find their investors weary of investing more heavily in loans because such debt is often illiquid and hard to value, said Michael Zupon, a managing director and head of the domestic leveraged finance group at the Carlyle Group.

And hedge funds, those often secretive, sometimes volatile investment vehicles, often arouse suspicions. Some companies still remember tales that circulated in the late 1990s about hedge funds that purchased stakes in small companies through what was known as a “death-spiral convertible.” These shares can be converted into common stock as a company’s share price drops, and that strategy is said to be returning now.

“Hedge funds have been known to come in and profit from a company’s demise,” said Meredith Jones, managing director of PerTrac Financial Solutions, a financial software company.

But, Ms. Jones said, may distressed companies have little choice but turn to hedge funds.

“It’s kind of like: do you sign a lease with your landlord? Well, if you don’t, you don’t have a place to live,” she said.

Some hedge funds have been hoarding cash for the time when companies are desperate, said Michael Fuller, managing director of Private Advisors, which manages a fund of funds of direct-lending hedge funds. The terms banks were offering in recent years were so generous, with such low interest rates, that some hedge fund managers refrained from lending, he said.

“Up until six months ago, they couldn’t compete,” Mr. Fuller said. “So they just waited and held lots of cash on their books. Now Wall Street is spitting stuff out. Some are great investments.”
374 2008-06-13 “What we needed was not to have one look in Southern California and a completely different look in Boston,” said Ms. Reitman, the brand manager. “It’s been a definite mind shift to get a consistent look.”

The Red Cross also sought advice from a corporate supporter, 3M Worldwide, based in St. Paul, which has long held blood drives among its workers and donated products and money to the Red Cross. 3M has also been a corporate sponsor of Nascar for four years.

“Nascar reaches one in four Americans,” said Robert D. MacDonald, 3M’s senior vice president for sales and marketing. “Its geographical reach has been growing from where it started in the South, and now it’s pretty much all over.” The maker of Scotchgard, Post-its and Thinsulate, 3M offered to donate advertising space on one of its racecars, the No. 16 Ford Fusion driven by Greg Biffle of Roush Fenway Racing.

The Red Cross emblem then appeared on the hood of the 3M car in Talledega, Ala., in April. The same car will also appear in the race in Phoenix in November, with the Red Cross logo appearing on the car’s side in eight other Nascar races this season.

Even so, Vicki Thomas, national accounts manager for the American Red Cross, said, “We had to do more than just have a car racing around the track.”

The Red Cross has been setting up tents at Nascar events, where fans can pick up literature and register online to donate blood. (No blood is collected on site, in part because many Nascar fans enjoy tippling while they watch a race.) The Red Cross follows up with e-mail messages to each person signing up to donate blood.

At Talledega, Ms. Thomas said, the Red Cross’ goal was to have 4,000 fans register, but it ended just short of that number. More fans have registered on redcrossracing.com, but the Red Cross said it had no overall figure.

“What we’re trying to do is take this marketing technique, so instead of 50 donors who give one time a year, we have 75 donors who give two times a year,” Ms. Thomas said.

Registrants are enrolled in a sweepstakes and also earn points toward small prizes like caps, T-shirts, jackets and die-cast model cars. “You have to give the fans something to do, buy or win,” said Mr. MacDonald of 3M. “The brand gets known, and they make contact with people by getting the names and addresses of people who are at the track.”

The cost to 3M? The advertising space on the hood of the No. 16 racecar, Mr. MacDonald said, is worth about $500,000 each race, based on the average of $20 million it costs to sponsor a full Nascar season.

But “more important than the money,” he said, “is a marketing program that is working for the Red Cross and one that they can build on.”

Despite trying to make its marketing more uniform, the local Red Cross divisions are still engaged in efforts of their own. After all, the Red Cross, which supplies 3,000 hospitals and transfusion centers each year, is responsible for 43 percent of the country’s blood supply, so it needs to rely on more than Nascar fans.

In May, the Red Cross in Massachusetts worked with the Uno Restaurant Holdings Corporation, the company in Boston that runs the Uno Chicago Grill franchise, on a campaign called “Give a Pint, Get a Pizza.” The idea was to collect blood for the summer months when supplies are low because people are on vacation.

Uno sent out 100,000 postcards about the blood drive, and wound up giving away 20,000 vouchers to donors for a free pizza good at 35 restaurants in the Boston and Providence, R.I., areas, said Richard K. Hendrie, Uno’s senior vice president for marketing.

“We’ve had a great response so far,” he said, “It’s enough that we’re thinking about doing it again later this year.”

Independent blood centers have also figured out that giveaways are a good supplement for donors’ altruistic impulses.

The New York Blood Center, which serves about 200 hospitals in New York and New Jersey, is aiming at younger donors with offers of V.I.P. passes to concerts and a $500 college donation for each student who organizes a blood drive that brings in 50 pints. “We’re working to develop a new generation of givers,” said Robert L. Jones, president and chief executive for the center.

Right now, the center is exploring the idea of giving each donor a free cholesterol screening or cardiovascular profile. As Mr. Jones put it, “This would benefit the donor a lot more than a mug or a T-shirt.”
375 2008-06-13 Corn futures for July delivery rose 5.75 cents, to $7.09 a bushel on Thursday. That followed a 30 cent increase on Wednesday.

Soybeans, which rose 70 cents, to $15.16 a bushel on Wednesday, rose 20 cents, to $15.36 on Thursday.

Even wheat, which had fallen in recent months as traders and growers predicted a big crop, has jumped in recent days. Wheat rose 60 cents to $8.69 a bushel on Wednesday, but fell 18 cents on Thursday.

Oil futures jumped also rose, although more modestly on Thursday. Oil rose 36 cents to $136.74 a barrel, after increasing $5.07 on Wednesday.

On Wednesday, the catalyst for the sharp jump was an Energy Department report showing commercial oil stockpiles in the United States fell 4.56 million barrels, to 302.2 million last week, a much bigger drop than analysts had expected.

On Monday and Tuesday, oil prices had retreated from Friday’s record of $138.54 a barrel. Some traders say that the market is now gearing for a quick rise to $150 a barrel.

The high oil prices are translating into acute pain at the pump, with gasoline hitting a nationwide average of $4.05 a gallon on Wednesday, a record. Diesel hit $4.79 a gallon, also a record.

A steep drop in the dollar this year has pushed up prices for oil, gold and other commodities as investors seek assets that provide a hedge against the falling American currency.

“This is just crazy volatility,” said Stephen Schork, an independent energy analyst. “At this point, this is absolutely a bubble. High prices have become a justification for higher prices and $150 a barrel is quickly turning into a self-fulfilling prophecy.”

Not all analysts believe the oil price is a bubble, however. Many point to frenzied growth in oil consumption in Asia, which they fear will outstrip the ability of oil companies to add new supplies.

While demand has been falling in the United States, global oil consumption is still expected to rise this year because of growing demand from emerging economies that subsidize fuel prices, like China and some Middle Eastern countries.

On Wednesday, China said that its crude oil imports had surged 25 percent last month as the country coped with the aftermath of the devastating earthquake that struck in May.

“What we’re seeing is a very painful experiment to see what price will get demand to slow down,” said Adam E. Sieminski, chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank. “Four dollars a gallon is slowing consumption in the United States. But there is an awful lot of people in the developing world and they all want a car and they all want a better diet. That is putting a lot of pressure on food and energy prices.”

After years of oversupply, there is now not enough food to go around. Expectations for the 2008 harvest are rapidly declining.

The Agriculture Department this week cut its yield expectations for corn by 5 bushels an acre, to 148.9 bushels, a big drop for a growing season that has just begun. It now estimates the 2008 crop at 11.7 billion bushels, down 390 million bushels from what it was expecting last month.

Since the rain has not yet let up, these figures could prove optimistic. In its weekly crop rating, the Agriculture Department said that the quality of the corn was notably lower this year, with the amount deemed “excellent” only half that of the 2007 crop.

Rick Corners of Centralia, Ill., had to replant all 500 acres of his corn after it rotted, something he had never done in 33 years of farming. He finished last week, a month behind schedule, and considered himself lucky.

“I heard about a farmer in northern Illinois who had to plant his corn three times, and now he’s under water again,” Mr. Corners said.

Soybeans are generally planted after corn but their price is also being pushed up by the weather and other developments, including a report that China increased its soybean imports in May by 45 percent from the previous month. A strike by Argentine farmers is also serving to limit the world’s supply.

Palle Pedersen, an agronomist at Iowa State University in Ames, said 20 percent of the soybean crop in the state still had to be planted or replanted.

“Every day it rains, the chances of an average crop get smaller and smaller,” Mr. Pedersen said.

The abundance of rain in the corn and soybean belt for the last six weeks — accompanied until recently by chilly temperatures that impeded crop progress — was highly unusual, said Dale Mohler, a meteorologist with AccuWeather.com. “A wet spell of this magnitude in the Midwest probably only happens once every 50 years,” he said.

However belated, relief might be on the way for beleaguered farmers. The meteorologist said he expected drier weather to prevail next week.

The crop news is not entirely bleak. This week, the Agriculture Department raised by 2 percent its forecast for the size of the winter wheat harvest, which is now under way.
376 2008-06-13 Last week, in a victory for Paris and Berlin, European energy ministers reached a preliminary deal under which the utilities could retain ownership of their transmission networks as long as they were managed independently and under supervision.

But energy specialists said the charges against Gaz de France and E.On showed that Ms. Kroes had not given up pursuing antitrust measures against big utilities.

“Neelie Kroes is determined to do her job as antitrust chief, and these charges are one more indication that this battle to introduce competition in energy markets is set to continue,” said Colette Lewiner, who monitors the energy industry at Capgemini, a consulting firm in Paris.

Ms. Lewiner also said that the deal struck by energy ministers still had to be approved by the European Parliament, which could alter the terms and still make it possible for competition authorities to eventually push through a breakup of some energy companies.

But Ms. Lewiner and other analysts said that the commission’s tactics would not halt the merger planned by Gaz de France, which derives the majority of its revenue from transmission activities, with the French energy company Suez.

If the commission finds E.On and Gaz de France guilty of the collusion charges, it can levy fines of up to 10 percent of their annual revenue.

E.On said in a statement that it would “collaborate constructively with the E.U. commission to dispel the charges” but it strongly rejected the claims.

It said the charges concerned agreements signed more than 30 years ago that came to an end four years ago.

E.On also said it had “invested billions of euros in supply projects and crossborder gas pipelines” and that the amount of natural gas it sent abroad, as well as the volume of natural gas sold by Gaz de France to Germany, had increased substantially in recent years.

Gaz de France said in a statement that the charges were unfounded because they concerned activities during a period when energy markets in Europe were regulated differently.

Over the last year, Ms. Kroes has steadily increased pressure on both Gaz de France and E.On to sell their supply grids to make it easier for rivals to compete across European borders.

In an unexpected decision this year, E.On agreed to sell some assets. Ms. Kroes is investigating the terms of that sale separately, which follows accusations that E.On had deliberately withheld electricity from the market to raise prices.

RWE, another German energy company, also is in talks with the commission to give up energy transmission assets after accusations that it was blocking access to transmission facilities.

The commission also is conducting a separate investigation into Gaz de France on suspicion of deliberate underinvestment aimed at blocking competition. In that case, Gaz de France said last month that it was cooperating with the commission, but it insisted that there was a large number of competitors on the French market with access to the company’s infrastructure.
377 2008-06-13 BRUSSELS — Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates joined NATO defense ministers here Thursday in an effort to push forward a design for missile defenses that will protect all alliance nations from a potential Iranian ballistic missile attack.

Over their scheduled two days of talks, the defense ministers also will discuss additional fighting forces and military trainers for the NATO-led stability mission in Afghanistan, as well as security issues arising from insurgents hiding across the border in neighboring Pakistan.

The future status of a NATO training mission in Kosovo, which adopts its constitution on June 15 but whose independence is not yet recognized by all alliance members, also is on the agenda.

Senior alliance officials said that no major decisions were expected out of the talks.

A senior Defense Department official traveling with Mr. Gates said the United States would press alliance members to agree on options for a defensive system against short- and medium-range ballistic missiles.

That future NATO missile defense system would cover territory across the southeastern rim of the alliance Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey.
378 2008-06-13 Citigroup Inc., the investment bank, said on Thursday that it would close a hedge fund co-founded by its chief executive Vikram Pandit, just 11 months after the global bank acquired it for more than $800 million.

Old Lane Partners, which has had sluggish returns as global markets skidded because of the tight credit markets, will allow investors to cash in their holdings by July 31. Citigroup said that some of the fund’s investments — including equities and fixed-income products — would be integrated into the bank’s securities and banking division.

Citigroup said integrating Old Lane would increase Citi’s assets by $9 billion. All former Old Lane partners, including Pandit, will be required to maintain their investments in the funds.

With lackluster performance, Citigroup executives have been faced with a choice to inject more cash into the hedge fund or unwind it.

Citigroup said after being integrated into the bank, Old Lane will establish a number of funds and other offerings for its alternative investments business.

A Citi spokesman was not immediately available to comment.

Citi shares rose 1.7 percent to $19.53 in premarket trading after closing at $19.21 on Wednesday.
379 2008-06-13 That’s because Mr. Wroblewski gives this family the “Hamlet” treatment, in general terms though not slavishly derivative ones. Edgar adores his mother, Trudy, and resents his long-lost uncle, Claude. When an unhappy fate befalls Edgar’s father, Gar, the suspicions of this now 14-year-old boy are aroused. Trouble ensues. But “The Story of Edgar Sawtelle” is by no means “Hamlet” with hounds. This book’s brief encounters with prophecy and the supernatural have as much to do with Mr. King’s Maine as they do with Shakespeare’s Denmark.

In a coming-of-age book that pays rapt attention to the power of communication, there are things that Edgar at first simply cannot understand. His parents are beguiling but mysterious. (The only answer Edgar can get to the question of how they met is: “In a good way. You’d only be disappointed in the details.”)

The family’s philosophy of dog breeding is another thing Edgar takes time to fathom. But it is indeed a system of belief, first introduced by Edgar’s grandfather. This expansive book has plenty of room for multiple generations. One of the great pleasures of “The Story of Edgar Sawtelle” is its free-roaming, unhurried progress, enlivened by the author’s inability to write anything but guilelessly captivating prose.

One of Mr. Wroblewski’s most impressive accomplishments here is to exert a strong, seemingly effortless gravitational pull. The reader who has no interest in dogs, boys or Oedipal conflicts of the north woods of Wisconsin will nonetheless find these things irresistible. Pick up this book and expect to feel very, very reluctant to put it down.

Whether it is capturing every nuance of puppy behavior (“when she ran a finger along his belly fur he squirmed to keep sight of her eyes”), following Edgar through the dictionary as he picks names for his first litter (“Essay,” “Pout,” “Tinder,” “Opal,” “Umbra”) or delivering long sections of narrative that Mr. Wroblewski himself has named intriguingly (“Three Griefs,” “What Hands Do”), this rich and hefty book never flags.

Its voice is so natural and unfettered, so free of metaphor or other baggage, that even the simplest moments can have extraordinary grace. After a long but gripping passage during which Edgar and three dogs wander through the wilderness, driven from home and without any means of survival, even their discovery of canned food in a cabin can seem like a great wonder. “Like a magician performing sleight-of-hand,” Mr. Wroblewski writes of the starving Edgar, “he began working the opener over a can of pork and beans.” He conveys every bit of Edgar’s sudden elation.

The radiant early stages of “The Story of Edgar Sawtelle” are more languid than the heightened drama in which this story must culminate. But even when he more openly manipulates his characters, this fine new author (who, in another life, has a career developing software) invests their actions with intense emotion. When the dogs make a home for themselves in a new place, they do it with heart and soul.

“As they worked, they put the sky in place above, the trees in the ground,” the book says, describing one of Edgar’s training sessions. “They invented color and air and scent and gravity.” And in a touch that is by no means unexpected, once Mr. Wroblewski’s world has been entered and embraced, this book’s saddest farewell ends a profound man-dog relationship. Not even Hamlet could have imagined the strength of their loyalty or the depths of their sorrow.
380 2008-06-13 Because the deals with Microsoft and Google are so different it is difficult to compare them. But investors reacted by selling Yahoo shares Thursday after the announcement of the end of negotiations with Microsoft. Yahoo shares lost more than 10 percent of their value in regular trading, closing at $23.52. The share price was up slightly in after-hours trading.

The companies said that although they are not required to receive regulatory approval of the arrangement before implementing it, the companies have voluntarily agreed to delay implementation for up to three and a half months to give the Department of Justice time to review the arrangement.

Yahoo’s independent directors, including the chairman, Roy J. Bostock, met with Microsoft executives on June 8, Yahoo said. At that meeting, Microsoft said “unequivocally” that it was no longer interested in buying Yahoo even at the price previously offered, the release said.

Microsoft had offered to buy Yahoo for $33 a share, or $47.5 billion in early May.

The talks broke off with the two sides unable to reach agreement on a more limited deal, the Yahoo statement said.

Yahoo said that it concluded that selling its search business alone to Microsoft would not be good for the company over the long term.

“With respect to an acquisition of Yahoo’s search business alone that Microsoft had proposed, Yahoo’s board of directors has determined, after careful evaluation, that such a transaction would not be consistent with the company’s view of the converging search and display marketplaces, would leave the company without an independent search business that it views as critical to its strategic future and would not be in the best interests of Yahoo stockholders,” the news release said.

Despite Yahoo’s statement that talks with Microsoft were over, Microsoft said it was still open to discussing a more limited deal with Yahoo.

“In the weeks since Microsoft withdrew its offer to acquire Yahoo, the two companies have continued to discuss an alternative transaction that Microsoft believes would have delivered in excess of $33 per share to the Yahoo shareholders,” Microsoft said in a statement. “This partnership would ensure healthy competition in the marketplace, providing greater choice and innovation for advertisers, publishers and consumers.”

The statement added: “Our alternative transaction remains available for discussion.”

Google could not be reached for comment immediately.
381 2008-06-13 Following are excerpts from the opinion by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy in the court's 5-to-4 decision on Thursday that foreign terrorism suspects held at the Guantánamo Bay naval base have constitutional rights to challenge their detention there i...
382 2008-06-13 PRESSURE ON SPECULATORS Lawmakers in Washington are lashing out at market regulators for not cracking down on commodity market speculators more vigorously.      CHARGES OF SEXISM News media outlets are facing accusations of sexism in their coverag...
383 2008-06-14 Day Two at the United States Open
384 2008-06-14 The only real rule at Bonnaroo: No worries....
385 2008-06-14 Senator John McCain's "virtual" town hall this afternoon was held with a crowd unusually hostile to his views....
386 2008-06-14 The latest casualty of the vetting wars is a McCain fund-raiser at the home of a Texas oilman who joked about rape in a 1990 gubernatorial race....
387 2008-06-14 An interview with Stuart Appleby, who is the leader after two rounds, courtesy of insidetheropes.com.
388 2008-06-14 If a Yahoo shareholder had bought the stock in January at about $19 a share, the price before Microsoft unveiled its original offer to buy the company, he'd still be doing better than the market in general....
389 2008-06-14 The proposed buyout of the collapsed business-class airline Silverjet fell apart Friday and its 420 employees were laid off, administrators for the airline said. The investment fund, Kingplace, announced earlier this week that it had provisionally agreed to take over Silverjet, which suspended operations two weeks ago after running out of money. Administrators for Silverjet said Friday that Kingplace was no longer in a position to proceed with a deal because of “complex negotiations with third parties.”
390 2008-06-14 UBS and the Credit Suisse Group, Switzerland’s two largest banks, agreed to pay almost 357 million euros ($548 million) to settle all legal claims related to their role in financing Parmalat, the dairy company that collapsed five years ago in Italy’s biggest bankruptcy. UBS will pay more than 184 million euros and Credit Suisse will pay 172.5 million euros, Parmalat said in separate statements on Friday. Parmalat’s chief executive, Enrico Bondi, filed lawsuits against dozens of Parmalat’s banks, contending they helped hide the true state of the company’s finances from investors. The banks did not acknowledge any wrongdoing.
391 2008-06-14 Thirty-three Cubans who fled Cuba this month in motorboats were still missing the day after a Mexican government bus transporting them was stopped by armed men Thursday night. A half-dozen armed men in ski masks hijacked the bus, which also carried four Central Americans, and forced officials away at gunpoint in Chiapas. The Cubans had been detained in motorboats near Cancún on June 5. Immigration officials were transporting them to a detention center in Tapachula, on Mexico’s southern border.
392 2008-06-14 The details of Microsoft’s offer were made public in a letter from Kevin Johnson, the president of the company’s platform and services division that includes Microsoft’s online unit.

On Friday, Microsoft reiterated statements made Thursday that the offer for Yahoo’s search business alone was still on the table, but the offer to buy all of Yahoo, which Microsoft withdrew on May 3, was not.

Yahoo’s partnership with Google is a much more limited commercial agreement under which Google will deliver ads alongside some Yahoo searches and will allow Yahoo to retain control of its search business. It is therefore difficult to compare it directly with Microsoft’s offer. However, it is expected to bring only an additional $250 million to $450 million a year in operating cash flow to Yahoo.

A Yahoo spokesman said Friday that Microsoft’s contention that its offer would deliver $1 billion in extra operating income to Yahoo was based on “unrealistic expectations.”

The company said in a statement Thursday that a search deal with Microsoft “would not be consistent with the company’s view of the converging search and display marketplaces, would leave the company without an independent search business that it views as critical to its strategic future and would not be in the best interests of Yahoo stockholders.”

A large Yahoo shareholder who agreed to speak only on condition that he remained anonymous said the deal that Microsoft outlined Friday was far preferable to Yahoo’s deal with Google.

On Wall Street Friday, Yahoo’s decision to partner with Google and not Microsoft continued to be met with disapproval. Yahoo shares tumbled more than 5 percent before recovering late in the day to close at $23.47, down 5 cents. They had fallen 10 percent on Thursday.

The large Yahoo shareholder said that while the Yahoo-Google deal could be rescinded, he held only faint hope that Yahoo might reverse course. That might happen if Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor, succeeded in taking control of Yahoo, or if the Yahoo deal with Google was blocked by antitrust regulators.

Mr. Icahn could not be reached Friday. He has not made any public statements since Yahoo announced its partnership with Google.

Mr. Icahn’s takeover of the board could trigger a costly employee severance plan implemented by Yahoo and therefore could make shareholders reluctant to vote for Mr. Icahn’s slate, the large Yahoo investor said.

Still, others like Mr. Jacob and an investor with a fund that specializes in merger arbitrage, who asked not to be named citing his company’s policy not to discuss investments publicly, said they thought Microsoft and Yahoo might be brought back together before Yahoo’s shareholder meeting, which was scheduled for Aug. 1.

“There are some things that could happen between now and the end of July that could be a positive,” Mr. Jacob said. “I am not willing to write the postmortem.”

In a note to investors, UBS analyst Benjamin Schachter went further: “We continue to believe that, at some point, Microsoft will acquire all of Yahoo,” he wrote.
393 2008-06-14 If Mr. Israel, 48, is indeed on the run, he will have added a whole new cast to the list of people he fooled while seeming to be a skilled money manager, including his lawyers, his girlfriend and even his family rabbi.

In a presentencing memorandum to Judge Colleen A. McMahon of Federal District Court, Mr. Israel’s lawyers assured the court that “there is no question that Sam is neither a flight risk nor a danger to the community.”

What is more, they said that Mr. Israel should be allowed to report voluntarily to prison on June 9 because of a long history of back pain and other medical problems. Mr. Israel, who has a pacemaker as well as another implanted device that emits electrical currents to ease pain, was scheduled for a spinal operation before he disappeared.

Mr. Israel’s girlfriend, Debbie Ryan, told investigators she last saw him when he left their Armonk home at 9:30 Monday morning, telling her he was on his way to report to a federal prison in Ayer, Mass., according to the state police.

The GMC Envoy was found about three hours later on a shoulder along the Bear Mountain Bridge, and the police say they were initially puzzled at the idea that Mr. Israel would drive his own car alone to prison. And they recognized “Suicide Is Painless” as the theme song from the TV show “M*A*S*H.”

If he did flee, another mystery is why Mr. Israel waited until the day he was to report to prison. Mr. Israel was sentenced in April, and individuals knowledgeable about the case say he has spent recent months receiving medical care and cooperating with investigators seeking to recover money on behalf of his former investors.

The contradictions do not end there.

In the same April 9 letter to Judge McMahon where he speaks of suicide, Mr. Israel said he had become increasingly desperate as Bayou’s losses mounted. But “when what I perceived as divine intervention occurred in the form of the fictitious investment programs, I leapt at the opportunity,” he wrote.

Mr. Israel makes other puzzling personal revelations in the letter. Although the Israel family is prominent in the Jewish community in New Orleans — Mr. Israel’s father was recently honored by a local hospital for his philanthropic work and their rabbi also submitted a letter of support to the judge — Mr. Israel wrote that he has “always been a person of Christian faith, but through my saturating guilt and profound shame, I have reassessed what it means to be a Christian.”

Hearing of Mr. Israel’s spiritual turn, David S. Goldstein, emeritus rabbi of the Touro Synagogue in New Orleans, said, “You could knock me over with a feather.” He described Mr. Israel’s parents, Ann and Larry, “as greatly anguished over these events. The Israel name is one of distinction in this community, and that’s part of the embarrassment and the hurt.”

Indeed, Mr. Israel wrote that the pressure to live up to his family’s legacy was a reason for the fraud. “Ever since I can remember, I met people everywhere that have told me they know my family either directly or by reputation,” he wrote. “I cheated my investors because I was afraid to admit my failure. I did not want the world to think I was not good enough and I did not want my family to see me as a failure.”

Older Wall Street types still remember Mr. Israel’s grandfather and namesake, Samuel Israel, who built what had been founded as a family company into ACLI International, a commodity trading powerhouse. It was sold to the firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette for $42 million in 1981.

After studying at the private Hackley School in Tarrytown, N.Y., and then Tulane University, Mr. Israel headed to Wall Street in 1982, working for various firms during the 1980s and early 1990s, including Omega Partners, the multibillion-dollar hedge fund headed by Leon Cooperman.

When he established Bayou in 1995, former colleagues and others say Mr. Israel repeatedly inflated his résumé and exaggerated his role at Omega. Ira Harris, a longtime Wall Street banker and investment adviser, says he briefly looked at Bayou but was quickly dissuaded by Mr. Cooperman. Mr. Cooperman said he did not want to discuss Mr. Israel’s brief tenure at Omega.

“It was obvious from talking to Leon Cooperman that this individual was not who he said he was,” Mr. Harris recalls. “If the first thing the guy is lying about is his résumé, why would you want to go further?”

Nevertheless, Mr. Israel and two associates, Daniel Marino and James Marquez, managed to gather more than $400 million before investors began to demand their money back and Bayou abruptly collapsed in the summer of 2005. Mr. Marino is now in prison appealing a 20-year sentence, while Mr. Marquez is serving a shorter 51-month term.

During Bayou’s heyday, Mr. Israel oversaw a high-tech trading floor, which featured pet snakes encased in aquariums, while he rented a $32,000-a-month mansion in Mount Kisco from Donald J. Trump. After the collapse of Bayou and his guilty plea in September 2005, Mr. Israel moved to a modest house in Armonk.

The shades on the olive green ranch home that Mr. Israel shared with Ms. Ryan were drawn tight late last week. Several knocks on the front door went unanswered. Ms. Ryan was unavailable for comment. Mr. Israel, who is divorced, has a teenage son and daughter.

Darci DiBari , who lives across the street, said the couple had lived there, on the shady hillside lot just off Route 22 in Armonk, for about 18 months.

“I’d see him occasionally, outside taking a walk,” Ms. DiBari said, adding that Ms. Ryan was often seen walking her dogs. “They were nice, no trouble. It’s a hi and goodbye neighborhood. People kind of keep to themselves.”

Mr. Israel was to report to Federal Medical Center Devens, which holds inmates requiring long-term medical or mental health care. The compound, west of Boston, includes a hospital with inpatient beds and 24-hour nursing care.

Most of the 1,007 male inmates, who range from low- to high-security, live in double-occupancy cells and work seven and a half hours a day, performing tasks like cleaning the showers, according to Mike Truman, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Prisons.

While the police keep an eye on the Hudson River as well as airports and borders for any sign of Mr. Israel, former victims say they are convinced he is on the run.

“Knowing Mr. Israel, he probably faked this,” said Samuel Christen, who invested about $825,000 in the Bayou Group in 2003. “Everything about him was phony.”
394 2008-06-14 Print advertising sales by American newspapers fell the most on record in the first quarter, tumbling 14 percent as the real estate and job markets shrank and business was lost to the Internet.

Advertisers spent $8.43 billion on newspaper ads in the first three months of 2008, according to the Newspaper Association of America, the eighth drop in a row. Real estate and recruitment ads each fell 35 percent.

Many of the industry’s biggest advertisers in real estate, automotive and employment are cutting spending and shifting advertising to their own Web sites, said Kip Cassino, research director at Borrell Associates, a consulting firm in Williamsburg, Va.

Newspapers’ Web sites are not picking up all of the slack. Newspaper-owned sites attracted $804 million in advertising during the quarter, the association said, up 7.2 percent from last year and the smallest gain since the industry group began reporting online sales growth in 2004.
395 2008-06-14 FATHER’S DAY is Sunday, and many greeting cards that will be given out are likely to have been made by the American Greetings Corporation. Zev Weiss, the company’s chief executive, says the holidays and annual events this time of year are important generators of revenue for the company, regardless of whether someone is looking for a card made of paper or a digital one to send by e-mail.

Mr. Weiss, 41, spoke recently about adapting to Web-oriented customers and his confidence that people will continue to buy cards in an economic slowdown. Following are excerpts:

Q. Springtime must be big for you. From Mother’s Day to Father’s Day to high school and college graduations to spring and summer weddings, everybody needs a card for something.

A. Absolutely! We have Father’s Day around the corner, graduations generate more business than people would think and people are obviously always celebrating birthdays and anniversaries, too. Father’s Day, specifically, is a really fun occasion for us because many consumers like to honor dad with funny cards that reflect the relationships they have. Letting dad know how much he is appreciated, and giving him a big laugh has become synonymous with Father’s Day.

Q. Your industry is being transformed by the Web. How are you adjusting to so many people sending digital cards by e-mail and over mobile devices?

A. If you talk to consumers — our core customers — it’s a very different experience. Our core customer, when you talk to her, she says that an e-card is an important part of her overall social expression, but it’s not viewed as a replacement of a paper card.
396 2008-06-14 Senators John McCain and Barack Obama released their Senate financial disclosure statements on Friday, revealing that Mr. McCain and his wife had at least $225,000 in credit card debt and that Mr. Obama and his wife had put more than $200,000 into college funds for their daughters.

The bulk of the McCains’ obligations stemmed from a pair of American Express credit cards that are held in Cindy McCain’s name. According to the disclosure reports, which present information on debts in a range rather than providing a precise figure, Mrs. McCain owed $100,000 to $250,000 on each card.

Another charge card, held by what was described as a “dependent child,” had also accumulated debts of $15,000 to $50,000. In addition, a credit card held jointly by the couple was carrying $10,000 to $15,000 in debt, the filing indicated, at a stiff 25.99 percent interest rate.

Under Congressional reporting rules, spouses of senators need not specify the exact amount of income they earn from employment, only whether that money exceeded $1,000. Neither Mrs. McCain, an heiress of the Hensley beer distribution company, nor Michelle Obama, a lawyer turned hospital administrator, provided additional information on their salaries in the disclosure form.

Mrs. McCain’s filing, however, indicated that she had substantial holdings in property and stocks — including shares in Anheuser-Busch, which this week became the target of a takeover bid that is expected to send its value climbing. Her land holdings included parcels in Arizona and California, one of which was sold last year for a profit of more than $1 million.
397 2008-06-14 Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from June 6 through June 13:

1. Apple Aims for the Masses With a Cheaper iPhone

3. To Save Fuel, Airlines Find No Speck Too Small

4. The Food Chain: Worries Mount as Farmers Push for Big Harvest

10. Not Quite an iPhone, but New Sony Offering Is Still Very Smart
398 2008-06-14 My gut is he’ll do the right thing. Not just because it’s politically smart, but also because it’s the right thing to do.

For a strike that lasted a year in the mid-80s, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher took on the miners’ union, including its colorful and impassioned leader, man-of-the-people Arthur Scargill, in his spiffy Jag.

I don’t remember her complaining that his scathing treatment of her was sexist. She probably thought that he ought to be afraid of her.

It is disappointing to watch Hillary Rodham Clinton’s supporters wave the white flag of victimization to excuse the loss of their candidate. It’s the worst kind of surrender.

The mainstream media appear so monolithic these days, and claim such authority over such a wide spectrum of issues, that there appears to be no room for disagreement with them. This article proves the point.

Whom do we ask to judge whether the media are sexist? The media themselves. And of course the media (with the exception of Katie Couric) conclude that no, they are not sexist. Historians are likely to disagree.

Sadly, it now seems that amid the diversity of American society, we are confronted with a paucity of perspectives.

I don’t know if there was sexism or not in the media’s coverage of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign, but there was certainly a great deal of insensitivity. Yet based upon the exit polls and other analyses, it does not appear that this insensitivity had an impact in the voting booth.

Rather, it seems that Mrs. Clinton’s gender was the source of jokes and insensitive comments similar to the comments about President Bill Clinton’s philandering, or Senator John McCain’s age.

On the other hand, while the media were more sensitive in their coverage of Senator Barack Obama’s race, exit polls suggest that racism did raise its ugly head in the voting booth.

You correctly note that The Times itself exhibited bias, intentional or not, when describing Hillary Rodham Clinton’s laugh as a “cackle.” But you missed another, more recent exhibition of bias, ironic or deliberate, when you chose to publish a picture of Mrs. Clinton’s chest, rather than her face, during an interview. I doubt that a similar photograph of Senator Barack Obama would have been published.
399 2008-06-14 The Supreme Court’s decision marked the third time the court has rebuked this administration’s lawless actions at Guantánamo. It shows that the judiciary will not lie down while this or any administration further harms the health and sanity of the men who have been held there in harsh conditions with no due process for the last six and a half years.

The decision will go a long way to eliminating any future temptation to engage in lawless abuses because no court is watching. The executive may no longer falsely claim credit for detaining and incapacitating terrorists when in many documented cases they have just swept up innocent men and hidden them from scrutiny.

We have been working tirelessly representing the detainees since the day they arrived, and the Supreme Court has answered our call for justice. Now it’s imperative that the lower courts move with full speed in adjudicating the prisoners’ cases so they do not spend one more day than necessary without a fair hearing. Vincent Warren

Agreed: we must protect our nation. But how tragic if we throw away 200 years of constitutional wisdom, based on arguments of immediate efficacy.

We face a fundamental decision in our day: Do we choose to trust the Constitution, creatively facing our challenges within its wisdom? Or do we deem it no longer sufficient for today’s realities?
400 2008-06-14 Woods played down his surge at first, discussing his slow start (two over par after three holes), not hitting the ball very well, the knee feeling a little sore.

But then he talked about what wins major championships: focus, patience and putting.

“I felt that if I played well in that back nine I could definitely get back to even par for the tournament and I would be right back in the championship,” Woods said, referring to the wild start that produced four bogeys, an eagle and a par at the easy par-5 18th. For Woods to shoot 38 on the back nine — his front nine — and come back the way he did?

“All of a sudden I started running them in there from everywhere,” he said.

That was for sure.

Woods pulled into serious contention by reeling off five straight 3s on his back nine, which began at No. 1 with the most improbable birdie of the day. He sent his drive at the 448-yard hole way right, on the other side of a cart path, into a good lie next to a Torrey Pine.

Rather than take a drop, Woods elected to take a stance on the cart path. His right foot slipped slightly during the transition in his swing and his left foot slipped at impact. Woods winced and limped out to the fairway to watch the ball fly onto the green and spin to a stop about 20 feet above the hole.

Naturally, he made the putt for birdie. He birdied the next hole, the short 389-yard second, which he attacked with a 340-yard drive. His wedge shot checked early, but he made another putt, this one from 25 feet. He then made birdie on the fourth hole and added one at the fifth, his fifth consecutive 3 and the one that put him into red numbers at one under par.

“I just happened to just get a great break at No. 1,” he said. “Not only did I have a swing and a stance, but also had a lie where I could control my distance. And it was just an 8-iron up there. Just put the ball in the center of the green and move on from there.

“But I wasn’t trying to do anything particular with that shot. Just trying to dump it in the center of the green and I had 157 to the hole and just trying to carry it over that front bunker.”

No problem. But as he was doing his thing, the Australian Appleby was doing his. This could be his chance at a major championship, an opportunity to atone for the collapse at the 2006 Masters. He is well aware of how that has been perceived and does not shrink from the memory.

“Majors are not a comfortable zone,” he said. “They’re not comfortable. They’re not supposed to be comfortable. That’s sort of why there’s only four of them a year, and they’re always on testing golf courses.

“Do I think that I am more comfortable? Yeah, I guess I might be. I think as you get older, you’ve got to find a way to be more comfortable.”

With Woods in the picture, and the weekend here, getting comfortable will be very difficult. The entire tenor of the Open will change. This is serious business now, and no one is better at taking control than Woods when the red light comes on and the collars get tight.

He has won six times at Torrey Pines, so there is one comfort zone. He has won two United States Opens, which is another. And he knows how to close at a major.

“I think that I was very fortunate to have won my first one very early,” Woods said, recalling the record-setting and groundbreaking Masters win of 1997. “My first one as a professional basically. So that, I believe that relieved so much pressure, the facts that I can always say that I know how to do this. I’ve done it before.”

Will he do it again? Knee or no knee, it is difficult to bet against it.
401 2008-06-14 The American Institute of Architects New York Chapter and its 4,200 members in New York publicly oppose removing the requirement in New York City that the commissioner of the city’s Department of Buildings be a duly licensed architect or engineer.

The current law is logical and necessary. By letters, e-mail and petitions, the City Council and the Mayor’s Office have heard many of the reasons the head of the agency that guarantees safety on construction sites must be trained and tested in how buildings come together, how they rise and how they stand.

The process by which an architect or engineer becomes licensed by the State of New York is arduous. It tests comprehensive knowledge of codes, zoning, building practices and environmental standards. In addition to our technical training, architects, by law, are personally responsible for our work and have a fiduciary responsibility to maintain the health, safety and welfare of the public.

The City Council has taken the lead in bringing a modern building code to the City of New York in stopping overdevelopment in our communities and in pushing for progressive reform of Buildings Department operations and enforcement. We need an architect or engineer at the head of the department who can enforce these laws.

There are some who insist that good management skills are more important than mere credentials, stale tradition or a philosophy that knowledge matters. They are half right. This is not about tradition or a return to bow-tied past credentials or elitism or silly glasses. This is all about professionalism, and the knowledge needed to make the tough decisions when there is nobody else to call, nobody else to consult.

New York City needs a buildings commissioner who not only knows how the government operates but also how buildings stand up.
402 2008-06-14 “Rural U.S. Takes Worst Hit as Gas Tops $4 Average” (front page, June 9) paints a grim picture for many hard-working Americans. With more gas price increases on the horizon, things will likely only get worse before they get better.

Is there an immediate solution for the rural working class and working poor? Not really, not if you don’t have the means. So, for now, these folks are effectively stranded as the price tide rises around them, the latest victims of our not having any sort of effective or rational national energy policy.

This reminds me of the pre-storm response to Hurricane Katrina, where those with money and means left New Orleans, and those without were left to suffer because they were poor and living in the wrong parts of town. The scale of suffering in New Orleans seemed huge at the time, but just might pale in comparison with the economic hardship being silently exacted on rural Americans now and in the foreseeable future.
403 2008-06-14 The opposition is being thwarted in most of its efforts to campaign. Mr. Tsvangirai has been denied permits to hold rallies and has been detained several times. On Friday, his brightly decorated campaign buses were impounded by the police in the city of Gweru. He continued in other vehicles, though according to his spokesmen, he was followed everywhere by police officers in riot gear who dispersed the crowds.

Mr. Biti, the No. 2 in the party and one of its most familiar faces, returned to Zimbabwe after a self-imposed absence of two months. In doing that, he bucked a trend. Dozens of members of the opposition have fled the country in recent weeks after several of their colleagues were abducted and murdered.

Andrew Makoni, a lawyer who has represented the opposition since 2002, is among those escaping into exile. “When you are told by a credible source that armed men have instructions to eliminate you and they are about to strike, what do you do? Go on like normal or lie low? I chose to lie low.”

The killings have been ordered by Mr. Mugabe and forces loyal to him, according to human rights groups. On Friday, in an open letter, 40 of the continent’s leading dignitaries called for an end to the “violence and intimidation” in Zimbabwe. Among those signing the plea were 14 former African presidents; the former United Nations secretary generals, Kofi Annan and Boutros Boutros-Ghali; and the iconic musicians, Youssou N’Dour and Angélique Kidjo.

The letter also asked for “the restoration of full access for humanitarian and aid agencies.” Last week, the government ordered all aid groups in the deeply impoverished nation to suspend their operations, accusing some of the organizations of siding with the opposition.

More than 80 percent of Zimbabweans are unemployed; millions depend on handouts to forestall hunger. Despite the growing chorus of criticism, President Mugabe, the 84-year-old hero of the nation’s liberation struggle, seems steeled to continue his current election strategy. He accuses the Movement for Democratic Change of being lackeys for the nation’s former colonial overlords, the British.

The state-run Herald newspaper quoted him as telling supporters at a rally on Thursday that he would not allow the opposition to take power: “It will never happen that this land that we fought for should be taken by the M.D.C. so that they can give it back to our former oppressors, the whites.”
404 2008-06-14 LONDON — The proposed buyout of collapsed business-class airline Silverjet fell apart Friday and its 420 employees were laid off, the administrator said.

The investment fund, Kingplace, announced earlier this week that it had provisionally agreed to take over Silverjet, which suspended operations two weeks ago after running out of money.

Administrators for Silverjet said Friday that Kingplace was no longer in a position to proceed with a deal because of “complex negotiations with third parties.”

”As a consequence, we have today had to make the entire work force formally redundant, in line with our legal obligations,” said Nigel Atkinson and Mark Fryl of Begbies Traynor, who are joint administrators.

“We continue to negotiate the sale of Silverjet’s assets for the benefit of the company’s creditors and will provide an update as soon as we are able,” the said.

Silverjet suspended its service from its base at Luton Airport north of London to Newark Liberty International Airport and to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, on May 30.

The company reached a crisis when it failed to receive financing agreed under a deal with Viceroy Holdings, an international luxury development fund based in the United Arab Emirates and the United States.
405 2008-06-14 On Wall Street, the major stock indexes rose after the report, with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ending the day up 1.5 percent. The Dow Jones industrials gained more than 165 points, or 1.4 percent, and the technology-laden Nasdaq finished 2 percent higher.

Some investors pointed to declines in the price of clothing and computers as evidence that high gasoline prices were not forcing up costs of other products. Excluding the cost of food and gasoline, inflation ran at 0.2 percent in May.

But compared with May 2007, so-called core inflation rose 2.3 percent, above what is generally considered to be the comfort zone of the Fed.

The cost of transportation jumped 2 percent, and prices of commodities, tobacco and utility fuels all increased, as businesses, squeezed by higher shipping and production costs, tried to force their customers to pay higher prices.

But the real pain occurred in products that most Americans cannot live without: food and energy.

In May, gasoline prices rose 5.2 percent, and were up 21 percent compared with a year ago, according to the report. They may rise again in June: the nationwide average for gasoline topped $4 a gallon last weekend as the price of oil leaped to a new high.

Americans paid 5 percent more for foods and beverages in May than a year ago.

Economists were somewhat reassured by the slower core increase, but the thrust of the report suggested problems to come. “Producers have thus far remained patient, observant of competitive pressures while waiting for the tidal surge in energy prices to recede,” Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist at Global Insight, wrote in a note. “It is becoming clearer, however, that the waters will stubbornly remain and cause more firms to throw in the towel and raise prices in the coming months.”

Consumers appear well aware that they may face harder times soon. A widely watched measure of Americans’ confidence in the economy fell to its lowest level since 1980, an earlier period of high inflation and slow growth.

The consumer confidence survey, released Friday by the University of Michigan and Reuters, dropped to 56.7 in June from 59.8 in May, the fifth consecutive month of decline. Americans also felt worse about the economy’s prospects, with that gauge dipping to 49 from 51.1 last month.

Treasury bonds, particularly the two-year note, surged this week, an indication that investors expect rates to rise. The two-year note gained back a little on Friday.

The investment bank Lehman Brothers bounced back on Friday after a management shake-up on Thursday drove shares down $1.05. Lehman shares rose $3.11, to $25.81, the first increase since June 5, when it closed at $33.85.
406 2008-06-14 HOPES that the United States could avoid a recession were renewed this week by evidence that the government’s rebate checks were stimulating spending, at least for now. But two recession indicators based on employment statistics offer evidence that a recession may have begun months ago.

While both indicators are based on declining job markets, they differ in that each comes from a different survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Those surveys — one of business establishments and the other of households — sometimes offer contradictory views of the employment picture. But now they both indicate an economy that has slowed significantly.

The top chart is based on the establishment survey and reflects changes over 12-month periods in the number of private sector jobs, before seasonal adjustments.

Normally, that total increases even if the economy is not strong, simply because the working age population is rising. But when the number of jobs falls over a 12-month period, that is an indication that a recession is already under way.

Since 1953, there have been 10 periods when the figures fell into negative territory. As the chart shows, the first nine came months after a recession had already started, although that was never clear until later. The 10th period began in May.
407 2008-06-14 China is heavily dependent on coal and has seen its most rapid growth in some of the world’s most heavily polluting industrial sectors: cement, aluminum and plate glass.

Twenty percent of China’s emissions come from its cement kilns, essential for its construction boom and likely to be working overtime this year amid preparations for the Olympics and rebuilding after last month’s devastating earthquake.

The Dutch agency’s findings were based on recently published information on cement production and on energy use from the oil company BP.

The United States still has a vast lead in carbon dioxide emissions per person. The average American is responsible for 19.4 tons. Average emissions per person in Russia are 11.8 tons; in the European Union, 8.6 tons; China, 5.1 tons; and India, 1.8 tons.

Experts said the new data underscored the importance of getting China to sign on to any new global climate agreement. Neither China nor the United States participated in the current treaty to limit emissions, the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012 and will be replaced by a new agreement to be signed in Copenhagen at the end of 2009.

On Friday in Bonn, Germany, 2,000 world leaders concluded two weeks of negotiations on what kind of agreement should replace the Kyoto Protocol. United Nations leaders told them to “pick up the pace.”

“With a little more than a year to go to Copenhagen, the challenge to come to that agreement remains daunting,” said Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Late last year, a United Nations panel of scientific experts warned that the world had only a few years to reverse a growing emissions trend in order to avoid severe consequences of global warming, from a large rise in sea level to species death.

“Everyone recognizes that we’re only going to get to an answer by addressing issues in all countries, including China,” Mr. de Boer said.

Still, he added that China had been “acting progressively on environmental policy” in the past year, developing plans to shut down highly polluting small- and medium-size industries and to find more alternative energy, for example.

Orville Schell, director of the Center on U.S.-China Relations at the Asia Society in New York, said the Dutch study “was something of a harbinger of things to come, namely, of China’s uncontested pre-eminence in this world of rapidly growing greenhouse gas emissions.”

The Asia Society has started a bilateral climate change initiative that includes groups like the Pew Center on Global Climate Change and involves leaders in both countries, including Al Gore.

“There cannot be a solution to the global climate change questions without China being integrally involved,” Mr. Schell said. But he added that Chinese leaders would not become more engaged unless the United States also made new commitments.

The Dutch researchers said there were some signs that China’s rapid emissions trajectory would be somewhat blunted this year, although they still predicted rapid growth. Its emissions rose 8 percent in 2007, compared with more than 11 percent annually for the previous two years.

In comparison, emissions in the original 15 European Union member states fell 2 percent in 2007, though Dr. Olivier, at the Dutch agency, cautioned that this drop was at least partly attributable to a warm winter that reduced the need for heating.

But with high oil and gas prices this year, other forces favor emissions growth in the future. High oil prices have created a resurgence in interest in coal-fired power plants for industry, which are heavily polluting.

Eighty percent of the world’s coal demand comes from China, according to the International Energy Agency, which advises industrialized nations on energy policy. But the United States is also a major user of coal to power its industry.

“It is crucial for countries like China and the United States to explore technologies to deal with that,” said Mr. de Boer, referring specifically to projects that would pump emissions underground instead of into the atmosphere.
408 2008-06-14 To the Editor:     Re ''Justices, 5-4, Back Detainee Appeals for Guantánamo'' (front page, June 13):...
409 2008-06-15 Day Three at the United States Open
410 2008-06-15 Mike Mussina now has 260 career victories. He has 148 losses. Consider that he tied Ted Lyons in victories on Saturday night, and Lyons is in the Hall of Fame. Lyons's record is 260-230. So Mussina could lose his next 81 starts and still have a be...
411 2008-06-15 The seven-member crew also delivered replacement parts for the station’s single toilet, which had been malfunctioning for a week before the shuttle arrived. Although the problem was potentially serious, the crew treated it with good humor. After the shuttle docked with the station, Cmdr. Mark E. Kelly of the Navy, the mission commander, joked, “You looking for a plumber?”

Much of the mission was also spent examining the rotary joints that keep the station’s enormous solar panels facing the sun. Mission managers noticed last year that the joint on the right side of the station was producing unusual vibrations, and spacewalkers found damage and metal shavings in its works. The joint has been largely parked since then.

Mission managers say they still do not know what caused the damage, but a spacewalk demonstration of cleaning techniques during this mission gave them confidence that they can replace bearings, clean up the shavings and lubricate the joint. The work could begin with a flight scheduled for November.

Cmdr. Kenneth T. Ham of the Navy was the pilot for the mission, the 123rd in the history of the shuttle program. The other crew members were Col. Michael E. Fossum of the Air Force Reserve, Karen L. Nyberg, Col. Ronald J. Garan Jr. of the Air Force and Akihiko Hoshide of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency. Discovery brought Garrett E. Reisman home from the station, where he had lived since March, and left his replacement, Gregory E. Chamitoff.

Mr. Reisman, surprisingly, participated in the traditional walk-around inspection of the shuttle and a news conference, despite having just returned from three months without gravity. In a news briefing late in the afternoon, Mr. Reisman, who is 5 feet 4 inches tall, said short astronauts tended to recover more quickly than taller ones. “I’m happy that that’s finally come in handy for something other than limbo contests,” he said.

At an earlier news briefing, William Gerstenmaier, NASA’s associate administrator for space operations, said, “I can’t think of a mission that’s really been much better than this one.”

Colonel Fossum, at the crew’s news conference, said there was “a great feeling of accomplishment for all of us” to pull away from the station and see it 70 percent complete.

“For this last two weeks, it was our time to play our part in the big play,” Colonel Fossum said. “And you know, we knocked it out of the park and had a great mission.”

Ten missions are scheduled before the shuttle program is wound down in 2010. The next one, in October, will be a flight to perform work on the Hubble Space Telescope.
412 2008-06-15 But as we know from our Groundhog Days of 2008, a fictional campaign narrative, once set in the concrete of Beltway bloviation, must be recited incessantly, especially on cable television, no matter what facts stand in the way. Only an earthquake — the results, for instance — could shatter such previously immutable story lines as the Clinton campaign’s invincibility and the innate hostility of white voters to a black candidate.

Our new bogus narrative rose from the ashes of Mrs. Clinton’s concession to Mr. Obama, amid the raucous debate over what role misogyny played in her defeat. A few female Clinton supporters — or so they identified themselves — appeared on YouTube and Fox News to say they were so infuriated by sexism that they would vote for Mr. McCain.

Now, there’s no question that men played a big role in Mrs. Clinton’s narrow loss, starting with Barack Obama, and . And the evidence of misogyny in the press and elsewhere is irrefutable, even if it was not the determinative factor in the race. But the notion that all female Clinton supporters became “angry white women” once their candidate lost — to the hysterical extreme where even lifelong Democrats would desert their own party en masse — is itself a sexist stereotype. That’s why some of the same talking heads and Republican operatives who gleefully insulted Mrs. Clinton are now peddling this fable on such flimsy anecdotal evidence.

The fictional scenario of mobs of crazed women defecting to Mr. McCain is just one subplot of the master narrative that has consumed our politics for months. The larger plot has it that the is hopelessly divided, and that only a ticket containing Mrs. Clinton in either slot could retain the loyalty of white male bowlers and other constituencies who tended to prefer her to Mr. Obama in the primaries.

This is reality turned upside down. It’s the Democrats who are largely united and the Republicans who are at one another’s throats.

Yet the myth of Democratic disarray is so pervasive that when “NBC Nightly News” and The Wall Street Journal presented their new poll results last week (Obama, 47 percent; McCain, 41 percent) they ignored their own survey’s findings to stick to the clichéd script. Both news organizations (and NBC’s sibling, MSNBC) dwelled darkly on Mr. Obama’s “problems with two key groups” (as NBC put it): white men, where he is behind 20 percentage points to Mr. McCain, and white suburban women, where he is behind 6 points.

Since that poll gives Mr. Obama not just a 19-point lead among all women but also a 7-point lead among white women, a 6-point deficit in one sliver of the female pie is hardly a heart-stopper. Nor is Mr. Obama’s showing among white men shocking news. No Democratic presidential candidate, including Bill Clinton, has won a majority of that declining demographic since 1964. Mr. Kerry lost white men by 25 points, and Mr. Gore did by 24 points (even as he won the popular vote).

“NBC Nightly News” was so focused on these supposedly devastating Obama shortfalls that there was no mention that the Democrat beat Mr. McCain (and outperformed Mr. Kerry) in every other group that had been in doubt: independents, Catholics, blue-collar workers and Hispanics. Indeed, the evidence that pro-Clinton Hispanics are flocking to Mr. McCain is as nonexistent as the evidence of a female stampede. Mr. Obama swamps Mr. McCain by 62 percent to 28 percent — a disastrous setback, given that President Bush took 44 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2004, according to exit polls. No wonder the McCain campaign no longer lists its candidate’s home state of as safe this fall.

There are many ways that Mr. Obama can lose this election. But his 6-percentage-point lead in the Journal-NBC poll is higher than Mr. Bush’s biggest lead (4 points) over Mr. Kerry at any point in that same poll in 2004. So far, despite all the chatter to the contrary, Mr. Obama is not only holding on to Mrs. Clinton’s Democratic constituencies but expanding others (like African-Americans). The same cannot be said of Mr. McCain and the G.O.P. base.

That story is minimized or ignored in part because an unshakable McCain fan club lingers in some press quarters and in part because it’s an embarrassing refutation of the Democrats-in-meltdown narrative that so many have invested in. Understating the splintering of the Republican base also keeps hope alive for a tight race. As the Clinton-Obama marathon proved conclusively, a photo finish is essential to the dramatic and Nielsen imperatives of 24/7 television coverage.

The conservative hostility toward McCain heralded by the early attacks of , and James Dobson is proliferating. Bay Buchanan, the party activist who endorsed , wrote this month that Mr. McCain is “incapable of energizing his party, brings no new people to the polls” and “has a personality that is best kept under wraps.” When Mr. McCain ditched the preachers John Hagee and Rod Parsley after learning that their endorsements antagonized Catholics, Muslims and Jews, he ended up getting a whole new flock of evangelical Christians furious at him too.

The revolt is not limited to the usual cranky right-wing suspects. The antiwar acolytes of are planning a large rally for convention week in . The conservative legal scholar Douglas Kmiec has endorsed Mr. Obama, as have both the economic adviser to ’s “Contract With America,” Lawrence Hunter, and the neocon historian . is publicly flirting with the Democrat as well. Even emerged from his bunker this month to gratuitously dismiss Mr. McCain’s gas-tax holiday proposal as “a false notion” before the National Press Club.

These are not anomalies. Last week The Hill reported that at least 14 Republican members of Congress have refused to endorse or publicly support Mr. McCain. Congressional Quarterly found that of the 62,800 donors who maxed out to Mr. Bush’s campaign in 2004, only about 5,000 (some 8 percent) have contributed to his putative successor.

It was just this toxic stew of inadequate fund-raising and hostility from the base — along with incompetent management — that capsized the McCain campaign last summer. Now the management, at least, is said to be new and improved, but the press is still so distracted by the “divided Democrats” it has yet to uncover how that brilliant McCain team spent weeks choreographing the candidate’s slapstick collision with a green backdrop and self-immolating speech in prime time two weeks ago.

The only figure in the McCain camp who has candidly acknowledged any glitches is his mother, the marvelous 96-year-old Roberta McCain. Back in January she said that she didn’t think her son had any support in the G.O.P. base and that those voters would only take him if “holding their nose.”

The ludicrous idea that votes from Clinton supporters would somehow make up for McCain defectors is merely the latest fairy tale brought to you by those same soothsayers who said was the man to beat and that young people don’t turn up to vote.
413 2008-06-15 Nike is allowing seven of the Olympic hopefuls it sponsors to wear Speedo International’s new full-body swimsuit instead of the Nike product for the Olympic trials later this month.

A Nike spokesman said the exception was limited, allowing top swimmers to experiment with other products.

Since the February introduction of Speedo’s sleek LZR Racer, swimmers wearing the suit have set 38 world records.

Tyr Sport Inc., a swimwear maker, has sued Speedo, alleging that it conspired with the United States swimming federation to stifle competition and lure athletes from other sponsors.
414 2008-06-15 Willie Randolph hardly knew him when he added Jerry Manuel to his coaching staff in 2004, before his first season as manager. If Randolph were to be fired, though, Manuel would be asked to take over. Manuel would love to manage in the major leagues again, but this is not how he wants to get that chance.

“It’s difficult because of my relationship with Willie,” said Manuel, the team’s bench coach, who managed the Chicago White Sox from 1998 to 2003. “Everyone goes through it at some point in their career. We all handle it differently and draw on different things to keep us going. I think he’s doing O.K.”

The Mets’ game Saturday night against the Texas Rangers was rained out and rescheduled as part of a doubleheader Sunday, giving the team’s owners and General Manager Omar Minaya two opportunities to evaluate Randolph’s status. The first game Sunday is to begin at 1:10 p.m., with John Maine facing Kevin Millwood; Pedro Martínez is to oppose Kason Gabbard in the second game, starting about 30 minutes after the end of the opener.

Randolph will begin the day as manager, and even if he ends it that way, there is still a strong sense that some sort of shake-up must occur — whether that is Sunday, next Sunday or at the All-Star break. Minaya could shift his focus to jolting the coaching staff, most likely the pitching coach Rick Peterson, with the hope that such a move could inspire his sagging team. He did the same thing last July, when he promoted Howard Johnson to hitting coach and fired Rick Down, a close friend of Randolph’s, but it did not prove to have much of an effect over the final months of the season.

Randolph said he felt it necessary to speak to his coaching staff — “I can’t assume they all know” was his explanation — and they brainstormed before Friday’s game about what they could do to reverse the team’s fortunes. Manuel is the only member of the coaching staff with managerial experience, which is one of the reasons Randolph was initially drawn to him.
415 2008-06-15 Brent Milleville hit a three-run homer to highlight a record-tying 11-run ninth inning as Stanford defeated Florida State, 16-5, in the opening game of the College World Series on Saturday in Omaha. It was the seventh time a team scored 11 runs in an inning at the tournament.

“That’s one of those things that happen,” Stanford Coach Mark Marquess said. “Luckily, it happened for us.”

With a strong wind blowing out at Rosenblatt Stadium, the day appeared to be perfect for the Seminoles. Florida State came in averaging 10 runs a game.

The Cardinal’s big inning came after the Seminoles tied the score in the eighth on a three-run homer by Jason Stidham. After Stanford loaded the bases in the ninth on an error, Milleville drove in the first run with a sacrifice fly.

GEORGIA 7, MIAMI 4 Georgia scored four runs in the ninth, including two on a throwing error by Miami closer Carlos Gutierrez. It was the top-seeded Hurricanes’ first loss in 46 games when leading after eight innings. Miami’s meltdown included a batter reaching first on a dropped third strike. Lyle Allen singled in the tying run before David Thoms grounded to Gutierrez (5-4), whose throw to first ended up in the Georgia bullpen.

Georgia will play Stanford on Monday. Miami will play Florida State in an elimination game, also Monday.
416 2008-06-15 Senator John McCain’s presidential campaign canceled a fund-raiser at the home of an 86-year-old oilman, Clayton Williams, after the campaign faced questions about comments Mr. Williams made in the 1990 race for Texas governor.

At the time, Mr. Williams, a Republican who was running against Ann Richards, made a joke about rape and said he would campaign against Ms. Richards, a Democrat, as he would deal with a cow on his ranch: “head her and hoof her and drag her through the dirt.” He later apologized for the remarks.

The campaign canceled the fund-raiser on Friday after it faced questions from ABC News and The Washington Post.

“These were obviously incredibly offensive remarks that the campaign was unaware of at the time it was scheduled,” said Brian Rogers, a spokesman for the McCain campaign. “It’s positive that he did apologize at the time, but the comments are nonetheless offensive.”

The campaign’s decision to cancel the event, which had been scheduled for Monday, comes as it has been trying to court women after the defeat of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic nominating fight.

Seizing on the matter, the Democratic National Committee called on Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, to return $300,000 that Mr. Williams said he had already collected for him. But a McCain campaign official suggested that the campaign was not inclined to do so.

Republican officials accused the campaign of the presumptive Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama, of hypocrisy, pointing to controversial statements and associations of his own fund-raisers.
417 2008-06-15 KURIHARA, Japan (AP) — A powerful earthquake ripped across mountains and rice fields in rural northern Japan on Saturday, killing at least six people as it sheared off hillsides, jolted buildings and shook nuclear power plants. At least eight people were missing.

Military helicopters swarmed the area 250 miles north of Tokyo, ferrying in supplies and flying the injured to hospitals. Officials said at least 144 people were hurt and that landslides trapped 100 bathers at a hot spring resort.

The quake, which registered a preliminary magnitude of 7.2, was followed by 153 aftershocks. It buckled countless roads, including one highway that was severed when a stretch of land collapsed, creating a cliffside.

“Our most important task is to save as many lives as possible, and we are doing the best we can,” Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda said.

Electricity was cut to about 29,000 houses and water to about 500 others. Services were mostly restored by Saturday night.

Damage in the cities was limited because the quake was in a mostly rural, mountainous area.

At a nuclear power plant in Fukushima, the jolt caused five gallons of radioactive water to splash from two pools storing spent fuel, operators said. There was no leakage outside the plant, said Yoshinori Moriyama, an official with the Trade and Industry ministry.

The earthquake was centered in the northern prefecture of Iwate, and was about five miles underground..
418 2008-06-15 It was in many ways a first draft of his political autobiography, recounting the ennobling stories of resistance that he and his co-author, Mark Salter, would later retell in his 1999 memoir, “Faith of My Fathers.”

Mr. McCain’s 1974 thesis, though, also revealed a welter of other emotions about his years as a prisoner of war, including a deep anger at those he considered collaborators, a tough-minded disdain for public hand-wringing about captives like himself, and a sharp impatience with the American government for failing to “explain to its people, young and old, some basic facts of its foreign policy.” But at the same time, Mr. McCain also urged that any military survival training should include lessons in what he called “the necessity to forgive.”

Mr. McCain’s paper sheds new light on the experience that first brought him national attention and remains a staple of his campaign commercials. His conclusions hint at themes of his career, like his habit of making peace with former enemies. And his arguments that the government and the military should have done more to convince the voters and the troops about the case for the war in Vietnam echo in current debates about Iraq as well.

Asked if he still had those views, Mr. McCain said in an e-mail message that he still believed the antiwar movement had hurt the morale of some prisoners, although he added the vast majority “performed their duty with courage and resolve irrespective of how controversy about the war influenced their view of it.”

Historians, though, say his assertion that the antiwar movement weakened the resistance of Americans captured late in the war is misleading, in part because almost all the most cooperative prisoners were captured early and in part because many other cultural shifts contributed to differences in the later war captives. And some of his fellow prisoners also question the connection between the war protests and the camp collaborators.

“Don’t connect those guys with the antiwar movement,” said Orson Swindle, a prisoner who became a friend of Mr. McCain. “It was the guy in the next cell who was the reason we were trying so hard to uphold the code and our honor, and those guys just betrayed everything we stood for.”

But others say it is easy to see how Mr. McCain’s dismay at prisoners’ propaganda statements could feed his current impatience with calls for a withdrawal from Iraq. In the crucible of the camps, it was easy to see the collaborators — broadcasting antiwar statements over prison loudspeakers, smiling for Jane Fonda and visiting peace activists, enjoying the rewards of better food and less torture — as embodiments of the war protesters that the North Vietnamese counted on to wear down the American war effort.

“Just like the ‘pull-out movement’ today, as I call it, the peace movement would give them something to hang their hats on,” said Richard A. Stratton, another former prisoner incarcerated with Mr. McCain. “You are being tortured and all you have to do to get them to stop is say the same thing that Bobby Kennedy is saying. The same thing that George McGovern is saying. You don’t even have to make anything up.”

Mr. McCain, then a Navy lieutenant commander, was by all accounts what the American prisoners called a “tough resister.” He was nicknamed Crip for the severity of the injuries he sustained — a shoulder, both arms and his knee broken, with a bayonet wound near the groin — when his fighter plane was shot down in October 1967. Military rules only allowed P.O.W.’s to go home in the order of their capture, but some senior officers said his medical condition justified accepting an offer of release from the North Vietnamese. Mr. McCain, the son of a prominent admiral, did not want to be part of North Vietnamese propaganda, so he chose to endure years of torture instead.

At times, Mr. McCain seemed to court punishment, noisily cussing out his captors while giving “thumbs up” signs to his fellow prisoners. “No matter what he did, he always played to the bleachers,” Robert Coram, a military historian, wrote in a book about the camps.

All of the prisoners acknowledged that everyone had a breaking point. Mr. McCain’s came 10 months after he arrived. With his father taking command of the Pacific Fleet, the North Vietnamese were determined to coerce the son into denouncing the war. For four days they tied him with ropes, beat him every few hours, re-broke his arm, and left him in a pool of his own blood and refuse. Finally, he signed and tape-recorded a war crimes confession.

His fellow prisoners say his capitulation only redoubled his determination to provoke his captors. “Acts of defiance felt so good that I felt they more than compensated for their repercussions,” he wrote, “and they helped me keep at bay the unsettled feelings of guilt and self doubt my confession had aroused.”

Others responded differently. Initially unable to feed or clean himself, Mr. McCain was nursed back to health by his cellmate, Maj. Norris Overly of the Air Force. Mr. McCain has often credited Mr. Overly with saving his life, calling him “a very fine man.”

Returning from an interrogation in February 1968, however, Mr. Overly told his cellmates he was going home. He said, as he later testified to Congress, that he had given his captors nothing and could not explain their decision.

Mr. McCain said in his e-mail message that he had never been angry with Mr. Overly. In his memoir, he recalls only a fear his friend was making a mistake. “I couldn’t stand in judgment of him,” he wrote.

But his fellow prisoners say he felt betrayed. After a goodbye ceremony staged for North Vietnamese cameras — Mr. McCain arrived on a stretcher — he and the others began referring to the departures as the “fink release program” and “the slimies.”

By the end of 1972, a dozen of the roughly 400 American prisoners of war in the North had accepted offers to be freed, only one with the permission of the senior American officers. All were required, at the very least, to sign letters requesting “amnesty” and thanking the North Vietnamese.

Some went further. As early as 1969, Mr. McCain began hearing three American officers denouncing the war over camp loudspeakers. The first two, Robert Schweitzer and Edison Miller, became known as “The Bob and Ed Show.” Walter Eugene Wilber soon joined.

They were followed by as many as a dozen others: enlisted infantrymen captured in South Vietnam early in the war and later brought to the northern prisons. They had not received the same training in survival strategies and the code of conduct as the pilots who made up the rest of the prisons in the North. The cooperators called themselves the “peace committee” and enjoyed treats from their captors, including beer, ice cream, Vietnamese dinners, and front-row seats at a local circus. They lived in fear of retribution from the tough resisters.

Mr. Miller and Mr. Wilber, the officers, said in interviews that they considered it pointless to resist after they had surrendered. “I think our duty as senior officers is to get these men home as healthy emotionally and physically as we can, and I don’t intend to play politics,” Mr. Miller, a Marine lieutenant colonel, said he told the others.

Some members of the peace committee said that watching the destruction of Vietnamese villages had turned them against the war, arguing that the pilots did not see the carnage. Others said they were beaten down. “We said what we had to say to get through it,” Michael Branch, one of the enlisted men, said in an interview.

Mr. McCain was as enraged as any of the tough resisters by what they considered the treason of the two officers and enlisted men, his friends said. “He thought this was ‘terrible, terrible, terrible,’ they should all be shot,” said John Dramesi, a fellow prisoner.

In his memoirs, Mr. McCain addressed only briefly what he called “the camp rats.” During a stint in solitary confinement, he had caught a glimpse of two other American officers acting friendly with their guards and enjoying delicacies like eggs and bananas, Mr. McCain and his co-author wrote. Assuming that contact with a fellow American would restore their nerve, Mr. McCain called out: “Hey, guys, my name’s McCain. Who are you?” They called the guards, who beat him again.

Those two were Mr. Miller and Mr. Wilber. They denied the exchange took place, but in his e-mail message Mr. McCain said, “I would have been astonished if they admitted it.”

But Mr. Schweitzer, who died in a car crash soon after the war, became an example of what Mr. McCain later called “the necessity to forgive.” Confronted by a senior officer, Mr. Schweitzer renounced his participation in the propaganda and resumed his place in the American ranks.

“It is neither American nor Christian to nag a repentant sinner to his grave,” the senior Americans taught.

“John McCain has lived by that his whole life,” Mr. Swindle said. Others have observed the pattern as Mr. McCain has embraced former adversaries from antiwar activists and North Vietnamese prison commanders to the critics who charged him with corruption in the Keating Five scandal.

Mr. McCain was one of about a half-dozen former prisoners of war who spent the year after their release at the National War College, an elite academy for future admirals or generals.

Some officers fresh from Vietnam questioned the premise of the war. “The vast majority of generals who had experience in Vietnam will tell you we should never have gone past the advisory level,” said John H. Johns, a retired Army general and a student at the college that year. But in Mr. McCain’s paper, he instead focused on the failure to sustain public support for the fight. The paper was obtained through the Freedom of Information Act and provided to The New York Times by Matt Welch, an author of a book about Mr. McCain.

He cast a cold eye on the public sympathy for prisoners like himself. “Two and a half million American fighting men served in the Vietnam conflict, and more importantly 46,000 sacrificed their lives,” Mr. McCain wrote. “Yet in the latter stages of that war millions of people were more actively concerned about the plight of 565 P.O.W.’s in Hanoi than in any bigger issue of the war.”

American elected officials, he argued, had fostered a myopic focus on the prisoners by forsaking the goal of unconditional surrender in favor of a negotiated peace, enabling the North Vietnamese to turn their hostages into a bargaining chip. “Many Congressional resolutions, favorable to the enemy, were based solely on the guaranteed return of Americans from North Vietnam,” he wrote.

With prisoners returned, he argued, ambivalence about the war was protecting the minority of American prisoners “who did not keep faith with their country or their fellow prisoners.”

Court-martial charges were filed against two officers and seven enlisted men, he noted. “Probably more would have been charged if the Vietnam War had been like other wars in which this country has engaged,” Mr. McCain wrote. (Top military leaders quickly quashed charges against those nine.)

Mr. McCain reserved his fiercest criticism for what he called “the evils of parole and amnesty,” returning repeatedly to the importance of teaching recruits to reject such offers as he did. The prospect of early release had tempted and demoralized the other captives while providing the North Vietnamese “a maximum of favorable publicity and propaganda value from these ‘humane acts,’ ” he wrote.

“Probably the greatest shock to great numbers of the P.O.W.’s was to find, on returning to the U.S., that P.O.W.’s who were released early had not been court-martialed but in fact had received choice assignments and early promotions,” he added, calling their warm welcome “inexcusable.”

Mr. McCain’s proposal that the military teach U.S. foreign policy to its recruits may be his most notable recommendation. “Too many men in the armed forces of the United States do not understand what this nation’s foreign policy is,” Mr. McCain wrote, adding he did not propose a Soviet-style “indoctrination,” but “a simple, straightforward explanation of the foreign policy of the United States.”

In his e-mail message, Mr. McCain stood by the idea. “It is important, not just for P.O.W.’s, but all Americans serving in combat to understand the purpose and reason for the sacrifices they are asked to make for our country,” he said.

Such instruction, though, sounds close to heretical to some military officers because it risks instructing the troops in the foreign policy of either one president or another, a prospect that particularly troubles Mr. McCain’s contemporaries who came to opposite conclusions about the Vietnam War.

“It gets to be partisan political positioning and regime support,” said Merrill McPeak, a retired Air Force general and another War College classmate of Mr. McCain. (Both Mr. Johns and Mr. McPeak are supporting the Democratic presidential campaign of Senator Barack Obama.)

But Prof. Richard H. Kohn, a historian of civil-military relations at the University of North Carolina who has taught at the War College, suggested that Mr. McCain’s recommendation was more of a “time warp” back to the 1950s, when he came of age at the Naval Academy. It was an era of staunchly anti-communist foreign policy consensus that was shattered by the debates over the Vietnam War while Mr. McCain was in prison, Professor Kohn said.

Mr. McCain’s public statements when he returned from the war suggested that he saw a similar consensus emerging again. “I see more of an appreciation of our way of life,” he wrote in a 1973 article for U.S. News & World Report. “There is more patriotism. The flag is all over the place.”

“Some of my fellow prisoners sang a different tune, but they were a very small minority,” he added. “I ask myself if they should be prosecuted, and I don’t find that easy to answer. It might destroy the very fine image the great majority of us have brought back from that hellhole.”
419 2008-06-15 The CVS Samaritan Van Program, which provides free roadside assistance in nine Midwest and East Coast cities, has seen a 30 percent to 40 percent increase in stops to help people who have run out of gas just in the last two months, said Mike DeAngelis, a spokesman for CVS Pharmacy, which operates the program as a community charity.

The AAA Northern California regional office, which covers Utah and Nevada in addition to Northern California, has seen a 3 percent increase in out-of-gas calls in the first five months of this year, said a spokesman, Michael Geeser.

But it saw even larger increases in some months when gas prices shot up quickly, like April, when such calls rose 6.5 percent compared with April 2007.

“People are just trying to squeeze the most they can out of a gallon,” Mr. Geeser said.

There are some areas, like Chicago, that have not seen a spike in roadside service calls from drivers with dry tanks, but roadside assistance agencies said the calls had increased so sharply coast-to-coast that they started monitoring closely for repeat callers.

David Castillo, supervisor of the Dallas County Courtesy Patrol, a county-run agency in Texas that uses 10 pickups to aid stranded motorists, said, “Of course you get the people who try to scam us out of gas, so we always ask them now to try to start it first, and, of course, it starts right up with some of them.” Over the last six months, Courtesy drivers who had been using about three gallons a day to help stranded motorists now use as much as 10 gallons a day.

The patrol now makes it a point to write down the license plate number of each stranded vehicle in order to track motorists trying to pull a fast one. That became necessary recently after one motorist used three cars in the same day to try to arrange for free gas, Mr. Castillo said.

“We still try to help everyone. We just want them to play by the rules,” he said. “But with gas prices going higher and higher, it’s not like a lot of people are making more money.”

Ol Sem, a grocery clerk in Philadelphia, was caught in that bind on Friday. He said in a telephone interview he had been buying $15 and $20 worth of gasoline at a time for his 1996 Mercury Villager van, hoping to make it to his next paycheck. “I just try to get by day to day with the gas I need,” Mr. Sem said. “It’s too expensive to buy a whole tank.”

But on Friday, with his gas gauge hovering near empty, he found out the hard way that running your gas so low all the time can cause problems: his engine died.

Gary Siley, a mechanic for AAA, responded to Mr. Sem’s call when his car died on Sixth Street in Philadelphia.

He put $3 worth of gas into Mr. Sem’s Mercury — for which he charged him — gave the fuel pump a knock or two to rattle the gunk that seeped into the pump when he ran it low on fuel, and the engine started right up.

“You see this all the time now,” said Mr. Siley. “A lot of our members aren’t exactly millionaires, and they’re just trying to get by with these crazy prices.”

The added problem for motorists, roadside agencies said, is that if running low on gas is bad, running out of gas is worse because it can overheat the fuel pump.

“That can cost $500 to $1,000 to replace,” said Mr. Weinstein of AAA. “And that’s a lot more than a $50 fill-up.”
420 2008-06-15 OSAKA, Japan — The global economy faces a one-two punch from slowing growth and soaring fuel and food prices, finance ministers from the world’s richest nations warned Saturday, though they stopped short of offering concrete solutions.

Finance ministers from the Group of 8 industrialized nations wrapped up a two-day meeting in Japan that was dominated by talk of rising petroleum prices, which have set off street protests across the world. In a statement, the ministers said higher prices of oil and other commodities threatened the world economy at a time when it was still reeling from the collapse of the housing market in the United States.

The ministers urged oil-rich nations to increase production to help reverse a trend that has pushed up oil prices to nearly $140 a barrel, a record. The ministers also warned that the rising cost of oil and other commodities could spur broader increases of prices and wages.

The specter of fighting inflation as the ministers try to revive their flagging economies would “make our policy choices more complicated,” the statement said. The combination of inflation and low growth, known as stagflation, is difficult to escape because steps to spur economic activity, like lowering interest rates, can also lead to price increases.

“For a long time, the world economy enjoyed a combination of robust growth and low inflation, but it now faces headwinds,” the statement said. “Elevated commodity prices, especially of oil and food, pose a serious challenge to stable growth worldwide.”
421 2008-06-15 Much of the mission was also spent examining rotary joints that turn the station’s enormous solar panels toward the sun. Mission managers noticed that the joint on the right side of the station was showing unusual vibrations last year, and spacewalkers found damage and metal shavings. The joint has been largely parked since then.

Mission managers say they still do not know what caused the damage, but a spacewalk demonstration of cleaning techniques during this mission led managers to decide that they could replace the large bearings that allow the joint to roll, clean up the shavings and lubricate the joint. The work could begin with a flight scheduled to launch in November.

Cmdr. Kenneth T. Ham of the Navy was the pilot for the mission, the 123rd in the history of the shuttle program. The other crew members were Col. Michael E. Fossum of the Air Force Reserve, Karen L. Nyberg, Col. Ronald J. Garan Jr. of the Air Force, and Akihiko Hoshide of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency. The Discovery also took Gregory E. Chamitoff to the station and brought home Garrett E. Reisman, who had lived there since March.

From the runway, after taking the traditional walk-around inspection of the craft, Commander Kelly said he and his colleagues had shared “an exciting mission.” The new Kibo module would allow crews to conduct more science experiments, he said, adding, “We’re really glad to be involved in making the space station a bigger and more capable place.”

Mr. Reisman, surprisingly, participated in the walk-around despite having just returned from three months without gravity. In an interview session with reporters broadcast on Friday, he declared himself “cautiously optimistic” about being able to recover quickly, in part because he is a little over five feet tall and short people tend to recover more quickly than tall people.

“My sensory organs are a little closer to my center of gravity, and my heart has a little less distance to pump to my brain,” Mr. Reisman said. “I’ve been waiting my whole life, and I think finally this being short is going to come in handy for once.”

At a news briefing on Saturday, William Gerstenmaier, NASA’s associate administrator for space operations, said, “I can’t think of a mission that’s really been much better than this one.”

Ten shuttle missions are scheduled before the program is wound down in 2010 to make way for the next generation of spacecraft, known as Constellation. The next scheduled mission, in October, will be a flight to service the Hubble Space Telescope.
422 2008-06-15 It certainly took its time. But the Federal Trade Commission’s decision to open a formal antitrust investigation of Intel is very welcome.

An investigation is needed to determine whether and how much the goliath of the microprocessor industry is resorting to anticompetitive practices to shut out the rival Advanced Micro Devices. We are also hopeful the decision means that the F.T.C., which has shown little appetite for antitrust regulation under the Bush administration, is finally ready to do its job.

American regulators have been all but AWOL as the rest of the world has closed in on Intel’s disturbing business practices. On June 4, South Korea’s antitrust watchdog fined the company for offering hundreds of millions of dollars worth of “incentives” to two Korean computer makers not to buy microprocessors from A.M.D.

Last year, the European Commission made a preliminary decision that Intel abused its dominant position in Europe: offering big rebates to companies that bought most of their chips from Intel, selling chips below cost, and paying companies to cancel or delay the launch of products with A.M.D. processors. In 2005, the Japanese Fair Trade Commission issued a cease-and-desist order to stop similar tactics by Intel in the Japanese market.

While all this was going on, the F.T.C. chose to “informally” look into Intel’s actions. Chairwoman Deborah P. Majoras blocked a formal inquiry for months. Only after her departure in March did a new chairman, William E. Kovacic, authorize a formal investigation.

Intel rejects charges that it has engaged in anticompetitive practices, denying that it sells below cost and arguing that its discounts are legal incentives. It says that consumers have benefited because microprocessor prices fell 42 percent from 2000 to 2007. Consumer advocates point out that Intel’s aggressive efforts to tamp down any competition has longer-term costs, hindering innovation by locking out smaller rivals that may have better products with new features or lower prices.
423 2008-06-15 The United States Olympic Committee says it does not recruit. “We think it’s just an offshoot of where athletes want to train and where they want to live and for whom they want to compete,” Jim Scherr, the chief executive of the committee, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a good thing. Nobody’s out there trading for athletes or offering financial rewards for an athlete to jump from one country to another.”

The International Olympic Committee imposes a three-year waiting period for an athlete who switches countries, although it will grant a waiver if the athlete’s native Olympic committee and international sports federation give permission. Two new Americans received the I.O.C. waiver this year: the equestrian Phillip P. Dutton, who won two gold medals for Australia; and the canoeist Heather Corrie, who is also a British citizen. (The Times’s statistics did not include dual citizens and athletes who immigrated as children.)

American-born competitors have grumbled about losing Olympic opportunities to newcomers and have been especially vocal when government officials have gone out of their way to expedite the eligibility of foreign athletes. Such fast-tracking does not appear to be happening for this Olympic cycle.

Few of the immigrants said they came here exclusively to continue their athletic careers. Mostly, they said, they came for love, opportunity, freedom and education. Nearly all have been welcomed by United States athletic federations.

They take advantage of EB-1 visas for aliens of extraordinary ability — meant for renowned scientists, artists and athletes — which moves them swiftly to the front of the line for permanent residency. The United States government issued 2,749 of these visas to foreigners, their spouses and children in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2007, but the statistics do not indicate how many went to athletes.

An athlete who marries an American citizen can apply for citizenship three years after obtaining a green card as a permanent resident; it takes five years otherwise. Potential Olympians often miss the Games while waiting.

In years past, the United States had trouble competing in some Olympic sports but for immigrants, said Alicia J. Campi, a former research coordinator for the Immigration Policy Center in Washington. Among the sports she cited were field hockey and table tennis.

“This is an area where immigrants can help because they already have the skills they’ve developed through decades and centuries of culture that valued that particular sport,” Campi said in a phone interview. “One or two athletes can really change the possibility of the United States doing well in one of those nontraditional sports.”

Seven Olympic medals since 2000 have been won by five new citizens who had been elite performers for their home countries: the gymnast Annia Hatch from Cuba and the synchronized swimmer Anna A. Kozlova from Russia each won two in 2004; the sailor Magnus Liljedahl from Sweden and the tennis player Monica Seles from Yugoslavia in 2000 in Sydney, Australia; and the ice dancer Tanith Belbin from Canada in the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy.

The Nigeria-born Hakeem Olajuwon of the 1996 basketball Dream Team was the only foreign athlete to contribute to the United States medal count in the 1990s.

Kozlova finished fourth in the synchronized swimming duet for Russia at the 1992 Olympics and immigrated later that year. She missed the 1996 Games while waiting for a green card. “It was almost unbearable,” she said. She placed fourth for the United States in team and duet in 2000 and won two bronze medals in 2004.

“I came to live here,” Kozlova said in a phone interview. “I would have come here if I swam or not.”

The New Zealand-born triathlete Matt Reed, ranked 45th in the world, improved his chances of making the Olympics by becoming a United States citizen. New Zealand has two of the top four men in the sport, including his younger brother, Shane, ranked 35th. In Beijing, the brothers will be rivals.

While Shane struggles to make ends meet in New Zealand, Matt has found many corporate sponsors. He said, “I put in the hard work and sponsorships are definitely coming my way.”

In 2004, Matt Reed ran in both nations’ Olympic trials, finishing eighth in New Zealand and third in the United States, although he was not yet a citizen.

Reed moved here in 2001 for love, having met the American triathlete Kelly Rees. Married since 2003, they live in Boulder, Colo., with their two children. He became a citizen last December. Reed said that if he had not married an American, he would never have been able to qualify in time for the Games. “Being married is pretty much the only way I could have done it,” Reed said.

Hundreds of Chinese table tennis players have competed for other nations, but not all have changed citizenship. Since 1992, 9 of 18 members of the United States teams were foreign stars, including six from China.

Jun Gao, 39, is the best known. Once ranked third in the world and a 1992 silver medalist for China, she married an American in 1993 and left the sport.

Coaxed back to competition, Jun made the United States team in 2000 and 2004 but lost in early rounds.

Jun, ranked 27th in the world, calls Gaithersburg, Md., home, but she has lived virtually full time in Shanghai for six years.

“I come back twice a year, but not very often,” she said. “In China, there are so many world-class players. That’s why I am there. If I want to get a medal, I have to have world-class people to train with me.”

The International Table Tennis Federation instituted rules this year to restrict Chinese players from competing for other nations. It barred those 21 or older from competing in world championships but did not change its rules for the Olympics.

Congress Gets in the Act

Ice dancing, an Olympic event since 1976, produced the best-known Congressional maneuver, which eventually affected the overall standings at the 2006 Winter Games.

Three foreign-born ice dancers — the Canadian Belbin, and the Russians Maxim Zavozin and Sergei Magerovski — were granted expedited citizenship through special legislation signed by President Bush in December 2005.

Each had an American partner waiting to compete at the Olympic trials the next month.

Dean and Lynn Mitchell of Cortlandt, N.Y., the parents of on Olympic hopeful, wrote to their representatives in Congress in 2005 to try to block the special legislation.

Their objection fell short, and their son missed making the team when he finished ninth at the Olympic trials. The Mitchells did not return phone calls for comment.

Belbin and her partner, Ben Agosto of Chicago, became the darlings of American figure skating.

Their Olympic silver in 2006 ultimately gave the United States one more medal than Canada in the overall standings for sole possession of second place behind Germany.

Zavozin and his partner, Morgan Matthews of Chicago, failed to make the Olympic team in 2006, then split up. Matthews has found a new partner, Leif Gislason of Canada.

Facing citizenship delays at home, they have each applied for fast-track citizenship in Azerbaijan to skate for the same country by the 2010 Games in Vancouver, British Columbia.

Matthews, 21, followed a path carved by the American-born ice dancer Kristin Fraser, who represented Azerbaijan in the 2006 Olympics without ever visiting the country.

At least one athlete may yet turn to Congress to compete in the 2012 Games in London: the gymnast Charles León Tamayo, who won Cuba’s first medal at a world championship at age 20 in 2001. He defected to the United States in 2003 and, following advice from a pro bono lawyer, applied for asylum.

If Tamayo had waited one year after defecting and applied for relief under the Cuban Adjustment Act, he would have been eligible for a green card immediately, two to four years faster than the asylum process, said Amehd Camacho, a staff assistant to Representative Mario Díaz Balart, Republican of Florida.

Tamayo was ineligible for the 2004 and 2008 Olympic teams. To qualify for 2012, when he will be 31, he needs Balart’s help to persuade Citizenship and Immigration Services to let him apply for the Cuban adjustment. Camacho said Balart could sponsor legislation as a last resort.

“I come here and all I’m asking for is the opportunity,” Tamayo, who coaches gymnastics in Grand Junction, Colo., said in a phone interview. “I want to fight for my spot. I want to do what I can. But I can’t do that because of my citizenship.”

Legislation is not the only way foreign-born athletes have become United States Olympians. Olajuwon received assistance from Alan Dershowitz, the Harvard law professor. Konstantin Starikovitch, a Russian weight lifter, won an arbitration case against the United States federation.

Greg Schouten, an American junior record-holder in weight lifting, just missed an Olympic spot because of Starikovitch.

“I was angry at the federation for a year or two,” Schouten said in a phone interview.

After the Olympics, he would see Starikovitch at a training facility in Colorado, but Schouten said: “We really never talked to each other. I never cared to.”

Yueling Chen, a 1992 gold medalist in race walking for China, gained a spot on the 2000 United States team after Bill Hybl, then the U.S.O.C. president, appealed to the Chinese Olympic Committee a month before the Games.

Chen said she was puzzled that China had wanted to block her. “I was a U.S. citizen,” she said in a recent phone interview. “The Games are international. I should belong to the whole world. I am international.”

But Joanne Dow, a national champion race walker from New Hampshire, disagreed with that concept. She said Chen’s immigration dashed her Olympic dream.

At the Olympic trials, Dow was recovering from minor knee surgery and finished fourth, missing the cutoff for the team. Chen, who finished second, made the team but performed poorly in Sydney.

“I don’t know her at all,” Dow said, “but to see her come in third to last — that disgusted me. There are a little bit of hard feelings.”

Dow finished second at the Olympic trials in 2004, but the United States was allotted one Olympic slot in her division. In July, the 44-year-old Dow, a three-time national champion, will try again to make her first Olympic team.

China is not the only country to express dismay over one of its athletes competing for the United States. Sports authorities in Kenya said they were upset to learn that Lagat was changing allegiance.

Lagat is expected to be the star of the United States track and field Olympic trials beginning June 27. Lagat, a resident here since 1996, gained his United States citizenship in 2004, three months before he won an Olympic silver medal in the 1,500 meters for Kenya, which does not allow dual citizenship.

Lagat has said he kept quiet about changing citizenship in 2004 because he would not have been able to run in the Olympics for either country.
424 2008-06-15 Re “Pay It Back if You Didn’t Earn It” (Fair Game, June 8), in which Gretchen Morgenson described the growing number of companies with clawback provisions that let them recoup executive pay that was based on incorrect financial statements.

The column suggested that shareholders should now “press compensation committees to change policies so that executives who take outsized risks to generate fatter pay packages are forced to return some of that money if the gambles go bad.”

Executives, however, should be encouraged to take long-term risks. Making a regular practice of having executives actually return money is bad from a morale standpoint when the issue is not a matter of fraud or bad reporting.

Here are two better suggestions: make sure that the board of directors understands the executives’ strategies and initiatives, and have the compensation committee hold back paying all of those dollars in the first place — using a bonus banking mechanism — until the results of those strategies have time to mature. That way, executives who make good investments will be fully compensated over the long term for a job well done, and skeptical shareholders will have one less reason to be skeptical.

The writer is chief executive of The Value Alliance and Corporate Governance Alliance.
425 2008-06-15 Mr. Shorrock cites instances of spy industry corruption, like the case of Randy Cunningham, the former Republican congressman convicted of taking $2.4 million in bribes for steering government business to two military contractors.

But some of the book’s most intriguing assertions concern the permeating influence of the consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton. In 2006, Mr. Shorrock reports, Booz Allen amassed $3.7 billion in revenue, much of which came from classified government contracts exempt from public oversight. Among its more than 18,000 employees are R. James Woolsey, the former C.I.A. director, and Joan Dempsey, a former longtime United States intelligence official who declared in a 2004 speech, “I like to refer to Booz Allen as the shadow I.C.”

The “revolving door” between Booz Allen and the I.C. is personified by Mike McConnell, who joined the firm after serving as head of the National Security Agency under President Bill Clinton, only to return as director of national intelligence under President Bush. Mr. Shorrock says Mr. McConnell is the only person who has “gone from a top position with industry into the most senior leadership position in the nation’s spy system.”

Another company, the Science Applications International Corporation of San Diego, is one of the top five C.I.A. contractors and a particularly favored vendor of the National Security Agency, the book says. Mr. Shorrock says that “so many N.S.A. officials have gone to work for S.A.I.C. that intelligence insiders call it ‘N.S.A. West.’ ”

Mr. Shorrock has a major concern with the sheer extent of intelligence outsourcing and whether it increases the potential for sensitive information to fall into the wrong hands. Even the task of administering the government’s database for tracking outside contracts, he says, has been outsourced to a private-sector contractor. But the government has yet to identify which intelligence functions are safe to outsource and which aren’t, he says. “As a result,” he writes, “ decisions about contracting are still being made on the fly with little regard to their short- and long-term consequences.”

MUCH of Mr. Shorrock’s terminology may seem to have a left-wing taste to it, but plenty of it comes directly from conservatives. In fact, he says the term “intelligence-industrial Complex” was coined (with a nod to Dwight D. Eisenhower’s 1961 reference to the nation’s “military-industrial complex”) by Herbert A. Browne. Mr. Browne is a retired vice admiral turned AT&T executive and a former executive director of the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association, an industry trade group.

“The fact that we can have a professional intelligence organization outside of the government to support the government is no more offensive to me than the fact that we have 80 percent of our military communications traveling on commercial satellites or commercial fiber optics,” Mr. Browne tells the author. “In fact, I find it very healthy for the nation.”

Mr. Shorrock unequivocally believes otherwise. “In the end, if America is to reform its intelligence apparatus, decisions about resources and structure must be made by its citizens through the government they elected — not by outside contractors like Booz Allen Hamilton and S.A.I.C.,” he writes. “The spies for hire may not like the idea of subjecting the intelligence process to more oversight, but they’re not the ones paying the bill. It’s high time that we returned intelligence to its rightful owners, the American public and its representatives in Congress.”

Meanwhile, it appears that there’s no business like the spy business, and the spy business is nobody’s business but its own.
426 2008-06-15 What price would gasoline have to reach before it caused you to make a big change? Some people have already crossed that barrier. According to a survey by the NPD Group, a research firm, rising fuel prices have caused a small percentage of drivers to buy a more efficient vehicle or to move closer to their work.

People are also making more-reversible changes, like working from home, canceling vacations, carpooling and taking public transportation.

This is the first time since the late 1970s and early ’80s that a significant number of people are behaving differently because of gas prices, said David Portalatin, director of industry analysis for NPD’s automotive division. He noted that 2007 was the first year since 1980 that total miles driven in the United States actually declined when compared with the year before.

Take note: 4 percent of drivers in the survey said they had decided to “work less” because of higher fuel prices. Grab on to this excuse for taking it easy while it lasts. PHYLLIS KORKKI
427 2008-06-15 Isabel Robinson Stockman, a daughter of Lisa Russell Stockman and Robert Bernard Stockman of Princeton, N.J., was married at her family’s farm there on Saturday afternoon to Lt. Peter Harrington Brooks, a son of Virginia Woodworth Brooks and Stephen Harrington Brooks of Weston, Mass. The Rev. Valerie Webster, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.

The couple met at Harvard, from which they graduated.

The bride, 26, is known as Lily. Last month she left her job as a production associate on the assignment desk at ABC News in New York; she will continue working for the network as a freelance producer.

Her father is the executive chairman and a founder of Reva Medical, a San Diego company that develops dissolvable coronary stents. He is also a trustee of St. Paul’s School in Concord, N.H. Her mother is a trustee of the Princeton Day School and serves on the board of the Youth Foundation in New York, which awards college scholarships to needy high school seniors.

The bridegroom, 24, returned in March from a tour in Iraq and is stationed at the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center in Twentynine Palms, Calif.

The bridegroom’s mother is a residential real estate broker with the Coldwell Banker office in Weston. His father is an economics consultant and researcher for colleges and universities.

Ms. Stockman and Lieutenant Brooks endured long separations from the start.

They met in 2006, the year they both graduated from Harvard, at a graduation party for a mutual friend. “I was weeks away from moving to Mongolia and he was about to take off for God-knows-where with the Marine Corps,” she said. “But we both quickly realized we were nuts about each other and promised that as soon as we fulfilled our obligations we would never leave each other’s side again.”

Ms. Stockman left for Mongolia on a National Geographic youth grant as a member of an expedition to document nomadic culture. She was away for several weeks and they had a summer courtship until Lieutenant Brooks went to Virginia for training that August. A year later he was deployed to Iraq.
428 2008-06-15 At Caramoor, he has enlisted Mr. D’Rivera as both player and composer-in-residence, a tradition Mr. Barrett has revived. A Cuban expatriate and National Medal of Arts winner who moves easily between musical cultures, Mr. D’Rivera said he was drawn to Mr. Barrett by his ability to hear what musicians had to say.

Mr. D’Rivera’s efforts, and those of Marco Granados, a Venezuelan flutist who also teaches and develops shows at Caramoor, have been integral to what is arguably Mr. Barrett’s signature achievement: Sonidos Latinos, a survey of music from South and Central America and the Caribbean. Now in its second and final year, the program, financed with $500,000 from a fund set up by the New York State attorney general with money from “pay for play” settlements, last year brought to the festival the heaviest concentration of Latin music it has seen. Mr. D’Rivera’s new work, a contrabass concerto, won raves.

“Programming like Sonidos Latinos was not anywhere on Caramoor’s radar screen five years ago,” Mr. Barrett said.

About $150,000 is left from the grant, part of which will go toward Mr. D’Rivera’s lone scheduled concert this year, “Buenos Aires Now.” A loosely conceived look at the tango in the modern era, the show might draw from Mr. D’Rivera’s Grammy-winning album “Funk Tango,” he said.

In characteristic Barrett-era style, the concert will pull together disparate voices. They will include Mr. Granados, whose light touch on flute reflects a self-effacing temperament, and the intense Argentine pianist Fernando Otero, whose percussive keyboard approach recalls his experience as a timpanist.

Another Sonidos Latinos concert, “From Spain to the New World,” will feature rarely heard pieces, including Manuel de Falla’s “El Amor Brujo,” as written in 1915. The concert will bring the mezzo-soprano Vivica Genaux back to Caramoor, where she first triumphed in 1997. Mr. Barrett will conduct the resident Orchestra of St. Luke’s.

A third Sonidos Latinos offering, “Tango for the Family” and a subsidiary event, “Tango for Tots,” will present the music of Argentina and Uruguay in a new version of what has become an annual event, a family concert narrated by another of Mr. Barrett’s longtime collaborators, Jamie Bernstein.

A decade ago, Ms. Bernstein, whose father was Leonard Bernstein, and Mr. Barrett, a former protégé of Mr. Bernstein’s, formed a company to produce the family concerts, later bringing them to Caramoor. Ms. Bernstein said that when the festival took a Latin turn last year, Mr. Granados signed on as curator for the concerts, which have become a vehicle for generational change.

“We’ve seen lots of young families coming in for the first time,” Mr. Barrett said.

Mr. Barrett’s programming approach has prompted complaints from a small group of conservative-minded patrons. “For them, it’s really about the perception that, Our world is changing — isn’t that terrible?” he said. “The answer is, No, it’s not terrible. Yes, we’re changing, but we’re still hanging on to our core values. That will never change.”

In fact, this year’s festival features its share of traditional material, with the usual complement of star soloists like the pianist Peter Serkin, playing Bach and Mozart, and the violinist Sarah Chang, playing Mozart, Mendelssohn, Mussorgsky and Tchaikovsky. Andreas Delfs, music director of the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra, will debut, conducting the orchestra with Mr. Serkin. A Caramoor veteran, Peter Oundjian, music director of the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, will conduct with Ms. Chang.

The festival will have world premieres, of which Mr. Barrett has programmed at least two a year. They will include “String Quartet No. 4,” written by Pierre Jalbert and played by the Escher String Quartet, and “Twenty-four Preludes for Violoncello and Piano,” composed by Lera Auerbach and played by Ms. Auerbach on piano and Alisa Weilerstein on cello.

Some warhorses will be given a new twist, another Barrett priority. Among them: Mussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibition,” in which Trio Solisti’s distinctive piano-violin-cello arrangement will recall neither Ravel’s orchestration nor the original piano composition, and Rossini’s “Barbiere di Siviglia,” in a new critical edition by Philip Gossett.

In a clear departure from the days before Mr. Barrett, there will be plenty of pop culture, including the guitarist and vocalist John Pizzarelli’s jazz-inflected take on the American songbook, two cabaret shows with Jason Graae, and a bluegrass group, Chatham County Line.

Mr. Barrett said he expected the bluegrass show to draw an audience different from that of the previous concert, the opening-night gala, “Americans in Paris.” That show, featuring the work of 20th-century American composers who spent time in the French capital, will upend expectations by not including the Gershwin symphonic work that the concert’s title suggests.

Keeping up the programming momentum has not been easy, Mr. Barrett said. Caramoor’s $9 million endowment accounts for only 8 percent of its operating budget, he said, where 20 percent is ideal. In addition to performances, there are education programs and the maintenance of 90 acres that include the 1,700-seat Venetian Theater and 300-seat Spanish Courtyard, several formal gardens and the former summer home of Caramoor’s founders, Lucie Bigelow and Walter Tower Rosen, which is open to the public and filled with a collection of European and Asian art and artifacts.

The festival alone costs $2.3 million a year to stage, said Mr. Rosenblum, the managing director. But Mr. Barrett said that there was no turning back from the direction he had set. Even as Caramoor’s board of directors considered a five-year plan to increase its endowment, Mr. Barrett said he was seeking money for additional Latin programming.

Among other things, he said, the money might pay for community-outreach concerts like the ones produced by Caramoor last month in Yonkers and Peekskill. The concerts, a first for the festival, were enthusiastically received by audience members, who took away about 60 vouchers for free admission to the festival, Mr. Rosenblum said.

Mr. Barrett said, “This is something my board and the audiences that come to Caramoor have embraced.”
429 2008-06-15 With summer approaching in earnest, farmers’ markets have been starting up for the season in towns throughout the state — a boon for shoppers stocking up on locally produced fruits and vegetables, cheeses and even surprises like seafood from the Jersey Shore.

“You can do all of your food shopping here,” said Beth Feehan, a co-founder of the five-year-old West Windsor Community Farmers’ Market, as she surveyed the bustling scene in the parking lot of the Princeton Junction train station, where the market operates on Saturdays, in season. “The only thing you can’t get is toilet paper,” she said.

Certainly, you can find the makings of a fine meal at the market, which opened in May and averages about 15 vendors a week. Serve organic baby lettuce harvested by North Slope Farm in Lambertville for a simple salad ($10 a pound). The farmstead cheese from Cherry Grove Farm in nearby Lawrenceville — the buttery provolone dolce is a good choice ($12 a pound) — makes an easy hors d’oeuvre; or buy crusty bread from the Village Bakery of Lawrenceville and make a sandwich.

You can whip up a quiche with the beautifully brown cage-free eggs from Silver Forge Farm of Manalapan ($5 a dozen). If you’re not inclined to cook, Griggstown Quail Farm and Market, based outside Princeton, sells chicken potpies ($9.50 for a 5-inch pie). Strawberries picked at their sweet ripeness from Terhune Orchards of Princeton, make a simple, elegant dessert ($6.50 a quart).

A bonus is the sense of community the market fosters, especially in West Windsor, which has no town center. It’s a social place, with neighbors exchanging news. You can get a cup of fair trade certified organic coffee from Crescent Moon Coffee Roasters of Mickleton ($1.50) and a vegan muffin from the Twisted Tree Cafe of Asbury Park ($2.50) and chat with the farmers. You might learn, for example, how to plant Thai basil, available from Chia-Sin Farms of Pittstown ($2.50 for a four-pack of bedding plants).

West Windsor Community Farmers’ Market, Vaughn Drive parking lot of Princeton Junction Train Station, off Alexander Road; (609) 577-5113 or westwindsorfarmersmarket.org. Open Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. through October.
430 2008-06-15 DISABLED and living on a limited income, Rebecca Sahin said financial constraints once forced her to cook rice to feed her two beloved cats.

“They just looked at me and walked away,” said the Vernon resident, 33.

That was before a friend told her about the Kado Pet Foundation. Now her cats, Domino and Jazzy, are official “Kado Kids,” and Ms. Sahin knows the pets will receive nutritious food, kitty litter and proper veterinary care for as long as they live.

“For me, Kado was a sense of relief,” she said.

The nonprofit foundation was established three years ago by Kathy Hartmann of Windsor, a lifelong animal lover who said she wanted to help elderly, ill, disabled and low-income pet owners who might otherwise be forced to give up their animal companions or choose between buying food for themselves or their pets. Named in honor of her pet Rottweiler, who died in 2003, the charity helps to care for 50 dogs, cats and one bird with the aid of a dozen volunteers who travel to pet owners’ homes in central and northern Connecticut.

“The whole idea of Kado is to take the stress away,” Ms. Hartmann said. “Once an animal becomes a ‘Kado Kid’ they never leave, so people know their pets will always be taken care of.”

Because she saw that her dog Kado brought joy to many people, Ms. Hartmann said that when the dog died, she wanted to find a way to help other animals. At first, her quest took her to the local dog pound, but after she heard stories about pet owners who were struggling financially to care for their animals, she decided to start the charity.
431 2008-06-15 Re “Rock! Sun! Crowds! You Go Without Me” by Andrew Kuo [June 8]:

As a 40-year Woodstock heretic, I have to sympathize with Mr. Kuo. My enduring memory of Woodstock is of being entrained in an endless single file of would-be revelers, picking our way through dark woods, living a scene from Bergman’s “Seventh Seal,” passing a like-sized crowd silently filing out. Our party arrived during and left after Richie Havens’s opening set, rejoining the silent crowd tramping back through the woods.

My memory of Woodstock II on cable is that my seat was a lot more convenient, and closer to the fridge.
432 2008-06-15 The facts of Dumas’s biography — she grew up in South Africa under apartheid — can encourage a viewer to read her work as unadorned social commentary. Significantly, the retrospective in Los Angeles, which was organized by the curator Cornelia Butler and consists of about 70 paintings and 35 works on paper, will be arranged along loose thematic lines touching on topics like race relations and terror. Taken together, Dumas’s portraits might seem to constitute the face book of a bungled imperialism. On the other hand, the figures in her paintings are pleasingly complicated — there are babies who look like dictators and brides in wedding dresses lined up like zombies — and they hark back to the days before big questions about life and death and evil gave way to the drone of gender theory and identity politics.

For all their moral gravity, Dumas’s paintings have led a separate, rather flashy existence in the more commercial precincts of the art world. In February 2005, at Christie’s in London, “The Teacher (sub a)” (1987) — a large, horizontal group portrait that turns a sentiment-laden class picture from her own childhood into a bruising reflection on authority — sold for $3.34 million. Virtually overnight, Dumas became “the world’s most expensive living female artist,” as the blogs reported, a status she maintained for one year, until Louise Bourgeois sold a sculpture for $4 million and captured the top-art-girl crown.

“The Teacher (sub a),” as it turns out, was purchased by the Acquavella Galleries, which occupies a stately town house on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and, three years later, still owns the painting. “We bought it for ourselves,” Nick Acquavella, who is 30, told me, explaining that he and his art-dealing father attended the auction not to bid on behalf of a client but rather in the hope of adding Dumas’s painting to the family collection, which abounds with Picassos, Giacomettis and other staples of European modernism. “It is difficult to find Marlene’s work on the market,” he said. “She is not very prolific, and most of her work is in European collections where people don’t want to sell.”

A few weeks ago, it was announced that Dumas is leaving her longtime dealer in New York, Jack Tilton, and signing with the David Zwirner gallery. “It literally took four years before Marlene committed fully,” Zwirner told me, during which time he visited her in Holland on two occasions, met her in Venice on two others and assembled an ambitious show of her older works. In the end, Dumas was probably won over less by Zwirner’s charming attentions than by her affinity with the artists he represents. They include art stars like Luc Tuymans and Neo Rauch, who possess a seemingly inborn talent for depicting nightmares, particularly of the political variety, and have made European painting feel newly urgent in New York.

A DUMAS PAINTING is easy to recognize. It typically shows a face or a figure in dramatic close-up, isolated against a neutral ground. Put another way, the people in her pictures are not sitting in a cafe or strolling the avenue, and they seem to have sprung from some infernal realm where personal memories are constantly colliding with public traumas. Her subjects include her daughter, her mother, terrorists, drowning victims, hanging victims, Emily Dickinson, the South African poet Elisabeth Eybers and the model Naomi Campbell. In addition to her oil-on-canvas output, she is prolific on paper and specializes in inky watercolors that use a meltingly sensual style to conjure disturbing scenes, among them strippers standing with their backsides shoved at us or the impassive heads of blindfolded male prisoners who may or may not be alive.

In conversation, Dumas denies that her driving themes are sex and violence, presumably because she does not want to have the content of her art reduced to so many plot points. When I asked her what to make of her frequent use of pornography as source material, she showed me a kinky liquor advertisement she clipped from a magazine and said in her defense, “I haven’t got one painting where the breast gets this much attention.”

Additional evidence was forthcoming. She left the table and fetched a book on Lucian Freud, riffling through the pages before stopping at a reproduction of a painting from the early ’90s in which two female nudes rest on a rumpled cot. “That’s his daughters lying there like that, all spread out,” Dumas said vehemently. “I wouldn’t pose for my father like that. Not that I am saying therefore that he is a bad man. Why do my pictures have that reaction when I would think that is very peculiar — a father painting his daughters totally lying like that? That is strange.”

She once saw a film about Freud that was set in his studio in London, where David Hockney, a friend of his, was posing for a portrait. “You see his process,” she recalled. “He goes up to the face, he looks where the light falls, he looks at —” she made a funny squinting face to suggest the practice of direct observation that remains so essential to the realist school.

Dumas, by contrast, does not work from models, and most of the people in her pictures have already posed for someone else’s lens. She is part of a generation of figurative painters who find their subjects, as if by default, in photographs culled from newspapers and magazines. Still, Dumas manages to put photography to expressionistic ends. If her point of departure is an in-focus photograph, she proves that pixels aren’t everything in paintings that inhabit a realm somewhere between figuration and abstraction, between outer and inner worlds.

I asked her if she saw a difference between European figurative painting and its young New York cousins, exemplified by artists like Elizabeth Peyton, with her dreamy, jewel-like portraits of rocks stars and friends. “For me, that is not cruel enough,” Dumas said. “I like it a bit crueler. Francis Bacon once said that is why he went for figuration against abstraction — he didn’t like Pollock as much because he said abstraction couldn’t be cruel enough for him. I did get things from Francis Bacon — the fact of the figure in an abstract background. It is a figure, but where is the figure?”

Over the years, Dumas’s work has remained fairly consistent. Asked about the trajectory of her development, she mentioned that her handling of paint has grown more assured: she has become adept at making pictures with less and less paint. “It’s almost Alex Katzy,” she said of one of her recent works, referring to the New York figurative painter known for his spartan and effortless-seeming surfaces.

Dumas is inordinately protective of her time, and she keeps her many admirers at bay with the help of two assistants, Jolie van Leeuwen and Rudolf Evenhuis, each of whom is 49 and holds a degree in art history. Evenhuis, who was patiently answering e-mail for Dumas when I arrived at the studio, mentioned to me that he first met her after writing her a letter and asking if he could make a film about her work. “Try me in a year,” she blithely wrote back. The eventual result was two films, the latter of which, “Miss Interpreted,” is an hourlong documentary from 1997. “She was not completely happy with the film,” Evenhuis recalls. “She thought it had too much human interest. She didn’t like that she was shown eating.”

BORN IN CAPE TOWN ON AUG. 3, 1953, the youngest of three children, Dumas grew up on sandy farmland, about an hour outside of the city. Her native language was Afrikaans, which was still disdained as a bumpkin dialect of the Dutchmen who settled South Africa in the 17th century. The artist’s mother, Helena, was a homemaker; her father, Johannes, was a winemaker who owned a moderate-size vineyard, Jacobsdal, which is currently run by Dumas’s oldest sibling, Cornelis. Her other brother, the Rev. Pieter Dumas, won a court case against the Dutch Reformed Church in 1988, after he was fired for speaking up against racism within the church.

As a child, Dumas was well aware of the sorrows of apartheid. “We had a lady working in the house, and I would sit with her and read to her,” she recalled. “We were very warm with one another, but we could not sit at the same table. That is horrible to see, how long things took for people to say, ‘It is going to change.’ ”

Kuils River, the town where she grew up, was an isolated, uneventful place with “one bar, one hotel, one doctor and one church,” as she says. There was no art museum anywhere in the area, except for “a very dead place in Cape Town that showed old colonial paintings of bridges in the landscape,” as she recalls. Even the diversions of popular culture were largely nonexistent; it was not until 1976 that television arrived in South Africa, one of the few countries that did not show live footage of Neil Armstrong walking on the moon, as if any glimpse of the democratic world would cause apartheid to crumble instantly. Movies were shown in theaters but were heavily regulated for content, and only the most sanitized fluff survived. “We used to go to drive-in movies to watch Tarzan,” she said.

As if to counter the media blackout, the suppression of images, Dumas began collecting pictures. From the time she was 8, she loved drawing cartoon girls, curvy, bikini-clad models of the sort she saw in comics but whose key source was probably her obsessive fantasy life. She still likes to draw girls. To demonstrate, she picked up a pencil and a sheet of paper and conjured in about all of 10 seconds an expertly cheesy nude with a button nose and elephantine breasts. “It was always the face or the figure, even when I was small,” she said. “I never did a tree.”

The relative comfort of her childhood ended at age 12, when her father died of liver disease. “I think I am probably a lot like my father,” she said matter-of-factly. “He would go to the bar. The bar had a bad reputation, but now I go sit in the bar. My father never wanted to leave before the end of a party, and I never want to leave, either. I don’t know if it was worse going to see him in the hospital or seeing him at home in the end.”

As she described the landscape of her childhood — the baking sun, the vineyard with its low-hanging grapes, the farmhouse where she sat and drew her congeries of glamour girls — I wondered to what extent her father’s death shaped her art. Many of her paintings and watercolors depict dead or dying figures, and her work in general can feel elegiac. It was moving to think of her in her studio at night, waiting for a face to reveal itself to her, for a face to swim up to the surface of her art. Maybe it was the face of someone she had loved and lost, or maybe it was the face of a country that she lost. But when I asked her about losing her father, she brushed off the subject, saying only, “Oh, that was so long ago.”

IN 1976, AFTER PORING OVER countless pictures in art magazines, which provided her only glimpse of the latest art coming out of New York, and earning a degree in art at the University of Cape Town, Dumas left South Africa to study abroad. She had won a two-year scholarship to Ateliers ’63, a small, progressive, unaccredited art school in Haarlem, now known as de Ateliers and located in Amsterdam. “I moved to Holland because I wanted to see American art,” she has said, lest anyone accuse her of embarking on a sentimental search for her Dutch roots.

Ateliers ’63, one of whose founders was Jan Dibbets, the influential Dutch artist fond of measuring the movement of shadows and other fastidious calculations, was a bastion of conceptual art, and Dumas tried to play along. “I was quite fascinated by all these conceptual artists,” she said. “It looked so intelligent. It looked like modern art. Who wanted to paint a naked figure?” Most of her early work consists of abstract drawings and collages that incorporated bits of text: it is defined as much by the media she chose to work in as the ones she rejected — in particular, oil painting, whose history can be a bit overwhelming for a young artist in the Netherlands, the sort of place where it is possible to go to the grocery store to pick up some milk and pass Rembrandt’s brick house.

After leaving school, she exhibited intermittently in group shows and eked out a living cleaning houses. “I was never really a good cleaner,” she recalls of that period. “I would put the vacuum cleaner on the leaves of the plants, and if they didn’t fall off, they were really strong. I had no experience at all. I had never cleaned anything. My brother Pieter would say to me: ‘What are you doing? Come back. If you want to clean houses, we have plenty of houses in South Africa.’ But for me, to live in my studio was wonderful.”

In 1984, Dumas did something radical — she started painting heads and figures. She was hardly the only painter in the early ’80s to go back to traditional figure motifs; many artists were then trying to find an alternative to the paper-white coolness of conceptual art. But unlike Francesco Clemente, Georg Baselitz and the other neo-Expressionists who were causing a sensation in New York, Dumas was in no hurry to exhibit her work in America, and she wasn’t part of any group. Her first all-painting show was held in 1985, at the Galerie Paul Andriesse in Amsterdam, and it brought together nine portraits. Three of them, curiously enough, depicted women named Martha — one the artist’s grandmother, another Martha Freud, the third a servant. “Instead of calling them portraits, she called them ‘situations,’ as in ‘the situation is “evil,” is “banal,” ’ or ‘the situation is generic homesickness,’ ” recalled Paul Andriesse, a bookish man of 53 whose gallery continues to represent the artist in Amsterdam.

FOR 20 YEARS NOW, Dumas has lived with her Dutch dealer’s first cousin, Jan Andriesse, himself an artist, whose work she describes as “abstract painting, but you can’t really call it that.” His spare, ethereal, carefully calibrated surfaces are rooted in the tradition of painting the Dutch light. His studio is situated on two adjacent houseboats on the grand Amstel River, which feeds the city’s network of canals; on the afternoon I visited him, the indoors were as squinty-bright as the street. He and Dumas raised their daughter, Helena, who is 19, on “this floating dump,” as he called it, and now they live in a slightly larger house nearby.

Sitting down at a table heaped with books, Andriesse poured himself a glass of gin. “The only reason I am alive is because of my love of alcohol and cigarettes,” he noted in his amused baritone, as he reached into a bag of Van Nelle tobacco and rolled a cigarette.

Andriesse is an engaging, well-read man of 57, a commanding presence who can recite long passages of Nabokov from memory. When he reflects on his life story, he emphasizes the turn of events that propelled him into exile when he was 6 years old. He was born in Jakarta, Indonesia, and he had just started school when President Sukarno, who helped the country win its independence from the Netherlands, demanded that Dutch citizens be expelled. Andriesse became part of a “colonial diaspora,” as he put it. He said that his life as an exile — his life of painful separations, and the memory of those separations — is probably the most important bond he shares with Dumas. “The only reason that Marlene and I are together is that tie,” he said. “When I first met her, she was speaking Afrikaans, and I thought she was out to lunch. But then we realized we had English in common.”

It is true that he and Dumas both grew up in countries that had been Dutch colonies. And they each left those countries, she by choice, he against his will. It was clear he felt wounded by the experience, and I suspected that Dumas’s art had given nearly perfect expression to his feelings of dislocation. That is “the tie” he referred to. He, in return, provides her with historical context. She claims to be hopeless at remembering dates, and if you ask her when she moved into her current studio, or was tapped to represent Holland at the Venice Biennale, she will invariably say, “Ask Jan.”

He comes to the studio every day, and he often sits for hours at a time contemplating the sky and the water. The weather in Holland is extremely changeable, and if you watch the sky for just a few minutes, you are likely to witness a little drama of meteorology, complete with quickly drifting clouds and shafts of sunlight piercing through. Andriesse says he thinks of his studio as an observatory, a place to be intimate with the light. But when I asked to see some of his art, he explained in an aggrieved tone that inspiration has eluded him lately and he had not completed a painting in four years; his output consisted of only a small group of lithographs. “Depression is my middle name,” he joked.

There were two chairs at the table, and he insisted that I take the one that faced the Berlage Bridge. It is a prized architectural monument, he explained, but it is also a monument to untold sorrows. In 1940, Holland fell, and the Germans came walking in. During the Nazi occupation of Amsterdam, the bridge was one of the sites where Jews were rounded up before being forced “east” — east, he explained, being a euphemism for the death camps.

I glanced out the window, and the present seemed to fall away. It was easy to imagine a scene from the past — a small crowd of people milling at the bridge, husbands and wives pretending to be calm, children clutching at their legs. Why did Amsterdam feel so haunted, even in the frank light of day?

“I can sit here and point at that bridge,” Andriesse replied. “You can’t sit in New York and point at Gettysburg.”

Without warning, the sky darkened, and it began to rain, and the droplets made a loud tapping sound on the roof of the boat. I asked him about Dumas’s portraits of the dead, and he replied nonchalantly: “She’s been painting dead people for a long time. Balzac wanted to write the human condition. She wants to paint the human condition.”

When we finished talking, it was long after sunset, and he kindly offered me a ride to my hotel on the back seat of his bicycle. I demurred, envisaging the dark, rain-slicked streets. As we said our goodbyes, he said he hadn’t decided whether he would be going to California to see Dumas’s museum show. “The more people travel,” he said with a straight face, “the less they have to say.”

IT HAS BEEN 18 YEARS since Dumas made her American debut at the Tilton Gallery in New York, and the critical response to her work has been divided, more or less, among those who admire her earnest theatricality and those who deplore her theatrical earnestness. An art-world blog, Anaba, has taken to listing the names of Dumas’s supporters and detractors as if they were superdelegates charged with putting an artist into office. Are you pro-Dumas or anti-Dumas? “All of the anti-Dumasers are men,” the blog noted in 2005, in a reference to a group of influential critics that includes Jerry Saltz, the art critic for New York magazine, who has described Dumas’s work as “flat-footed.” Peter Schjeldahl, the art critic at The New Yorker, says without remorse: “She is a good second-rate artist. I just don’t think it has much that other people don’t have. There is a certain glamour of sexual perversity, but it seems a little thin to me.”

It may be late in the game to accuse male critics of sexism, a charge that smacks of ’70s-style boosterism while failing to acknowledge that women can be as sexist as men. Nonetheless, the charge persists, particularly among Dumas’s supporters. “People either love Marlene’s work or hate Marlene’s work, and I think it’s a sign of a sexist conspiracy,” says Nicole Eisenman, a figurative artist who is now 43 and based in Brooklyn. “There is an aspect of her work that is women’s work. It’s a mother painting her child, which makes it easy to dismiss.” She went on to say that Dumas’s work can easily hold its own beside the best male painters of her generation. “I think she is as good a painter as Peter Doig” — a reference to the Scottish-born painter who receives nonstop raves for his conceptual landscapes — “and actually, I think she is better than Doig.”

One of Dumas’s most enduring subjects is her daughter, Helena, who was born, as her father told me, “the year the wall fell in Berlin.” Dumas has painted Helena from infancy, at times retrospectively from old photographs, in an intermittent series of portraits that are among her most discomfiting. “The Painter” (1994), which is owned by the Museum of Modern Art, depicts a blond toddler as a miniature stalker. The little girl faces the viewer, nude and glowering, her blue stomach looking less decorated than discolored. Her hands are stained up to the wrist — her left hand carmine red, the right venous blue — and you cannot be sure whether she has spent the previous few minutes finger painting in the playroom or dousing her hands in blood.

You can see “The Painter” as Dumas’s manifesto, a definitive image of ruined innocence, rendered with her customary thin, washy, my-first-draft-is-also-my-final-draft style. The painting is the anti-Cassatt, with none of the sentimentality, the softly lambent flesh, the powdery radiance you expect in a portrait of a child. The little girl, unlike the countless trophy infants and children in art history intended to plug their mothers’ supposed benevolence, knows she’s a morally flawed individual. Even the purest among us mess up, the picture seems to be saying.

By a pleasant coincidence, I was sitting in Dumas’s studio when Helena rang the doorbell. “That’s my daughter,” she said, getting up to answer without interrupting the bright patter of her conversation. The door opened, and there stood a tall, stylish, darkly attractive teenager with lustrous brown hair that fell down her back.

She was wearing gold ballet flats, and a few moments later, when I complimented them, she said, “My mother and I bought them in Italy when we were there” — at the time Dumas was having a show in Milan. “We made a deal. I would go see art and I would get a pair of shoes.”

“She saw ‘The Last Supper’ of da Vinci,” her mother chimed in proudly.

Is Helena interested in art? “ No,” Dumas replied without regret. “She wants to work with the psychology of children.”

Dumas returned to the table, and we resumed our conversation, only to have Helena approach a few minutes later. “I’m sorry,” she told her mother. “I don’t want to interrupt, but we had a date.” She said she wanted to go shopping for a watch for her birthday, which was three weeks away.

“Not now, Helena, not now,” Dumas said with a hint of impatience, adding that she was in her studio until 3 the previous night and wasn’t feeling up to a shopping expedition. Then she turned to me and said: “Every time she has a birthday — she still has that from childhood — she gets so into the birthday it overrides everything else. Whatever it is, if it’s a cat, if it’s a watch — can we please not think of that now?”

“I just like the window-shopping,” Helena said, and there was something touching about her persistence. The watch seemed as good a symbol as any for the predicament of a child who wanted more of her mother’s time.

After a while, they stopped speaking English and switched into Dutch, and their tone grew more strident. Unable to make out what they were saying beyond the “ja”s and the “nee”s and the bursts of guttural, throat-clearing sounds, I wandered off to look around the studio.

On a wall where Dumas had pinned up postcards, I noticed a reproduction of a canvas by Ode aan Coorte, a recently rediscovered 17th-century painter of miniature still lifes whose show had just opened at The Hague. It was a compelling image — red cherries and a bundle of asparagus glistening against shadow — and it seemed to say something about the Dutch temperament, with its famous affection for the everyday things of this world.

This, of course, is precisely the world that Dumas has banished from her art. Her paintings can be defined in terms of what she has rejected from her surroundings. She strips away anecdotal detail — the asparagus and the tulips and the light slanting down on red bricks — until all that is left is a haunting gaze. Together her pictures have a cumulative power, and at moments they seem to stare out at us as if emblematic of everyone who has ever disappeared, and with the knowledge that one day, we, too, will be among the missing. Which is not to say that Dumas is ready to completely embrace the abyss. “I still want to try before I die to do a tree,” she said.
433 2008-06-15 So I returned to an old favorite: vacation-house-swapping. It’s hard to imagine home exchange before the Internet, when a “database” was four classified ads or a binder of mimeographed forms; when you could barely choose time and place, much less insist on a zillion “search parameters”; and when no Google or community ratings system existed to vet people. Still, it was a bona fide trend in the ’70s. In 1979, The Times published a gushy story on house-swapping, attributing its popularity to “the rising cost of hotel rooms, restaurant meals and rental cars.” Swappers in those days consulted the classifieds of publications believed to have sterling readerships, like The Wall Street Journal or The New York Review of Books. Exchange clubs with dues (including the New York-based Inquiline, which provided a security-deposit program, private investigations and arbitration) also offered hedges against bad experiences. Would-be swappers further treated cold feet with trust-building epistolary relationships, talking up their air-conditioners and color TV sets, trying to suss out how rich or normal the other person was.

Web-based rialtos have new ways for creating good faith, and the Internet has furnished users with handy ways of doing background checks. But who exactly would exchange with me? I continually wonder, browsing homeexchange.com and other sites that let you skim listings free. The big mistake I always seem to make is to look at places I want to go (Montana, New Zealand) and ogle the houses, only to discover that the owners are looking to travel to, say, Paris, Antigua, Fiji. What, no pint-size Brooklyn apartment in August? Much better is to use the option to reverse search, finding people who want Brooklyn and seeing what they have to trade. Put myself back in the driver’s seat.

A Brooklyn-friendly couple in Provence have a salt-water pool and a stone barbecue. A family with an Edwardian-period house in Cork City, Ireland, will throw in free tickets to the Opera House. Some Amsterdam people with three cats who want to spend a month in Park Slope — sadly, not my neighborhood — have “an excellent phone plan that allows us to call the U.S. for 1 euro cent per minute.” A family in Arizona is offering a place in a green development with “mud adobe brick walls, concrete floors, double-paned windows, solar hot-water heat, passive solar and solar gain siting.”

Equally inspired and discouraged, I composed a description of my apartment that I hoped mixed salesmanship and believability. I then pretended to be a New Zealander and read my notice with a skeptical eye. Finally I racked my brain for things I could sweeten my offer with, things that might seem equal in value to helpful relatives, a stone barbecue, a crazily advantageous phone plan, solar gain siting. Nothing came to mind; I guess I’m just the kind of person that paper money was made for.

“Now is the greatest time to be bartering,” Scott Ebberbach of Itex, a bartering outfit, recently told The South Florida Sun-Sentinel. “Unfortunately, it’s that way because of the economy.” Unfortunately. And I’m not saying anything about our economic times — but barter might be a useful knack to cultivate. I’m working on it myself.

TRADE FOR NOW: So it’s kind of lame that HomeExchange.com is still crowing over its product placement in “The Holiday,” a 2006 Kate Winslet movie no one remembers. But I love the easy reverse-search option on Home Exchange, and the database is stuffed. Digsville.com is pretty cool. HomeLink-USA.com is a golden oldie; it’s still good. TradeToTravel.com features deluxe homes; be sure you’ve got the goods before you join. All the home-exchange sites are pay to play. Stay tuned for the hip Roomorama.com, which will soon offer short-term rentals — an alternative to hotels.

TRADE FOR GOOD: Something sounds fishy about houseacquisition without money, or at least without banks. Actually, what looks like “trading” on HomeForExchange.com, DomusSwap.com, Pad4Pad.com and OnlineHouseTrading.com is largely just reciprocal selling. Does it ever really work out? The forums at the Home for Exchange site aren’t exactly hopping.

TRADE FOR ANYTHING: One surprise development in the global village: parts of it are extremely regional. To really become a modern-day barterer, you have to stick with your town and often your neighborhood on Craiglist — Craigslist.org/bar — the better to meet and size up the weirdo who’s giving you an acre of bubble wrap for your concert photo of Robert Plant.
434 2008-06-15 Simon Louvish’s elegantly exhaustive study of Cecil Blount DeMille (1881-1959) carries the respectful if not necessarily reverent title “Cecil B. DeMille: A Life in Art.” It examines that life largely though not entirely through his 70 movies, completed during a 42-year career, from “The Squaw Man” in 1914 to “The Ten Commandments” in 1956, itself a remake of his own 1923 “Ten Commandments.” “The Squaw Man” was also remade as an early talkie in 1931, during a period in which all of Hollywood, and DeMille especially, was struggling, often pathetically and disastrously, to make sense and cinema out of the newfangled dimension of talk.

As it happens, I grew up listening to DeMille’s mellifluous voice on the weekly “Lux Radio Theater” as he introduced the stories of recent Hollywood movies, most often with the original stars reading their lines from scripts. Unlike Louvish, however, I was never an admirer of DeMille’s biblical epics, which, as Louvish himself acknowledges, are DeMille’s chief claims to fame, though his only film to win an Oscar for best picture was his 1952 circus extravaganza, “The Greatest Show on Earth.” And yet for all his remarkable ability to outlast and in some instances outlive much greater contemporaries — including D. W. Griffith, Ernst Lubitsch, King Vidor, John Ford, Howard Hawks and the ill-starred Erich von Stroheim and Josef von Sternberg — he remains something of a joke among sophisticated cinéastes, largely because of his tin ear for dialogue. (One famous howler is from “The Ten Commandments,” in which Yul Brynner’s Egyptian pharaoh says of Charlton Heston’s Hebraic Moses, “His God IS God!”)

To his credit, Louvish does not gloss over DeMille’s deficiencies and excesses; rather, he very scrupulously records them as crucial clues in a genuinely complex story rich in contradictions and paradoxes. So we learn that DeMille married the stage actress Constance Adams in 1902, when he was 21 and she 29, and stayed married to her until his death. Still, he openly cheated on her from the very beginning with female assistants and collaborators. He once boasted to a journalist that he had never spent a Saturday night at home with his wife and family through all the years he had been married; he went on to praise Constance for her patience, understanding and, well, constancy. After hiring a promising stage actor named Charles Bickford for his first talkie, “Dynamite” (1929), at the dawn of the sound era, DeMille took his leading man to a hideaway ranch with private lanes, each leading to a separate cottage for weekend trysts. Louvish quotes Bickford to the effect that DeMille showed him a large collection of erotic art and virtually staged orgies for his male guests with willing actresses and call girls. According to Louvish, DeMille’s aggressive sexuality failed to overcome his wife’s apparent frigidity. Consequently, the DeMilles had only one biological child, Cecilia, as well as three adopted children.

Louvish acknowledges a debt to DeMille for his subject’s prodigious research into his own family roots, specifically his father’s Dutch ancestry. He spent much less time on his mother’s British Jewish side of the family, even though his ever resourceful, business-building mother supported the family after her husband died, when Cecil was 11.

Louvish does not explicitly draw the logical inference that DeMille’s contrasting attitudes toward the two branches of his family reveal his bigotry. But the author does conscientiously lay out all the evidence, so we can draw the inference for ourselves. Nonetheless, in the early chapters of his book, Louvish deals with the liberal influence on Cecil and his brother, William, exerted by the writings of Charles Kingsley, a “Protestant controversialist” who was “a clergyman and a champion of England’s poor and working people.” Oddly, as Louvish pointedly notes, “part of his religious creed was fiercely anti-Catholic, and his ideas were also part of a philosophical trend in Victorian England promoting a ‘muscular Christianity’ that combined godliness and manliness by going back to the ‘Teutonic’ roots of English history.” Shades of the Nazis’ master race. It is as if Louvish were preparing to describe for us the muscular Christianity, with its flashes of cruelty and sadism, in DeMille’s very popular religious and historical spectacles.

An even stronger influence on the entire DeMille family was that of Henry George, a populist writer and champion of a single tax to lift the victims of landed wealth from poverty. Karl Marx, no less, ridiculed George in 1881 for being “utterly backward” in wanting to tax landowners instead of the rising captains of industry. But as far as the DeMilles were concerned, his heart was in the right place, and in 1903 William married George’s daughter. (They had two children, one of whom, Agnes de Mille, would take her place as a giant of American dance.) Cecil’s plays and movies demonstrate that he acquired from Kingsley and George the moral imperative of championing the underdog — often the Native American, in morality tales like “The Squaw Man.” Indeed, one friendly later critic of DeMille’s work likened his place in American cinema to that of James Fenimore Cooper in American literature.
435 2008-06-15 “It is usually a bad idea that often fails,” said Robert J. Thompson, professor of television and popular culture at Syracuse University, about turning shows into movies. “For all their similarities they are extraordinarily incompatible mediums. The glory of a television show is that it goes on and on, and themes and motifs develop over time. A movie can’t do that.”

Warner Brothers is hoping it can thread the needle with “Get Smart,” a movie built on the much-loved series, created by Mel Brooks and Buck Henry, about a secret agent named Smart who was anything but. The retread — its studio prefers to call it a homage — versus the wholly confected will get a test next weekend when “Get Smart” opens against “The Love Guru,” starring Mike Myers. Will dumb beat dumber?

The original “Get Smart” was conceived in a quainter age, before the public worried that the government was listening in on its phone calls. In 1965 Mr. Henry and Mr. Brooks noticed a swelling interest in the spy genre and decided that the public might be in the mood for a spoof of it. Over a pool table they talked their way through what such a spoof should look like, and then shopped it around until NBC picked it up.

“Get Smart” ran for five years, racking up big numbers and leaving enough of a legacy to inspire “The Nude Bomb,” an earlier attempt at a movie version. “Bomb,” a star-crossed bid in 1980 to revive the ethos and appeal of the series using Don Adams, the original Maxwell Smart, sparked so many damning riffs on the unfortunate name that it is beyond cliché to do so now. (O.K., I give. It was neither naked nor explosive, but it did bomb.)

So how to honor the past and do some box office in the present? It can be done, as “Sex and the City” is proving this summer. (It’s perhaps the first time a cable television show has crossed over to such big box-office numbers.) Then again, “Speed Racer,” a TV cartoon that Warner Brothers pushed into the marketplace, crashed almost immediately.

The studio’s approach to “Get Smart” began with Steve Carell. “I walked in with my head shot and résumé expecting to read, and there were all these high-level executives, and they just offered me the role,” he said. Rather than attempting to spoof a spoof, the director, Peter Segal, decided to make a spy movie played for laughs, with plenty of diverting action and high jinks to win over moviegoers who were unfamiliar with the original.

“It is a tricky and dangerous proposition,” Mr. Carell said by phone. “We wanted to get at the essence, but not do an impersonation. And I think it worked because what Peter did was come up with a spy movie that was also funny, as opposed to a spoof of the spy movie. It is an action movie in addition to being a comedy.”

Maxwell Smart, as played by Mr. Carell, is as eager as a Labrador to get out of his cubicle and into the field. He gets a shot after the identities of almost all of Control’s agents are compromised and the chief (Alan Arkin) has no choice but to send out Smart next to the suave Agent 23, played by Dwayne Johnson, and the brutally beautiful Agent 99. (Anne Hathaway gets her vixen on to surprisingly convincing ends.) They are all, of course, working together to thwart world domination by the evildoers from KAOS.

The going gets tricky after that. Any attempt to bring a treasured television program to the big screen needs to strike a balance between feeding the die-hards and wooing recruits, and the cultural penetration of the original “Get Smart” (mention entering the “cone of silence” at a conference table today, and everyone will get the drift) means that some part of the audience will arrive with great expectations. But the rest, including the young people who make or break a big movie? Mr. Segal said that by making the film an origin story — where did Maxwell Smart come from, exactly? — the creators tried to lay down enough track for people new to the world of Control versus KAOS to climb aboard.

“We had to make something that was entirely new for those people who didn’t know anything about the television show but make sure that old fans were not left out in the cold,” Mr. Segal said. He acknowledged that he was preoccupied with the opinion of one particular audience member and held back tears of joy when Mr. Brooks called and said he liked it.

Mr. Brooks, who watched “The Nude Bomb” implode, said “Get Smart” is a far more successful extension of the franchise, which may have something to do with the passage of time. “Maybe the secret is to skip a generation so that you can get the benefit from both nostalgia and discovery,” he said.

The makers of “Get Smart” are hoping to have things both ways. Mr. Carell is a familiar face from television, but he does not try to ape the adenoidal tics that were at the heart of Mr. Adams’s portrayal of Smart. Mr. Segal said he and Mr. Carell decided early on that, yes, Max would be a dyed-in-the-wool dweeb, but a sympathetic one that the audiences laughed with rather than at.

The result is a Maxwell Smart who proves himself more capable than Mr. Carell’s Michael from television’s “Office,” though they share DNA in their lack of self-awareness. To paraphrase Mr. Carell, if you don’t know a Maxwell Smart, then you probably are Maxwell Smart.

Don Adams died in 2005, so he won’t be around to judge the results. But he had no doubt about the staying power of the franchise that defined him. He was constantly amazed — and not always amused — by the durability of the show and some of its motifs.

“People take off their shoe, hand it to me and say, ‘Here, it’s for you,’ ” he told Joey Green, author of “The Get Smart Handbook.” “In restaurants they send over shoes. I’m so tired of it. I keep getting shoes. People in cars drive by me, recognize me, take off their shoe, hand it out the window and say, ‘Here, it’s for you.’ ”

So when “Get Smart” opens on Friday, will it be some version of “The Brady Bunch Movie,” an unlikely hit that had movie critics taking a happy look at the show, or “McHale’s Navy,” a shipwrecked cinematic version of the sitcom that had audiences wishing the movie had stayed in dry dock?

“You want to have something that has some marketing momentum behind it, that gives the impression of infallibility in the marketplace, but of course, nothing is for sure,” said Peter Guber, a former chief of Columbia and Sony studios who is now a producer. “Everyone wants something to reduce the risk of making a movie, and remaking a great television show might do that. Or it might not. It carries its own risks, as has been demonstrated time and again.”

To make the kind of big movie that is the bread and butter of mainline Hollywood, the industry can build awareness through blunt-force marketing, which can be heinously expensive, or work with the existing awareness and popularity of something that people love already: a play, a book, a television show or, as with “Pirates of the Caribbean,” a theme-park ride. The reason is often less about creative bankruptcy (although there is that) than a reflexive hope that characters or stories that connected in one format — say, a comic book called “Iron Man” — will, when properly massaged, also connect in the darkness of the theater.

There’s one other nice thing about making movies out of serial television series. They can spark additional episodes on the big screen. If “Get Smart” works, “Get Smarter” can’t be far behind.
436 2008-06-15 In 1883, Heinrich Vogelsang, the 21-year-old agent of a Bremen merchant-adventurer, Adolf Lüderitz, moored a small vessel in a natural harbor then known as Angra Pequena (“Little Bay” in Portuguese). Coming ashore, Vogelsang found a blasted patch of rock and sand dunes with no drinking water and only a rough track, barely navigable by ox cart, leading into the interior. Marching inland, Vogelsang met with a local chief of the Nama tribe, Joseph Fredericks, and purchased the bay and surrounding territory for 100 British pounds and 200 rifles.

The tiny settlement Vogelsang established, Lüderitz, still has the feeling of an end-of-the-world entrepôt. We walked in harsh desert sunlight past pastel-colored Jugendstil buildings, and climbed to a century-old Lutheran church perched on a forbidding outcropping overlooking the bay.

On Shark Island, a rocky spit connected to the mainland by a causeway, plaques commemorate both Vogelsang and his ambitious employer. In 1884, after vastly expanding his territory through further land purchases, Lüderitz persuaded Bismarck to declare the region a protectorate, and dispatch an administrator and soldiers to enforce German rule.

Lüderitz dreamed of discovering a trove of minerals in his territory. In 1886, however, during his second trip to Africa, he disappeared while searching for the mouth of the Orange River, the border between South Africa and South West Africa, and presumably drowned in the frigid Atlantic. Twenty-two years later, a railway worker clearing sand from some newly laid tracks near the village of Lüderitz found a tiny diamond. For the next several decades, millions of carats were pulled out of the coastal desert.

Four miles from Lüderitz lies a curious remnant of those diamond-rush days: Kolmanskop, a company settlement constructed in 1908 and abandoned in the 1950s when the nearby mine was depleted. Some buildings are derelict and half filled with sand; others are weirdly frozen in time, including the Kasino, or recreation center, with a wooden skittle court and an opera stage where touring German stars once sang arias for lonely mine executives.

Leaving Kolmanskop, we turned off the paved road and journeyed north through the Namib Desert along gravel tracks, kicking up clouds of dust. At one point, we became stuck for two hours in a normally dry riverbed that — because of unusually heavy rains this season — had turned into mud. (A farmer dragged us out with his four-wheel-drive truck and a steel cable.)

The rains had made the desert vibrantly green. Springboek, gemsboek and ostriches darted through the bush; the pancake-flat land changed to gently rolling hills and trapezoidal sandstone buttes, with an occasional lone homestead appearing in the wilderness. After an all-day drive we pulled up before a vision straight out of medieval Europe: the Duwisib Castle, a turreted red-sandstone fortress built in 1908 by a retired Schutztruppe captain, Hansheinrich von Wolf, using funds provided by his American heiress wife, Jayta.

Duwisib has a dreamlike feeling, with salons filled with oil portraits of Saxon nobles, Zeppelin imagery painted on the walls, and French windows providing panoramic views of the stark terrain. The von Wolfs lived there until 1914; von Wolf enlisted in the German army and was sent to fight at the Battle of the Somme, where he was killed by a grenade in 1915.

This doomed creator of romantic medieval kitsch had also been a participant in one of the bloodiest chapters of Germany’s pre-Holocaust history. Von Wolf joined the Schutztruppe in 1904, the same year that Samuel Maharero, the supreme chief of the Herero, led a rebellion against German rule. After killing a hundred shopkeepers and farmers in the Herero heartland, near Windhoek, Maharero and his warriors retreated north to Waterberg, a 30-mile-long sandstone plateau.

In August 1904, four columns of German troops surrounded about 80,000 Herero men, women and children in a field at the foot of Waterberg called Hamakari. Thousands died under a machine-gun and artillery attack; the survivors fled east into the desert, pursued relentlessly by the Germans; most died of thirst. A few thousand survivors were dispatched to slave labor camps in Swakopmund and on Shark Island.

Simon and I climbed with a Herero guide to the top of Waterberg, and from the bare sandstone summit, we gazed upon a vast plain blanketed in thorny acacia trees. In the silence of the morning, I tried to conjure up the smoke and flame of German heavy weapons, the clatter of horses’ hoofs, the screams of Herero women and children fleeing through the bush.

Later, we drove to Hamakari, the main battleground, now the site of a private farm. Herr Diekmann, the brawny farmer who owns the place, met us in front of his house with his three dogs, and, when we told him we were writing a story about the “German era” in Namibia, he became angrily defensive.

“What do you mean, ‘error’?” he barked. “There was no ‘German error’.”

Then he ordered us to leave his property.

The misunderstanding — and Mr. Diekmann’s hostility — served as a reminder that the Waterberg tragedy remains a source of bitter controversy. The debate pits historians who see the carnage as foreshadowing the Holocaust against those who regard it as no different from Britain’s tribal wars in South Africa and Rhodesia. We left Hamakari and rejoined the main highway to Windhoek, sobered by the thought that the wild ambitions of a Bremen dreamer had ended with so much bloodshed in the African bush.

There are no direct flights between the United States and Namibia. The fastest route is South African Airways (www.flysaa.com) from J.F.K. in New York (or Dulles near Washington) to Johannesburg (with a fuel stop in Senegal) and connect on Air Namibia to Windhoek. This month, round trips from New York to Windhoek for early July started at $3,200.

Americans can obtain tourist visas free at Hosea Kutako International Airport in Windhoek.

Avis, Hertz and Budget all operate in Windhoek. But we chose Odyssey Car and 4 X 4 Hire (12 Joule Street; 264-61-223-269; www.odysseycarhire.com), which has a fleet of two- and four-wheel-drive vehicles at good prices; we paid 3,500 Namibian dollars, about $438 at 8 local dollars to the U.S. dollar, for an eight-day rental of a Toyota Corolla. The company also offers free airport pickup.

In Windhoek, one of the best places is the Hotel Heinitzburg (22 Heinitzburg Street; 264-61-249-597; www.heinitzburg.com), 1914 white-turreted castle. Doubles from 2014 local dollars, with breakfast.

A more modest choice is the Vondelhof Guesthouse (2 Puccini Street; 264-61-248-320; www.vondelhof.com), a pleasant bed-and-breakfast with a small pool and a dozen rooms off a central leafy courtyard, close to central Windhoek. Doubles are 780 local dollars.

In Lüderitz, by far the best place to stay is the Lüderitz Nest Hotel (Diaz Street; 264-63-204-000; www.nesthotel.com), an upscale establishment right on the rocky coast with a swimming pool and a good seafood restaurant. Depending on the season, double rooms start at 884 to 1,105 local dollars.

The Farm Duwisib (264-63-293-344; www.farmduwisib.com), on Route D826 50 miles south of Maltahöhe, is a beautifully situated, rustic lodge a stone’s throw from the Duwisib Castle. There are four rooms in the guesthouse and three bungalows. The owner, Jochen Frank-Schultz, cooks good meals, takes visitors on hikes and game drives, and serves up a wealth of information about the German experience in Namibia. He charges 430 Namibian dollars a person.

Prinzessin Rupprecht Heim in Swakopmund (Anton-Lubowski-Strasse 15; 264-64-412-540; www.prinzrupp.com.na) is a pleasant B & B set up in a converted century-old German military hospital (a part of it is still being used as a retirement home). Doubles are 255 Namibian dollars a person, with breakfast.

Nearby is the more upscale Hotel Europa Hof (Bismark Strasse 39; 264-64-405-061; www.europahof.com). It has 35 rooms, with doubles from 813 local dollars, including breakfast. There’s a good fish-and-game restaurant in the rear courtyard.

A comfortable jumping-off point for visiting Waterberg is C’est Si Bon Hotel in Otjiwarango (26467-301240; www.namibweb.com/sibon.htm). It has a dozen thatched-roofed bungalows with bathrooms built around a swimming pool and a garden; doubles at 595 local dollars a night, with breakfast.

One of the best restaurants in Windhoek is Leo’s at the Castle at the Heinitzburg Hotel (22 Heinitzburg Street; 264-61-249-597), with excellent fish, game and vegetarian dishes in the French-German tradition, and has an extensive wine cellar. Dinner generally runs 400 to 500 local dollars a person, with wine.

Sardinia Pizzeria (47 Independence Avenue, Windhoek; 264-61-225-600) is one of the capital’s most popular evening hangouts. It has good pizza starting at 40 Namibian dollars, and a solid South African wine list.

In Swakopmund, Kuki’s Pub Seafood and Grill (Tobias Hainyeko Street; 264-64-402-407) offers good fish dishes from 65 local dollars; a dinner for two goes for about 235 dollars.

Peter’s Antiques (24 Tobias Hainyeko Street, Swakopmund; 264-64-405-624; www.peters-antiques.com) sells indigenous masks and other Namibian handicrafts. The owners are also authorities on the German colonization and the Herero wars. JOSHUA HAMMER
437 2008-06-15 In a shoulder bag, she had a laptop, magazines, a plastic baggie with cosmetics and an umbrella. To help maximize packing space, she wore a layered outfit onboard consisting of jeans, a dress shirt, a beige linen blazer, a black belt, slip-on heels and a raincoat.

“I am the queen of packing light,” Ms. Rozen said in an e-mail message. But there is a tradeoff, she admitted: “Know that by packing light, you will always be dressed well enough, though you’ll rarely be the best-dressed person in the room.”

To get the most out of her travel wardrobe, she sticks with a basic color palette — black, white and navy — that can be easily mixed and matched. She packs the night before, and then edits the next morning, removing one or two of the heavier, bulkier items that she said “you now realize that you don’t really need.” And she isn’t above laundering reusable items in her hotel room sink and hanging them out to dry from her balcony or window.

Phil Keoghan, host of ’s popular reality show “The Amazing Race,” lugs just one big suitcase and one backpack around the world for the entire monthlong shoot of the series. He has a secret for packing success. “I never pack for more than a week,” said Mr. Keoghan. “No matter where I’m going, what I pack is different combinations.”

To keep things simple between shoots, Mr. Keoghan carries photos of every outfit or as he calls them, “idiot shots,” to show him exactly what to wear for each episode. To keep his clothes organized, he uses Eagle Creek packing folders, which cost between $22 and $28, depending on size.

Such packing products have been gaining popularity among travelers trying to maximize their luggage. “Compartmentalization allows you to think about organization and get more things into more spaces,” said Peter Cobb, senior vice president of . Some carry-on bags are now designed with packing systems built in. Mother Lode, an eBags brand of duffels, offers detachable shelves that let travelers configure the bag in a variety of ways to allow, say, your catcher’s gear to fit in one section of the bag and your dinner jacket in another.

ANOTHER suitcase designed to perform double duty is the ZUCA Pro. This odd-looking wheelie bag, with an aluminum frame that sits outside the bag instead of inside, has a built-in seat and removable packing pouches that stack like drawers. It zips open from what would be the long, narrow side of most suitcases rather than from the wider, traditional front, which makes the interior seem small at first, but it’s possible to fit three pairs of pants, a couple of dress shirts and workout gear, all with room to give. Cost: $295.

For travelers who aren’t used to hauling their wheelie bags over their heads and into the overhead bin, it’s imperative to find a lightweight bag and never to fill it with more than you can easily lift. Nearly every luggage maker offers its own version, usually under 10 pounds, but weights can vary widely. Among the best-selling carry-on bags on eBags.com on a recent spot check: Heys Xcase 20-inch Lightweight (5 pounds, 4 ounces), eBags Mother Lode Mini 21-inch Wheeled Duffel (7 pounds, 13 ounces) and the Travelpro Crew6 22-inch Expandable Rollaboard Suiter (9 pounds, 8 ounces).

Families, especially those traveling with small children who tend to travel with a lot of gear, have a tougher challenge packing light. Renting items like and making a grocery run, once you’ve arrived, for diapers and other bulky items instead of lugging them with you can help.

If you haven’t gotten used to the 3-1-1 security rules by now, there is a growing array of prepackaged toiletry kits designed specifically to security specifications. Among the latest: sells $10 his-and-hers toiletry kits of disposable tubes with up to six uses’ worth of face cleanser, hair gel, toothpaste, deodorant and other items. (Information: ).

To help squish more stuff into a bag, consider compression bags offered at eBags.com or . Designed to squeeze the air out of bulky items like down jackets to create more space, the bags are especially useful on homeward trips when you aren’t concerned about wrinkled clothes and want more space for souvenirs.

If you really want to pare down your packing, TravelSmith.com sells $6 five-packs of disposable bikini briefs for women and $7 five-packs of briefs for men that are “lightweight and ultracompact for easy packing.”

Though some expert packers are taking another approach to the luggage rules: checking more bags. Even though Susan Foster, author of “Smart Packing for Today’s Traveler,” has the know-how to squeeze her stuff into a carry-on easily, she plans to pay the $15 to check her bag the next time she flies American. “Picture the security lines for all the people who say, ‘Well, harrumph, I’m not going to pay $15.’ Every person, every little old lady with a carry-on bag that they can’t lift,” she said.

To avoid the stress of competing for an overhead bin, she added, “I think that’s a bargain.”
438 2008-06-15 ISSEKS--Murray Dearest Daddy, 45 long years remembering and loving you. You were the most special man who always had a smile both outside and in. Your Joyce...
439 2008-06-15 MICHAEL BARRETT has such an easygoing presence that it's hard to imagine him stirring the pot. But, five years into his tenure as chief executive officer of the Caramoor International Music Festival in Katonah, N.Y., that's precisely what he has d...
440 2008-06-16 Samuel Israel III is now considered a fugitive. Federal authorities on Monday decided that Mr. Israel, the former manager of collapsed hedge fund Bayou Group, did not commit suicide - having disappeared a week ago, with his car found on a New York...
441 2008-06-16 Citing price concerns in pushing for a greater state role in deciding to allow offshore oil exploration....
442 2008-06-16 The Australian track and field team is going to skip the opening ceremonies in Beijing because of fears the city's smog will hurt its athletes....
443 2008-06-16 General Electric has already sold off a baker's dozen of units, including the plastics unit where two of its former chief executives once worked. And it is in the process of selling its appliances business, one of its oldest units and the birthpla...
444 2008-06-16 Shares of Barclays, the British bank, soared 11 percent Monday after the lender said it was considering a plan to sell new shares. Responding to media reports, Barclays said a plan to raise funds by placing shares with outside investors and by an ...
445 2008-06-16 Authorities in the United States on Friday were trying to determine whether Samuel Israel III, a former hedge fund manager who failed to report to prison and is suspected of faking his suicide, will have enough money to sustain life on the run, Re...
446 2008-06-16 It has been almost 10 months since Guy Hands, the private equity financier who had made a fortune sprucing up pubs in England and gas stations on the German autobahn through his firm Terra Firma, bought EMI for about $6.4 billion, and by several a...
447 2008-06-16 OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) — The car of a missing Rice University student from Haworth, Okla., was found last week in California.

Police officers in Berkeley, Calif., discovered the silver 2004 Dodge Neon belonging to the student, Matthew J. Wilson, parked on a residential street on the west side of the city last Tuesday, officials said. There were no signs of foul play, they said.

Mr. Wilson, 20, was last seen by his roommate on Dec. 14 in their off-campus apartment in Houston.

The police reported that Mr. Wilson withdrew $500 from his bank account on the day he disappeared. But investigators do not think the withdrawal was coerced because he returned to his apartment that evening.

“The discovery of Matthew’s car is an important piece of evidence,” Chief Bill Taylor of the Rice University Police Department said in a news release. “We will cooperate fully with the Berkeley Police Department investigation, and we’re all hopeful that Matthew will be found alive and well.”

Mr. Wilson is described as white with red hair and green eyes. He is 5 feet 7 inches tall, weighs 135 pounds and had a full beard when he disappeared.

Rice University and Mr. Wilson’s family are offering a combined $20,000 reward for information leading to his whereabouts. Crime Stoppers of Houston has offered a $5,000 reward for information that leads to felony charges.
448 2008-06-16 Danny Muno, Alan Ahmady and Jordan Ribera hit three-run homers, and the Bulldogs’ surprising postseason run continued Sunday with a 17-5 victory over Rice in Omaha.

The Bulldogs, heavy underdogs as the first No. 4 regional seed to reach Omaha, broke open the game against Rice, their one-time Western Athletic Conference rival, with a seven-run fourth inning.

They scored the highest number of runs by a Rice opponent this season on their way to their 12th win in 14 games. They also scored the most runs in a College World Series game since Tennessee beat Georgia, 19-12, in 2001.

Fresno State (43-29) will play Tuesday night against North Carolina. Rice (47-14) will meet Louisiana State that afternoon in an elimination game.

Fresno State overcame an 8-12 start this season to win a College World Series bid for the first time since 1991.

NORTH CAROLINA 8, L.S.U. 4 Alex White kept Louisiana State’s potent offense mostly under wraps for seven-plus innings and Kyle Seager, Seth Williams and Ryan Graepel each had three hits to lead the Tar Heels.

White gave up home runs to Michael Hollander and Matt Clark leading off the first and second innings, then allowed two singles the rest of the way.
449 2008-06-16 Torrey Pines Golf Course, the public facility in San Diego that is hosting this year’s United States Open, has been a symbolic location for a tournament sometimes referred to as the People’s Open. The event will return to the municipally owned Bethpage Black on Long Island next year. Golf in much of America, meanwhile, may be more open to more people than ever before.

If, for example, you live in Orangetown, N.Y., the sprawling municipality that owns Blue Hill, and purchase an annual park permit for $50, it will cost you $25 to play 18 holes on weekdays and $30 on weekends (without a cart). Nonresidents pay about $20 more. But these rates are typical. Indeed, in other parts of the country, public golf is probably a better bargain.

Still, within 50 miles of New York City are dozens of golf courses that represent a good value. If you are a New York State resident, you can play at Bethpage Black for $50 on weekdays and test its respected companion layout, the Red Course, for $36. Not far away, the greens fees for the Red Course at Eisenhower Park are roughly the same if you are a Nassau County resident (though the course is closed until July 1 because it is host to a Champions Tour event June 26-28).

Connecticut is home to a number of publicly owned courses that are similarly economical, like the quirky but entertaining Oak Hills in Norwalk and the oft-honored Richter Park in Danbury. In New Jersey, it is more of the same at two scenic courses: Sunset Valley in Kinnelon and Hominy Hill in Colts Neck.

New York City, not surprisingly, offers an assortment of good choices, like Dyker Beach in Brooklyn, La Tourette in Staten Island and Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx.

There is no secret to their success. Go walk their fairways — they are fun to play, accessible and full of people happily tugging on their pull carts. The golf hazards are penal but not treacherous. If you hit a ball into the woods, you will probably find it and have a way out of trouble. That is usually by design.

“We make sure the woods are more sparse and not dense,” said James Stewart, the head P.G.A. professional at Blue Hill. “And we manicure the areas under the trees so the rough is not too high. It helps the speed of play. It keeps everyone moving instead of spending all their time looking for the ball or trying to figure out how to get out of the woods.”

Blue Hill, once a private estate, has big, old trees and wide greens that are not as forgiving as they seem. There are sweeping views of Lake Tappan and the Hudson Highlands. The demographic is decidedly mixed: men, women, children and seniors. Together, on Blue Hill’s 27 holes, they will play nearly 70,000 rounds of golf this year.

“The value golf courses are supporting golf right now,” said Jay Mottola, the executive director of the Metropolitan Golf Association. “Those places are still very busy.”

Players are lucky to have all styles of golf courses, from high-end resorts to traditional clubs, and newer spectacular sites that continually impress with their architectural beauty. Together, they make up golf’s delightfully varied universe. It remains a privilege to play the exclusive, top-ranked golf courses, just as there are specific advantages to belonging to a golf club — advantages that millions, myself included, enjoy.

But there is something about the local, quality municipal layouts that are close to golf’s heart. Every player should visit one regularly. It’s a refresher course in what gives the game its appeal. Because it’s not really about the makeup of the sand in the bunkers or the Stimpmeter reading of the greens. It’s about getting the ball in the hole and trying to do it with a bunch of other people inspired by the same goal. When finished, you sit back in a restful bar, probably with a window onto the final green, so you can watch others trying to do the same thing.

By the way, when you visit, you can change your shoes in the locker room or restroom if you like. It’s perfectly acceptable.

But your legs — and your sense of humor — won’t be warmed up when you stand on the first tee.

A Tip That Involves Choking? One Pro Swears by It

The teaching pro Del Snyder, who has been helping golfers play better since the 1950s, has an easy cure for short-game woes. It’s not what club you hit, but where you grip that club.

“Not enough players, even good players, choke down on the golf club handle when hitting a shot from 50 yards and in,” said Snyder, who is in his 32nd year as a club pro at the Golden Horseshoe Golf Club in Williamsburg, Va. “The closer your hands are to the ball, obviously the more control you have over where that ball is going. You can reduce the size of the swing and feel the club head better. It just makes sense.

“But day after day, I see amateurs standing very upright hitting chips and pitches and wondering why they don’t have any touch. It’s simple: shorten the club, get more touch.”

Golf is good for your health and can extend your life by five years, according to a recently released Swedish medical study. And better golfers seem to live the longest. Data collected from 300,000 Swedish golfers showed that the death rate in golfers was significantly lower than it was for the rest of the population. The lowest death rates were reported among those with the lowest golf handicap. Researchers reasoned that because the game is good for you, playing it more often (typical behavior for better golfers) yields even more benefit.

Leaders of the study said the health advantages were linked to players’ being outside in fresh air for several hours and walking briskly between shots.

And therein lies the rub for many North American golfers who like to ride in a golf cart or are required to use one at a cart-only golf course. Two studies released last week, in Alabama and Ohio, reported that injuries sustained while riding in a golf cart were on the rise.

The moral of the story is that golfers should walk if possible. Or perhaps that they should move to Sweden. The actor Bill Murray, a golfing comedy icon, was stopped by the police while driving a golf cart in downtown Stockholm late one night last year. The police apparently feared for his safety.

1. After your first tee shot: “You been working out?”

2. On each tee: “You’re still up.”

3. With wonder: “It looked like it went in the hole!”

4. On the 18th tee: “Is that the same ball you hit off the first tee?”

5. With some disgust: “You know that the winner buys the first round.”
450 2008-06-16 A large restructuring, announced in January, will soon lay off 1,500 to 2,000 of EMI’s roughly 5,500 employees. Most recently, the company has been negotiating the exit of Jason Flom, the chairman of Capitol Music Group who oversees recorded music in the United States.

By contrast, when a group of investors led by Edgar Bronfman Jr. bought the Warner Music Group in 2003 for $2.6 billion they moved quickly to restructure: the deal closed on a Monday, a restructuring plan was announced on a Tuesday and within a month $250 million in annualized costs were slashed.

In many ways, the pains suffered by EMI are typical for the music industry in the past few years. But for many culturally attuned Britons, EMI is a cherished institution.

EMI’s corporate roots stretch back to a pioneer of recorded sound, a German-born American named Emile Berliner, who founded the Gramophone Company. As a result of a merger in the 1930s, it was renamed Electric and Musical Industries Limited.

It was 30 years later that a man named Brian Epstein walked through the doors with a tape from a new band called the Beatles. Frank Sinatra, the Rolling Stones and Marvin Gaye have all called EMI home.

“EMI and the companies that formed it made London a center for musical culture in a way it never was,” said Peter Martland, a professor at Cambridge University and author of “EMI: The First 100 Years. “There is a lot of history there.”

But the music business, even in good times, is not welcoming to outsiders. The sensibilities of a financier like Mr. Hands are usually starkly at odds with the folkways of a creative enterprise. Artists’ egos need stroking, and the measurement of success is not the same in music as it would be in running service stations along the autobahn.

“You have to understand the artist’s psyche to make it work,” said Jazz Summers, who manages The Verve, a band signed to EMI, and was present at the dinner last autumn.

The story has even turned comical at times. After Mr. Hands discovered that some employees were laundering costs for things that were illegal (drugs and prostitutes, he said), by itemizing them on expense reports as “fruit and flowers,” he set a strict travel and entertainment policy that required receipts for every expense.

Artists, too, have clashed more openly with Mr. Hands: the band Radiohead has fled and the singer Joss Stone has asked to be let out of her contract. The Rolling Stones, meanwhile, have been talking with other record companies about a new label. (If the Stones left EMI, it would have little impact financially, because the company would still have the rights to the band’s catalog).

“They hate him,” said Hugh Hendry, a British hedge fund manager and former EMI shareholder who had publicly criticized past management, of artists’ opinions about Mr. Hands. “He’s rude. He’s abrasive. He wants to make money. He’s the first to say to artists, ‘We are not going to pay you too much money. Now get out of my office.’ ”

A glance at Mr. Hands’s résumé is enough to suggest a clash of cultures. Mr. Hands, 49, is an Oxford-educated financier — stints at Goldman Sachs and Nomura made him rich before he founded Terra Firma in 2002 — and he and his wife own and run a chain of country house-style hotels. Mr. Hands was ranked No. 12 on the Times of London’s list of 100 most influential figures in British business and has a reputation for being outspoken. (When cheap credit dried up, he called investment bankers “whimpering dogs,” The Times of London reported.)

Terra Firma’s portfolio of 25 companies ranges across industries, from a landfill operator to a betting shop to a company that leases jet airplanes. Mr. Hands retained the earlier management in just one of the 25, William Hill, which runs sports betting outlets.

So when he took over at EMI he entered a culture that none of his earlier experience had prepared him for. “It was like we had unlocked years of internal battles with a psychotherapy session,” he said. “It was extraordinary.”

At first managers gave Mr. Hands the benefit of the doubt — they had seen their business decline and were desperate for a new approach.

“He said, this is what I do,” said Mr. Summers. “I took over failed pubs, and it worked. I took over failed service stations in Germany, and it worked. We put in new toilets. At first, I thought he was bright.”

But according to Mr. Hands, the company was doing worse than commonly thought. An analysis by McKinsey and KPMG found that EMI had lost £750 million ($1.5 billion) from selling new music over the last five years.

“We didn’t believe it at first,” he said, explaining that the figures that EMI previously reported counted sales of re-releases of music from old acts like the Beatles as new music revenue.

“They were doing everything they could to hide the fact that they were losing huge amounts of money in new music,” he said. “The good news was they were making a fortune in catalog.”

So far this year EMI’s market share in the United States has declined to 8.8 percent from 10.7 percent, according to Nielsen SoundScan, the largest drop among the four major music companies. An album from its top-selling band Coldplay will be out Tuesday, and robust sales could polish EMI’s image.

But even this would belie tension within the company, as Coldplay agreed to release the album only on the condition that EMI pay for the band’s management to hire its own marketing and publicity team, rather than rely on EMI employees.

For EMI, the news became a little worse as the credit crisis grew. Last year Citigroup, which also advised EMI’s previous board in the sale, lent Terra Firma nearly $5 billion to finance the deal. The timing couldn’t have been worse for the investment bank. “The loan was done at the very end of the credit boom,” Mr. Hands said.

As a result, Citigroup has been unable to syndicate the debt, giving Citigroup leverage over EMI should the company start hemorrhaging money. If the debt were spread among numerous investors, EMI would have more breathing room.

In a recent letter to his investors, Mr. Hands wrote: “Clearly, this is a time when all banks are under tremendous pressure, but this is not ideal for EMI. In all leveraged buyouts, your bank is your partner, and we have worked hard, and continue to work hard, to see if there are ways to help Citigroup syndicate or sell down this loan.”

From the beginning, Mr. Hands did little to ingratiate himself either to EMI’s own employees or executives within the industry, a famously clubby business wary of outsiders. He acknowledged that he is not a music person, and has turned down invitations to visit the recording studio to watch artists’ recording sessions.

EMI also instituted a ban on international travel without prior approval and barred employees from attending industry events “unless these are specific profit delivering activities.”

Earlier this year Mr. Hands spoke at a private equity conference in Munich and was asked the difference between the work habits of the music and finance industries. “I said Terra Firma people get in very early in the morning, work through the day, and go home,” he said. “In contrast, people in the music industry get in to work later, work later and then go out late to the clubs and look for bands.”

This, according to Mr. Hands, is what set off a storm of protest from artists and managers in the British press.

“He had this disastrous publicity campaign,” Mr. Summers said. “I thought it was terrible for the staff. And he was saying artists were all lazy.”

Mr. Hands’s vision appears to be this: split the marketing function from the development of talent — called “A&R” for “artist and repertoire” in the parlance of the music business; and sharply cut costs by reducing artist advances and paying less on marketing music.

In a confidential business plan showed to investors last year, Terra Firma said one way to reduce costs would be to use social networking sites to “source new acts and as a means to test public reaction to individual acts.”

“Getting rid of management teams and starting afresh is something we’ve always done,” Mr. Hands said. And some of the biggest new hires have come from outside the music industry. An executive from Google was hired to run the digital business, and the creator of Second Life, the Web-based virtual world, was recently hired to work on digital initiatives.

In that document, Terra Firma projected that EMI’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization would grow from £167 million ($325 million) in 2007 to £580 million ($1.1 billion) in 2010, growth that seems at odds with industry trends. (Merrill Lynch, for example, projects that the Ebitda of Warner Music will decline slightly over that time, from $461 million to $444 million.)

To keep costs down, Mr. Hands has clamped down on expenses while he has waited — the company is still waiting — for widespread layoffs. But despite those measures, the company will not meet a cash-flow target as part of its covenants with its lender Citigroup. So he negotiated a three-month extension.

“We both agreed that June was far too early,” Mr. Hands said, noting that Terra Firma had a cash reserve of about $500 million raised from a Canadian pension fund. “It looks like the company will be fine by September. If it’s not fine, we have a cash reserve that will get us through to 2010.”

But the fate of EMI as an independent record company is unclear. Many within the industry expect the company to once again fall into a dance with Warner Music — the two companies have attempted numerous mergers in recent years. There has been wide speculation that if EMI were to fail to meet its debt covenant in September, Citigroup would step in and force EMI to merge with Warner.

For now, Mr. Hands is trying to fix EMI’s business so that its fate remains in his control rather than Citigroup’s. “It’s going to take a lot less arrogance and a lot more honesty,” he said. “It’s going to take a new direction, new management and change.”

But it’s not clear that EMI’s place in the music business — or as a cherished English institution like the BBC — will survive either way. “I think the analogy to the BBC is very good,” said Rupert Perry, a former senior executive who worked at EMI for more than 30 years. “I wouldn’t say it’s that way today. In its time and history, it dominated the world.”
451 2008-06-16 On the first weekend in June, JPMorgan Chase began phasing out the Bear Stearns name — beginning with the Midtown Manhattan headquarters of the firm it acquired May 31.

But the name frosted on the glass entrances of the octagonal skyscraper at 383 Madison Avenue is not that of JPMorgan Chase, with its familiar eight-sided logo. Instead, it is simply “J. P. Morgan,” written in a stately font reminiscent of the old J. P. Morgan & Company logo.

The move is part of an introduction of JPMorgan’s branding strategy, formally giving separate identities to the consumer and institutional businesses.

Its retail side, including its 3,152 branches in 17 states, will continue to use the Chase brand with its familiar octagon logo. But the institutional side, which encompasses the investment bank, Treasury and security services and asset management, will adopt the J. P. Morgan name, without the eight-sided symbol.

“We’re investing in the J. P. Morgan brand across our business,” Kristin Lemkau, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said. “As part of that investment, we’re moving to a logo that more closely resembles the heritage J. P. Morgan logo.”
452 2008-06-16 On Sunday, a senior aide to Mr. Sadr said that candidates supporting Mr. Sadr would run in the fall elections, but as independents or with other political parties, rather than under the cleric’s banner.

The government of Mr. Maliki also seemed to have made significant political calculations in apparently selecting Amara as the site of its next military operation.

With Iraqi soldiers setting up checkpoints and preparing to take control of the city, Mr. Maliki could be hoping to weaken, at least temporarily, the political branch of Mr. Sadr’s movement and solidify his own hold on power by appearing decisive and in control.

Amara is the capital of Maysan Province, the only province in Iraq where the local government is run by politicians aligned with Mr. Sadr.

Mr. Sadr’s militia, the Mahdi Army, has also become ensconced in Amara, a city in a rural, marshy region of southern Iraq along the Iranian border, where Iraqi officials say that a poisonous blend of militia lawlessness and weapons smuggling from Iran has created a chaotic situation.

Traffic thinned Sunday on the streets of the city. Many of those who did venture out in cars said they feared American airstrikes.

Some residents said militia members had already fled Amara in anticipation of a military operation. Iraqi commanders said some militia leaders had escaped to Amara earlier this year during the fighting in nearby Basra.

Haider Karim, a 35-year-old taxi driver, said civilians would bear the brunt of a military operation because militia members were already gone.

“The security forces must follow these criminals wherever they go because they terrified innocent people,” he said. “We don’t want to be terrified again by the warplanes and troops.”

On Sunday, Mr. Maliki gave militias in Amara three days to take advantage of his amnesty offer and to surrender rocket-propelled grenade launchers, machine guns, mortars, rockets and other heavy weapons. He said the government would “give the outlaws and the members of the organized crime groups a last chance to review their stance.”

Meanwhile, a spokesman for Mr. Sadr’s movement said that it would take part in the provincial elections, but did not plan to run a slate of candidates.

“We will participate in the next elections, but there is no Sadrist list,” said Luaa Smaisem, the spokesman. “We will participate as individuals. Also, we will support a lot of independent nominations from another list.”

Mr. Sadr, a protean force on the Iraqi political scene, appears to be restructuring his movement to avoid being affected by the proposed law that would prevent parties or movements with armed wings from participating in the election of provincial council members.

The proposed ban is clearly aimed at Mr. Sadr’s movement and its affiliation with the Mahdi Army, said Saad al-Hadithy, a political science professor at Baghdad University.

“Therefore, the Sadr movement decided to participate in this election through individuals who represent this movement and still have loyalty to it, but who are using their own names,” he said.

Basim Sharif, a member of Parliament from the Shiite Fadhila Party, shared this view of Mr. Sadr’s political tactics. “The Sadr movement declared that they will participate with new entities or with independent individuals, and this of course is to avoid being banned from the next elections because of their militia,” he said.

The Sadr movement has broad popularity among the poor, and it has been expected to do well in the provincial elections, most likely at the expense of the Shiite parties loyal to Mr. Maliki.

The recent military operations by government forces in Basra and Sadr City have weakened Mr. Sadr, said a Western diplomat who is closely watching the situation. But Iraqi political commentators said Mr. Sadr remained a unique populist force in Iraq.

“The government says that it’s not targeting a specific party,” Mr. Sharif said. “But the most targeted is the Sadr movement, because of its popularity and its resistance to the occupation.”
453 2008-06-16 While David Brooks makes some good points about debt and thrift, he paints with a broad brush an unwarranted negative picture of recent financial innovation.

Mr. Brooks states that “Bill Gates built a socially useful product to make his fortune,” but then writes, “But what message do the compensation packages that hedge fund managers get send across the country?”

But hedge fund managers perform many “socially useful” functions for shareholders, consumers and the economy. They play a vital role in channeling capital to its most efficient uses.

Managers like Carl C. Icahn, William A. Ackman, and Phillip Goldstein have held many a chief executive’s feet to the fire, forcing these executives to create value for all shareholders.

Turnarounds at companies from the McDonald’s Corporation to Marvel Entertainment have been instigated by the activism of hedge funds.

Today, hedge funds are also playing roles similar to venture capital in the 1980s in providing seed capital to the Microsofts of tomorrow.

It’s also worth noting that hedge funds were some of the first to blow the whistle on subprime securities, short selling them for the benefit of their investors.
454 2008-06-16 CHIEF IS OUSTED AT A.I.G. The board  at the American International Group is replacing the company's chief executive, Martin J. Sullivan, because of the giant insurance company's falling stock price and regulatory concerns.       A PROFIT REVERSAL ...
455 2008-06-16 Apple's New Run At Computing     In Parallel...
456 2008-06-17 Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state comptroller, unveiled a Web site that allows searches of more than 60,000 contracts at 113 state agencies, encompassing the lion’s share of tax dollars....
457 2008-06-17 Now that the federal authorities have declared Samuel Israel III a fugitive, there's but one question on everyone's mind: Where's has he decamped to? We've already learned that extricating someone from Namibia is a fairly lengthy and difficult pro...
458 2008-06-17 It appears that the much-maligned monolines have a friend in Thomas Brown. Mr. Brown, a former Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette banking analyst turned hedge fund manager, has fired back at an e-mail message written by fellow hedge fund chief Whitney T...
459 2008-06-17 Hello Kitty, Winnie the Pooh and the global international order....
460 2008-06-17 John McCain's "100 years" comment on Iraq is the focus of a new ad....
461 2008-06-17 The mortgage crisis claimed another chief executive over the weekend, as Martin J. Sullivan, pictured at left, was removed from his post at A.I.G., the loss-ridden insurance company. And if recent history is any guide, it doesn't bode well for A.I...
462 2008-06-17 His campaign released the new spot, called "Global," Tuesday morning....
463 2008-06-17 John McCain, like many of his fellow prisoners of war, credited the Nixon administration with stepping up the pressure on their captors by unleashing new attacks on North Vietnam and publicizing reports about the mistreatment of prisoners....
464 2008-06-17 Lifting a moratorium on offshore oil exploration is one of the policies Senator John McCain will suggest....
465 2008-06-17 The presumptive Republican nominee is to call for unfettering domestic oil exploration, building new nuclear plants, and taking conservation more seriously....
466 2008-06-17 Having lost a court battle, CSX is still hoping to win the proxy war. The railroad company is asking its shareholders to vote for its "experienced and highly qualified directors" in a proxy fight to take place later this month and to ignore entrea...
467 2008-06-17 Société Générale, the French bank, and wealth management company Rockefeller Financial Services announced a global alliance on Tuesday in the private banking sector. As part of the deal, SG Private Banking has bought a minority equity stake in...
468 2008-06-17 Funambol has raised $12.5 million in venture funding to fuel its open-source mobile messaging software business, VentureBeat reported. Funambol raised its second round from Nexit Ventures, Castile Ventures, Walden International, and HIG Ventures. ...
469 2008-06-17 Image found here....
470 2008-06-17 Sunday night’s game was tied with 4 minutes 35 seconds left. But Garnett missed three free throws and two tip shots, Allen missed a runner, and Pierce missed two close-range attempts. Pierce also lost the ball twice to Kobe Bryant, who converted the second turnover into a game-clinching dunk.

If there was pressure, the Celtics seemed to succumb to it.

“I wouldn’t use ‘pressure,’ ” Garnett said, responding to a reporter’s question. “You know, if you like using it then you can use it.”

The Lakers entered the finals as the favorite, then slipped into the underdog role after the Celtics overcame a 24-point deficit in Game 4 and took a 3-1 series lead. The odds are still in Boston’s favor.

No road team has won Games 6 and 7 in the 2-3-2 format since the N.B.A. went to it for the finals in 1985. No team has won the championship after facing a 3-1 deficit. Only three road teams have won a Game 7 in the finals, and none since Washington (at Seattle) in 1978. And the Lakers are 0-3 this season at the Garden, including the regular season.

As the series, the Champagne and the Larry O’Brien trophy shifted time zones Monday, the Lakers clung to the one-game-at-a-time mantra. But they did not ignore the hard reality of trying to win twice in Boston, where the Celtics are 12-1 in the playoffs.

“You can’t but think obviously two,” Bryant said, “but to put it in more realistic terms, in training camp if you told us we’ll give you two games that you have to win to win a world championship, we would have took it in a heartbeat. This is a great opportunity for us.”

The Celtics had flight delays leaving Los Angeles and were due to arrive home late Monday night. They were still dealing with some uncertainty regarding two starters. Allen stayed behind because of an undisclosed family matter involving one of his children. (According to The Boston Globe, he is expected to return in time for Game 6.) Kendrick Perkins, who missed Game 5 because of a shoulder injury, remains questionable.

Fatigue and attrition could become a factor for the Celtics. Pierce, Perkins and Rajon Rondo have all played despite various injuries sustained in the series. Two key reserves, Sam Cassell and P. J. Brown, are in their late 30s. The Celtics, who were pushed to seven games by Atlanta and Cleveland, are about to break the N.B.A. record by playing their 26th playoff game. (The 1994 Knicks and the 2005 Detroit Pistons each played 25 games; both teams lost the finals in seven games.)

The N.B.A.’s made-for-television schedule is also an issue. To have two Sunday games, the N.B.A. scheduled two-day breaks between Games 1 and 2 (in Boston) and Games 4 and 5 (in Los Angeles). But despite the need to travel coast to coast, the league scheduled just one day off between Games 5 and 6, just as it did between Games 2 and 3. Both coaches blamed the travel and the quick turnaround for the teams’ ugly play in Game 3.

“It’s a terrible turnaround,” Celtics Coach Doc Rivers said. “It’s as tough as you can have. I think going West to East is tougher. Sleep patterns are messed up.”

Fortunately for the Celtics, they have the world’s biggest alarm clock awaiting them at TD Banknorth Garden, where the anticipation and the volume will be high. Celtics fans have been waiting 22 years for another championship.

“Hey, we’re up one game with two games to go at home,” Pierce said, “so it still feels like we have the advantage in the series. And I do feel like we’re the better team.”

With 25 points on Sunday, Kobe Bryant moved past Scottie Pippen for 10th place in career playoff scoring. Bryant, who has 3,664 points, has also passed Julius Erving, Dennis Johnson, Kevin McHale, Wilt Chamberlain, Elgin Baylor and Tim Duncan during this postseason. Bryant needs 38 points to pass Magic Johnson for ninth place.
471 2008-06-17 Somehow the United States -- in so many ways the most self-reliant of nations -- has allowed and at times even encouraged this state of affairs. This was a troubling situation 35 years ago. It was an alarming situation twenty years ago. It is a dangerous situation today. And starting in the term of the next president, we must take control over our own energy future, and become once again the master of our fate.

The next president must be willing to break with the energy policies not just of the current Administration, but the administrations that preceded it, and lead a great national campaign to achieve energy security for America. So in the days ahead I plan to return to the subject in a series of discussions to explain my reform agenda. And I will set forth a strategy to free America once and for all from our strategic dependence on foreign oil.

Energy policy has enormous implications for America's economic security, our environmental security, and, above all, our national security. Each one of these challenges demands our concentrated consideration. And each one requires that we look beyond the special interests that too often dominate energy policy. We need to draw on the best ideas of both parties, and work together for the common good.

As in other challenges that confront our nation, we must shape events, and not simply manage crises. We must steer far clear of the errors and false assumptions that have marked the energy policies of nearly twenty Congresses and seven presidents. There are dangers in the long term and dangers in the short term. Some tasks will be the work of decades, and some the work of years. And they all will begin in the term of the next president.

Among these is a challenge we hardly even understood back when America first learned to associate the word "energy" with "crisis." We now know that fossil fuel emissions, by retaining heat within the atmosphere, threaten disastrous changes in climate. No challenge of energy is to be taken lightly, and least of all the need to avoid the consequences of global warming.

In the face of climate change and other serious challenges, energy conservation is no longer just a moral luxury or a personal virtue. Conservation serves a critical national goal. Over time, we must shift our entire energy economy toward a sustainable mix of new and cleaner power sources. This will include some we use already, such as wind, solar, biofuels, and other sources yet to be invented. It will include a variety of new automotive and fuel technologies, clean-burning coal and nuclear energy, and a new system of incentives, under a cap-and-trade policy, to put the power of the market on the side of environmental protection.

But to make the great turn away from carbon-emitting fuels, we will need all the inventive genius of which America is capable. We will need as well an economy strong enough to support our nation's great shift toward clean energy. And this gives us only further incentive to protect ourselves from the sudden shocks and ever-rising prices that come with our dependence on foreign oil.

Up to a point, these sudden rises in the price of oil are explainable in the terms of basic economics. When demand exceeds supply, prices always rise, and this has happened very dramatically in the demand for oil. Two powerful forces in the oil market today are China and India, nations in which a third of humanity is suddenly entering the industrial era -- with all the cars, construction, and consumption of oil that involves.

There is the further problem of speculation on the oil futures market, which in many cases has nothing to do with the actual sale, purchase, or delivery of oil. When crude oil became a futures-traded commodity in the 1980's, the idea was to afford a measure of protection against the historic volatility of oil pricing. It takes several weeks to ship oil from the Arabian Peninsula to the offshore port of Louisiana. And for the buyers, it helps to know that the price will not suddenly fall while the oil is in transit. A futures contract assures importers that they can sell the oil at a profit.

That's the theory, anyway. But we all know that some people on Wall Street are not above gaming the system. When you have enough speculators betting on the rising price of oil, that itself can cause oil prices to keep on rising. And while a few reckless speculators are counting their paper profits, most Americans are coming up on the short end -- using more and more of their hard-earned paychecks to buy gas for the truck, tractor, or family car.

Investigation is underway to root out this kind of reckless wagering, unrelated to any kind of productive commerce, because it can distort the market, drive prices beyond rational limits, and put the investments and pensions of millions of Americans at risk. Where we find such abuses, they need to be swiftly punished. And to make sure it never happens again, we must reform the laws and regulations governing the oil futures market, so that they are just as clear and effective as the rules applied to stocks, bonds, and other financial instruments. In all of these markets, reform must assure transparency, prevent abuse, and protect the public interest.

Of course, with the formation of the OPEC cartel, and the oil embargo of the early 70's, we already left behind pure economics in the oil market, and we entered a new era of power politics. No longer was crude oil simply a commodity. Now, suddenly, it was a strategic weapon.

At the time of OPEC's oil embargo, we imported roughly a third of our oil. Now we import two thirds. At that time, every day, we produced more than nine million barrels of oil domestically. Now America produces five million barrels a day. Five million barrels sounds like a lot until we compare the number with the oil we use, which comes to 20 million barrels, or a quarter of all the oil used every day across the earth.

Of that total, a little more than half comes from Canada, from Mexico, and from our own domestic production. That's a heavy reliance on these two nations. But there is a world of difference between relying on two democratic neighbors and partners in NAFTA, and relying on often hostile and undemocratic regimes in the Middle East and elsewhere. When critics of trade talk about unilaterally renegotiating NAFTA, as my opponent has done, that's one more concern they might want to keep in mind.

It takes a very short leap in logic to wonder why we produce less and less crude oil, while we use more and more of it, or why politicians talk so much about promoting alternative energy sources, but often do so little to promote these alternatives. A reasonable observer, presented only with these numbers of consumption and production, might draw the conclusion that America has accepted this fate because we have no choice in the matter, or because we have no resources of our own. But just the opposite is true: We do have resources, and we do have a choice.

In oil, gas, and coal deposits, we have enormous energy reserves of our own. And we are gaining the means to use these resources in cleaner, more responsible ways. As for offshore drilling, it's safe enough these days that not even Hurricanes Katrina and Rita could cause significant spillage from the battered rigs off the coasts of New Orleans and Houston. Yet for reasons that become less convincing with every rise in the price of foreign oil, the federal government discourages offshore production.

At the very least, one might assume, America had surely been building new refineries to achieve a more efficient delivery of gasoline to market, and thereby to lower the prices paid by the American people -- especially in the summer season. But the policymakers in Washington haven't got around to that, either. There's so much regulation of the industry that the last American refinery was built when Jerry Ford was president.

As for nuclear energy -- a proven energy source that requires zero emissions -- we haven't built a new reactor in 31 years. In Europe and elsewhere, they have been expanding their use of nuclear energy. But we've waited so long that we've lost our domestic capability to even build these power plants. Nuclear power is among the surest ways to gain a clean, abundant, and stable energy supply, as other nations understand. One nation today has plans to build almost 50 new reactors by 2020. Another country plans to build 26 major nuclear stations. A third nation plans to build enough nuclear plants to meet one quarter of all the electricity needs of its people -- a population of more than a billion people. Those three countries are China, Russia, and India. And if they have the vision to set and carry out great goals in energy policy, then why don't we?

So, taking stock of our energy situation, it is time we draw a few sensible conclusions of our own. In their sum effect on the American economy, the policies of our government could hardly have left us more dependent had they been designed to do precisely that. This vulnerability is clear in many ways, and never more than when American leaders are reduced to supplicating for lower prices before the sheiks and princes of OPEC. Of course, they are unmoved by our troubles. They regard even the need to ask as a sign of weakness. And in the end, they take their cues not from our entreaties for relief, but from our failure to diversify and to produce.

Quite rightly, I believe, we confer a special status on some areas of our country that are best left undisturbed. When America set aside the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, we called it a "refuge" for a reason.

But the stakes are high for our citizens and for our economy. And with gasoline running at more than four bucks a gallon, many do not have the luxury of waiting on the far-off plans of futurists and politicians. We have proven oil reserves of at least 21 billion barrels in the United States. But a broad federal moratorium stands in the way of energy exploration and production. And I believe it is time for the federal government to lift these restrictions and to put our own reserves to use.

We can do this in ways that are consistent with sensible standards of environmental protection. And in states that choose to permit exploration, there must be an appropriate sharing of benefits between federal and state governments. But as a matter of fairness to the American people, and a matter of duty for our government, we must deal with the here and now, and assure affordable fuel for America by increasing domestic production.

We should set the highest goals for ourselves for the years and decades to come, and I am a believer in the technologies that one day will free us from oil entirely. But to get there at all, a more pragmatic approach will serve us better. In the short term, we must take the world as it is and our resources where they are -- even as we press on with new and cleaner sources of energy. We must be bold in our plans to break our strategic dependence on oil, and over the next two weeks, I'll be offering a vision that will be bold. But we must also address the concerns of Americans, who are struggling right now to pay for gasoline, groceries, and other necessities of life.

What is certain in energy policy is that we have learned a few clear lessons along the way. Somehow all of them seem to have escaped my opponent. He says that high oil prices are not the problem, but only that they rose too quickly. He's doesn't support new domestic production. He doesn't support new nuclear plants. He doesn't support more traditional use of coal, either.

So what does Senator Obama support in energy policy? Well, for starters he supported the energy bill of 2005 -- a grab-bag of corporate favors that I opposed. And now he supports new taxes on energy producers. He wants a windfall profits tax on oil, to go along with the new taxes he also plans for coal and natural gas. If the plan sounds familiar, it's because that was President Jimmy Carter's big idea too -- and a lot of good it did us. Now as then, all a windfall profits tax will accomplish is to increase our dependence on foreign oil, and hinder exactly the kind of domestic exploration and production we need. I'm all for recycling -- but it's better applied to paper and plastic than to the failed policies of the 1970's.

Oddly enough, though, Senator Obama doesn't want to lower the gas taxes paid by consumers, which would be the most direct and obvious way to give Americans a break at the gas station. Even in tough times for our economy, when folks are struggling to pay for gas and groceries, tax relief just isn't change he can believe in.

Along with the harm that America's dependence on foreign oil has inflicted on our economy, there remain other costs that are even greater and harder to count. The massive wealth we have spent over the years on foreign oil is not flowing to the most upstanding citizens of the world. When trillions of dollars are transferred to other nations in exchange for oil, the consequences are serious and pervasive. But they can be understood in three simple ways.

The first takes the form of a current accounts deficit that has drained vast sums out of the American economy. We are borrowing from foreign lenders to buy oil from foreign producers. In the world's capital markets, often we are even borrowing Saudi money for Saudi oil. For them, the happy result is that they are both supplier and creditor to the most productive economy on earth. For us, the result is both dependency and debt. Over time, in interest payments, we lose trillions of dollars that could have been better invested in American enterprises. And we lose value in the dollar itself, as our debt portfolio undermines confidence in the American economy.

As bad as all that is, the second consequence is worse by far. Oil revenues are enriching the enemies of the United States, and potentially limiting our own options in containing the threat they present. Iran alone receives more than 66 billion dollars a year from oil sales, even as that regime finances terrorists, threatens Israel, and endangers the peace of the world with its designs on nuclear weapons. Moreover, by relying upon oil from the Middle East, we not only provide wealth to the sponsors of terror -- we provide high-value targets to the terrorists themselves. Across the world are pipelines, refineries, transit routes, and terminals for the oil we rely on -- and Al Qaeda terrorists know where they are. Osama bin Laden has been quite explicit in directing terrorists to attack the oil facilities on which so much of America's economy depends. They have come close more than once. And we are one successful at tack away from an economic crisis of monumental proportions.

Even if our economy were somehow immune to this threat, the vast wealth we shift to the Middle East, Venezuela, Angola, and elsewhere would still have a third harmful and perverse effect. It would continue to enrich undemocratic, unjust, and often corrupt regimes. Some of the most oil-rich nations are also the most stagnant societies on earth. And among the many luxuries their oil wealth affords them is the luxury of ignoring their own people. In effect, our petrodollars are underwriting tyranny, anti-Semitism, the brutal repression of women in the Middle East, and dictators and criminal syndicates in our own hemisphere.

We cannot allow the world's greatest democracy to be complicit in such corruption and injustice. America's most vital interests call us to the mission of energy security, and so does our sense of honor. And the straightest, swiftest path to energy security is to produce more, use less, and find new sources of power -- so that no commodity can determine our security, and no crisis can undermine our economy.

This will require great ingenuity and resolve of the American people, and these are not in short supply. Americans like to say that there is no problem we can't solve, however complicated, and no obstacle we cannot overcome if we meet it together. I believe this about our country. I know this about our country. And now it is time to show those qualities once again.
472 2008-06-17 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
473 2008-06-17 The Chinese Web portal Sohu.com Inc. announced Monday that it has signed an agreement to webcast all events at the Beijing Olympics....
474 2008-06-17 Leona Helmsley’s dog is not as well heeled as she used to be.

Judge Renee Roth of Manhattan Surrogate Court has reduced the trust fund for the little dog, named Trouble, from $12 million to $2 million. Mrs. Helmsley, who died in August, left Trouble the money in her will. The remaining $10 million goes to Mrs. Helmsley’s charitable foundation.

Trouble, a 9-year-old Maltese, lives in Florida with the general manager of the Helmsley Sandcastle Hotel.
475 2008-06-17 Wang may not have another turn until the last week of August, at the earliest. He will wear a walking boot and use crutches for six weeks after sustaining the injury rounding third base in Houston on Sunday. After so much inactivity, Cashman said, Wang would need at least four weeks to return to pitching shape.

“You’re talking about 10 weeks until pinstripes,” Cashman said. “But it’s all guesstimates. I expect him to get back this year. I just can’t give an exact time frame.”

Two years ago, Cashman waited out the Philadelphia Phillies to acquire Abreu, benefiting from the knowledge that Abreu was signed through 2007 and that the Phillies had no other teams willing to pay his salary. The situation is different this summer, with the best pitcher likely to become available, the left-hander C. C. Sabathia of the Cleveland Indians.

The Indians have not officially put him on the market, but with their roster decimated by injuries and their hopes of a playoff run fading, they almost certainly will. And because Sabathia is unsigned past this season, many teams could afford the remainder of his $11 million salary for 2008.

The Indians are known to like the Yankees’ young talent and would have interest in Hughes, who was not traded for Johan Santana last winter and is on the disabled list with an 0-4 record and a 9.00 earned run average.

The Yankees are fond of Sabathia, who may be the only pitcher they could acquire who is in Wang’s class. But if the asking price includes Hughes, the Yankees will most likely decline and possibly pursue Sabathia as a free agent this winter.

One of Sabathia’s teammates, the right-hander Paul Byrd, may be available and would come cheaper. Other potential free agents on teams that could soon drop out of contention include Houston’s Shawn Chacon, the Dodgers’ Derek Lowe and San Diego’s Randy Wolf. Wolf will face Andy Pettitte at Yankee Stadium on Tuesday.

The Yankees have pushed an aggressive farm-system agenda in recent years, spending freely in the draft to sign premium pitching talent. Cashman is not averse to parting with prospects, but he is not eager to do so.

“You have your farm system for your own needs, as well as the ability to utilize them as trade chips,” he said. “But you need to have enough inventory so when you have to pull that trigger, you still have enough depth to move forward with.”

In other words, Cashman would make certain deals, but would be unlikely to swap five or six players for one elite pitcher, the way Seattle did for Érik Bédard and Arizona did for Dan Haren last winter.

“We’ll be tested on our players,” Cashman said. “Some guys are more touchable than others. We’ll see. Those are things we have to deal with. We’ve got to make difficult decisions and hopefully make the right ones.”

There are internal options besides Giese. Hughes and Carl Pavano are not expected to return until August, but Ian Kennedy, who has a strained lat muscle, could be ready by the end of June.

Dan McCutchen threw a shutout for Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre on Saturday, and if his development continues, he could work into the mix. Others at Class AAA, Jeff Karstens and Kei Igawa, have major league experience.

But few pitchers are as dependable as Wang.

“It’s a significant loss, but our goal is still the same,” Cashman said. “We’re going to have to find another way to accomplish that goal and put ourselves in a position where, when Wang comes back, he’s coming back for a purpose.”
476 2008-06-17 Mr. McCain has reversed himself on some issues — most notably, embracing the Bush tax cuts now after deriding them initially as fiscally risky and excessively skewed to the wealthy — and continues to adjust his positions on others. On Monday, he said he continued to oppose opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, leaving him at odds with the White House and most of his party, but said he favored giving states more flexibility to decide whether to explore for oil off their coasts.

On balance, the McCain campaign has sought to emphasize the differences between Mr. McCain and the unpopular Mr. Bush rather than the similarities.

“In the last 10 years, he’s been an independent voice for what he thinks is in his country’s best interest,” said Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain’s closest advisers. “Sometimes it’s brought him into conflict with members of his party and with the president. The Democrats know that.”

Yet while it would be hard to categorize him as a doctrinaire Republican or conservative, Mr. McCain appears to have ceded some of his carefully cultivated reputation as a maverick.

In a CBS News poll two weeks ago, 43 percent of registered voters said they believed he would continue Mr. Bush’s policies, and 21 percent said he would be more conservative in his policies than Mr. Bush. Twenty-eight percent said he would be less conservative than Mr. Bush.

Presidencies are about more than policies, of course, and Mr. McCain would bring a different style, background and world view to the White House should he be elected in November.

Although he once held very different views, Mr. McCain’s biggest similarity to Mr. Bush now is on the economy. Not only does the senator now support making permanent the large Bush tax cuts he once opposed — the $1.35 trillion tax reduction of 2001 and the $320 billion tax cut of 2003 — but he has proposed four major new tax cuts of his own.

Democrats say that those four proposed cuts — a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent, immediate tax breaks for corporate investment, a repeal of the alternative minimum tax and doubling the value of exemptions for dependents to $7,000 from $3,500 — are more regressive than Mr. Bush’s tax cuts because they favor the rich more disproportionately than the president’s reductions did. Mr. McCain’s advisers said his plan would help stimulate job creation by reducing taxes on small businesses, especially those that pay taxes at the personal income tax rate, and would be part of a fiscal plan that would also emphasize reining in the growth of government spending far more than Mr. Bush did.

On health care, Mr. McCain has a market-oriented model similar to the one that Mr. Bush proposed to little effect in 2007. Like Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain would shift the emphasis from insurance provided by employers to insurance bought by individuals, and would offer a tax benefit for families to do so.

“In general, they’re much more similar than different,” said Drew Altman, the president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group. “In terms of their goals, they’re more focused on making the market more efficient than in expanding coverage.”

Mr. McCain’s proposal, however, is more progressive in that it offers a refundable credit of $5,000 to families to buy their own insurance, whether or not they pay taxes — in effect, cash. Although experts have questioned whether the $5,000 tax credit would cover the cost of private insurance, they generally say that Mr. Bush’s plan, which offered a $15,000 tax deduction for families buying their own insurance, was more valuable to higher-income people.

On the Iraq war, Mr. McCain has been one of the president’s biggest defenders of its stated rationale: saving the world from Saddam Hussein. Yet he was also an early advocate of increasing troop levels at a time when Mr. Bush was resistant, and was withering, from 2004 on, about Donald H. Rumsfeld, then defense secretary, and what Mr. McCain called Mr. Rumsfeld’s “whack a mole” strategy of moving American troops from one violence-plagued part of Iraq to another.

Like Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain has steadfastly refused to set dates for withdrawals of troops and envisions a long-term American presence in the country. But last month, in the general election battleground state of Ohio, Mr. McCain did a semantic dance and said he expected that most American troops would be home from Iraq by 2013.

On abortion, Mr. McCain has long been opposed, and is in fact more explicit than the president in his opposition to Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision that established a constitutional right to abortion. Although Mr. Bush has spoken about changing American “hearts and minds” to build a “culture of life,” Mr. McCain has said directly, in South Carolina in 2007, that Roe v. Wade “should be overturned.”

On judges, Mr. McCain has strongly embraced the judicial philosophy of Mr. Bush and vowed to appoint conservative judges in the mold of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr.

On gay rights, Mr. McCain voted against a proposed constitutional amendment backed by Mr. Bush banning same-sex marriage, saying that it should be up to the states. Then in 2006, he made it clear how he thought his home state, Arizona, should decide: Mr. McCain appeared in a television commercial in support of a state amendment, which ultimately failed, to ban same-sex marriages.

Perhaps Mr. McCain’s biggest departure from the president is on climate change. Mr. McCain has called for mandatory limits on greenhouse gas emissions, unlike Mr. Bush, who says such limits would be bad for the economy. Mr. McCain also supports a “cap and trade” system in which power plants and other polluters could meet limits on heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide by either reducing emissions on their own or by buying credits from more efficient producers.

Mr. McCain, who has a mixed record on the environment in the Senate — he has missed votes on toughening fuel economy standards and has opposed tax breaks meant to encourage alternative energy — has nonetheless tried to highlight what he considers his stark environmental divide with Mr. Bush.

“There is a longstanding, significant, deep, strong difference on this issue between myself and the administration,” Mr. McCain said last month.

On diplomacy, Mr. McCain has regularly distanced himself from the go-it-alone unilateralism of the Bush administration.

“We cannot build an enduring peace based on freedom by ourselves, and we do not want to,” Mr. McCain said in a major foreign policy address in Los Angeles in late March. “We have to strengthen our global alliances as the core of a new compact.”

In the same vein, Mr. McCain has significantly broken with Mr. Bush on nuclear security policy. Unlike the president, he supports a legally binding accord between the United States and Russia on limiting nuclear weapons, the elimination of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe, a strengthening of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, increased financing for the International Atomic Energy Agency and nuclear talks with China.

On Iran and North Korea, the two nations whose nuclear programs will present the next president with a tough set of options, Mr. McCain has allied himself with the Bush administration. He would refuse to engage in unconditional diplomacy with Iran and would continue to maintain contact with North Korea, primarily through multilateral talks. He has insisted, however, that the United States be able to verify effectively any agreement in which North Korea promises to abandon its nuclear weapons.
477 2008-06-17 Mr. Schlozman admitted to Congress last year that he had bragged about his success in bringing conservative Republican lawyers into the civil rights division. Justice Department officials declined to comment on Monday.

Mr. Schlozman also declined to comment, and his lawyer said he had not been informed that he was the target of any criminal investigation.

“We haven’t been contacted by the Department of Justice regarding this, and other than that we have no comment,” the lawyer, William Jordan, said.

Mr. Schlozman originally told a Senate committee last June that while he was acting United States attorney in Kansas City, a Justice Department supervisor “directed” him to bring an indictment in a voter fraud case against a liberal group. Days later, in a letter trying to “clarify” his remarks, he said that the decision to bring the indictment was his and that he took “full responsibility” for it.

The grand jury inquiry is believed to focus on Mr. Schlozman’s Senate testimony. While prosecutors’ use of a grand jury to gather sworn testimony and records does not necessarily portend any criminal charges, this is the first time any aspect of the inquiry has advanced to the point of a criminal investigation.

Since last year, two branches of the department, the Inspector General’s office and the Office of Professional Responsibility, have been investigating the firings and related charges of politicization in hiring. The inspector general has the power to refer possible criminal accusations to prosecutors for possible charges.

The investigation led to the resignation of Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales. A lawyer for Mr. Gonzales, George J. Terwilliger III, said Monday that the grand jury referral was “unrelated to anything connected to Judge Gonzales.”

Noting that Mr. Gonzales has promised to cooperate with all Justice Department investigations into the resignations, Mr. Terwilliger said, “He continues to make good on that commitment.” He declined to discuss Mr. Gonzales’s contacts with investigators, but said, “There’s no criminal investigation involving Judge Gonzales and the United States attorneys.”

Congressional Democrats said Mr. Gonzales might have perjured himself in his testimony about wireless eavesdropping by the National Security Agency, a program that the inspector general is also reviewing.

Asked whether there was any criminal investigation involving Mr. Gonzales’s testimony about the eavesdropping, Mr. Terwilliger said, “I’m not going to get into other things.”

Mr. Gonzales’s former chief of staff, Kyle Sampson, who instituted the ousters, was also at the heart of the inquiry. His lawyer, Bradford Berenson, said Mr. Sampson had answered questions from the inspector general’s investigators in two interviews last fall but had “not heard back from them.”

Mr. Berenson added, “We have no reason to believe that any sort of referral has been or will be made with regard to Mr. Sampson.”
478 2008-06-17 “He is the most influential man in the prostitution business in America,” said Jason Itzler, the former head of NY Confidential, an escort ring. Mr. Itzler was released from prison last year after serving 30 months for the attempted promotion of prostitution.

Mr. Elms, 37, was jailed this month on accusations that he failed five drug tests since October, a violation of his probation from a 2006 drug and gun conviction. If he is found to have violated his probation, he could be sentenced to four years in prison.

Mr. Elms usually does not say much publicly about his Web site, asserting that reporters twist his words. But in an interview with MSNBC.com in 2006, Mr. Elms said that he started The Erotic Review in 1999 because he wanted to empower the customers of prostitutes.

“I was getting ripped off,” he said. “There was no way to hold people accountable for their actions.”

The house in Hawthorne, Calif., where Mr. Elms lives is modest, with a well-kept yard. The only unusual signs are a surveillance camera over the porch and the late-model Mercedes sports car parked out front with the vanity license plate “Will She.”

The Erotic Review works like many consumer review sites. Visitors to the site can look for prostitutes by city or area code and find contact information, personal Web sites, physical attributes like height and body type, and numeric rankings.

More broadly, the Internet is changing prostitution. In recent years, thousands of prostitutes have posted their own Web sites, including their pictures and contact information. They are called Net walkers. The Internet, they say, has let them more easily reach clientele, particularly high-paying customers, and vet them.

Robert Weisberg, a professor of criminal law at Stanford, said that prostitution promoted online — even if overtly advertised — might not pique law enforcement interest because the crime usually received little attention.

Jodi Michelle Link, a Los Angeles County deputy district attorney who specializes in sex and vice crimes, said prosecuting Mr. Elms for his connection to The Erotic Review could be difficult for free speech reasons. She also said that the prostitutes who said they had been asked by Mr. Elms for sexual favors would have trouble making a criminal case against him because they could simply choose not to participate on his site.

As The Erotic Review has become more popular, Mr. Elms has attracted criticism. In April, a lawyer for an escort service based in Phoenix, MystiqueUSA, wrote a letter to Mr. Elms threatening him with an antitrust lawsuit for banning the agency and its escorts from the site.

“There is no question that your Erotic Review site clearly meets the legal standard of a unique facility whose use is essential to effectively compete in the upscale escort services market,” the lawyer wrote. The letter accused the Web site of favoring escort agencies that did not want competition.

Officials at MystiqueUSA would not comment. But on the home page of its Web site, it expresses regret over the assertions in the letter and apologizes to Mr. Elms.

Ms. Link, the deputy district attorney, said the criminal charges against Mr. Elms stemmed from a night in 2006 when the police were called to a hotel where they found him with 3.8 grams of cocaine and a loaded semi-automatic weapon. A prostitute was there and said Mr. Elms had forced her to perform oral sex at gunpoint, but there was not enough evidence to press charges on that accusation, Ms. Link said.
479 2008-06-17 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 7.13 points, or 0.97 percent, to 740.74.

The day started with worrisome economic news. The New York Federal Reserve Bank’s Empire State index indicated that manufacturing activity in New York State continued to weaken in June. The index fell to a negative 8.7, from a negative 3.7 a month earlier. The report is the earliest of several monthly regional snapshots that investors look to for insights on economic activity.

The manufacturing report and an early jump in energy prices fanned worries that rising prices in an already uncertain economy would further restrain consumer spending.

Richard Campagna, managing director at Provident Investment Counsel in Pasadena, Calif., said the gains in financial stocks helped shore up confidence in the overall market.

“You’re finally seeing some stability in the financials,” he said. He pointed to Lehman’s results: “They gave more information. The fact that they’re becoming less leveraged, more transparent — all that’s positive.”

A weak dollar helped drive the price of a barrel of oil to a record near $140 early Monday, while retail gas prices hit a new high of $4.08 a gallon. Light crude set a trading record of $139.89 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, before settling down 25 cents at $134.61 as investors responded to a pledge by Saudi Arabia to increase oil production.

Lehman’s report, which matched a week-old forecast from the company, appeared to assuage some concerns about the ability of the financial sector to extricate itself from bad bets on mortgage debt. The investment bank posted a second-quarter loss of $2.87 billion, or $5.14 a share. The loss was the first for Lehman since it went public in 1994. Lehman rose $1.14, or 4.5 percent, to $26.98.

Mr. Campagna said investors appeared to be making modest bets ahead of quarterly results due Tuesday from the investment bank Goldman Sachs.

“No one is really willing to let the market run and dive in until they hear from Goldman,” he said.

Treasury prices firmed after falling sharply last week amid worries that inflation would erode returns. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, to 96 27/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, was 4.27 percent, little changed from Friday’s 4.26 percent.

Following are the results of Monday’s Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
480 2008-06-17 Mediate, who had laid up inside 100 yards in two shots, hit his third shot 20 feet from the hole. He had birdied three straight holes on the back nine to capture the lead, and now he would have a putt to beat the No. 1 player in the world.

“I said to myself, ‘You’ve waited your whole life for this putt, just don’t lag it,’ ” Mediate said. He ran it 3 feet past; Woods made his 4-footer.

Woods won with a par on the first hole of sudden death when Mediate hit his drive in the left fairway bunker, missed the green from 184 yards and made bogey.

“I think this is probably the best ever,” Woods said. “All things considered, I don’t know how I ended up in this position, to be honest with you. It was a long week. There was a lot of doubt, a lot of questions going into the week. And here we are 91 holes later.”

He was looking at the gleaming silver United States Open trophy when he said this, thinking back on five of the most difficult days he had faced in a major championship. They began with the much-watched Thursday-Friday pairing with and , an arrangement that put extra pressure on the three contestants and left all of them drained.

Trying to shake off the rust and get back into rhythm while in the company of Mickelson, his top rival, and Scott, who is nearly as popular with galleries as Woods and Mickelson, proved to be a distraction.

Playing his opening hole in seven over par the first four days did not help, forcing Woods to play the rest of the golf course in eight under for the 72 holes. After grabbing the lead Saturday with two eagles in the last six holes, he fought through a tough fourth round during which he frequently winced in pain after swinging his driver.

The Monday playoff was hardly a picnic. With an exuberant crowd of more than 25,000 trailing them and filling every grandstand on the course, Woods and Mediate battled each other and the tough 7,643-yard layout all the way from the first hole. The crowd alternately chanted “Rocco, Rocco!” and “Tiger, Tiger!” lending a prizefight atmosphere to the proceedings, and one spectator even sang the notes to the theme from while carrying a beer in each hand to the stands near the eighth green.

With birdies at the sixth and seventh holes, Woods got to one under for the day while Mediate struggled to hit greens, bogeying the fifth after his iron shot from the right greenside bunker flew the cart path. Mediate also bogeyed the ninth hole, three-putting from 18 feet, and a bogey at No. 10 — when he missed a 6-footer for par — put him in a seemingly impossible hole from which to escape.

Escape he did, though, springing through an opening created when Woods bogeyed the 11th and 12th holes. Mediate reeled off three straight birdies, making a 5-footer at the par-5 13th to match Woods’s birdie and then getting up and down from the front edge of the short 269-yard par-4 14th for birdie and adding a 20-footer, curling downhill, for another birdie.

“I thought I was going to win after that putt went in on 15,” Mediate said. “I said, if I can keep hitting good shot after good shot, which I pretty much did, I’m going to win this golf tournament.”

He very nearly did. Woods’s attempts at birdies stopped short at Nos. 16 and 17. Then he did his thing at the 18th, and just as quickly as he thought he might win, Mediate lost.

“But the only thing I take from this is I gave him the best that I had and it wasn’t quite good enough,” Mediate said. “But it almost was. It wasn’t like I got my butt handed to me today. I didn’t want that.”

Woods won the championship, Mediate won the respect of Woods and the masses. Not exactly as good as the trophy, but not bad.

“No doubt, Rock played great,” Woods said. “For him to be out here at 45 and playing this well, honestly it was an unbelievably gutsy performance. He played so well and put so much pressure on me all day and played well all week. It was a great battle.”

And a great win. Probably, as Woods said, the greatest he has had.
481 2008-06-17 Re “Loyal to Its Roots” (June 10): It is not news that plants are alive, communicate and prefer their own. Any gardener could tell you this. And botanists have been saying it for decades. By now, people should know there are plant wars using chemicals and that certain plants should never be put in close proximity to each other. Hasn’t anyone heard of the Strangler Fig, for crying out loud?

What percentage of our genome do we share, generally speaking, with plant life? And have we ascertained what genes in particular we have in common? Should it be more of a surprise that plants have “a secret social life” or that mammals have, perhaps, inherited their genetic equipment for socialization from plants?
482 2008-06-17 Federal authorities say they believe that Samuel Israel III, the hedge fund manager convicted of defrauding investors out of about $450 million, is alive and on the run.

“Suicide has been ruled out,” William Dundon, a spokesman for the United States Marshals Service, said Monday. He declined to discuss what evidence the service used to determine that.

Mr. Israel’s 2006 GMC Envoy was found abandoned on the Bear Mountain Bridge over the Hudson River on June 9 with “suicide is painless” written in the dust on its hood. The bridge is about 40 miles north of New York City.

He had been expected to report to federal prison in Ayer, Mass., at 2 p.m. that day to begin serving a 20-year sentence.

“It’s solely a fugitive investigation now,” a spokeswoman for the United States attorney’s office said. The state police added that they had stopped looking for Mr. Israel’s body in the Hudson River.

On Thursday, the marshals issued a wanted poster for Mr. Israel, the 48-year-old co-founder of the Bayou Group hedge fund, and warned that he should be considered armed and dangerous.

Authorities would not comment on whether they believed Mr. Israel was still in the country.

Mr. Israel pleaded guilty in September 2005 to charges of conspiracy and fraud after squandering millions of dollars and producing fake audits of the hedge fund’s performance to hide losses. At Mr. Israel’s sentencing in April, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District Court in Manhattan ordered Mr. Israel to pay $300 million in restitution.
483 2008-06-17 The McClatchy Company, one of the nation’s biggest newspaper chains, said Monday that it would cut its work force by 10 percent, or around 1,400 people, after having already eliminated about 2,000 jobs over 18 months.

As the newspaper industry suffers through both a long-term contraction and a sluggish economy, McClatchy has been hit harder than most, because it relies heavily on the troubled California and Florida markets. McClatchy, based in Sacramento, Calif., reported Monday that for the first five months of the year, its revenue dropped 14.2 percent from the prior year.

The deepest cut will hit The Miami Herald, one of McClatchy’s largest papers, which told its staff on Monday that it would eliminate 250 jobs, or 17 percent of its work force.

In a memorandum to McClatchy employees, Howard C. Weaver, vice president for news, said that across the company, 310 to 320 newsroom positions would be cut, or about 9 percent of the total. In recent years, McClatchy has bucked the industry trend by avoiding deep staff cuts, particularly in its newsrooms.

In the new round of cuts, “there will be voluntary buyouts, there will be some layoffs, and there will be some managed attrition,” said Elaine Lintecum, McClatchy’s treasurer. She said the buyouts and layoffs would be carried out quickly.

McClatchy owns The Sacramento Bee, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, The Kansas City Star, The Charlotte Observer, two dozen smaller daily newspapers, 50 nondaily papers and large stakes in some major Internet companies like CareerBuilder.

Ad revenue at McClatchy’s newspapers fell 15.4 percent this year through May from 2007, the company reported Monday. Ad revenue dropped more than 22 percent at its California and Florida papers, reflecting the severity of the housing crisis there. Classified ads for real estate and employment are off about 36 percent, accounting for more than half the decline in revenue.
484 2008-06-17 PARIS — After weeks of protests across Europe, French truckers attempted to block roads across the country on Monday to demand government measures to offset the soaring price of diesel fuel.

In another action, British truckers seeking higher pay maintained a strike that has seen hundreds of gas stations run out of fuel. The closed fuel pumps and images of slow-moving convoys have become common sights as fuel prices have increased, inspiring demonstrations in Spain, Belgium and elsewhere.

Apart from France, protests against the cost of fuel as oil prices remain over $130 a barrel were also reported from South Korea.

By coincidence, the French strike Monday coincided with the high school final examinations known as the baccalauréat, so truckers said they would limit their action to seven hours between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to avoid disrupting the tests for almost half a million students. Drivers of private ambulances and taxis also launched protests in Paris and elsewhere.

Private ambulances clogged streets near the Health Ministry in the capital and outside Paris, and news agencies reported trucks blocking highways leading to the country’s principal ports.

Truckers’ representatives are demanding government help to cope with fuel prices which, they say, make their business unprofitable. The cost of diesel fuel, the truckers argue, has risen by between 25 and 30 percent in the past year, with a surge in the past few weeks.

In French, the go-slow protests are called “operation escargot” — literally operation snail’s pace. On Monday, the slowdowns were reported from a string of cities from Perpignan near the border with Spain to Calais on the English Channel, according to news reports.
485 2008-06-17 Of Ms. Callan, the former chief financial officer, Mr. Fuld said: “Erin is wonderfully talented. I respect her, and we’re having conversations about creating a position that makes sense for her.”

Mr. Fuld said Monday in the bank’s earnings statement, “we have begun to take the necessary steps to restore the credibility of our great franchise.”

Those steps, he said, included raising $6 billion in capital and naming Ian Lowitt, 44, as chief financial officer and Herbert McDade III, 48, president and chief operating officer.

Mr. Fuld plans to hold a town hall meeting Monday with the bank’s managing directors in New York to try to bolster spirits. Already, the stock has reversed a multiweek drop. On Friday it closed at $25.81, up nearly 14 percent. Shares closed up $1.39, to $27.20 on Monday.

But Mr. Fuld faced tough questions from analysts Monday about Lehman’s earnings power. Analysts expressed skepticism that Lehman could achieve a return on equity of about 15 percent, as the investment bank suggested it could. And they questioned the way Lehman values assets that are hard to value, like mortgage investments and private equity stakes in companies.

“The general question is: have you taken sufficient write-downs?” asked Michael Mayo, an analyst with Deutsche Bank. “The reason I ask is there are cases of other top management officials at other companies saying they were finished and then other quarters, they had big write-downs again.”

Mr. Fuld reiterated that he was “the one that signs the quarterly documents,” and said that the investment bank marks its assets fully each quarter to make sure it begins the next quarter with “a clean slate.”

The write-downs from the second quarter led to a $5.14 a share loss compared with net income of $1.3 billion, or $2.21 a share in the quarter a year ago. Revenue was negative $668 million, compared with $5.51 billion a year earlier because of write-downs. The capital markets division — which includes the soured mortgage assets — fared the worst with negative revenue of $2.4 billion, compared with revenue of $3.6 billion in the second quarter a year ago. Investment banking reported revenue of $900 million, down from $1.2 billion a year earlier, as company offerings and other transactions continued to stagnate. And the bank’s investment management unit reported revenue of $800 million, compared with $1 billion in the second quarter a year ago.

Mr. Fuld admitted that the firm had made missteps in its mortgage business — once one of the strongest on Wall Street.

“We made active decisions to deploy our capital, some of which in hindsight were poor choices because we really didn’t act quickly enough to the eroding environment,” he said during the conference call. Lehman is the latest to feel the heat of the tight credit market. Banks like Citigroup and Merrill Lynch took multi-billion dollar write-downs last fall as they reckoned with their mortgage investments. The losses industrywide are staggering, and they cast doubt on the ways in which Wall Street firms made money before the credit crunch.

Seven large financial companies — Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley — have since last July written down the value of the assets they hold by $107.2 billion, gutting their earnings and share prices. That is nearly half of the combined $254 billion in profits those seven firms earned from 2004 through middle of 2007.

Worldwide, the write-downs total $380 billion, much of which reflects a plunge in the value of tricky mortgage investments.

More downbeat news is expected this week. Goldman Sachs is scheduled to report results for the latest quarter on Tuesday, followed by Morgan Stanley on Wednesday. Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan and Merrill Lynch release results in July.

As the tally of losses keeps growing, many bank executives — and their shareholders — keep asking the same question: When will the pain end?

But the finish line just seems to keep moving further away. Even when the losses end, bank executives are looking toward a new era of lower returns, thinner profits and fewer jobs. Greater scrutiny from regulators is forcing Wall Street firms to reduce their use of leverage, or borrowed money, which had fueled profits in good times but backfired when the credit crisis struck last summer. Nearly every finance company is cutting jobs and battening down.

“They are going to have to build a new business model,” Richard X. Bove, a financial services analyst at Ladenburg Thalmann and Company, said of investment banks. “I do not believe those businesses have the ability to generate the kind of profit they did in recent years without all the leverage.”

The threats to the broader financial system have receded in large part because of the extraordinary government-led effort to rescue Bear Stearns. And Wall Street seems to have the ability to come back from just about any downturn with new ways to churn even greater riches. That new, new thing may already be brewing across Bloomberg terminals and trading desks.

For now, investors are not holding out hope. They have dumped bank stocks with each round of bad news, and recently the financial sector lost its perch atop the nation’s stock market. The combined value of technology shares, those darlings of yesteryear, has eclipsed that of financial stocks. And the energy sector is not far behind.

Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are expected to have fared better than Lehman in the latest quarter. They are more diversified than Lehman, which has traditionally focused on fixed income. And the two banks’ commodities traders may have profited handsomely in recent months as the prices for oil and foodstuffs have soared. Even so, many investors are anxious to see whether Goldman, which made money last year even as many of its rivals lost big, has continued to dodge trouble.

The latest round of results will probably draw special scrutiny because Wall Street firms are disclosing capital levels under new international banking standards known as Basel II. And Merrill Lynch, Citigroup and UBS are also expected to suffer from the ratings downgrades recently issued for MBIA and Ambac, two bond reinsurers.

The more that banks take write-downs, the more they are, in a sense, shredding through the record profits they made when times were good. Citigroup, for example, has written down its mortgage and other loan investments by $37.3 billion or a full half of the handsome profits the global giant pulled in during the boom years.

Merrill Lynch, much smaller in size, has taken write-downs of $32.6 billion — or a whopping 153 percent of its profits from 2004 through last summer. Even if Merrill is given credit for the money it earned in the last year, the bank still had write-downs that translated into losses of $14 billion, and that is two-thirds of its profits in those three and a half years that ended with a pop last July.

“It’s a fairly unique situation, that you would give so much back,” said Alec Young, global equity strategist for Standard & Poor’s Equity Research. “The industry did enjoy real salad days over that period, but now the write-downs and losses have been so huge. It’s a significant percentage of the money generated.”

Even the winners in this cycle — JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs — have had to pull out giant erasers to work through their loan books. JPMorgan, which had the financial heft to buy Bear Stearns, wiped out 15 percent of recent profits by lowering the values of its loan and mortgage assets. At Goldman, the cost of such write-downs is so far 12 percent of recent profits.

The banks are supposed to be especially good at valuing all the lumps of loans and assets they own. That is why many a Wall Street bonus is based on estimates of hard-to-value dealings in arcane assets. The very mortgage bonds that are now being written down, in fact, led to hefty bonuses for bank employees before the good times ended.

Some analysts predict that independent brokerage houses will merge with commercial banks, if the government begins regulating them. That uncertainty leaves executives at these companies unsure of how to plan for the future, said David Trone, an analyst at Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller, who is predicting bank consolidation.

In the conference call Monday morning, Mr. Fuld said that he believed the government had a right to add regulation of the investment banks, since the Federal Reserve has opened its over-night lending facility to them. But he said it was too early to know what form those regulations would take. Mr. Fuld said that he would be open to a merger with a commercial bank if that proved to be a more profitable way for Lehman to operate.

If there is an offer for a deal with a commercial bank, he said, “I clearly have the obligation to take that to the board, and if it’s reasonable, to be considered.”

“But today,” he said, “with the power of this franchise, we can very much go it alone and be very strong.”
486 2008-06-17 PARIS — Shares of Barclays, the British bank, soared as much as 11 percent Monday after the lender said it was considering a plan to sell new shares.

Responding to media reports, Barclays said a plan to raise funds by placing shares with outside investors and by making an offer to existing shareholders was under “active consideration.” The bank gave no indication of how much money it would seek to raise.

Leigh Bruce, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment on reports that the bank was seeking to raise as much as £4 billion ($7.8 billion).

A weekend report in The Sunday Times of London said the bank, which has one of the lowest capital ratios among European lenders, would place some shares with sovereign wealth funds, possibly at a premium to the current market price. It said the China Development Bank and Temasek, the Singapore government’s investment fund, were in talks to buy stakes.

“I think this is good news,” said Alex Potter, an analyst at Collins Stewart in London. “Reports that it is going to raise cash at a premium are very good news.”
487 2008-06-17 We get it. He’s no mere Big Brown or another quadruped Triple Crown contender whose light fades after a short spring season. Woods is a force of nature whose talent, personality and fire are uniquely suited to television; viewers invariably flock to him if he’s in the hunt or leading. And who looks better than Woods in the foreground of a camera shot, finishing a putt, while the fans erupt behind him, as NBC showed us?

Even NBC’s Jimmy Roberts spoke of Tiger-centrism. “The reason we make such a big deal is days like Friday and Saturday,” he said, referring to the days Woods made his move.

So Mediate didn’t get a big (or small) NBC feature the way Woods did. Woods also got two Sunday airings of a Nike ad with a voice-over by his father, Earl, one of them timed to air just before his second shot on 18. It ran again, at a strategic moment, on Monday.

For most of Father’s Day, Woods seemed to be the only son playing at Torrey Pines until a late mention of Lee Westwood’s sire. What about everybody else’s dads? Mediate was created in part by a father, but NBC preferred to link him to another pop, Arnold Palmer, his pal in Latrobe, Pa. We would hear about Mediate’s sons, but only after repeated mentions of Sunday’s being Woods’s first Father’s Day as a father.

Mediate became an unfortunate verbal foil for Johnny Miller. It was hard to tell what came over Miller — had he ingested too much kikuyu grass? — when he chose his words badly to ostensibly praise Mediate’s everyman persona. Early Sunday he said Mediate “looks like the guy who cleans Tiger’s swimming pool.” A stupid remark that would barely be remembered if he had not followed it with one after Dan Hicks, NBC’s host, said, “Rocco with a chance to put his name on the U.S. Open trophy.”

What should that have provoked? Something like, “Yes, Dan, quite unlikely for Mr. 158.”

Instead, Miller said, “Guys with the name Rocco don’t get on the trophy, do they?”

The comment left me wondering if Miller was incautiously referencing — or insulting — Mediate’s heritage or his regular-guy demeanor. Rocco is an unusual name, but on the roster of United States Open winners, no odder or less-deserving than less-ethnic given names like Horace, Cyril, Byron, Lawson, Orville or Payne. So what was it about an Italian name inscribed on the trophy that hit Miller’s verbal tripwire? From him, an Italian guy who looks like a pool cleaner with his name on a trophy with Tiger’s sounded wrong.

Brian Walker, an NBC Sports spokesman, said, “Johnny was obviously referring to Rocco’s everyman qualities that endeared him to fans and viewers.”

Johnny Miller is an often stellar analyst, but he should loosen his jargon (“I like the full draw with a slice wind”) and explain his insider’s terminology (“This is the Scott Hoch length”) to casual fans. ... Miller and his corps of Johnny-feeding analysts/reporters — Gary Koch, Bob Murphy, Mark Rolfing, Roger Maltbie and Dottie Pepper — explicate everything a ball can do on a green but seldom elevate the drama of a medium or long putt by stating its distance. If NBC can show the yardage between Tiger Woods’s and Rocco Mediate’s drives, it can measure putt distance. ... With NBC setting up Woods as simultaneously wounded and superhuman, it was difficult to answer Dan Hicks’s coda to his birdie on 18 on Sunday: “Expect anything different?”
488 2008-06-17 Throughout the day, in a sign of how $4-a-gallon gas has made energy a central issue in the 2008 campaign, Mr. Obama and the Democratic National Committee relentlessly mocked Mr. McCain for what they called his flip-flopping and capitulation to the oil industry. Mr. Obama swiftly pointed out that Mr. McCain had supported the ban on offshore oil exploration during his first run for the presidency in 2000.

“His decision to completely change his position and tell a group of Houston oil executives exactly what they wanted to hear today was the same Washington politics that has prevented us from achieving energy independence for decades,” Mr. Obama said in a statement.

Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain’s domestic policy adviser, said the senator had supported the moratorium until a compromise was reached in late 2006 between the federal government and Gulf Coast states that permitted oil and gas exploration in a vast area mostly 100 miles from shore. “Prior to that, he favored the moratorium as a way to support states’ opposition to exploration,” Mr. Holtz-Eakin said.

Mr. Obama’s campaign moved just as swiftly to batter Mr. McCain with charges that he had changed another of his positions, this one on the windfall profits tax. In his speech to the oil executives, Mr. McCain criticized Mr. Obama for supporting the tax, which he said would hinder domestic exploration and production and which he likened to the policies of President Jimmy Carter during the energy crisis of three decades ago.

“I’m all for recycling, but it’s better applied to paper and plastic than to the failed policies of the 1970s,” Mr. McCain said, to loud applause and cheers from the friendly crowd.

In a town hall-style meeting on May 14 in Charlotte, N.C., however, Mr. McCain said: “I don’t like obscene profits being made anywhere, and I’d be glad to look not just at the windfall profits tax — that’s not what bothers me — but we should look at any incentives that we are giving to people or industries or corporations that are distorting the market.”

In his speech in Houston, Mr. McCain said that lifting the federal moratorium on oil and gas exploration, which has been in place for nearly two decades, would give individual states the right to decide they if wanted to allow drilling off their coasts. He also said that there should be “an appropriate sharing of benefits” between the states and the federal government.

Mr. Obama, who spent Tuesday campaigning in Michigan, told reporters later in the day that allowing offshore drilling would only possibly lower gas prices in the future — “at best you’re looking at five years or more down the road” — and that Mr. McCain had taken the expedient way out. “I think he continues to find himself pushed further and further to the right in ways that in my mind don’t show a lot of leadership.” Mr. Obama said.

But Robbie Diamond, the president of Securing America’s Future Energy, a nonpartisan group, commended Mr. McCain for offering what he called a politically unpalatable but reasonable answer to the nation’s energy needs, and said that most energy proposals would take years to make an impact.

“We will never drill our way out of the problem, but domestic production of oil and natural gas is an important component of any serious proposal to deal with our oil dependence,” Mr. Diamond said. “You can’t fight a pit bull of a problem with a poodle of a solution.”
489 2008-06-17 Where They Mostly Agree     ABORTION AND JUDGES...
490 2008-06-17 SHAREHOLDER FIRM SETTLES The best-known shareholder law firm in the United States has agreed to pay $75 million to avoid a criminal trial and end a seven-year investigation.       EURO STRONG DESPITE VOTE Ireland's rejection of the Lisbon Treaty h...
491 2008-06-18 Cyd Charisse danced with the Ballet Russe as a teenager but became a movie star after dancing in MGM musicals....
492 2008-06-18 Credit: Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times
493 2008-06-18 In Missouri towns, residents filled sandbags and braced for the Mississippi to crest....
494 2008-06-18 Anheuser-Busch seems to be brewing up strong resistance to a potential takeover by a foreign suitor. On Wednesday, Sen. Claire McCaskill wrote a letter to the American brewer's board, urging the company to reject the $46.4 billion offer by Belgium...
495 2008-06-18 The characters on "Family Guy" suddenly seem to be the darlings of Madison Avenue....
496 2008-06-18 My week of blog-based exploration of this subject ends today. It has been a fascinating ride. Thanks to all who have taken time to read and comment and argue. While I still have the floor, though, a thought. One of the good points made this week i...
497 2008-06-18 NEW YORK, June 18 (Reuters) - Tiger Woods will have reconstructive surgery on his left knee that will sideline him for the rest of the 2008 season, the world number one said on his Web site on Wednesday.

The 32-year-old Woods on Monday claimed the U.S. Open title in a 19-hole playoff against fellow-American Rocco Mediate in his first tournament in two months since having surgery on the knee two days after the U.S. Masters.

Woods outlined on his Web site (www.tigerwoods.com) that he would have reconstructive surgery on his anterior cruciate ligament. He also said he would require time off to rehabilitate a double stress fracture of his left tibia that was found last month.

The stress fractures were attributed to Woods's intense rehabilitation and preparation for the U.S. Open at Torrey Pines in San Diego.

"I know much was made of my knee throughout the last week, and it was important to me that I disclose my condition publicly at an appropriate time," Woods said in a statement on the Web site.
498 2008-06-18 Thank you, Tiger Woods and Rocco Mediate....
499 2008-06-18 Microsoft Corp. said Wednesday it has acquired Navic Networks, which specializes in emerging forms of television advertising technology....
500 2008-06-18 Fifth Third Bancorp, a Cincinnati-based bank, said Wednesday it would cut its dividend by more than half and raise about $2 billion by selling convertible preferred stock and certain "noncore businesses." It said it is taking the steps "to strengt...
501 2008-06-18 For a Web site, it could hardly look less exciting. Its pages are heavy with text, much of it a flat blue, and there are few photos and absolutely no videos. But LinkedIn, the social network for professionals, is dull by design. Unlike Facebook an...
502 2008-06-18 Microsoft said on Wednesday it had purchased privately held digital television advertising technology company Navic Networks. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. Navic will join Microsoft's Advertiser and Publisher Solutions Group, which is resp...
503 2008-06-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
504 2008-06-18 Platinum Equity has agreed to sell metal processor PNA Group Holding to larger rival Reliance Steel & Aluminum for more than $300 million. For Reliance, the country's largest metal processor, the purchase of Atlanta-based PNA would extend a string...
505 2008-06-18 RHI Entertainment, a producer of TV miniseries, priced its initial public stock offering late Tuesday at $14 a share, below the $16-to-$18 range the company had hoped to get. The company had hoped to raise as much as $225 million by selling 12.5 m...
506 2008-06-18 Microsoft buys TV advertising specialist Navic Networks to boost its digital advertising offerings....
507 2008-06-18 SPRINGFIELD, Mo. — Senator John McCain said Wednesday that he wanted 45 new nuclear reactors to be built in the United States by 2030, a goal that he called “as difficult as it is necessary.”

In his third straight day of campaign speechmaking about energy and $4-a-gallon gasoline, the presumptive Republican nominee told the crowd at a town hall-style meeting at Missouri State University that he saw nuclear power as a clean, safe alternative to conventional sources of energy that emit greenhouse gases. He said his ultimate goal was 100 new nuclear plants.

Mr. McCain has long promoted nuclear reactors, but Wednesday was the first time that he specified the number of plants he envisioned. Currently, there are 104 reactors in the country supplying some 20 percent of the electricity consumed. No new nuclear power plant has been built in the United States since the 1970s.

“China, Russia and India are all planning to build more than a hundred new power plants among them in the coming decades,” Mr. McCain said in this pocket of Missouri that is reliably Republican. “Across Europe, there are 197 reactors in operation, and nations including France and Belgium derive more than half their electricity from nuclear power. And if all of these nations can find a way to carry out great goals in energy policy, then I assure you that the United States is more than equal to the challenge.”

Although there has been a shift in opinion in the industry and among some environmentalists toward more nuclear power — it is clean and far safer than at the time of the Three Mile Island nuclear accident in 1979 — most environmentalists are skeptical of the latest claims by its advocates. They also contend that no utility will put its own money into building a plant unless the federal government lavishly subsidizes it.
508 2008-06-18 Mr. Zhou said that the Chinese had listened intently to a presentation on the American economic situation from Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, on what was being done to overcome the recent credit turmoil.

After hearing from Mr. Bernanke and others about efforts by American companies to recover from the crisis, Mr. Zhou said he was impressed that many shaky American financial companies had increased their capitalization in recent months, as both Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson had urged them to do.

The American side did not give any details on Mr. Bernanke’s presentation, but Mr. Zhou said the overall session was “something we have never experienced before,” in that the discussion focused on the “inadequacy of regulations” governing subprime mortgages and other complex financial products.

The implication taken away by the American side was that he was telling them that deregulating Chinese financial markets, as demanded by Wall Street and the Bush administration, might bring unwelcome consequences.

American delegates cautioned that China would be wrong to slow its deregulation of financial markets or to ease up on opening them to foreign investment, said Alan F. Holmer, special envoy for China under Secretary Paulson, who is leading the American side in the talks.

“There are lessons to be learned from the economic developments in the U.S.,” said Mr. Holmer, adding that “there would be significant costs to China if they were to slow down with respect to their financial sector liberalization.”

The slowness of China’s moves to open up its economy to investment by American financial services, from insurance to credit cards, has frustrated Mr. Paulson and others in the Bush administration for years. American officials now say the Chinese are citing the failure to regulate subprime mortgages as a reason for not moving faster.

Mr. Zhou also charged — as have other Chinese recently — that the declining value of the dollar in relationship to other currencies, including the yuan, was contributing to rising prices for oil, food and other commodities throughout the world.

Blaming the decline of the dollar — and by extension blaming low interest rates in the United States, which are driving investments to other currencies — is an argument increasingly being heard as Mr. Paulson has traveled in the Middle East, Europe and East Asia.

American officials said that Mr. Paulson again rejected the argument, saying that high oil and food prices reflected the fundamental imbalance of supply and demand for both.

On another point of contention with China, Michael O. Leavitt, secretary of health and human services, said some progress had been made in pressing China to upgrade safety inspections of exports of food, drugs and other products. He said China would soon agree to open offices for American food and product safety inspections in Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou.

But the top Chinese product safety official, Li Changjiang, said China would not open up offices for the Americans until the United States agreed to expand the Chinese embassy to include safety inspectors from China based in the United States.

“We have yet to receive the final go-ahead from the U.S. authorities on this matter,” he said.

The two sides agreed to set up a framework to discuss environmental and energy cooperation, specifically to improve joint efforts on clean air, water, energy generation, transportation and conservation.
509 2008-06-18 Written by and and directed by Gene Kelly and , the film established her as one of Hollywood’s most glamorous and seductive talents.

Set during the dawn of talking pictures, “Singin’ in the Rain” starred Kelly, , and Jean Hagen. Ms. Charisse appeared in only one of the movie’s many indelible dance sequences, but one was enough. During the “Broadway Melody Ballet,” opposite Kelly, she was both sultry vamp and diaphanous dream girl.

A year later, “The Band Wagon” brought Ms. Charisse her first leading role. Directed by , with a book by Comden and Green and songs by Howard Dietz and Arthur Schwartz, the film starred Astaire, Ms. Charisse, Oscar Levant and Nanette Fabray.

Astaire played a fading Hollywood song-and-dance man hoping to make a comeback on Broadway and who finds himself cast in a show opposite a snooty ballerina (Ms. Charisse). The couple do not see eye-to-eye until they take a nighttime carriage ride through a moonlit Central Park and wind up embracing languorously to the strains of One of the most famous sequences from the film, if not in the history of dance on film, is “The Girl Hunt Ballet,” in which Ms. Charisse plays the vamp to Astaire’s private-eye stage character.

In “Brigadoon” (1954), also directed by Minnelli and adapted from the 1947 Broadway show by and Frederick Loewe, Kelly and Van Johnson played American tourists who stumble on a mysterious Scottish village that materializes only once every 100 years. Kelly falls hard for a beautiful villager, Fiona (Ms. Charisse). They danced to “The Heather on the Hill.”

Cyd Charisse was born Tula Ellice Finklea in , Tex. Though some sources say she was born on March 8, 1921, her agent said the year was 1922. She began taking dance lessons as a little girl. Her many name changes began, so the story goes, when her brother had trouble pronouncing “sister” and settled for “Sid.”

While still a teenager, she was sent to for professional dance training and quickly became a member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, a touring troupe, adopting the name Felia Sidorova. She was on a European tour when she met Nico Charisse, a handsome young dancer and dance instructor. They married in when she was 18. In 1942, they had a son, Nicky.

By the early 1940s, Ms. Charisse had been spotted by studio scouts and her first film roles — as Lily Norwood — followed. (She also appeared anonymously in 1943 as a ballerina in ) In 1946, MGM, by then the king of Hollywood musicals, signed her to a contract and gave her minor roles in several films, including and in which she danced a brief opening sequence with Astaire. When she was chosen to appear in “Ziegfeld Follies,” the producer preferred the name Charisse to Norwood and changed the spelling of Sid to Cyd.

The next year, Ms. Charisse played a ballerina once again in which featured the child star as a dance student.

Ms. Charisse was reunited with Kelly in the 1955 Comden and Green musical and was teamed with Fred Astaire in (1957). In the latter, an update of the vehicle she played an icy Soviet functionary who is sent to Paris where she meets and is romanced by a Hollywood producer (Astaire). Needless to say, she melts for Fred as they sing and dance to songs like “All of You” and “Fated to Be Mated.” It was the twilight of the Hollywood musical.

Ms. Charisse’s marriage to Nico Charisse ended in divorce in 1947. She married Mr. Martin in 1948. He survives her, along with their son, Tony Jr., and her son, Nicky, by her first marriage.

In November 2006, Ms. Charisse was one of the recipients of the National Medal of Arts presented by President Bush in a White House ceremony.

Looking back on her work with Kelly and Astaire during a 2002 interview in The , Ms. Charisse said that her husband, Mr. Martin, always knew whom she had been dancing with. “If I was black and blue,” she said, “it was Gene. And if it was Fred, I didn’t have a scratch.”

In a 1992 interview with The Times, she remembered dancing with Astaire to the demanding choreography, by Eugene Loring and Hermes Pan, in “Silk Stockings” and said admiringly, “Fred moved like glass.”

As it turned out, “Silk Stockings” was her last major musical. She appeared in a few more movies, chiefly in dramatic roles in films like (1958) and (1962). She and Mr. Martin took their nightclub act to and other cities. Her last film was an Italian drama, (1989).

Ms. Charisse made her belated Broadway debut in 1992 in when she replaced Liliane Montevecchi in the leading role of a famous but aging ballerina in 1920s . “I think that in all my dancing I play a role,” she told The Times that year. “To me, that’s what dancing is about. It’s not just steps.”
510 2008-06-18 That gave Mr. Shaw, who now works in operations for a Wall Street investment firm, another idea for Mr. Randolph. “Maybe, drunk, dial and ask him for a job,” he said.

Mr. Torre is the manager of the . Mr. Randolph was a bench coach for the in 2004, when Mr. Torre was the manager. Last year, Mr. Torre endured that particularly New York ritual, torture by . But he quickly signed on with the Dodgers.

When asked about Mr. Randolph’s situation, some mentioned that , who was ousted as ’s campaign manager in February, was joining Senator ’s campaign as the chief of staff to the vice-presidential candidate, whoever it turns out to be. And Patricia J. Lancaster, the city buildings commissioner who resigned in April under pressure from City Hall, now works for the , a major real estate developer. She did not return a call for comment.

Annabelle Gurwitch, the editor of “Fired! Tales of the Canned, Canceled, Downsized, and Dismissed,” said Mr. Randolph’s departure from the Mets “is a good-news story for him.”

“This is nothing bad,” she said. “Anybody can be fired by some minor-league team, but to get fired by the Mets, this is a huge achievement. Before I got fired by , I got fired from a play I wasn’t getting paid for. Getting fired from a non-name director in a terrible play, I got no mileage out of it. Getting fired by Woody, I got a book of it, I made a documentary, I toured the country, I have a Web site. So I’m very excited for Willie Randolph.”

There were those who said the Mets had treated Mr. Randolph poorly.

Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth — “I’m the only person who’s ever been fired twice by ” on she said, adding, “as if once wasn’t enough”— called Mr. Randolph’s dismissal “cold-blooded.” Her advice? “Take lemons and make a glass of lemonade,” she said. “He needs to serve it up icy cold, because that’s exactly what they did to him when they fired him at 3 in the morning.” (That is, of course, 3 a.m. Eastern time. It was only midnight in California.)

There were those who said the Mets had plenty of reasons to part company with Mr. Randolph — 35 reasons this season (the number of games the Mets had lost). The team was tied with the for third place in the National League East, 6 ½ games out of first. The Mets were just under .500 for the season, having won 34 games.

There were those who remembered the Mets’ implosion last season, when they lost 12 of their final 17 games and any hope of going to the World Series.

But Dominick Perrone’s advice was that Mr. Randolph should not to be too hard on himself. Mr. Perrone said he had learned that lesson after he was fired from his job as a waiter for eating a chicken wing — from a plate he was delivering to a customer’s table.

“I was just so hungry,” said Mr. Perrone, now a plumber who was working in Forest Hills, , on Tuesday. “I grabbed a boneless wing and ate it.”

His boss saw him chewing. “That was it,” Mr. Perrone said.

Carlos Sobers has been on the other side, having to handle what he called “personnel problems” when he was the manager of a professional baseball team in in the 1970s. One player who did not last long on his team, the Esso , ran directly from home plate to second base without touching first. “He lied,” Mr. Sobers said. “He didn’t know how to play baseball.”

Mr. Sobers and his friends in Flatbush, , said highly paid players had undermined Mr. Randolph. “I think these guys — Reyes, Delgado, Beltran — they’re doing a lot of things to get up on Willie,” Mr. Sobers said. “You’ve got to get up and light a fire under those guys.”

, the former New York police commissioner who is now the chief in , advised leaving “gracefully.” He also said, “One door closes, another door opens.” The dust-up with then-Mayor that led to Chief Bratton’s resignation in 1996 —“I left before death by a thousand cuts” — also led, eventually, to the job in Los Angeles.

“I’ve had a very successful — so far — six years out here,” he said on Tuesday, “so life is good.”

Like Chief Bratton, Natalia Kozikowska said that something else would come along.

“I was fired by my church,” she said.

She was a secretary at the rectory and missed a shift because she was away on vacation.

“I thought my co-workers had it covered,” she said, recalling her surprise at being confronted by her boss, a “grumpy old woman” who said Ms. Kozikowska was no longer needed and was “an irresponsible girl.”

“It’s their loss,” said Ms. Kozikowska, who soon found a new job as a cashier at a flower shop in Queens. She said Mr. Randolph should take a cue from her and “see what other opportunities are out there.”

Which is what August Mintz did when he was laid off from a Toys “R” Us. But he managed to get one last day’s worth of satisfaction.

The manager fired Mr. Mintz at 10 a.m., telling him to leave the store immediately, Mr. Mintz did. He did not bother to punch his timecard, which meant that Toys “R” Us paid him for the full day.

Hewitt, who was fired from his job as an office assistant and receptionist in Brooklyn in April, knows the world-turned-upside-down feeling that comes with leaving a job under unpleasant circumstances. Mr. Randolph, he said, “just has to go about his business.”

Mr. Hewitt was going about his business on Tuesday, checking on leads for new jobs at the Upper Workforce1 Career Center on West 125th Street.

He said that in the days after he was let go, he had spent a lot of time playing “Guitar Hero 3” on his Xbox 360 video console.

He was asked if playing video games might help Mr. Randolph move beyond the initial shock of being let go.
511 2008-06-18 Stocks tumbled Tuesday after a troubling reading on wholesale inflation underscored the drag of high energy prices on the economy. The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 100 points.

The Labor Department said its index of producer prices jumped 1.4 percent in May, the largest increase since November.

The core Producer Price Index, which strips out often volatile food and energy prices, rose by a mild 0.2 percent. But Wall Street remains concerned that companies are having to swallow ballooning costs and may soon be forced to pass them on to customers. Although crude dipped to about $134 a barrel Tuesday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, it remains near record levels.

Subodh Kumar, global investment strategist at Subodh Kumar & Associates in Toronto, said inflation concerns were weighing on stocks as investors tried to readjust their models to factor in the effects of energy prices staying high.

Goldman Sachs, despite posting a less-than-expected 11 percent decline in quarterly profit, aggravated jitters by releasing a downbeat report on the broader banking industry. The report estimated that credit losses from deterioration in the mortgage and lending markets would not peak until early 2009, and that American banks, having already raised about $120 billion in capital, would need to raise an additional $65 billion.
512 2008-06-18 More fundamental, Mr. Bush’s powers do not supersede laws passed by Congress or the Constitution’s protections against unreasonable searches and .

The ensuing debate did turn up an Internet-age problem with FISA: It requires a warrant to eavesdrop on foreign communications that go through American computers. There was an easy fix, but when Congress made it last year, the White House muscled in amendments that seriously diluted the courts’ ability to restrain the government from spying on its own citizens.

That law expires on Aug. 3, and Mr. Bush is demanding even more power to spy. He also wants for the telecommunications companies that provided the government with Americans’ private data without a warrant after Sept. 11.

Lawsuits against those companies are the best hope of finding out the extent of Mr. Bush’s lawless spying. But Democratic leaders in Congress are reported to have agreed to a phony compromise drafted by Senator Christopher Bond, the Republican vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee.

Under the so-called compromise, the question of immunity would be decided by a federal district court — a concession by Mr. Bond, who originally wanted the FISA court, which meets in secret and is unsuited to the task, to decide. What is unacceptable, though, is that the district court would be instructed to decide based solely on whether the Bush administration certifies that the companies were told the spying was legal. If the aim is to allow a court hearing on the president’s spying, the lawsuits should be allowed to proceed — and the courts should be able to resolve them the way they resolve every other case. Republicans, who complain about judges making laws from the bench, should not be making judicial decisions from Capitol Hill.

This week, House and Senate leaders were trying to allay the concerns of some lawmakers that approving the immunity would be tantamount to retroactively declaring the spying operation to have been legal. Those lawmakers are right. Granting the corporations immunity would send that exact message.

The new bill has other problems. It gives the government too much leeway to acquire communications in the United States without individual warrants or even a showing of probable cause. It greatly reduces judicial review, and it would remain in force for six years, which is too long.

If Congress cannot pass a clean bill that fixes the one real problem with FISA, it should simply extend the temporary authorization. At a minimum, the House speaker, , and the Senate majority leader, , should oppose FISA expansion and pledge to revisit it next year. If any significant changes are going to be made, they should be made under the next president.

There are clear differences between the candidates. Senator , who is sounding more like Mr. Bush every day, believes the president has the power to eavesdrop on Americans without a warrant.

Senator opposes immunity and voted against the temporary expansion of FISA. We hope he will show strong leadership this time. He might even take time off from the campaign to vote against the disturbing deal brewing in the back rooms of Congress.
513 2008-06-18 The American Red Cross and Johnson & Johnson, the health care conglomerate, announced Tuesday that they had settled a longstanding dispute over use of the Red Cross trademark.

The two sides announced the settlement a month after Judge Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court in Manhattan threw out much of J.& J.’s trademark claim against the relief organization.

Terms of the settlement were not disclosed, but according to a statement, it includes an agreement that both parties will continue to use the symbol — a Greek red cross on a white background.

Johnson & Johnson sued the Red Cross last August, claiming that the organization’s decision to use the Red Cross symbol on products sold in stores was a violation of a longstanding arrangement. Under that arrangement, the company had used the trademark commercially on products like Band-Aids while the Red Cross used it as a symbol of its disaster relief mission.

But beginning in 2004, the Red Cross started licensing the symbol to other companies for use on commercial items sold in stores as part of the organization’s fund-raising program. J.& J. argued that the organization had promised not to engage in certain commercial activity, according to court papers.

Judge Rakoff, however, ruled that a Congressional charter gave the Red Cross the right to use the symbol even for business purposes.
514 2008-06-18 A judge dismissed on Tuesday a suit by a former New York Post gossip writer who accused Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Bill Clinton, The Daily News and others of conspiring to ruin his reputation.

The writer, Jared Paul Stern, who was the subject of a federal extortion investigation two years ago, raised six claims against the defendants, including defamation and infliction of emotional distress. But Justice Walter B. Tolub of State Supreme Court in Manhattan dismissed all of Mr. Stern’s claims, which were contained in a complaint filed by his lawyer that the judge called “a political diatribe.”

In an 11-page decision granting the defendants’ motion to dismiss the suit, Justice Tolub was critical of Mr. Stern’s failure to detail the precise statements and actions that he claimed were defamatory. He said that Mr. Stern’s complaint read like a Mickey Spillane novel.

“Indeed, the court is sorely tempted to dismiss the complaint” without further explanation, “as it fails, for the most part, to detail the specific acts to enable the defendants a fair opportunity to defend,” Justice Tolub wrote. The other defendants were Ronald W. Burkle, a supermarket magnate from California; Frank Renzi, a former Secret Service agent who Mr. Stern said was part of the conspiracy; Michael S. Sitrick, a public relations consultant who was said to have worked for Mr. Burkle; and William Sherman, a reporter for The Daily News.

Jennifer Mauer, a spokeswoman for The Daily News, said, “We are pleased with the decision.”

Frank Quintero, a lawyer for Mr. Burkle, said, “We are obviously pleased, and we said from the start that the lawsuit had no merit.”
515 2008-06-18 Senator John McCain of Arizona began running this commercial on Tuesday on cable news and in closely contested states like Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania, where his advertisements have been running for the past couple of weeks.

ON THE SCREEN The spot opens with a frenetic series of images of industry and nature: Smoke stacks and mountains, traffic and streams and, finally, a huge, orange setting sun. It then shows Mr. McCain at a lectern with an image of a newspaper headline — “McCain Climate Views Clash with G.O.P.” — below him and in the background. It then shows images of alternative energy sources — wind turbines, a solar panel — before switching to a shot of Mr. McCain standing on a mountain. Before the commercial ends with the standard candidate approval, it flashes a new slogan against the bright blue sky beside Mr. McCain, “Reform. Prosperity. Peace.”

THE SCRIPT A female announcer says, “John McCain stood up to the president and sounded the alarm on global warming five years ago. Today, he has a realistic plan that will curb greenhouse gas emissions. A plan that will help grow our economy and protect our environment. Reform. Prosperity. Peace. John McCain.” Mr. McCain says, “I’m John McCain, and I approve this message.”

ACCURACY In 2003 Mr. McCain joined with Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, then a Connecticut Democrat, to draft a bill requiring industries to cut emissions of carbon dioxide. The White House frowned on the bill, and it did not win Senate approval. Mr. McCain has also joined with Democrats in supporting the idea of a system allowing power plants and other industrial polluters to buy credits from more efficient producers that fall well below limits on emitting heat-trapping gases. But Democrats and some environmentalists have criticized him for missing votes on bills setting stricter fuel standards and for opposing incentives devised to promote energy conservation and the development of energy alternatives, like the wind turbines and solar panels shown in this commercial. (Mr. McCain’s campaign did not respond to requests for comment on those criticisms on Tuesday, but he has generally favored market approaches to foster energy alternatives.)

SCORECARD This spot does a good job promoting a major policy difference between Mr. McCain and President Bush (not to mention most of the rest of his party.) Promoting that rift could certainly help increase Mr. McCain’s appeal to the independent voters over whom he and Senator Barack Obama are expected to fight intensely this fall. But his call this week to lift the federal moratorium on oil and gas exploration and give individual states the right to decide if they wanted to allow drilling off their coasts, which is also being considered by Mr. Bush and is not highlighted in this commercial, may undercut its message. Regardless, the spot, with its “reform, prosperity, peace” tagline, is decidedly more upbeat than Mr. McCain’s last commercial, which was somber in tone and focused on war.
516 2008-06-18 Villa understands that the explosive growth of women’s soccer and softball in the United States was fueled by the gold medals the national teams won in Atlanta in 1996. She is eager to see if water polo gold, which the United States won at the 2007 Pan American Games, will lead to more trash cans being dropped into swimming pools throughout the country.

“It’s our country and our culture — it’s gold or it doesn’t matter,” said Villa, 28, who has earned bronze and silver medals in the last two Olympics. “To me, it’s my hope to bring home that gold medal. Then we’ll see. We’ll see if that’s what we needed all along to get our sport to be a national sport, not a California sport.”

Few places have Commerce’s water polo heritage or infrastructure. The city has a median family income of only $34,040, but children play water polo free year-round in a $20 million facility built with water polo in mind. The pool is designed to Olympic specifications and occasionally hosts the national team.

The city pays for its youth players to take bus trips to tournaments, their entry fees and for pool time. All a child needs is a bathing suit — and the cost of that is sometimes covered by booster clubs.

“We’re surrounded by areas prevalent in gangs and we’re very fortunate we don’t have gang problems in Commerce,” said Jim Jimenez, the director of parks and recreation, who has worked in the department for 35 years. “Our kids are kept busy in swim lessons and water polo and other things. It’s a community effort and it shows.”

Villa and Cardenas are first-generation Mexican-Americans. Cardenas’s parents and Villa’s mother have roots in the Mexican town of Tecalitlán. In Commerce, their mothers worked as cleaners, and Villa and Cardenas stumbled into water polo by tagging along with their older brothers. Before long, their weekends were crammed with as many as 10 games. The pool became their social hub.

“It was the thing to do,” Villa said.

Villa competed with and against boys at Bell Gardens High School, enduring plenty of snide comments. But the competition only improved her game, helping her develop the smarts and instincts that have contributed to her becoming one of the best players in the world despite being just 5 feet 4 inches.

“She’s small,” United States Coach Guy Baker said. “But she makes up for it with intelligence and being deceptively strong for her size.”

Villa, who played at Stanford, is a celebrity in Commerce, and is called upon to appear for Cinco de Mayo, Fourth of July and Mexican independence day celebrations.

Villa is so revered that when Cardenas spoke recently to a fifth-grade class in Commerce, the first question was, “Do you know Brenda Villa?” When Cardenas laughed and answered yes, the students, in unison, said, “Wow!”

“Their inspiration is immeasurable,” said Gabriel Martinez, one of the city’s full-time youth water polo coaches. “We ask the girls before the season who their heroes are, in and out of the water. One hundred percent say Brenda and Patty.”

Bell Gardens formed a girls water polo program when Cardenas, who is 23, was a freshman. By the time she graduated, the team had won four California Interscholastic Federation titles and lost just three games.

Like Villa, Cardenas spent her childhood playing with boys and being toughened up by her older brothers. One brother, Ivan, would kneel on her arms to execute something he called the Happy Slapper, which involved him slapping her face until she screamed for help.

Cardenas became so tough that after the webbing between her toes was ripped open during a youth game, she insisted on being taped up so she could continue playing.

Now a senior at Southern California, Cardenas will be playing in her first Olympics. She plans to continue competing through the London Games in 2012.

Water polo may be a fixture in Commerce, but it is not nearly as popular in the rest of the United States. None of the members of the women’s national team have the individual sponsorships that are common in swimming, soccer and gymnastics.

The team’s training headquarters is on a military base in Los Alamitos, Calif., a step down from the facility in Commerce. As the national team finished practice there one day recently, children paddled around on kickboards for swim lessons. The backdrop includes soldiers running and shouting, “I don’t know what I’ve been told,” and the constant reverberations from landing helicopters.

The spartan facility is a window into the sometimes thankless world of Olympic training. The United States Olympic Committee pays each athlete $2,500 a month, which does not support a glamorous Southern California existence.

“Obviously, we’re not in this sport to make money,” said Villa, who has played professionally in Sicily. “I’m grateful. It paid for school and I’ve traveled the world playing this sport. I think if more people knew how cool and special and unique the sport is, more people would play.

“But we’re not in it to be Shaq or Kobe status,” she added.

For now, Villa and Cardenas will settle for having that level of status in Commerce, for being contributors to an impressive legacy that sprung from the humblest of beginnings.

“The program there has just boomed,” Nitta said. “Every major youth national championship, whatever age group it is, Commerce is right up there.”

She paused and smiled. “And it all started with trash cans,” she said.
517 2008-06-18 “What we didn’t want is to have the distraction of being public and to be worried by quarterly performance,” said Dan Nye, the buttoned-down chief executive of LinkedIn, who would not be caught dead in the Birkenstocks and rumpled T-shirts favored by MySpace and Facebook employees.

LinkedIn, which says it is already profitable, will use the investment to make acquisitions and expand its overseas operations.

“We want to create a broad and critical business tool that is used by tens of millions of business professionals every day to make them better at what they do,” Mr. Nye said.

The average age of a LinkedIn user is 41, the point in life where people are less likely to build their digital identities around dates, parties and photos of revelry.

LinkedIn gives professionals, even the most hopeless wallflower, a painless way to follow the advice of every career counselor: build a network. Users maintain online résumés, establish links with colleagues and business acquaintances and then expand their networks to the contacts of their contacts. The service also helps them search for experts who can help them solve daily business problems.

The four-year-old site is decidedly antisocial: only last fall, after what executives describe as a year of intense debate, did the company ask members to add photos to their profiles.

That business-only-please strategy appears to be paying off. The number of people using LinkedIn, based in Mountain View, Calif., tripled in May over the previous year, according to Nielsen Online. At 23 million members, LinkedIn remains far smaller than Facebook and MySpace, each with 115 million members, but it is growing considerably faster.

LinkedIn also has a more diversified approach to making money than its entertainment-oriented rivals, which are struggling to bring in ad dollars and keep up with inflated expectations for increased revenue.

LinkedIn will get only a quarter of its projected $100 million in revenue this year from ads. (It places ads from companies like Microsoft and on profile pages.) Other moneymakers include premium subscriptions, which let users directly contact any user on the site instead of requiring an introduction from another member.

A third source of revenue is recruitment tools that companies can use to find people who may not even be actively looking for new jobs. Companies pay to search for candidates with specific skills, and each day, they get new prospects as people who fit their criteria join LinkedIn.

LinkedIn is set to undergo a radical shift in strategy to find other sources of revenue. Instead of catering primarily to individual white-collar workers, the site will soon introduce new services aimed at companies. It is a risky move that could alienate members who prefer to use the networking site to network — without their bosses peering over their shoulders.

One new product, Company Groups, automatically gathers all the employees from a company who use LinkedIn into a single, private Web forum. Employees can pose questions to each other, and share and discuss news articles about their industry.

Soon, LinkedIn plans to add additional features, like a group calendar, and let independent developers contribute their own programs that will allow employees to collaborate on projects.

The idea is to let firms exploit their employees’ social connections, institutional memories and special skills — knowledge that large, geographically dispersed companies often have a difficult time obtaining.

For example, in a test of the feature by AKQA, a digital ad agency in San Francisco, an employee based in recently asked her 350 colleagues on LinkedIn if the firm had done any previous work for television production companies. Executives in San Francisco, New York and promptly responded to the query.

“This is a collected, protected space for employees to talk to each other and reference outside information,” said Reid Hoffman, LinkedIn’s founder and chairman.

Becoming even more corporate is something of a gamble for LinkedIn. Many companies might resist the idea of confidential corporate information circulating on LinkedIn’s servers — and perhaps being exposed to former employees who are included in the group because they have not updated their LinkedIn résumés. (LinkedIn says every member of a company group can remove people whom they identify as former workers or interlopers.)

Diffusing the purpose of the site might also repel some users.

“It will be extraordinarily challenging to simultaneously serve as a corporate tool and yet promote the ‘brand of me’ in an emerging free-agent nation,” said Keith Rabois, a former LinkedIn executive who is now vice president at Slide, a maker of applications for social networks.

Jeffrey Glass, a partner at Bain Capital, says his firm invested in LinkedIn primarily because it is now becoming popular enough to introduce these kinds of products to companies and other organizations, like universities.

“This is a powerful tool because inside the corporation, there are massive bodies of knowledge and relationships between individuals that the corporation has been unable to take advantage of until now,” he said.

The new services could help LinkedIn fend off some new competition. Microsoft, long covetous of rapidly growing social-networking properties, is internally testing a service called TownSquare that allows employees of a company to follow one another’s activities on the corporate network.

Executives at Facebook, meanwhile, have recently said that they see networking tools for professionals as a primary avenue of growth. The site recently added networking to the list of options that new users select when they are asked to specify what they intend to do on the site.

Mr. Hoffman was an early investor in Facebook and says he does not want to disparage the competition. But he said that most members of Facebook who are older than 30 use it for entertainment, like playing Scrabulous, a version of Scrabble — not for doing their jobs.

“Scrabulous is not work, and it does not enable you to be an effective professional,” he said.
518 2008-06-18 A new study argues that the nation’s focus on helping students who are furthest behind may have produced a Robin Hood effect, yielding steady academic gains for low-achieving students in recent years at the expense of top students.

The study, to be released on Wednesday, compared trends in scores on federal tests for the bottom 10 percent of students nationwide with those for the top 10 percent and said those at the bottom moved up faster than those at the top.

In tests of fourth-grade reading from 2000 to 2007, for instance, the scores of the lowest-achieving students increased by 16 points on a 280-point scale, compared with a gain of three points for top-achieving students, according to the study, by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a research organization in Washington.

The period of big gains for low achievers and minimal ones for high achievers coincides with the federal education law known as No Child Left Behind, which took effect in 2002. The study said that while it was impossible to know whether the law caused those scoring patterns, such a result would hardly be surprising, since the law made it a goal to reduce the gap separating low-scoring, poor and minority students from higher-scoring white students.

Under the law, schools are required to bring increasing percentages of students to proficiency in reading and math each year or face sanctions that can include the firing of staff members. As a result, many schools organize instruction around helping low-performing students reach minimal proficiency.
519 2008-06-18 After losing support from the Swiss bank UBS last fall, the UBS Verbier Festival Orchestra has raised about $1.4 million to continue its operations. Half the money came from public funds and the rest from foundations and private individuals, the festival’s founder and director, Martin Engstrom, said on Tuesday. UBS, which had invested nearly $10 million a year in the orchestra, has transferred its support to a rival Swiss festival in Lucerne. The orchestra still needs to raise about $720,000 to support its orchestra and chamber music activities, Mr. Engstrom said. The Verbier orchestra, a training ensemble based at the Verbier Festival in Switzerland, was founded by the bank and the festival in 2000. After this summer it will stop using UBS in its name. It consists of musicians under 30 who are coached by principal players from the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra.
520 2008-06-18 Mr. Gates, a former university president with a degree in Soviet and Russian history, has a particularly personal stake in the program, Mr. Mahnken said. “He was a beneficiary of the investment made by the government during the cold war,” he said, adding that Mr. Gates was determined to repair the “bridges that used to exist between academics and the government that have fallen into the river.”

Cooperation between universities and the Pentagon has long been a contentious issue, and the recent death of Michael V. Bhatia, the first death of a civilian scholar working with combat troops in Afghanistan, has raised academics’ sensitivities on the issue. Mr. Bhatia, a 31-year-old graduate student in political science, was working on a completely different project when he was killed by a roadside bomb last month.

“I am all in favor of having lots of researchers trying to figure out why terrorists want to kill Americans,” said Hugh Gusterson, an anthropologist at George Mason University. “But how can you make sure you get a broad spectrum of opinion and find the best people? On both counts, I don’t think the Pentagon is the way to go.”

Mr. Gusterson is a founder of the Network of Concerned Anthropologists, which was created because of a growing unease among scholars about cooperating with the Defense Department.

The American Anthropological Association, an 11,000-member organization, has also told administration officials that while research on these issues is essential, Defense Department money could compromise quality and independence because of the department’s inexperience with social science. “There was pretty general agreement that this was an issue we should weigh in on,” said Setha M. Low, the organization’s president, who contacted dozens of anthropologists about it.

In its written call for proposals, the department said Minerva was seeking scholars who can, for example, translate original documents, including those captured in Iraq; study changes in the People’s Liberation Army as China shifts to a more open political system; and explain the resurgence of the Taliban. The department is also looking for computational models that could illuminate how groups make what seem to be irrational decisions, and decipher the way the brain processes social and cultural norms.

Mr. Gates has stressed the importance of devoting resources to what he calls “ ‘soft power’, the elements of national power beyond the guns and steel of the military.”

Toward that end, he contacted Robert M. Berdahl, the president of the Association of American Universities — which represents 60 of the top research universities in the country — in December to help design Minerva. A former chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, and a past president of the University of Texas at Austin, Mr. Berdahl knew Mr. Gates from when the defense secretary served on the association’s board.

In January Mr. Berdahl and a small group of senior scholars and university administrators met in Washington with Defense Department officials. Also there was Graham Spanier, the president of Penn State University and the association’s chairman. He said the scholars helped refine the guidelines, advising that the research be open and unclassified.

As for the issue of Pentagon financing, Mr. Spanier said, “Peer review is a good idea, but there are many different ways to do that.” He added, “We have pledged to go back and recommend individuals who could help in that process.”

“The beauty of Minerva,” Mr. Spanier said, “is that it provides a lot of opportunity for people in the social sciences and humanities to solve national-security-related questions.”

Mr. Berdahl said some participants favored having the National Science Foundation or a similar nonmilitary federal organization, rather than the Pentagon, distribute Minerva money. “It would be a good way to proceed, because they’ve had a lot of experience with social science,” he said.

In a speech to the Association of American Universities in April, Mr. Gates said, “The key principle of all components of the Minerva Consortia will be complete openness and rigid adherence to academic freedom and integrity.” At a time when political campaigns have treated the word elitist as an epithet, he quoted the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr.’s statement that the United States “must return to the acceptance of eggheads and ideas” to meet national security threats.

“We are interested in furthering our knowledge of these issues and in soliciting diverse points of view, regardless of whether those views are critical of the department’s efforts,” Mr. Gates added.

In response to Mr. Gates’s speech, the American Anthropological Association sent a letter to administration officials saying that it is of “paramount importance” that anthropologists study the roots of terrorism and violence, but adding, “We are deeply concerned that funding such research through the Pentagon may pose a potential conflict of interest and undermine the practices of peer review.”

Mr. Gusterson, who says he is worried that the Pentagon will end up scaring off some voices and limiting the full range of opinion on a subject, said the project was “assigning the recruitment task to the agency that doesn’t know how to do this and ignoring the ones that do.”

“One reason the State Department misread Vietnam so badly in the early 1960s is that the liberal experts on East Asia were purged under McCarthyism,” he said. “I fear that a conversation about the sources of violence and terrorism run under the auspices of the Pentagon might be similarly misshapen.”

John D. Kelly, chairman of the anthropology department at the University of Chicago, said the research subjects were good. But he cautioned that by focusing, for example, on military technology, “we might simultaneously misunderstand what’s happening in China and cause the Chinese to feel that we have identified them as a threat.”

Anthropologists have been especially outspoken about the Pentagon’s Human Terrain Teams, a two-year-old program that pairs anthropologists and other social scientists with combat units in Afghanistan and Iraq, and in which Mr. Bhatia was participating at the time of his death.

As for Minerva, many scholars said routing the money through the National Science Foundation or a similar institution would go a long way toward easing most of their concerns.

To Mr. Spanier of Penn State, the answer to scholars who oppose Pentagon financing is simple: “Those who don’t want to do their research in the context of Department of Defense funding shouldn’t apply.”
521 2008-06-18 Despite his awesome sacrifice, in the wake of the Iraq tragedy we must acknowledge that John McCain learned exactly the wrong lesson from Vietnam. It is not unpatriotic to denounce your country’s decision to prosecute an immoral war.

What is unpatriotic is precisely to stand by and allow your country to sully its honor with the needless bloodshed of innocents, all the while consoling yourself that your silence must be admirable because its personal costs are so high.

Ironically, Mr. McCain’s opponent in this year’s presidential election, Barack Obama, did not need to endure Mr. McCain’s long suffering to draw the appropriate lesson from it: what we need is not to convince our soldiers that the wrong wars are right, so that as prisoners they will not crack under savage mistreatment; what we need to is to ensure that we ourselves do not betray our soldiers by squandering their lives and their heroic valiance in what Mr. Obama has called “a dumb war.”

Courage is no substitute for intelligence; ignorance is not strength.

Among the “welter” of emotions revealed in John McCain’s 1974 thesis was “a sharp impatience with the American government” during the war in Vietnam “for failing to ‘explain to its people, young and old, some basic facts of its foreign policy.’ ”
522 2008-06-18 The French authorities have detained another executive in connection with an insider trading investigation at European Aeronautic Defense and Space, the parent of the plane maker Airbus.

A spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office said Tuesday that Jean-Paul Gut, a former chief operating officer of EADS, had been detained on Monday, and that his detention had been extended for another day. Under French law, Mr. Gut must be released after 48 hours — Wednesday morning — unless preliminary charges are brought.

In a statement released by his lawyers, Mr. Gut said he wanted to be interviewed by the investigating magistrates “as quickly as possible,” to clear his name and refute “malicious leaks.”

The statement said Mr. Gut would demonstrate that the stock option dealings in question complied with securities laws and with regulations at EADS, and that he did not benefit from any insider information.

Mr. Gut, 46, left the company last year in a dispute over strategy and has since started an aerospace consulting firm in London. EADS executives declined to comment.
523 2008-06-18 In a separate report on Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that home construction fell in May to its lowest point in 17 years. It came as little surprise that the housing industry was hurting, but the decline in groundbreakings suggested that the market was unlikely to make a recovery anytime soon.

Groundbreakings, or housing starts, dipped 3.3 percent in May, to an annual rate of 975,000, the lowest level since March 1991. Declines occurred for single-family homes and apartment complexes alike.

Permits for groundbreakings, an earlier phase of the construction process, also declined for the month, slipping 1.3 percent, to a 969,000 annual rate. Permits for new condominiums, however, rose slightly.

The housing market has struggled through rising foreclosures and tighter lending standards, which has kept many Americans, even those with good credit, from obtaining mortgages. The result has been a buildup in home inventories that has depressed prices and discouraged building.

On Tuesday, investors focused on producer prices after Federal Reserve officials suggested that the central bank had shifted its attention to fighting inflation. Many investors now expect the Fed to raise interest rates by the end of the year.

The Producer Price Index has risen significantly over the last 12 months; from May 2007 to May 2008, producer prices grew 7.2 percent, and core prices were up 3 percent.

The price of wholesale gasoline alone rose 9.3 percent last month, the sharpest increase of any product. Residential gasoline prices rose 3.8 percent. Over all, the wholesale price of consumer goods increased by 1.8 percent. Prices for passenger cars, women’s clothing and computers dipped slightly, according to the Labor Department.

Other reports on Tuesday suggested further problems for businesses. Industrial production dropped 0.2 percent in May, the second month of declines, according to the Fed. Capacity utilization, a measure of efficiency in American industries, fell slightly, to 79.4 percent, from 79.6 percent in April.

“Export growth looks set to remain solid at least over the near term,” Mr. Shapiro wrote. But, he added, “an increasingly constrained consumer, deepening woes for the housing sector, and a desire to pare inventories will all weigh on manufacturing output.”

Separately, the Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit widened to $176.4 billion in the first three months of this year. The deficit, as measured by the current-account balance, was $167.2 billion in the final quarter of 2007.
524 2008-06-18 Even so, Goldman, like other banks, is reducing its reliance on leverage, or borrowed money, because of shareholder concern. Goldman sold about $100 billion in assets during the past quarter, dismissed or transferred some employees and slowed its stock repurchases. Like most of Wall Street, Goldman struggled in the fixed income and debt underwriting markets.

Any slip-up in profits in the coming year would cast doubt on the firm’s vaunted risk management, and some analysts are starting to look for more answers behind Goldman’s stellar numbers.

“How did they manage through this difficult period with so little in markdowns?” Michael Hecht, a Banc of America Securities analyst, said. “Everyone else is kind of opening up the kimono and giving us a lot more exposure than Goldman.”

Revenue at Goldman was $9.422 billion, down 7 percent from the $10.18 billion earned in the second quarter a year ago. Investment banking revenue, though, was down only 2 percent from that period last year, during the height of the leveraged buyout boom. During the latest quarter Goldman participated in big deals like taking Visa public and advising on the sale of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company to Mars Inc.

Goldman’s strongest growth was in its asset management unit, where revenue was $1.221 billion, up 10 percent from the period a year ago.

Goldman also managed to make money trading mortgages, Mr. Viniar said, as there was a distinct increase in liquidity in the mortgage markets. Goldman sold off $2.5 billion in commercial mortgages and $4 billion in residential mortgages, but turned over much higher multiples of those figures as an active trader in the market, he said.

“There were more sales, more buyers,” Mr. Viniar said of the mortgage market. “Real money flowed into that market.”

Goldman sold off about $100 billion in assets in a range of products to reduce leverage, as nearly every financial company is doing. The result of such asset sales, Mr. Viniar said, is “lots of cash sitting on the sidelines.”

He predicted that cash would be thrown back in the game when financial players start to believe conditions will improve. “It’s just a question of when it happens,” Mr. Viniar said.

Results were so good that analysts practically apologized for asking tough questions of Mr. Viniar. Glenn Schorr, the banking analyst at UBS, for instance, said during the call, “We pick apart other companies, so it’s only fair to give you a little bit.”

Like Lehman, Goldman lost some money because of ineffective hedges, which are financial bets that are supposed to counteract the effect of write-downs. In total, Goldman’s credit loss was $775 million, including $500 million from the hedges.

But Goldman’s prime brokerage business had a revenue increase of $425 million over the second quarter last year, a 33 percent increase. Goldman may have benefited from hedge funds that stopped using Bear Stearns’s brokerage services as well as from international growth.

One question on analysts’ minds is whether Goldman could be at risk if the commodities business flounders. Investors like George Soros are calling the commodities boom a bubble, and new regulations about speculation could cause a pullback in trading.

Goldman does not break out its commodities trading revenue, but Mr. Viniar tried to play down concerns, saying it does not make up a significant part of the firm’s fixed income earnings. He also said the commodities business had already dropped from its record performance in the first quarter.

With a bit of humor, Mr. Viniar said that one person Tuesday morning told him the earnings were ho-hum, to which he said: “Boring is good.”
525 2008-06-18 As the conventional wisdom has it, neither senator has been serious about the long-term budget deficit; both have made rosy assumptions about the revenue that will come from cracking down on waste, fraud, abuse, overseas tax loopholes and other vague fiscal bogeymen.

All this is true enough. Mr. Obama, for instance, relies on hypothetical savings from electronic medical records to claim that he can reduce the deficit, and he hasn’t been totally clear about his tax plans. But the unknowns about the McCain agenda are simply on a different scale.

So far, Mr. McCain is having it both ways. On the campaign trail, he has sounded like a bold tax cutter. To budget wonks, though, his campaign has gingerly inched away from those plans, saying details will be forthcoming. In the meantime, the most-cited analysis of his proposed budget doesn’t square with what he is saying on the stump.

Here, then, are three questions that I hope Mr. McCain will answer soon:

No. 1: Are you really going to eliminate the alternative minimum tax?

This tax, known as the A.M.T., was enacted in 1969 to prevent the very rich from claiming so many deductions that they avoided paying taxes. But because the A.M.T. wasn’t indexed to inflation, it has begun to ensnare more people. If the law isn’t changed, one in four households will pay the tax this year.

Mr. McCain, in speeches, is perfectly clear about what he wants to do: “Abolish the A.M.T.,” as he said to a conservative group. Yet his campaign told the Tax Policy Center that “Senator McCain does not plan to repeal the individual A.M.T.”

So what’s going on here?

In the fine print of his plan, he doesn’t abolish the tax. Instead, he “patches” it, so that it would continue to apply to roughly the same number of households as it did last year — about one out of every 30. (Mr. Obama’s A.M.T. proposal isn’t so different.) The trick is that no one would actually pay the tax under the McCain plan. As Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a campaign adviser, explained to me, anyone hit by the A.M.T. could opt into Mr. McCain’s voluntary, simplified tax system, where their taxes would be lower.

Of course, no matter what it’s called, an effective elimination of the A.M.T. will cost the government a lot of money — about $60 billion a year. As a point of comparison, the entire deficit is projected to be $300 billion a year during the next president’s first term.

No. 2: Are you serious about tax simplification?

If I told you that you could choose between two different set of tax rules, I’m guessing that you would pick the one that required you to pay less in taxes. Such a system, then, would have to cost the Treasury a good bit of cash. It’s inherent.

Fred Thompson, during his brief campaign, proposed a system along these lines, and the Tax Policy Center estimated that it would have increased the deficit by some $600 billion a year. “It would be the largest tax cut ever, by a large margin,” said the center’s director, Len Burman (who, I should add, has been careful to note what his calculations do and do not include).

The McCain campaign says its proposal won’t be the same as Mr. Thompson’s, but the two certainly are similar. Mr. Holtz-Eakin is responsible for coming up with the details, he said, and he is under orders “to make it revenue neutral.” That means the plan will pay for itself — that it will include tax increases to offset the reductions. When Mr. McCain describes those increases, you’ll know he’s serious about tax simplification.

No. 3: Are you going to use gimmicks to make your numbers add up?

In 2001, President Bush signed a 10-year tax cut with a novel feature. In the final years of the cut — 2009 through 2011 — it began disappearing, making the cost look smaller than it otherwise would have. Now that those final years have arrived, however, Mr. Bush argues that Congress should restore the tax cut.

Mr. McCain agrees. To do otherwise would amount to an economically damaging tax increase, he says. Once a tax has been cut, in other words, it should not rise again.

Yet his campaign agenda includes one of these same sunset provisions (which wasn’t apparent until the Tax Policy Center analysis came out). The new rule on corporate deductions for equipment lasts only until 2013, when the old rule — with its higher taxes — returns. This gimmick, obviously, helps reduces the proposal’s apparent cost.

The most disconcerting part of these contradictions is that Mr. McCain could legitimately run as a fiscal conservative, willing to tell hard truths. He has consistently opposed wasteful earmarks. He voted against the pork-laden farm bill last month, while Mr. Obama voted for it. Unlike Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain isn’t proposing more than $200 billion a year in new spending, on health care and the like.

The Obama campaign claims it can pay for all this, and even reduce the deficit, through tax increases and spending cuts. I think a more skeptical look at its budget leaves you worried it may add something like $50 billion a year to the deficit. But applying the same arched brow to Mr. McCain’s stated plans leaves you worried that he will add $200 billion or $300 billion or, depending on his voluntary tax system, even more.

Mr. Holtz-Eakin told me that a McCain administration would balance the budget and that, in time, the campaign would make the details clear. “It’s just June,” he said. Fair enough. But Mr. McCain’s own words have left him a very big fiscal hole to fill.
526 2008-06-18 The way Randolph was fired conjured images of the way the Irsay family sneaked the Baltimore Colts out of town and moved them to Indianapolis in a similar weak-kneed, early-morning escapade.

So why did the Mets — Minaya — allow Randolph, one of the truly class individuals in baseball, to fly 3,000 miles across the country, allow him to manage a game, then fire him around midnight?

On Sunday, Randolph said, he asked Minaya to pull the trigger if that’s what he had in mind. “I actually asked him,” Randolph said, “I said: ‘Omar, do this now. If you’re going to do this, do this now. I know you’ve got a lot of pressure on you, but if I’m not the guy to lead this team, then don’t let me get on this plane.’ I did say that to him.”

Minaya said he had not made up his mind until Monday, and even if he had done so Sunday, he said, there was too much to coordinate: putting a new manager in place and flying the coaches from their minor league teams to California. But the major reason seemed to be Minaya’s reluctance to make a good friend — and his hire — walk the plank.

Still, this was an unseemly execution, and the Mets are going to have to deal with the perception that Randolph, a solid baseball man, was treated shabbily.

In fact, Minaya said that he wanted to give Randolph the news before word leaked out. He also said he did not want to fire Randolph before the game and have him go on the field and manage.

“I don’t believe in firing a manager after the game in uniform,” Minaya said. “That would be more disrespect to Willie Randolph. I am not going to fire Willie Randolph in uniform and have him out there. It’s going to be in confidence in a room in a hotel.”

Nevertheless, Randolph, a man with great credentials as a major leaguer and a World Series-caliber coach with the Yankees, was seemingly dragged through the mud by Minaya and the Wilpons.

“I know the perception is that the way it was handled was disrespectful,” Minaya said, referring to the midnight meeting after Monday’s game. “The reason it was handled quickly was out of respect for Willie.”

Asked if he thought “shabby” was too strong a word to characterize his treatment, Randolph chuckled and said, “That’s not strong enough.”

Minaya said he felt that it was not fair to the team, not fair to Randolph, not fair to the organization to continue to allow speculation to fester.

“I decided that I had to have closure to this,” Minaya said. He said he had promised Randolph that the moment he had an epiphany, he would let Randolph know.

The manner of Randolph’s firing seemed vindictive, payback for Randolph’s statements last month about race and complaints about the Mets’ television network, SNY, showing him in an unflattering light. Minaya said the comments “added to the tension.”

Minaya said he had two choices: he could name Randolph manager for the rest of the season, or he could fire him. The decision lingered.

“As the general manager of this team,” Minaya said, “I decided that he was not going to be our manager, that I felt we needed to go in a different direction.”

Randolph said he was stunned by the dismissal. “I didn’t see this coming,” Randolph said. “When I spoke to Omar the day before I knew there might be some changes, but I got the feeling I was safe. I thought that maybe to the Yankees series or at least to the All-Star break.”

The only thing that made this debacle palatable is that Randolph’s replacement is Jerry Manuel. Manuel is an equally decent baseball lifer who was manager of the year with the Chicago White Sox in 2000.

Manuel tried to show his stern side when he ordered a television anchor to cease a live broadcast while the news conference was going on. When he stopped, Manuel said, “See, we can handle that.”

Getting José Reyes to grow up, Carlos Beltrán to bear down, Carlos Delgado to play with fire, the Mets to play better as a team will be a lot more of a challenge.

Managers are hired to be fired. But there is a tasteful way to do everything. The Mets yearn to be respected the way the Yankees are, but they continue to conduct the most public aspect of their business like minor leaguers. Once again, the franchise is the object of national derision.

Back in the day, the franchise was known as the stumbling, bumbling, but lovable Mets.

Without the love, now they simply stumble and bumble.
527 2008-06-18 Manuel said he viewed the team’s demise last September through a different prism than Randolph and, if he were managing during spring training, he would have harped on it more with the hopes of motivating the team to play better. Although he has a low-key personality that is similar to Randolph’s, Manuel’s intellectual interests and his ability, at times, to display a fiery temper set him apart from his friend and predecessor.

One example of the difference between the men came during the nationally televised game the Mets played in Yankee Stadium on May 18. When Carlos Delgado’s slicing liner to left was incorrectly ruled foul instead of a three-run homer, Randolph argued the call but was not ejected.

Manuel continued to plead the Mets’ case from the dugout, and he grew so passionate he was tossed from the game. For Randolph, being ejected always seemed as if he had lost control. Whereas Manuel, a man who has studied the lives of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr., feels he must go with the flow of the game, and if an outburst is called for, then so be it.

After that May 18 game, Randolph said that taking on an umpire, as Manuel had done, was more of a bench coach’s responsibility. But within the Mets’ clubhouse, the fact that Randolph did not strenuously argue the Delgado call was viewed as a missed opportunity for him to stand up for one of his struggling players.

In his three-plus seasons as Mets manager, Randolph fashioned himself as someone who communicated with his players, saying he knew them better than anyone. But in those hours when the clubhouse was open to reporters, the 54-year-old Manuel was often seen engaged in quiet conversation with the players.

“Being a coach, the relationship is a lot different,” Manuel said. “But I think at the same time they have to respect that. And now that you’ve moved into the office of manager, you haven’t changed, but there’s a definite line in the sand that has to be drawn as to how they can approach you and how you can approach them.”

Before games on the road, Manuel often sat in the stands near the visiting dugout reading whichever book he had brought with him. He has a wide-ranging collection: Cornel West, Reinhold Niebuhr and Gandhi are just three men whose thoughts and philosophies he says have influenced him. But his favorite, his inspiration, is King, so much so that he asked Aaron Heilman, the team’s resident technological wizard, to create a ring tone for his cellphone that played part of King’s “I Have a Dream” speech.

In spring 2007, Manuel had a Zen-like response when the former Met Cliff Floyd criticized Randolph’s handling the ninth inning of Game 7 of the 2006 National League Championship Series, when Floyd struck out as a pinch-hitter during a failed Mets rally. Asked about Floyd’s criticism, Manuel called it a “cloud with no rain,” an inkling he may think a bit differently than other coaches and managers.

Manuel can play it loose, too. During split-squad games in camp, Manuel would manage the B team, a group he affectionately called “the gangsters,” and even played along one morning by borrowing a fedora-like hat and modeling it in the clubhouse.

“That’s our in-house line,” Manuel said. “We do this all the time we say, ‘Gangsters get on the field, ladies get on the bus.’ Done that for a while.”

He then nodded and waved at his wife, Renette, who was in the audience, before continuing. “We do those things. It’s about having fun. We’re going to try to perform for the fans in New York. That’s a tremendous responsibility that we do it right for the people in New York.”

Manuel’s name surfaced as a managerial candidate for other teams after the 2006 season, but he was never asked for an interview. All along, though, he has said that he had a backup plan. If he was not managing a major league team by 2009, he would coach the baseball team at William Jessup University, a small college near Sacramento that will play its first season next year.

But for Manuel, those plans will have to wait.

“I think that hopefully they have respect for me in the clubhouse, and I have a respect for the players,” Manuel said. “With that being said, I think we have a foundation there so we can really grow and get us back on track.”
528 2008-06-18 Still, officials here say they hope the levee will protect the town. Every time a sign of water slipped through the top — or a puddle appeared in sandbags, more ATVs raced to the spot to shore it up. “We think this is going to hold,” said Richard Dodd, an alderman here, as he drew on his experience in 1993 and directed traffic and ordered more sand bags in different spots. “We were green in ’93, but now we know,” he said, referring to the last enormous flood here, a year when the level crept only a few inches higher than is expected by morning.

As the overflowing waters of tributaries began to recede in Iowa and Wisconsin this week, they had nowhere to go but here, into the legendary Mississippi, a river that was growing mightier by the hour. On Wednesday, in parts of Iowa, Illinois and Missouri, all eyes were on this river, which was expected to reach record levels in some areas before cresting later this week.

Law enforcement officials and residents were focused on the patchwork of levees that protect these shores, and altogether officials were closely monitoring at least 27 levees for the possibility the waters might flow over them.

Near the town of Quincy in western Illinois, the surging river tore holes in two levees at about 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. Wednesday, turning more than 24,000 acres of farmland into a lake and flooding the nearby village of Meyer, county and state officials said. Overnight, state conservation police officers in boats went door-to-door in the two towns to ensure that everyone had left. In the morning, they flew over the area in a helicopter, scanning for anyone stranded.

Quincy sits on a bluff, relatively safe from the flooding in neighboring areas. But the authorities feared for a levee just south of town, and were racing to reinforce it.

“We’re discouraged that we lost the ones we did, but we’re optimistic and fighting for the ones we have left,” said Ellen Vonderheide, a spokeswoman for Adams County Emergency Management Agency.

At stake were another 100,000 acres of farmland and access to the Mark Twain Bridge, which connects Quincy to Hannibal, Mo. A levee on the Missouri side protected another bridge; if both were overwhelmed, transportation across the river would be cut off, Ms. Vonderheide said, restricting residents who commute daily to work and truckers who transport goods.

In the Quincy area alone, residents and emergency workers had filled about 6 million sandbags, officials said, and volunteers had come from as far away as Colorado.

In Clarksville, another quaint town not far away, residents have been struggling these past few days to keep the river at bay. Already, the new riverfront park is out of sight, under water. Disappearing slowly is the antique mall, the bank, the church, the American Legion hall, the oldest house in town. And the Mississippi River is only getting started.

“You patch one thing and something else falls apart,” Jo Anne Smiley, the mayor of this town of 490, said on Tuesday as a giant water pump churned outside her City Hall door and word of new woes — a sewerage system failure — arrived. “We’ve been through what the Mississippi can do. But I don’t know this time. The fear is if it all goes under.”

On Tuesday, at least four breaks were reported among scores of levees, officials said, three of them in Missouri north of St. Louis. Near Gulfport, Ill., a levee gave way before dawn, allowing the river to surge through a hole that soon grew to 300 feet wide.

That town and thousands of acres of farmland were flooded, and the Great River Bridge, connecting Illinois to Burlington, Iowa, had to be closed, the Henderson County Sheriff’s office said. Four hundred people were evacuated, several by helicopter and boat. By evening, several other levees were showing signs of vulnerability known as sand boils, ant-hill-like formations produced by extreme water pressure.

Elsewhere, some highways and bridges along the Mississippi were closed. Evacuations were suggested, shelters were opened, and free tetanus shots were being dispensed. National Guard members, volunteers and inmates feverishly sandbagged homes, levees and, in towns like Clarksville, nearly everything else that was not already under water.

Water teased at the ankles of Pam Myers, 45, and her three sons as they rushed on Tuesday to surround their house in Meyer with the mound of sand town officials had dumped in her yard. Ms. Myers pointed grimly at the line on her house — hip high — where officials had told her water would probably reach, but said she had no plans to go anywhere, even when the waters are expected to crest here near the end of the week.

“I’ll stay and fight her,” she said of the Mississippi. “I’ve got river in my blood.”
529 2008-06-18 The rising waters further strained some of the country’s most fertile farmland, pushing corn prices near record highs. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, the flooding left about 12 percent of Midwest crops in poor to very poor condition, lifting corn prices to $8 a bushel and soybeans to $15.96 a bushel. Those prices were expected to climb as the flooding continued.

On Tuesday, at least four breaks were reported among scores of levees, officials said, three of them in Missouri north of St. Louis. Near Gulfport, Ill., a levee gave way before dawn, allowing the river to surge through a hole that soon grew to 300 feet wide.

That town and thousands of acres of farmland were flooded, and the Great River Bridge, connecting Illinois to Burlington, Iowa, had to be closed, the Henderson County Sheriff’s office said. Four hundred people were evacuated, several by helicopter and boat. By evening, several other levees were showing signs of vulnerability known as sand boils, ant-hill-like formations produced by extreme water pressure.

Elsewhere, some highways and bridges along the Mississippi were closed. Evacuations were suggested, shelters were opened, and free tetanus shots were being dispensed. National Guard members, volunteers and inmates feverishly sandbagged homes, levees and, in towns like Clarksville, nearly everything else that was not under water already.

Water teased at the ankles of Pam Myers, 45, and her three sons as they rushed to surround their house with the mound of sand town officials had dumped in her yard. Ms. Myers pointed grimly at the line on her house — hip high — where officials had told her water would probably reach, but said she had no plans to go anywhere, even when the waters are expected to crest here near the end of the week.

“I’ll stay and fight her,” she said of the Mississippi. “I’ve got river in my blood.”

Several small towns were expected to be at the greatest risk.

In Louisiana, Mo., just north of here, where five feet of water had already soaked homes and businesses, some people had moved their lives — couches, beds, kitchen tables, washing machines, even an entire convenience-store worth of goods — to higher ground. More flooding was inevitable.

“It’s like trying to pour 10 gallons of water in a five-gallon bucket — you can only confine it so much,” Don Giltner, the mayor, said of the river.

Farther north, in Canton, residents raced to shore up a three-mile levee system that they hoped would save them. If the levee was overwhelmed, water could destroy the downtown area, said William Fox, president of Culver-Stockton College. There, waters are expected to reach their highest levels as early as Thursday.

“We’re fighting for our lives,” Mr. Fox said. “We’re in a very frightening moment.”

Officials said the flooding would probably decrease farther south. St. Louis, where river levels are expected to reach their highest on Saturday, is not expected to face much damage, said Alan Dooley, of the St. Louis district of the Army Corps of Engineers. Water will probably lap the steps that lead from the river to the city’s landmark arch, but the Illinois and the Missouri Rivers, which meet the Mississippi nearby, are not as flooded as the Mississippi, Mr. Dooley said.

The rising waters here, once more, led to questions about whether the levees and flood walls along this river produced greater flooding downstream. Some communities have pressed for such protections; other voices, including those of environmental advocates and some engineers, have pushed to allow the river to take a natural course, reopening wetlands that might allow the release of water without catastrophic flooding.

“This is a classic struggle,” said Jerry Enzler, the executive director of the National Mississippi River Museum and Aquarium in Dubuque, Iowa. “Mark Twain said it way back: Ten thousand river commissions cannot tame that lawless stream.”

“And it’s true,” Mr. Enzler added. “Humans need to live with nature.”

The levee system has set up a peculiar, unavoidable conflict in moments like these. A levee break upstream may mean less flooding downstream, as everyone who lives near the Mississippi knows well. In a way, it pits upstream against downstream.

“I wouldn’t wish that sort of thing on anyone else, I really wouldn’t,” Ms. Myers said. She then added, smiling, “But if it were to happen, the truth is, we’d be better off.”

Strangely, tauntingly, it was sunny and cloudless on Tuesday. After what had seemed like weeks of storms in the Midwest, National Weather Service officials in St. Louis predicted no additional rain until late this week. In spite of that, the water kept rising.

Ms. Smiley, the mayor of this town, established in 1817, frenetically answered calls (“Bring your work gloves,” she told one caller; “We’re working on it,” she told another.), directed volunteers, and made notes on a yellow pad. She said she had not slept. Her own business, an antique shop, is at risk.

“When you live along the river, you just get up and go again when this happens,” Ms. Smiley said, then grew quiet. “If it gets into the shop, I don’t know that I’ll be able to do it, though. I really don’t. I am a mess right now, though.”

She reflected on all that has come to this town in recent years: artisan boutiques, quaint shops and the new riverside promenade, built last year, for which the sign read: “Touch the Mississippi.” A walking path was to be built this summer, but that is delayed, as the site is under water.

“I guess the Mississippi touched us,” she said.
530 2008-06-18 The impact of the rising waters is being felt in places like Clarksville, Mo., a town of 490 people perched along the banks of the river in the northern part of the state. Residents are bracing for a crest that forecasters say will be higher than any crest the town has ever experienced before. The last record, 37.5 feet, was set in 1993; the crest this week is expected to be a half a foot higher.

Making matters worse, local officials say, is that the town is one of the few communities along the river that has no levee or protective wall already in place. The town has only one option: inmates and emergency workers have been racing to build an extensive and unusual contraption — an 8-foot-tall berm made of rocks and sandbags — to hold off the waters.

“We are the last town on the Mississippi River with absolutely no protection, and now we’re looking out at this,” Jo Anne Smiley, the mayor of Clarksville, said Tuesday. As Ms. Smiley sat in her office and spoke about the crisis, she could barely hear her own voice. The sound of workers yelling to each other and the din of electrical pumps furiously removing water that seeped through the sandbags and the 8-foot-berm filled the air.

Parts of the town is already under water, with flooding in an antique store, a historic house from the 1800’s, the local post office and a new riverfront park that just opened last year at a cost of $1 million.

Ms. Smiley said she hoped that the rest of the town can be spared.

In the coming days, the rising river will also place at risk towns like Quincy and Alton in Illinois and Hannibal and St. Louis in Missouri. But ultimately dozens of towns that sit along the banks of the river as far south as Cairo, Ill., where the Mississippi widens, could be affected, officials said.

The human and economic costs of the flooding in Iowa alone have already been devastating. Five people have died, nearly 40,000 people have been evacuated or displaced, and more than $1 billion worth of crops have been destroyed. In response, the federal government has deployed about 6,000 National Guard troops, provided $4 million worth of equipment and assistance, and declared 24 counties along the river disaster zones.
531 2008-06-18 FOREIGN INVESTMENT As labor costs in China soar, a number of multinational corporations are establishing or expanding Asian bases outside China, particularly in Vietnam.      NO MORE CHERRY-PICKING Democratic Senators Patty Murray, below, and Chri...
532 2008-06-18 ROBINOWITZ--Mitzi ''Emilia'', 86 years old of Pembroke Pines, Florida, formerly of Hartsdale, NY, passed on June 16, 2008. Beloved wife of Harold, loving and devoted mother of Wendy Cooper, deeply loved mother-in-law of Daniel and cherished, gener...
533 2008-06-19 The Macon branch library in Bedford-Stuyvesant, which opened in 1907 through the support of the industrialist Andrew Carnegie, reopened after a two-year, $2 million renovation....
534 2008-06-19 Utility Player: Con Ed did not consider the nine-day blackout in western Queens two summers ago a major power failure — at least in the strictest, legal sense. But that just changed....
535 2008-06-19 The general counsels for the McCain and Obama campaigns pleaded their cases in the court of public opinion on Thursday....
536 2008-06-19 The more people who leave Yahoo, the less stable it becomes, leading to more questions about its leadership, less new business, delayed products and still more departures....
537 2008-06-19 Traders who sell stocks short know that the companies they target will not be happy. Now they are learning that the authorities may be similarly upset if the target is a financial institution that they might have to bail out. In the United States,...
538 2008-06-19 Senator John McCain's statement that he would be willing to "go back and look at it again" had sparked speculation that he might be changing his mind about drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge....
539 2008-06-19 Up Next in Critics’ Picks
540 2008-06-19 Up Next in Video
541 2008-06-19 Senator John McCain said Thursday afternoon that his campaign has decided to accept public financing even though his all-but-certain Democrat rival, Senator Barack Obama, has decided to opt out of the system....
542 2008-06-19 There is excited anticipation in Canada's capital as Senator John McCain prepares to move briefly onto foreign soil on Friday....
543 2008-06-19 Senator John McCain canceled his morning's events here today so that he could tour the soggy devastation of southeastern Iowa....
544 2008-06-19 David Pogue has agreed to try an experiment involving his book "Windows Vista: The Missing Manual": to offer it as part of that buy-the-electronic-versions program....
545 2008-06-19 National Association of Estate Agents chief executive Peter Bolton King stands ready to counter the "doom and gloom" and "scaremongering" in the U.K. housing market. He scoffs at recent reports that dozens of estate agents a week are closing their...
546 2008-06-19 There was big news today in the United States on energy and the environment, where President George W. Bush called on Congress to end a 27-year ban on drilling for oil and gas off America's coastline. Bush also called for oil to be pumped from an ...
547 2008-06-19 Wall Street sank Wednesday for the second consecutive day in part on renewed concerns about the financial sector. The Dow Jones industrial average finished down more than 130 points, after briefly dipping below 12,000 for the first time since mid-...
548 2008-06-19 The management of CSX was dealt a blow on Wednesday as a leading proxy advice firm recommended that shareholders vote for most of a dissident slate being proposed by two activist hedge funds battling with management for control of the railway oper...
549 2008-06-19 Providence Equity Partners reportedly emerged Wednesday night as a surprise bidder for Informa as the Lloyds List publisher's merger talks with United Business Media collapsed. According to The Daily Mail, the U.S. private equity firm is looking t...
550 2008-06-19 A half-dozen members of the Thomson Reuters research department are moving to Standard & Poor's to form a new department to produce market research for hedge funds and other Wall Street players, The Wall Street Journal reported. The group, headed ...
551 2008-06-19 PMI Group announced late Tuesday that it agreed to transfer its entire FGIC reinsurance portfolio to Assured Guaranty Re. The move reflects PMI's plans to shore up its own capital and refocus on its core mortgage insurance business. But while the ...
552 2008-06-19 David Sender, the national champion in the men's all-around, was warming up on the high bar Wednesday when he injured his right ankle, 24 hours before the Olympic gymnastics trials were scheduled to begin....
553 2008-06-19 The presumptive Republican nominee and the president will tour areas of Iowa hard hit by floods on Thursday, but the McCain campaign said that it was not trying to step on Mr. Bush's trip....
554 2008-06-19 Some of you say, "Yes, releasing your books in electronic form will kill your income, but you'll make it up in other ways, like speaking fees." (I'm not so sure. See this well-argued post: http://tinyurl.com/3gxn46)

And some of you even say, "Yes, releasing your books in electronic form will kill your royalty income. But so what? You never deserved royalties to begin with. Authors should get paid a flat fee, and that's it."

Many of you pointed out experiments by Cory Doctorow and Baen.com. They have each experimented with giving away free electronic copies of their books — and both claim to have seen spikes in their print-edition sales as a result.

That's no proof that I'd see the same effect, though, for two reasons.

First, there's the "small band/big band" argument: unknown bands, like little-known authors and publishers, love free electronic online distribution, because it exposes them to new potential fans.

But established, brand-name bands see file swapping as eating into their CD sales. Similarly, established book brands might legitimately worry that free PDF downloads will eat into book sales.

There's a big difference in the type of book, too. The Doctorow and Baen.com experiments involve science-fiction novels — and there's no particular reason you'd want to read those on a computer screen. So a free PDF copy might well convince you to buy the print edition.

A how-to computer book, though, is another story. You might actually prefer an electronic version, so you can keep it on the screen side by side with the software you're learning about. So there's no incentive for you to buy the dead-tree version.

What finally brought me around, though, was an e-mail from Kevin Kelly, a founding editor of Wired:

"David, my guess is that rather than seeing an immediate, or even delayed dip in your books sales, that the pirated PDF either made no difference to your sales, or it actually elevated them. Just as 'free' radio drives CD and album sales.

"What is the evidence for your heartbreak? What actually happened to your sales after the PDF went wild?

"If you can't retrieve the actual data, then I challenge you to complete the experiment. Take one of your books you have historical sales data for, release a viral PDF version and then measure what happens. Then either celebrate or curse the results -- but at least it will be based on evidence.

"My guess is that if you take the challenge to release one of your books in free PDF form, that even by using your column or blog as a platform to announce it, that (a) it won't spread or duplicate as far as you might first imagine, and (b) it will elevate or at least not depress your sales.

"I am even willing to bet on it."

Well, this challenge is too thought-provoking (and too civilly presented) to ignore. So here goes:

Many publishers have been more comfortable offering electronic versions of books than I am. For example, my own publisher, O'Reilly, is about to offer a bunch of its bestsellers for sale on the Amazon Kindle.

Early next month, the company will also start selling electronic versions of certain books with no copy protection. For a single price (cheaper than the printed-book price), the package will include the book in three formats: PDF, Mobipub (compatible with the Amazon Kindle), and Epub (soon to be compatible with the Sony Reader).

Anyway, I've agreed to try an experiment involving one of my books ("Windows Vista: The Missing Manual"): to offer it as part of that buy-the-electronic-versions program.

O'Reilly is also offering five other books in these formats, including Information Architecture for the World Wide Web, Third Edition and Open Sources 2.0. The company plans to announce other titles in July.

I'm encouraging O'Reilly to adopt some antipiracy steps, like adding a footer at the bottom of each page that says, "This edition specially prepared for bgates@microsoft.com" (or whatever your e-mail address is). That might deter people from posting their copies online for all to download.

This is not, of course, quite what Kevin Kelly is proposing; I'm not offering the book for free. But at least I'm defusing the argument that says, "The only reason people are pirating your books is that you're not offering e-versions for legitimate sale."

Now, all kinds of factors affect a book's sales over time: the seasons, the economy, the popularity of the topic, the age of the book and so on. Even my mentioning this experiment here may skew the results. As I wrote originally, there's no way to conduct a perfect sales-comparison without creating a parallel universe. So I'm not sure how conclusive the results will be.

Even so, I'll report back to you in a few months. This experiment could turn out to be a terrible financial mistake, a brilliant windfall or a dud with no discernible effect one way or another.

But one thing's for sure: it'll be an interesting ride.
555 2008-06-19 Food manufacturers promised to freeze prices on more than 150 products to help families cope with rising costs. President Felipe Calderón announced that prices for goods like cooking oil, flour, canned tuna, fruit juices, coffee, ketchup and canned tomatoes would remain fixed until Dec. 31. “This reflects the commitment of Mexican businessmen to the country and to price stability,” said Mr. Calderón, who has blamed rising global energy prices, soaring food demand in China and India and the use of corn for ethanol production for high food costs.
556 2008-06-19 Hexion Specialty Chemicals, a chemical maker owned by the buyout firm Apollo Management, sued the Huntsman Corporation on Wednesday to end their $10.6 billion merger, dragging one of the few remaining giant deals of last year into court.

Several deals struck during the recent private equity boom, often built on billions of dollars in cheap financing, have collapsed amid a debt squeeze. Many of these have ended up in court.

In its lawsuit, filed in Delaware’s Chancery Court, Hexion said that Huntsman’s financial health had suffered from an increase in debt and lower earnings. Duff & Phelps, a financial advisory firm hired by Hexion, said in a valuation opinion that completing the merger could risk plunging both companies into insolvency.

As a result, Hexion argued in its complaint, the two banks that committed to financing the deal — Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank — would be unlikely to provide $15.35 billion in debt needed to complete the merger.

“While both Hexion and Huntsman can be successful as separate companies, they cannot now support the debt load that was agreed to at the time the transaction was put together,” Craig O. Morrison, Hexion’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
557 2008-06-19 There is an extraordinary joy in watching Cyd Charisse dancing with her lingerie — perhaps her finest partner — in “Silk Stockings.” You remember the story. Ninotchka, a stern Soviet commissar played by Charisse, comes to Paris to retrieve three wayward Soviet emissaries and is wooed by an American, played by Fred Astaire, and the city itself. “Silk Stockings” was released in July 1957, which makes it post-McCarthy but pre-Sputnik. As an expression of personal détente, it is hard to beat Charisse’s erotic, fluttering pas de deux with the Parisian undergarments she has hidden around her hotel room. It is an ode to shame and the setting aside of shame.

Charisse, who died on Tuesday at age 86, brought something unusual to the inherent absurdity of the American movie musical. She had a demure, accepting presence. Demure may sound like a strange word to describe a dancer who became famous for her torch number with Gene Kelly in “Singing in the Rain” and a similar number with Astaire in “The Band Wagon.” To grasp what I mean, all you have to do is compare Cyd Charisse to Judy Garland. Again and again, Garland lets the audience see, with a look, that she knows exactly what is going on, that life is really just a soundstage. But Charisse, who is the lesser actor by far, vanishes into the illusion, which is one of the things that made her such a perfect fit with Astaire.

And if I had to choose only one moment to remember Charisse by, it would be her silent duet with Astaire in “The Band Wagon.” The song is “Dancing in the Dark,” the setting is Central Park, and, as usual, the overlapping illusions are nearly confounding. There they are — two professional dancers, carefully choreographed and rehearsed, playing two professional dancers dancing spontaneously on a soundstage that is meant to be Central Park, and all the while they are feigning an almost reproachful, amorous awareness of each other that conceals the hard-working awareness of two pros on the job. It was Cyd Charisse’s remarkable gift to move through the hall of mirrors that is the American movie musical and never be caught glancing at herself. VERLYN KLINKENBORG
558 2008-06-19 While many of the mourners this week expressed anger at city officials for not protecting the boy, the Administration for Children’s Services was only peripherally involved in the case.

Kyle’s mother, Gina Holmes, had arranged privately for Ms. Cheatham, an old friend from Brooklyn, to take him in, rather than placing him in the foster-care system, where homes are screened and monitored. And the children’s services agency never received an official report of suspected abuse or neglect.

Residents of the 24-unit building in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn where Kyle lived now recall seeing bruises on his body and witnessing bizarre punishments by Ms. Cheatham. For instance, they say, she used to make him sit outside in shorts and a T-shirt in subfreezing temperatures.

The building’s superintendent, Gail McNally, said that two days before Kyle died, during a heat wave, she saw the boy outside in a long-sleeved jacket while Ms. Cheatham had on a tank top; now, in retrospect, she wonders if the sleeves were hiding bruises.

Many residents reported after the death that Ms. Cheatham routinely cursed at Kyle. Adrian Paulson, 38, who lived two doors down from Ms. Cheatham, said that once, in an elevator, Ms. Cheatham unleashed a volley of expletives at the boy, demanding to know why he was crying and concluding that she hated him, and “all kids.”

“It’s crazy,” Ms. Paulson said the day after he died. “I’m looking at the lady’s face. I’m stunned. I’m scared for the child. I’m thinking: She must be doing something to that child.”

But Ms. Paulson, like others in the building and at this week’s funeral and wake, did not call the authorities. No one did, according to the Administration for Children’s Services. Though reports of suspected child abuse can be made anonymously, Ms. Paulson said she never called the police because she did not want to invite Ms. Cheatham’s wrath.

“I don’t want to get in no argument with her,” she explained. “We live on the same floor.”

The absence of reports in this case seems to run counter to the trend since the beating death of Nixzmary Brown, 7, in early 2006. After that case, which received wide attention, child abuse and neglect complaints skyrocketed and have remained 30 percent higher than they were before her death, with the city now investigating more than 60,000 reports a year.

Some relatives of Kyle’s father, who frequently visited the boy, especially on Mondays, Mr. Smith’s day off, speculated that the physical abuse that led to Kyle’s death may have begun recently.

One of Mr. Smith’s uncles, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the family had instructed him not to speak to reporters, said after the funeral on Wednesday that Kyle had spent a week in his apartment in May and appeared happy and healthy. “I feel guilty,” he said. “I wish I had seen something. I’m a loudmouth. But he looked fine.” He crossed himself, adding, “There was nothing.”

Relatives of Kyle’s parents said that Ms. Holmes, his mother, struggled with drug addiction after Kyle was born and decided to move to South Carolina. (She and Mr. Smith have another son, Darien, 6, who lives with a relative and stood in the back of the church on East 90th Street on Wednesday, holding a single balloon with white doves and hearts.) For a time, Kyle lived with his mother, but at some point last summer Ms. Holmes decided he would live with Ms. Cheatham and Mr. Martin.

Ms. Holmes’s husband, Kevin Holmes, an Army specialist based in Alaska, said on Wednesday that she had overcome her addiction and had recently been talking about taking Kyle back. (She lives in South Carolina but was considering a move to Alaska.) The last time she saw Kyle was in November, Mr. Holmes said. (The couple met online and were married June 2.)

In New York, Kyle’s father continued to see the boy frequently, relatives say. But they said he often sparred with Ms. Cheatham over access to the boy, although city officials say the parents never gave up custody and could have taken him back at any time. Some child welfare experts say Mr. Smith may have been confused about his rights.

Several times, the police went to Ms. Cheatham’s apartment to settle disputes surrounding visitation, not to inspect for any potential abuse.

Ms. Cheatham filed a petition in family court to become Kyle’s legal guardian last fall. As part of that process, the court ordered the Administration for Children’s Services to investigate her home. The agency said that it “found the house in order and the child happy and healthy at that time” and had no further role in the matter. The city submitted its assessment in early November, but in February Ms. Cheatham left court before her case was called, and the case was dismissed without prejudice, ending her quest for guardianship.

Sharman Stein, a spokeswoman for the Administration for Children’s Services, said that as part of the investigation the city interviewed some relatives. Kyle’s paternal grandmother, Norma Acosta, told a social worker that Ms. Cheatham had told her that she had once punched Kyle in the chest for peeling paint in the apartment.

“We went to Cheatham and said, ‘Did you do this?’ and she said ‘Absolutely not — I never said it, I never did it,’ ” Ms. Stein recalled in an interview. “We examined Kyle and there was no evidence that he had been abused in any way.”

But when the city’s social worker asked Ms. Cheatham how she disciplined Kyle, she responded that she made him stand with his legs spread apart and his arms in the air. “We said that’s absolutely inappropriate and instructed her on the correct disciplinary techniques for a child that age: give a timeout, cut off the TV,” Ms. Stein said. “The grandmother never evidenced any concerns through the ways in which we hear concerns: the state’s central register.”

City officials have been pushing in recent months to have the Administration for Children’s Services added to the list of qualified agencies that can access the national criminal database. Now officials must rely on the police to conduct searches when they have suspicions. But the Texas history would not have turned up in such a database, since Ms. Cheatham and her then-husband were not convicted of a crime, though their parental rights were terminated.

“There is no national child-welfare database,” Ms. Stein said. “But we want to take a very close look at how we can strengthen the court-ordered investigations. We’re bringing in some high-level legal and investigative experts to help us.”

Still, child welfare advocates say that Kyle’s death illustrates the importance of doing a follow-up investigation if a current caregiver suddenly drops a petition for custody. “The failure to pursue the guardianship could be a red flag,” said Susan Jacobs, executive director and president of the Center for Family Representation, a nonprofit organization that provides legal help for parents being investigated for possible abuse or neglect.

Ms. Jacobs also said that when city workers go out to investigate a home as part of a custody case — as opposed to allegations of abuse or neglect — “people are asked just to look for basic things, to make sure that the person can adequately care for a child.” While a prospective guardian should have been asked whether they have other children, Ms. Jacobs said, if someone chooses to lie, “there’s very little we can do to protect the system or the child in it.”

Like others, Ms. Jacobs said she has puzzled over why neighbors did not report their suspicions. “The very nagging question that we all have in this work is why people who might have been in a position to get help for him did not do that,” she added. “That’s the agonizing thing you’re left with.”
559 2008-06-19 WASHINGTON — More than 30,000 firearms are unaccounted for in gun dealers’ inventories nationwide, according to a new study by a gun control group.

Further, the group, the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, says its finding most likely undercounts the missing firearms, since the data used, from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, are drawn from the compliance inspections that were conducted at gun dealerships in the 2007 fiscal year. Just 10,000 dealers were inspected, one-sixth of the nation’s total.

The center, which released the study Tuesday, is calling for increased regulation of gun dealers, including a requirement that they take physical inventory of their firearms to account for each weapon annually. At present, dealers need keep a record of their acquisition and disposition of firearms, but not a regular inventory.

“We’ve seen that guns that dealers claim are lost are frequently sold to gun traffickers and sold off the books,” said Daniel R. Vice, a senior attorney for the Brady Center.

The Brady Center was founded by James Brady and his wife, Sarah, after the 1981 assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan left Mr. Brady, the White House press secretary, partly paralyzed. The center sees a direct correlation between missing firearms and street violence.
560 2008-06-19 FedEx customers pay fuel surcharges, but those do not cover all of the increases. The company spent 54 percent more on fuel than it did for the same quarter last year, Mr. Ortwerth said, while the surcharges were up less than 30 percent.

“They don’t try to recover the entire increase in fuel because that would really hurt the customer and they have the sense to invest in long-term customer relations,” he said.

Higher fuel costs, however, mean higher prices for FedEx services.

“The prices have gotten high enough that people are looking for other ways to ship their goods,” said a Morgan Keegan analyst, Art Hatfield. And even customers who stay with FedEx may shift from express shipments to less expensive, slower services, he said.

The fuel surcharges, which are added to the company’s basic shipping rates, were 28 percent for June and will increase to 32.5 percent in July, Mr. Hatfield said.

FedEx’s chairman, Frederick W. Smith, said FedEx was confident it could deal with the economy’s troubles by holding down expenses, limiting capital spending and expanding the company’s international business.

“It’s my opinion that great companies always improve their competitive positions in economic downturns,” Mr. Smith said, “and we intend to do just that.”

FedEx said it would continue capital spending on overseas expansion, “significant investments” in more fuel-efficient aircraft and other projects related to its long-range strategies.

FedEx said its outlook for the new fiscal year “assumes no additional increases to current fuel prices and no further weakening in the economy.”

The fourth-quarter earnings included a one-time charge of $891 million for the expected costs of renaming the company’s office service and copying division from FedEx Kinko’s to FedEx Office.

FedEx shares fell $1.73, or 2.1 percent, to $82.60 on the New York Stock Exchange.
561 2008-06-19 SPRINGFIELD, Mo. — Senator John McCain said Wednesday that he wanted 45 new nuclear reactors built in the United States by 2030, a course he called “as difficult as it is necessary.”

In his third straight day of campaign speechmaking about energy and $4-a-gallon gasoline, Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, told the crowd at a town-hall-style meeting at Missouri State University that he saw nuclear power as a clean, safe alternative to traditional sources of energy that emit greenhouse gases. He said his ultimate goal was 100 new nuclear plants.

Mr. McCain has long promoted nuclear reactors, but Wednesday was the first time that he specified the number of plants he envisioned.

Currently there are 104 reactors in the country supplying some 20 percent of electricity consumed. No new nuclear power plant has been built in the United States since the 1970s.

“China, Russia and India are all planning to build more than a hundred new power plants among them in the coming decades,” Mr. McCain said in this pocket of Missouri that is reliably Republican. “Across Europe there are 197 reactors in operation, and nations including France and Belgium derive more than half their electricity from nuclear power. And if all of these nations can find a way to carry out great goals in energy policy, then I assure you that the United States is more than equal to the challenge.”
562 2008-06-19 The political action committees of the liberal political group MoveOn and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees together paid more than $500,000 to run this advertisement this week in Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin, and on CNN and MSNBC.

ON THE SCREEN A young, blonde mother speaks directly to the camera as she sits on a living room couch, holding on her lap a baby boy dressed in overalls.

THE SCRIPT The woman says, “Hi, John McCain; this is Alex. He’s my first. So far, his talents include trying any new food and chasing after our dog — that, and making my heart pound every time I look at him. So, John McCain, when you said you would stay in Iraq for 100 years, were you counting on Alex? Because, if you were, you can’t have him.”

ACCURACY In several forums last January, Mr. McCain said he could envision a United States troop presence in Iraq for 100 years or more. But he did not mean to advocate a prolonged war, and he was clearly speaking in terms of a peace-keeping presence. The quotation Democrats most commonly refer to was from a town-hall-style meeting on Jan. 3 in Derry, N.H., when a voter mentioned that President Bush had spoken of “staying in Iraq for 50 years.” Mr. McCain interrupted to say, “Maybe 100.” But his comment came in the context of a broader lecture equating such a decades-long mission to American troop deployments in South Korea and Japan. He had also included a pretty big “if,” saying that such an enduring presence in Iraq, “would be fine with me as long as Americans are not being injured or harmed or wounded or killed.”

SCORECARD This advertisement effectively puts an emotionally charged campaign issue in the voice of a pretty young mother with the supposedly selfless (and politically unimpeachable) motive of protecting her child. Because advertisement fact-checking reports like this one are never viewed as widely as the spots themselves, a good many people may take from this advertisement that Mr. McCain is supporting 100 years of an overwhelmingly unpopular war. JIM RUTENBERG
563 2008-06-19 Now the rest of the country seems to be following. Sales of pickup trucks, minivans and sport utility vehicles have fallen below 50 percent of new passenger vehicle sales this year for the first time since 2001, the report says, as consumers turned to smaller vehicles in favor of fuel economy.

“It’s kind of stunning,” said Aaron F. Brady, a co-author of the report. “It was over 50 percent as late as February and by May it fell under 44 percent. It’s like falling off a cliff.”

Drivers, meanwhile, are becoming more prudent in their driving habits, either by using public transportation, carpooling or just cutting down on unnecessary trips, the two authors said in an interview. “Public transit ridership is surging all over the country,” said Samantha Gross, the other author.

While total vehicle miles Americans traveled grew by nearly 3 percent a year from 1984 to 2004, the rate of growth slowed suddenly in 2005 and 2006 and has declined since then.

The last time gasoline consumption declined for a prolonged period was during the oil shocks in the late 1970s and early 1980s, when annual United States consumption declined by 12 percent. Fast-rising oil prices, a deep recession and improved fuel efficiency standards drove down demand for gasoline.

The same situation is beginning to emerge today, according to the report, and basic home economics explains the trends. Since the 1980s, demand for gasoline has climbed fairly steadily, except in late 1990 and 1991 because of a sharp price increase related to Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait and a recession. That is because spending on gasoline became a smaller percentage of family income, especially through the 1990s.

Americans spent about 4.5 percent of their after-tax income on transportation fuels in 1981, according to Global Insight, a forecasting firm. As gasoline prices dropped and family incomes rose, that percentage dropped to 1.9 percent in 1998. Today, it is back to 4 percent or more.

The national price for unleaded gasoline would need to average $4.23 a gallon “to create the same economic pain as in 1981,” the Cambridge Energy report said. “Once unthinkable, such a level is now within view.” On Wednesday, gasoline averaged nearly $4.08 a gallon.

It would take a sizable decline in consumption to get back to the levels of gasoline use only a generation ago.

National gasoline consumption has grown over the last 25 years by 40 percent because of the growing popularity of sport utility vehicles and minivans as well as longer commutes to work from the suburbs. Low gasoline prices made the growth relatively painless, until the last three years or so.

The Cambridge Energy report said gasoline demand growth slowed significantly from 2005 to 2007 and peaked last year. Demand in the first quarter of 2008 declined by 1.3 percent from the first quarter in 2007.

Even if consumers start driving more, the report predicts that the efficiency of the American vehicle fleet will continue to improve. “New fuel efficiency standards for light vehicles (scheduled to phase in starting in 2011) by themselves have the potential to begin reducing U.S. gasoline demand within the next decade,” the report said.

If gasoline prices remain high, motorists may well “accelerate their preference shift toward more fuel-efficient vehicles,” the report concluded. “If these trends hold, then 2007 could stand as the peak year for U.S. gasoline demand.”

The authors said they thought gasoline consumption would continue to ease even if gasoline prices went down, unlike in the 1980s and 1990s when consumption sprang back up as prices went down.

“With climate change concerns now, it’s very likely that fuel efficiency will be at the forefront for the foreseeable future,” said Ms. Gross, “and it’s unlikely we will go back to not caring about fuel efficiency the way we did in the late 1980s.”
564 2008-06-19 GasBuddy.com has been a handy site for finding the cheapest gasoline prices, but more than likely you’ll need the information while on the road, not at your desk. It has instructions for getting current prices with its mobile Web site (GasBuddyToGo.com) or by text message at www.gasbuddy.com/GB_Mobile_Instructions.aspx.
565 2008-06-19 Earlier, FedEx forecast that earnings for the fiscal year that began this month would fall well short of what Wall Street had been expecting.

“I think the news out of FedEx today really is starting to make people second-guess some of the optimism that had been brewing over the last few weeks,” said Craig Peckham, market strategist at Jefferies & Company in New York.

The Dow fell 131.24, or 1.08 percent, to 12,029.06. The index briefly fell below 12,000 before recovering. The index had not traded below the 12,000 mark since March 18 and last closed below that level on March 17.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 13.12, or 0.97 percent, to 1,337.81, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 28.02, or 1.14 percent, to 2,429.71.

Light crude rose $2.67 to $136.68 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after the Energy Department said that the nation’s crude oil stockpiles fell less than expected last week but that gasoline supplies declined.

The run-up in oil has unnerved some on Wall Street and raised the prospect that consumers would pare spending on nonessentials because they were forced to reach deeper into their wallets at the gas pump.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 5.86, or 0.80 percent, to 730.71.

Among financials, one of the weakest-performing sectors in the session, Morgan Stanley rose 10 cents to $40.69, but Fifth Third, a bank mostly in the Midwest and the South, fell $3.47, or 27 percent, to $9.26, and MF Global fell $5.43, or 41 percent, to $7.83.

“The financials are getting hit. There just isn’t anything to spark interest in buying,” said Ron Kiddoo, chief investment officer for Cozad Asset Management in Champaign, Ill. He said that investors were finding it difficult to set aside their worries about the economy.

FedEx predicted it would earn $4.75 to $5.25 a share for its fiscal year, below the $5.92 a share analysts had expected, according to Thomson Financial. The stock fell $1.73, or 2 percent, to $82.60.

The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped 16/32, to 97 28/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 4.14 percent, from 4.20 percent.
566 2008-06-19 Damien Hirst’s latest creation — a bull submerged in formaldehyde, with a head crowned by a solid-gold disc, and hooves and horns cast in 18-karat gold — is expected to fetch $16 million to $24 million when it is sold at a Sotheby’s auction in London on Sept. 15. “The Golden Calf,” above, with the artist, will be part of a two-day auction of works made by Mr. Hirst in the last two years, Sotheby’s announced on Thursday. In addition to the bull, the auctions on Sept. 15 and 16 will include some of his new paintings, drawings and sculptures. This is the second time Sotheby’s has held an all-Hirst auction. In 2004 it sold the contents of the Pharmacy, his defunct Notting Hill restaurant, which included Hirst-designed ashtrays and bar stools, as well as his paintings, for $20 million. Last summer Mr. Hirst’s human skull cast in platinum and covered with 8,601 diamonds was said to have been sold to an investment group for $100 million.
567 2008-06-19 The Manhattan Theater Club has announced a new name for its Biltmore Theater. And who will receive that honor, one now shared on Broadway by a select group of people? Maybe a writer, a critic, an actor, a cartoonist? Perhaps an airline or a large multinational bank?

At a ceremony sometime before the start of the 2008-9 season, the Biltmore will be rededicated as the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, after the longtime theater and film press agent who handled the publicity for shows like “Finian’s Rainbow,” “A Moon for the Misbegotten” and “The Blacks” by Jean Genet, and who worked with performers like Bette Davis, Jackie Gleason and Gypsy Rose Lee. Mr. Friedman died in 1974.

Why Mr. Friedman? The Dr. Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman Foundation, which was created by Mr. Friedman’s brother and sister-in-law, will be making a donation to the Manhattan Theater Club. Neither the foundation nor the theater would disclose the amount of the gift, though Barry Grove, the theater’s executive producer, described it as substantial.

A name change was always the plan when the Manhattan Theater Club opened the Biltmore in 2003 after a $35 million renovation, said Peter J. Solomon, the chairman of the theater’s board.

Commercial theaters are often renamed for theater personalities — the Jujamcyn theater chain recently rechristened two of its theaters after August Wilson and Al Hirschfeld, while the Shubert Organization, to somewhat mixed reviews, renamed two of its theaters after its current chairman, Gerald Schoenfeld, and former president, Bernard Jacobs, who died in 1996.

Nonprofit theaters, looking for dimes wherever they can, have in recent years pursued corporate sponsorships, as when the Roundabout Theater Company, in part of an $8.5 million deal, renamed the Selwyn Theater the American Airlines Theater. But corporations have been making fewer of those deals lately.
568 2008-06-19 Russia has made clear that it will try to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO and may retaliate. It is, for example, preparing to introduce visa restrictions for Ukrainians entering Russia.

If the United States negotiated to deploy the shield in Lithuania, Russia would almost certainly adopt an even tougher stance toward that country, military experts said. The Russian defense and security establishment still finds it extremely difficult to accept that the three Baltic states, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, broke away from the Soviet Union and became independent in 1991 and subsequently joined the European Union and NATO.

“There is no doubt that Russia would exploit this to the full if parts of the U.S. missile shield were based here,” said Raimundas Lopata, a professor of political science at the Institute of International Relations and Political Science at Vilnius University.

The State Department said its security experts had already spoken to the Lithuanians.

“We have had general conversations with the government of Lithuania about missile defense issues,” said Tom Casey, the State Department’s deputy spokesman. “But, certainly, we expect and hope that we will be able to conclude an agreement with Poland in the near future. And we do expect it will work out, so I don’t think there’s going to be a need for any alternatives.”

But Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon spokesman, said Tuesday that “there are other options available to us.”

“There are several European countries that could host the interceptors, and Lithuania is one of them,” he said.

Juozas Olekas, the Lithuanian defense minister, said Wednesday that his government was waiting to see what terms the United States might offer.

The overtures to Lithuania reflect exasperation in Poland and the United States over negotiations to deploy the shield in Poland.

In March, Poland’s center-right government, led by Donald Tusk, presented the United States with a short but costly list of conditions for placing up to 10 inceptors on its territory. It demanded that the United States provide a mobile air defense system that NATO diplomats have said could cost billions of dollars.

Radek Sikorski, the Polish foreign minister, said last month that if his country agreed to accept the interceptors and a United States presence, it needed to modernize its air defenses to protect itself from threats. The Polish Defense Ministry has said those threats could come from Russia.

The United States has rejected the Polish requests, apparently leaving the government in Warsaw with the impression that no deal can be struck before the Bush administration leaves office in January. Ministers have said it might be better to wait until a new administration is in place.
569 2008-06-19 On June 19, the Security Council will debate whether sexual violence is linked with the maintenance of international peace and security.

Long seen as the collateral damage of conflict, systematic rape has become a means of achieving military ends. Rape under orders is not merely an aggressive manifestation of sexuality, but a sexual manifestation of aggression.

To recognize it as a security issue is to justify a security response. As Mr. Kristof shows, sexual violence is a tactic of choice in Darfur and Congo. The effect is to force populations to flee, punish civilians seen as partisan, reward irregularly paid arms bearers, secure resources and shatter community cohesion. It is cheaper and more destructive than other methods of fighting, and easier to get away with until now.

A resolution is set to address this challenge. Often called “a war within the war,” sexual violence occurs in private spaces rarely patrolled by police or peacekeepers, often at times when security actors are scarce.

We cannot stop sexual violence without empowering women. During the Security Council’s mission to Africa this month, Unifem arranged for women’s civil society groups to speak directly with Council members.

As one activist said, sexual violence did not abate after the January peace talks in Goma, Congo. Why not? It was simply never discussed. Such silence advertises that rape can be perpetrated with impunity.
570 2008-06-19 Re “Small-Business Agency’s Problems Linger as Leader Moves On to HUD” (Business Day, June 12):

The Small Business Administration guarantees loans to small businesses. Our progress has been praised by bankers, community lenders and credit unions. Lenders are coming back into our programs for the first time in years.

Why? It used to take nine months for the S.B.A. to honor a guarantee in its flagship program. Now it takes three weeks. We have designed more relevant products for the market. Our interactions with banks are increasingly automated, and we are providing better support to them throughout our network.

The S.B.A. helps small businesses get government contracts. In 2006 (the last year with published data), small businesses reached a record level of federal contracts. Small businesses owned by women experienced their largest year of growth and hit a record level. Small disadvantaged businesses (generally minority-owned) hit a record level.

The S.B.A. has also led tough-minded efforts to improve the integrity of small business contracting data and to tighten the rules to qualify, reducing the value of contracts coded as small business by more than $10 billion, increasing new opportunities.

Finally, in 2006 the S.B.A. was ranked 30th out of 30 in the Best Places to Work survey among federal agencies. After only one year of reforms, S.B.A. morale skyrocketed, placing it among the top 10 in respect for leadership, overall job satisfaction up 9 percent, and satisfaction with leadership communication up 11 to 16 percent.
571 2008-06-19 The offer of talks with Lebanon comes amid intense regional diplomatic activity, including the planned start on Thursday of a six-month truce in Gaza between Israel and Hamas, the Palestinian militant group, which the Israeli government confirmed on Wednesday, and the end of a second round of indirect negotiations between Israel and Syria for a comprehensive peace treaty. Israel is also very close to a prisoner swap with Hezbollah.

Mark Regev, spokesman for Mr. Olmert, said the prime minister had spoken of his desire to start talks with Lebanon in an internal Israeli meeting and had decided to make that desire public.

Since Syria has such strong influence in Lebanon, Mr. Olmert argued that the talks with Syria should lead logically to discussions with Lebanon, Mr. Regev said.

The disputed piece of land that will be under negotiation is known as the Shabaa Farms.

When Israel withdrew from the occupation of southern Lebanon in 2000, the United Nations Security Council stated that the withdrawal was complete despite its holding onto the disputed area because Shabaa, the United Nations said, was part of the Syrian Golan Heights occupied by Israel.

But Lebanon and Hezbollah say the land is Lebanese and Syria has not contradicted them. Moreover, Hezbollah has used Israel’s hold over Shabaa as a pretext for keeping its men under arms despite United Nations resolutions calling for the disarming of all Lebanese militias.

Hezbollah says that as long as part of the Lebanese homeland is occupied, it needs its weapons because the national army is weak.

But the West, especially the United States and France, wants to reduce the power of Hezbollah, a client of both Syria and Iran, and has been looking for ways to strengthen the pro-Western government of Lebanon.

On Wednesday, Hezbollah officials made clear that they viewed Israel’s offer as part of an effort to disarm the group. “If they really want to give us back our land, they can withdraw and implement the security council resolutions,” said Nawar Sahili, a Hezbollah member of Lebanon’s Parliament, referring to a United Nations resolution that calls for the Shabaa issue to be resolved.

Next month, United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon is due to brief the Security Council on the implementation of Resolution 1701, which ended the 2006 war between Israel and Hezbollah. In that report, it is likely that he will announce a revised or clarified stand on the sovereignty of Shabaa.

For Israel, the main concern in Lebanon is Hezbollah’s increasing power. Israeli military officials say that Hezbollah has far more rockets and far deadlier ones today than it did two years ago when the two fought a month-long war after Hezbollah guerrillas crossed the border to kidnap and kill Israeli soldiers.

It is unclear whether Shabaa and Hezbollah have been discussed by Israeli and Syrian officials negotiating in their talks, which are being mediated by Turkey.

But the Israelis and Syrians say their latest round of talks went well and there is now the possibility that Mr. Olmert and Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, will find themselves at a table together in France next month. Both men have accepted an invitation to a regional conference there on July 13 on immigration, security and the environment, and Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner of France has said they will be seated at the same table.

Resolution 1701 calls on Israel to provide to the United Nations “all remaining maps of land mines in Lebanon in Israel’s possession.” Israel says it has done so and international officials who monitor the issue confirm it.

They say most of the mines have been cleared using the maps. Cluster bombs are not mentioned in the resolution but are a source of great concern for the southern Lebanese. There, the international officials say, Israel has been less helpful in providing maps and data but it may well be because the bombs were distributed less systematically and Israel has less precise information.

Israel worries that if it yields Shabaa, Hezbollah will come up with another reason why it must keep its arms. Indeed, there are other outstanding issues, including the village of Ghajjar on the border, of which Israel occupies about half.
572 2008-06-19 Because the archetypal women in Daphne Guinness’s short film, “The Phenomenology of Body,” revolve on turntables, it is somehow easier to think of her as a D.J. than as a director. Because the chic images she assembled appear in some sense random, it seems appropriate to think of her as more a sampler than any kind of auteur. And because the story depicting women through the ages is, as its creator points out, not exactly linear and only accidentally feminist, it is easy to see in it hints of autobiography, the personal history of a slightly anachronistic sort of being, less actor than spectator, a woman upon whom the events of life impress themselves.

While few outside the style world are likely to have heard of Guinness, she exercises considerable fascination in fashionable circles and the tabloid press. The daughter of the Guinness brewery heir Jonathan Guinness, formally known as Lord Moyne, Guinness is also the step-granddaughter of Sir Oswald Mosley, the British fascist; the ex-wife of Spyros Niarchos, of Greek shipping fame (she married him at 19; he settled a reputed $40 million dollars on her when they divorced in 1999); and lately the subject of tabloid rumors related to her friendship with Bernard-Henri Lévy, the wealthy, and married, French writer whose intellect is almost as celebrated as his luxuriant head of hair.

Guinness studied at the Slade School of Fine Art, trained as an actress and opera singer and owns a better-than-respectable collection of contemporary art, but she is still recognized, in a starkly prefeminist way, mostly in terms of the men in her life. She may raise money for charities to empower women, but is better known as a socialite who appears on Tatler magazine’s “most invited” list. She designs her own eccentric line of heraldic jewelry but is usually referred to as some male designer’s muse. And while she has succeeded in producing movies, stills from one of which are reproduced here, her press clippings tend to omit anything that would make an impression on a résumé, unless you think it an accomplishment to be considered a kind of Adam’s rib in couture clothes.

“I can’t nail myself down, that’s what’s so awful,” Guinness said last week by telephone from her suite at Claridge’s hotel in London. “I’m constantly trying to nail down my thoughts, doing a film or writing or trying to create something, trying to get it.”

But Daphne Guinness gets it. She particularly gets it when it comes to her appearance, which is not only her most compelling creation but also the likely point of origin for her other work. An aristocratic beauty, Guinness dresses starkly against type, wearing pseudo-armor, corsets, fanciful plumage (Valentino once remarked that you could easily track her by following a trail of molted feathers) and interpretations of 18th-century military uniforms. As doubtless befits a woman who spent part of her childhood in a Spanish art milieu presided over by Salvador Dalí, she styles her hair in skunk stripes and has been known to wear two different-colored shoes.

That her beauty has largely tended to define her cannot be incidental to Guinness’s decision to make a film in which a series of lovely women appear to be pinioned not just by the ropes and garments that bind them but also by a viewer’s gaze. “I think woman’s perception of women is a kind of incredible mission,” Guinness said in a declaration with an odd poignancy, considering that it has not exactly been women’s perceptions of woman that have framed her life.

Lévy reportedly once told her, “You are no longer a person; you are a concept!” And a viewer might be forgiven for interpreting “The Phenomenology of Body” as a cinematic retort to the nonsense that sometimes escapes from men’s mouths.
573 2008-06-19 “My prediction is that unless oil prices go down below $60 a barrel, you are now at a fundamental turning point at which you will see a new political coalition emerge,” Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. “This is a huge populist issue, and politicians who ignore it do so at their own peril.”

But Democrats do not feel especially imperiled. Although one moderate Democrat — Senator of , who has long advocated expanding drilling in the Gulf of Mexico — is drafting legislation aimed at increasing domestic production, the leadership is holding fast. Speaker of said Wednesday, “We cannot drill our way to energy independence.”

If anything, Democrats say, the White House action gives them a chance to paint Mr. Bush as beholden to the oil industry and Mr. McCain as a clone of Mr. Bush, a message that will only grow louder as the November election draws near.

“To have President Bush be the face of this issue for the Republicans means having the worst possible spokesman,” said Geoff Garin, a Democratic strategist who helped run Senator ’s presidential campaign.

“What Republicans are doing for themselves right now,” Mr. Garin added, “is deepening the impression that they are the party of Big Oil.”

Whether $4-a-gallon gasoline is producing more support for domestic drilling is hard to discern. A poll conducted last month found that 57 percent of those surveyed favored drilling for oil in coastal and wilderness areas that are now off limits, but there are no earlier data for comparison. In March, before the latest spike in gasoline prices, a survey found that 50 percent opposed drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, in , while 42 percent were in favor.

Mr. Bush has long supported the proposal to drill along a coastal strip of the refuge. But he has not before taken up the cause of offshore drilling, partly because it was such a hot-button issue in the state of , where his brother Jeb was governor. Congress first adopted its moratorium against drilling on the outer continental shelf, 3 to 200 miles offshore, in 1981. In 1990, Mr. Bush’s father signed an executive order reinforcing the ban; Mr. Bush promised Wednesday to rescind the order if Congress ended its moratorium.

In the Rose Garden, the president made the case that in the long run, the solution to high prices was to reduce demand for oil by promoting alternative-energy technologies, a view widely shared across the political spectrum. But “in the short run,” he said, “the American economy will continue to rely largely on oil, and that means we need to increase supply, especially here at home.”

The federal Energy Information Administration estimates that 18 billion barrels of oil are in the area covered by the moratorium, and the White House says that is enough to match current American production for 10 years. But a 2007 analysis by the agency concluded that opening up drilling in the moratorium area “would not have a significant impact on domestic crude oil and natural gas production or prices before 2030.”

The primary concern about offshore drilling has been that unsightly oil rigs would dampen tourism, or that spills would threaten the environment. Advocates, and even critics, say new technology has greatly reduced the risk of spills. But David B. Sandalow, an energy expert at the in Washington who advises Democrats, argues that the amount of oil that could be recovered is so small as not to be worth the environmental risk.

“It’s like walking an extra 20 feet a day to lose weight,” he said. “It’s just not enough to make a difference.”

But Robin West, who managed the offshore leasing program for the Reagan administration and is now chairman of PFC Energy, a consulting company, argues that additional supply could make a difference in price, especially if domestic drilling were coupled with aggressive conservation efforts. He said it would take time, though — a minimum of five or six years, even if drilling were to begin today.

“A logical energy policy,” Mr. West said, “is to encourage production and discourage consumption. And prices will go down.”

But with just seven months left in his presidency, the relationship between Mr. Bush and Congressional Democrats is already set, and unlikely to produce fresh agreement on what might be a logical energy policy, especially in the thick of a presidential election season.

As Vin Weber, a Republican former congressman from , said: “I think we have been deadlocked on energy over ideological concerns for a long time, and the urgency in the country was not there to break out of this debate. And now the urgency of the country is there, and it’s too late for this administration.”
574 2008-06-19 The agency report, while a major coup for Boeing, is a setback for the Air Force, whose credibility is in tatters over the besieged procurement program and other recent scandals.

In a statement, the Air Force said it would not decide whether to reopen the bidding for the contract until it had fully reviewed the 69-page G.A.O. report. “Once the review is complete, the Air Force will be in a position to determine the best course of action,” said the Air Force statement.

Lt. Col. Karen Platt, an Air Force spokeswoman, said: “We don’t know the way forward right now. It is a huge document, and it will take time to review it.” The Air Force has 60 days to respond to the G.A.O. report.

The controversy spilled over into presidential politics as well. One of the leading players in the tanker contract dispute is Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, who scuttled an initial deal between the Air Force and Boeing in 2004 as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.

That plan, in which the Air Force was to have leased the tankers from Boeing, collapsed in a corruption scandal that sent two Boeing executives to prison and later cost the chief executive his job.

This setback, in turn, opened the door for a challenge to Boeing from Northrop Grumman and the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, known as EADS, eager to do more business with the Pentagon.

Mr. McCain’s top advisers, including a co-chairman of his presidential campaign, were lobbyists for EADS. And Mr. McCain had written to the Defense Department, urging it to ignore a trade dispute between the United States and Europe over whether Airbus received improper subsidies. Mr. McCain said that he was asking the Air Force only to maintain a level playing field as it considered the two bids.

Democrats immediately seized on Mr. McCain’s role on Wednesday, suggesting that his efforts could lead to a loss of American jobs. A press release issued by the Democratic National Committee carried a headline saying that “McCain mimicked EADS every step of the way” on a deal that “sent American jobs abroad.”

Senator Barack Obama, the likely Democratic nominee, did not echo this line of commentary, but said he “applauds” the G.A.O. recommendation and added that the tanker competition “must be reopened to ensure a fair and transparent process.”

At a news conference in Springfield, Mo., Mr. McCain also called for the Air Force to reopen the competition. “Obviously, they need to go back and redo the contracting process again,” said Mr. McCain, adding that he hopes “that this time they will get it right.” He also defended his role in the demise of the Boeing-Air Force deal: “I’m still proud that the first time around, I saved taxpayers $6.2 billion.”

Because of the need to keep some of its report confidential, the G.A.O. released only a three-page summary. In it, the G.A.O. said that the Air Force had made “unreasonable” cost calculations which, when corrected, would make Boeing the lower bidder over time. It also said the Air Force had “conducted misleading and unequal discussions” with Boeing when the Air Force indicated to Boeing that it had satisfied program requirements when, in fact, it had not.

The G.A.O. ruling is only a recommendation and does not mean that Boeing will prevail in the end. But given the strong wording of the report and that the G.A.O. upholds only a small number of contract protests, analysts say that the Air Force is likely to give Boeing a second chance.

“This means a recompete,” said Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst with the Teal Group, a consulting firm in Northern Virginia. “And it gives Boeing a strong chance.”

In Paris, there was disappointment mixed with hope. “Though we are disappointed, it is important to recognize that the G.A.O. announcement is an evaluation of the selection process, not of the merits of the aircraft,” Louis Gallois, the EADS chief executive, said at a Paris reception. He added that he remained confident that the Airbus aerial tanker, which is a version of its A330 commercial plane, was “best suited to meet the Air Force’s critical mission requirements.”

But on Capitol Hill, there was jubilation. Lawmakers from Washington, Kansas and Missouri gathered for an exuberant news conference. Still, they said they would wait to see what the Air Force did before taking any legislative steps. Representative Todd Tiahrt, Republican of Kansas, even went so far as to hold up a banner that said “Vindication!!” and referred to the Airbus offering as a “French tanker.”

“Parents always say it’s not nice to say ‘I told you so,’ but we told you so,” said Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, where Boeing has operations. Representative Dave Reichert, Republican of Washington, said Boeing workers were rejoicing. “Over 20,000 of my constituents are Boeing employees,” he said. “And I can almost hear the cheer all the way from Washington State here to Washington, D.C.”

Mark McGraw, Boeing’s vice president for tanker programs, said, “We welcome and support today’s ruling by the G.A.O. fully sustaining the grounds of our protest.” Boeing’s stock rose 27 cents on Wednesday to close at $74.65, while Northrop shares fell $1.08 to $70.01.

Boeing’s decision to lodge a protest was a bold one, and it risked alienating the company’s biggest customer. At the time of the decision, Air Force officials had sent out strong signals that they hoped Boeing would not take the course that it did, arguing that a protest by Boeing would only further delay a needed program in a time of war.

But Boeing did so anyway, mounting a multimillion-dollar advertising and public relations campaign and encouraging members of Congress from states where Boeing provides jobs to rally on its behalf. It has run full-page color ads in major newspapers and in trade publications read by members of Congress and Pentagon officials.

For the Air Force, the tanker competition was also about its own reputation and ability to run a fair and honest competition after the 2004 Boeing-Air Force deal failed amid evidence of a pattern of pro-Boeing favoritism within the Air Force.

On Monday, the Pentagon strongly defended and stressed the importance of getting new tankers into its fleet. Geoff Morrell, the Defense Department spokesman, said: “We believe that the acquisition and contracting process that eventually produced Northrop Grumman and EADS as the winner of this deal was a fair and transparent one. It was very deliberate.”
575 2008-06-19 Now when he hears of extremists firing rockets at southern Israeli towns like Sderot, Mr. Sharif has a warm feeling all over.

When Hamas won democratic elections in Gaza and then seized full power a year ago, there were no good choices for Israel and America. Hamas includes terrorists, Islamic fundamentalists and ideologues, and it has cultivated ties with Iran. It has decent governance by the region’s devalued standards — it is not particularly corrupt; it delivers social services efficiently, and the streets are safe — but it runs a police state and alarms all its neighbors.

Of all the bad choices, Israel chose perhaps the worst. Punishing everyone in Gaza radicalized the population, cast Hamas as a victim, gave its officials an excuse for economic failures and undermined the moderates who are the best hope of both Israel and the Arab world.

If the U.S. and Israel had formed a Joint Commission to Support Hamas Extremists and Bolster Iranian Influence, they could hardly have done a better job. The episode is the latest evidence that hard-liners in Israel, Palestine and America all reinforce each other. Arab terrorism led to the rise of Israeli hawks and to two invasions of Lebanon. The first Israeli invasion helped give birth to Hezbollah, and then the Israeli assaults on Palestinian police helped nurture Hamas.

So while Israelis denounce Hezbollah and Hamas, they helped create them. And while Palestinians denounce the separation barrier, their suicide bombings built it.

“Extremists need each other, support each other,” noted Eyad el-Sarraj, a prominent psychiatrist in Gaza. He laments that the siege of Gaza has discredited pro-American voices: “Whoever is not going along with the U.S. is a hero, even the crazy ones.”

The U.S. and Israel devoted their energies to punishing Hamas and didn’t work to make a success of our preferred interlocutors. So moderates like Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, now come across as weak, irrelevant and ineffective, while Hamas emerges as the victor.

We should talk to Hamas, not because negotiations will necessarily get anywhere, but because a failure to negotiate will necessarily get nowhere.

Israel’s decision to block Gazans from studying abroad was particularly shortsighted. Educating Gazans might help build a contingent of moderates, but Israel has continued to block three Fulbright scholars from leaving for the U.S.

“For Israel to have a better future, it should want neighbors with better education,” Zohair Abu Shaban, one of the Fulbright students, noted reproachfully.

So far, Hamas has outmaneuvered Israel and the United States. Opinion polls this year show Hamas gaining over all in the West Bank and Gaza. And, when we help Hamas, we inadvertently boost its backer, Iran.

Perhaps most depressing, large Palestinian majorities — more than before — now favor terror attacks. A university student in Gaza, Rajaa Batrikhi, 20, told me she has suffered so much from the siege that she relishes the rocket attacks from Gaza on Israeli towns.

“I think it’s good when we hit them with rockets,” she said defiantly. “Our rockets are nothing like the rockets they hit us with. At least they feel the fear that we feel every day.”

It’s a credit to Israel that it was willing to negotiate indirectly with Hamas, and with the truce, we now have a chance to break this downward spiral. Let’s stop bolstering Hamas.
576 2008-06-19 EXPLORATION HURDLE A global shortage of ships used for offshore drilling could hinder the search for oil.       President Bush called on Congress to end a longstanding federal ban on offshore drilling and open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge f...
577 2008-06-19 PRICE--Luella. Wife of Joel Price; stepmother of Jonathan (Kim Rubin) Price, and Jennifer Price, sister of Thelma Racer, Donald (Marjorie) Griffin and Estelle (Carylos) Starkey; grandmother of Lindsey and David; stepgrandmother of Stephanie Lee; c...
578 2008-06-20 Blogtalk: The free Siren Music Festival in Coney Island; more car-free news; a Q&A with the Waverly Inn’s John DeLucie; felony graffiti; an ode to McSorley’s; eminent domain talk; and more New York links....
579 2008-06-20 Senators Barack Obama and John McCain on Friday offered qualified approval of the compromise worked out this week on electronic surveillance of terror suspects....
580 2008-06-20 Citing her conviction, Britain refuses to let in the lifestyle mogul....
581 2008-06-20 One view on Obama's public financing decision: it's McCain's fault....
582 2008-06-20 As car companies increasingly pander to buyers looking to go green, environmentalists are fighting back with some demands of their own. Environmentalists have successfully complained about a number of advertisements to national advertising standar...
583 2008-06-20 CNBC's David Faber discusses a false rumor about Merrill Lynch, as well as continuing trouble at regional banks.
584 2008-06-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
585 2008-06-20 From Louise Story, a DealBook colleague: Friday is a "quadruple witching day," which means that lots and lots of Merrill Lynch options are expiring. Such a day only comes usually every third Friday in March, June, September and December - and it a...
586 2008-06-20 An investor with a minority stake in Yahoo urged Microsoft on Thursday to take its most recent offer for a partial investment directly to Yahoo shareholders and prove its merits. The investor, Mark Nelson, a partner in Mithras Capital, which owns ...
587 2008-06-20 For more than two years, executives and other senior employees have been leaving Yahoo at a steady, persistent trickle. The trickle has turned into a flood. In a matter of days after Yahoo's announcement last week that merger talks with Microsoft ...
588 2008-06-20 Benchmark Capital, the prominent Silicon Valley venture firm, said the Matt Cohler, vice president for product management at the social networking site Facebook, is joining as a general partner in the fall. Mr. Cohler, who joined Facebook in early...
589 2008-06-20 Microsoft will not seek to make a spate of other Internet acquisitions in the wake of its failed bid for Yahoo, the company's chief executive told The Financial Times. After failing to win a deal for Yahoo, speculation has emerged that Microsoft m...
590 2008-06-20 It’s likely that the younger generation of moviegoers knows Mike Myers primarily as the voice of Shrek. It has been five years since “The Cat in the Hat,” his last live-action movie, and six since the third “Austin Powers” picture, so a bit of reintroduction may be in order. Kids who wonder just who this guy is — and grownups with a merely casual rather than morbidly obsessive interest in pop-culture ephemera — will need some remedial instruction.

Back in the ’90s, they should be told, Mr. Myers was without peer in a challenging and intensely competitive pursuit: the manufacture of comical catchphrases that, while not especially funny in themselves, would call forth peals of knowing laughter when repeated out of context.

Party on, Garth! Touch my monkey! Groovy, baby, groovy! I’ve got shpilkes in my geneckteckessoink! He had a million of them, or at least a half dozen. But to judge from “The Love Guru,” a new feature film directed by Marco Schnabel, Mr. Myers, a writer and producer as well as the star, seems to have lost his touch. The movie’s takeaway catchphrase is “Mariska Hargitay,” which is used by the title character as a fake-Hindi spiritual greeting. This is almost hilarious the first 11 or so times he does it, but by the time Guru Pitka (Mr. Myers) says “Mariska Hargitay” to Ms. Hargitay herself, it’s somehow less amusing than it should be.

Which might sum up “The Love Guru” in its entirety but only at the risk of grievously understating the movie’s awfulness. A whole new vocabulary seems to be required. To say that the movie is not funny is merely to affirm the obvious. The word “unfunny” surely applies to Mr. Myers’s obnoxious attempts to find mirth in physical and cultural differences but does not quite capture the strenuous unpleasantness of his performance. No, “The Love Guru” is downright antifunny, an experience that makes you wonder if you will ever laugh again.

And this is, come to think of it, something of an achievement. What is the opposite of a belly laugh? An interesting question, in a way, and to hear lines like “I think I just made a happy wee-wee” or “I’m making diarrhea noises in my cup” or to watch apprentice gurus attack one another with urine-soaked mops is to grasp the answer. Please don’t misunderstand: I’m not opposed to infantile, regressive, scatological humor. Indeed, I consider myself something of a connoisseur. Or maybe a glutton. So it’s not that I object to the idea of, say, witnessing elephants copulate on the ice in the middle of a Stanley Cup hockey match, or seeing a dwarf sent flying over the same ice by the shock of defibrillator paddles. But it will never be enough simply to do such things. They must be done well.

Instead Mr. Myers floats through “The Love Guru” with the serene confidence that everything he does will have us rolling in the aisles. He follows nearly every joke with his trademark facial tic, baring his teeth, pushing his head forward and widening his eyes, as if to grant uncertain viewers permission to giggle. Sometimes he does this to indicate the character’s attempt at levity — Guru Pitka making a joke at someone else’s expense rather than Mr. Myers making a joke at Guru Pitka’s — but the distinction hardly matters. The delusional narcissism of the Guru, who dreams of a spot on “Oprah,” is of a piece with Mr. Myers’s own.

The rule seems to be that no one may upstage him and all must adore him. The “Austin Powers” franchise fulfilled the first mandate by casting the star in several roles. He is supported by a cast that includes Justin Timberlake (as a well-endowed Québécois goalie), Romany Malco (as a hockey star with love trouble) and Jessica Alba, as the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs. A further list — Stephen Colbert! John Oliver of “The Daily Show”! Ben Kingsley! — would only create the misleading impression that there is something worth seeing here. If there is — Did I miss it? Darn! — I’m sure it will show up on YouTube before long. In the meantime talk amongst yourselves.
591 2008-06-20 Five years after President Bush largely dropped the military operation against the Afghan-based Taliban and Al Qaeda so he could invade Iraq, American and NATO troops are needed as much as ever in Afghanistan to hold back a resurgence of those forces. Yet Washington and its European allies still do not have an effective and comprehensive strategy to combat the threat.

Despite the presence of more than 50,000 NATO troops — most of them American — and some 140,000 Afghan troops and police, the Taliban and Al Qaeda have gotten stronger over the past two years. And Afghan forces are far from being able to defend the country on their own.

This week, hundreds of NATO and Afghan troops using helicopter gunships engaged in one of their biggest battles in years. The target was an estimated 400 Taliban fighters who had dug into several villages near the southern city of Kandahar, raided the main city jail and freed hundreds of their comrades.

A report by the Government Accountability Office this week concluded that after investing $16.5 billion, the Pentagon and the State Department still lack a “sustainable strategy” for developing the Afghanistan Army and the country’s police force. To understand the full failure, read the fine print: only two of 105 Army units — and not a single police unit — are judged to be “fully capable.”

President Bush should direct the Pentagon and State Department to devise a plan that would ensure that American money is used to build a capable Afghan security force. He should work with European, Afghan and Pakistani leaders to put aside differences and develop a comprehensive military and political strategy to address the Taliban-Qaeda threat on both sides of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. International donors, who promised millions more for Afghanistan last week, must keep pressure on President Hamid Karzai to root out government corruption and coordinate closely with the new United Nations representative in Afghanistan, Kai Eide.

Meanwhile, NATO allies must beef up their forces — as Britain has promised to do. Allies who put inexcusable restrictions on where and when their forces can operate must remove them.
592 2008-06-20 Europeans took an early lead in efforts to curb global warming, championing the Kyoto Protocol and imposing a market-based system in 2005 to cap emissions from about 12,000 factories producing electricity, glass, steel, cement, pulp and paper. Companies buy or sell permits based on whether they overshoot or come in beneath their pollution goals.

European Union officials acknowledge that establishing such a vast market has been more complicated than they expected.

“Of course it was ambitious to set up a market for something you can’t see and to expect to see immediate changes in behavior,” said Jacqueline McGlade, the executive director of the European Environment Agency. “It’s easy, with hindsight, to say we could have been tougher.”

A major stumbling block arose at the outset, when some participating governments allocated too many trading permits to polluters when the market was created. That led to a near-market failure after the value of the permits fell by half, and called into question the validity of the system.

Since then, officials have promised changes, and the price of carbon permits has largely recovered. Yet a ferocious lobbying battle is under way as European Union regulators seek to overhaul dysfunctional parts of the market by charging polluting companies more and reducing the supply of permits. Brussels is also seeking to consolidate its oversight of the market, rather than leave it partly in the hands of national governments that have proved susceptible to corporate lobbying.

“The politics you’re seeing in Europe now are the real politics of carbon,” said David Victor, the director of the Program on Energy and Sustainable Development at Stanford.

Energy-intensive industries, like power, steel and aluminum, have challenged proposals that would force them to buy many more permits than in the past. During the three years in which they participated in the first phase of the market, carbon emissions in the iron and steel sector in Britain alone rose more than 10 percent while emissions in the cement industry rose more than 50 percent, according to transcripts from the British Parliament.

Electricity producers, oil companies, steel companies and airlines are among those fighting to protect their interests, with some threatening to freeze investments in Europe unless the system is tweaked to suit them.

Meanwhile, poorer countries in the union, led by Hungary, are clamoring to overturn emissions allowances that they say are too stingy and risk undermining their economic growth.

The proposals are also under attack from environmentalists, who want to restrict polluters from using large numbers of permits from an offsetting program run by the United Nations. It funnels money to poor countries for investments that purportedly reduce carbon emissions, but the effectiveness of the program has been questioned.

“The sheer amount of lobbying creates so much uncertainty about the way these markets operate that nobody really is investing in cleaner technologies in Europe,” said Mr. Robinson of Open Europe.

Carbon markets, also known as cap-and-trade systems, have come into vogue because they are more politically palatable than imposing carbon taxes.

Americans pioneered pollution markets in the 1970s and used them on a broader scale with some success during the 1990s to control emissions from power plants that contributed to acid rain. American officials also pushed hard for emissions trading to be included in the Kyoto climate treaty on the grounds that markets are the most effective way of encouraging innovative emission-reducing technologies.

But the momentum in the United States to create a nationwide carbon market ground to a halt in 2001, when President Bush withdrew support for the Kyoto Protocol. Mr. Bush said carbon controls would put an undue burden on the American economy unless fast-growing countries like China and India also made commitments to cut emissions.

Now the tide is turning again in favor of carbon markets in the United States. Although the Senate this month blocked a bill that would have imposed a cap-and-trade system to slash greenhouse gases by 2050, the issue is expected to come up again after the elections. Both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama have pledged support for market-based systems like the one in Europe.

Mr. Obama has said he supports the use of a market to reduce carbon emissions by 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. His proposal would require pollution credits to be auctioned rather than given away to big industries, including coal and oil companies.

Mr. McCain favors giving permits away to big polluters before moving to an “eventual” auctioning of permits to reduce emission levels 60 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.

Americans were likely to experience many of the same problems already playing out in Europe, said Mr. Victor, the Stanford expert. “The challenge for the United States now will be to have enough pork to get people to the meal, but not to give away so much that we end up squandering public resources,” he said.

The biggest question hanging over the European system — and that is likely to be of major concern to American policy makers — is whether the rules can be tightened enough that they achieve the social goal of reducing the emissions that are warming the planet.

Henrik Hasselknippe, the director of emissions trading analysis at Point Carbon, a consultancy in Oslo, said the European system was beginning to show signs of success. He said the price of carbon had been rising, and that would prompt factories and installations covered by the system to move toward cleaner power generation, such as burning natural gas instead of coal.

Mr. Hasselknippe said efforts to overhaul the European system by reducing corporate influence and government largess would mean greater certainty about price of carbon permits during the next decade. And he predicted that emissions from industries covered by the European system would finally decline this year, by 2 percent.
593 2008-06-20 The Macon branch of the Brooklyn Public Library, one of 18 Brooklyn libraries that opened between 1901 and 1923 through the support of the steel magnate Andrew Carnegie, reopened on Thursday after a two-year, $2 million renovation.

The library, a two-story, neoclassical building at 361 Lewis Avenue with fireplaces, oak paneling, alcoves and wooden benches, opened on July 15, 1907, in a ceremony that drew about 2,000 visitors, according to the library’s records. The Macon branch provided nearly continuous service over the past century to Bedford-Stuyvesant.

“We are pleased to reopen Macon Library as a mainstay for access to information, books and materials for the Bedford-Stuyvesant community,” said Dionne Mack-Harvin, executive director of the Brooklyn Public Library.

Among the more prominent people who have used the library over the decades were Joan Maynard (1928-2006), the founder of what is now the Weeksville Heritage Center, which honors the memory of a 19th-century community of free blacks; John Steptoe (1950-1989), a writer and illustrator of children’s books; and Donna Hill, a romance novelist born in 1955.

The library, which is 17,968 square feet, has undergone previous renovations, in 1948 and 1949 and again from 1973 to 1977, when the interior was modernized and an auditorium constructed. The latest renovation, started in June 2006, was financed by the City Council and the Bloomberg administration.

The upgrades include a new African-American Heritage Center, focusing on local history; a space for infants and preschool children; a “complete face-lift” of the interior, including machines that allow users to check out materials on their own; and new lighting and electric fixtures.
594 2008-06-20 Stocks ended a back-and-forth session with modest advances on Thursday as a sharp drop in oil prices helped counter renewed concerns about the strength of the economy.

Oil fell nearly $5 a barrel after China announced plans to raise caps on gasoline and diesel fuel prices, a move that could ease global demand. Rising prices have pinned down investor sentiment for weeks with fears that the run-up would force businesses and consumers to curb spending.

But worrisome comments from Citigroup may have dimmed some investors’ spirits. The bank warned that “substantial” write-downs on bad debt were still to come, sending Citigroup shares lower and weighing on the financial sector. Citi was among the steepest decliners of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average.

Still, the drop in the oil price seemed to encourage some investors to buy stocks.

“It really seems to be a tug of war between the good news and the bad news, or the not-as-bad news and the terrible news,” said Jennifer Ellison, principal with wealth management firm Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough in San Francisco.

The Dow rose 34.03, or 0.28 percent, to 12,063.09, after again falling briefly below the 12,000 mark, as it did in intraday trading on Wednesday.
595 2008-06-20 Bastian Schweinsteiger, coming off a suspension, scored a goal and set up two more Thursday, leading Germany over Portugal, 3-2, in Basel, Switzerland, and into the European Championship semifinals.

It was the first time Germany moved into the final four since it won the championship in 1996, and the first time Portugal failed to make the semifinals in the last three major international tournaments.

Michael Ballack and Miroslav Klose scored for Germany off free kicks by Schweinsteiger. Nuno Gomes and Helder Postiga had goals for Portugal.

“Up to now, we lacked a bit of creativity,” Ballack said. “That is why we changed today and that was the key. Now, you saw what this team has when it can play freely.”

Schweinsteiger was suspended for shoving an opponent in Germany’s 2-1 loss to Croatia that relegated the Germans to runners-up in Group B. They still handled Portugal, which won Group A, and will play the winner of Friday’s quarterfinal between Turkey and Croatia.
596 2008-06-20 But some experts said the Chinese market was so heavily distorted by state subsidies for fuel that the higher prices might encourage refiners to produce more gasoline and diesel for Chinese consumers, possibly stoking new demand.

Either way, higher energy costs threaten not only to push up prices here, but also the prices of many of the goods China ships to the United States. Inflation in China was 7.7 percent last month and over 8 percent in February, March and April. While top Chinese officials are worried about inflation, they have faced another problem in recent weeks: the Shanghai stock market has slid steeply, leaving large numbers of angry shareholders.

Hours before the government raised energy prices, the Shanghai market had plunged 6.5 percent in Thursday trading, falling partly on worries of heavy losses among Chinese energy-related companies, which have been selling fuel and energy for less than it costs to produce them.

Until now, the government’s preoccupation with consumer price inflation had many economists wondering when fuel prices would be allowed to rise at all, despite problems in the stock market.

China is the world’s second largest oil consumer, after the United States. With the announcement Thursday, China became the eighth Asian country to raise fuel prices in the past month after concluding that low retail prices could not be sustained indefinitely through government subsidies.

American concerns about China’s price controls on fuel were raised as recently as this week in high-level economic talks between China and the United States in Annapolis, Md. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. raised the subject during the talks, which took place Tuesday and Wednesday.

Mr. Paulson, in a speech the previous week, called on China to lift controls and cut subsidies in the energy sector, arguing that they were harmful to the dynamics of supply and demand. Fuel price controls, he said, were producing “persistent gasoline and diesel shortages” in China, and also contributing to “power outages during snowstorms this past January and February.”

Price controls, he added, also “often lead to smuggling and corruption” as well as shortages that contribute to global price spikes in the energy sector.

Treasury officials did not say Thursday that American pressure had led to the change in China’s policies, but they welcomed the move as a possible sign that China was listening to analysts from other countries.

Chinese officials have spoken for several years of their desire to move toward a more energy-efficient economy. They have periodically mentioned an intention to impose taxes on energy once world oil prices begin to fall, so as to keep the pressure on Chinese businesses and consumers to improve efficiency.

Prices for gasoline and diesel had been fixed since Nov. 1, even as world oil prices rose 45 percent in that period. If the Chinese retail price increase on Thursday has a lasting downward effect on world oil prices, it could strengthen the position of economists who have argued that the United States should raise gasoline taxes to limit demand and drive down global oil prices.

Until now, the government’s subsidies have forced the state-controlled refiners to lose money by selling gasoline and diesel for less than the cost of the crude oil needed to make them. Power companies, too, have become reluctant to operate oil-fired power stations when they cannot sell the electricity for enough money to cover the cost of oil.

As refineries cut back their output this spring, the result has been crippling fuel shortages, particularly for diesel. Those shortages have already produced long lines of trucks at service stations, and might threaten the gathering of the summer harvest.

President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao took the highly unusual step on June 5 of ordering that tractors and other farm vehicles be given top priority for all supplies of diesel — usually the kind of measure that would be handled by far more junior officials.

Farmers were exempted on Thursday night from the latest increase in fuel prices, as were three provinces damaged in earthquakes last month: Sichuan, Shaanxi and Gansu Provinces.

Power plants that rely on oil have also been shutting down because of high prices. While China relies mainly on coal and hydroelectric power for electricity generation, oil-fired plants are important in southeastern China.

Severe snowstorms in January and February, followed by earthquake damage and disruption for the national rail network last month, have interfered with coal shipments to some power plants and made electricity generation from oil-fired plants even more important.

China struggles each summer to generate enough electricity, although there have been a few signs that electricity generation capacity is beginning to catch up with demand. The government also announced on Thursday night that it was limiting increases in coal prices, which would help power companies afford their fuel — although at the risk of introducing the same kind of price control distortions to the coal market that have already caused problems for diesel users.
597 2008-06-20 SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — A South Korean team led by a disgraced cloning expert said Thursday that it had created 17 clones of an endangered dog breed popular in China.

The team, from the Sooam Biotech Research Foundation, said the cloned Tibetan mastiff dogs were born in April, two months after being requested by the Chinese Academy of Sciences. The team that cloned the dogs was led by Hwang Woo-suk, who in 2005 successfully created the world’s first known dog clone, but was found the same year to have fabricated research on cloning human stem cells.

The foundation said it took two months to produce the cloned Tibetan mastiffs from pregnancy, but it declined to discuss its success rate, citing internal policy.

The foundation said all 17 dogs had been cloned from two dogs — female and male — through six surrogate dogs and cited DNA tests conducted by another institute as evidence.

However, an official of Kogene Biotech, the Seoul-based institute specializing in DNA analysis that did the tests, said it did not take its own samples from the dogs and that the samples it tested were provided by the foundation. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media.
598 2008-06-20 Low-fare airlines and business travelers used to be like oil and water, but lately the two have begun mixing like a vinaigrette.

Carriers like JetBlue, Southwest and AirTran are going after business travelers as a way to reap higher prices than budget-conscious vacationers can afford to pay. At the same time, business travelers seem more forgiving of fare increases that might keep leisure travelers at home.

“I’m sure there has been a price hike, but I understand it’s quite reasonable,” said Joel Ratner, chief executive of Rentar Environmental, who flew to Palm Beach Thursday from New York on JetBlue.

“They’re being forced into it by the price of fuel,” added Richard Warner, an executive vice president at Rentar.

John Rosshirt, the executive director of the Texas Clean Energy Park in Austin, Tex., chose JetBlue for a flight to help ring the closing bell at Nasdaq Wednesday night. “This flight was a little bit more expensive than other airlines I looked at, but the times that were available were great and it was a direct flight,” Mr. Rosshirt said.
599 2008-06-20 Mr. Bush said he had come to listen. “Obviously, to the extent we can help immediately, we want to help,” he said, adding that he particularly wanted people in small towns to know that they were not forgotten.

“The good news is the people of Iowa are tough-minded people,” he said. “You’ll come back better. Sometimes it’s hard to see it.”

Since the flooding began, 20 levees have been breached — 11 of them in the St. Louis area — and as many as 30 more remain in peril. Estimates of the damage to farmland throughout the Midwest ranged from 2 million to 5 million acres of crops, pushing corn prices close to a record price of $8 a bushel. The U.S. Department of Agriculture is said to be planning a thorough review of the damage later this month.

On Wednesday, the surging river was gruesome news for the farmers and residents — about 100, the authorities said — near the tiny hamlet of Meyer in western Illinois. Around the small community, part of a region of endless fields of soybeans, corn and cattle, state conservation police officers rode door to door in boats to ensure that everyone had left, and flew over in a helicopter, scanning for anyone stranded.

So it went all along the Mississippi this week, through Iowa, Illinois and Missouri, north of St. Louis: People marching along levees and flood walls, scanning for the slightest puddle or hint of pressure in the sand, waiting for what might come. In Quincy, Ill., local officials raced to reinforce a levee they were worried about south of town; at stake were 100,000 acres of farmland and access to the Mark Twain Bridge. And federal authorities said they were closely monitoring more than 20 other levees they view as vulnerable, as the waters continue to rise downstream in the coming days.

Around Meyer, farmers were devastated. “That’s all been lost, and it’s not going to be replanted this season,” said Gerald Jenkins, general manager of Ursa Farmers Cooperative, not far from Meyer. One of the cooperative’s grain elevators, in Meyer, was swamped, Mr. Jenkins said, another at risk.

Worse, Mr. Jenkins said he feared that so many fields under water would mean not much grain for the cooperative to sell come the fall harvest. “It’s a very sickening feeling,” he said.

Still, the breached levees were a guilty relief for others, here in Canton and in the other towns on the Missouri side of the river or downstream, who had watched the water rise and rise, and hoped that a breach somewhere else might mean less flooding where they were.

“It’s too bad for them, but that’s the way it is,” Joe Clark, the mayor of Canton, said on Wednesday. Throughout the town, hundreds of workers scrambled to raise a three-mile-long levee still higher, with two-foot-tall wooden boards and piles upon piles of sandbags. So far, the levee here was winning, but the river’s crest — only inches short of the highest ever here — was not expected until early Thursday. Mr. Clark said he was hopeful that the town’s levee would hold, and its empty, shuttered downtown would be spared. “Now it’s a matter of waiting,” he said.

A few miles south, the waters crept waist high in some parts of LaGrange, Mo. Still, the levee failures elsewhere might lessen the blow, even in LaGrange. “Everything that’s broken other places is helping us,” said Pat Ryan, who continued to pile sandbags around his house, despite the rising waters.

In towns throughout the area, roads closed, train cars sat empty on flooded tracks, and bridges over the river were barricaded. Everywhere, sore, sweaty volunteers filled sandbags — more than 12.8 million of them have been issued so far during this flooding, by the United States Army Corps of Engineers.

Despite several days of mostly dry weather here, the sheer volume of water already in the tributaries of the Mississippi had led, inevitably, to flooding along the Mississippi itself. More rain, though, may be on the way: a storm system was forecast to roll over some of the flooded areas on Thursday and Friday, bringing scattered thunderstorms, up to an inch of rain and even the possibility of large hail in parts. The storms were not expected to raise flood levels significantly, though.

South of here, in Clarksville, the water that had already swamped some homes rose nine more inches by Wednesday.

“You just see it creeping up,” Tommy Beauchamp, a volunteer firefighter, said on Wednesday.

There was one piece of good news, though: the water was expected to crest about three inches lower than had been predicted, perhaps, in part, because of upstream levee breaks. To Mr. Beauchamp, the difference did not seem measly. “We celebrate every inch that we can get,” he said.
600 2008-06-20 Like many people outside the United States, Canadians have taken an unusually keen interest in this year's presidential election.  A memorandum was leaked suggesting that Senator Barack Obama's campaign had privately assured Canadian diplomats not...
601 2008-06-20 FEWER DEALS Bargains are getting harder to find, as low-fare carriers join the bigger airlines in raising fares and fees.      Continental Airlines and United Airlines said that they would form an alliance and link their networks and operations. [...
602 2008-06-21 Wonkish post for the professionals, mostly. I've written before about the CIBC study (pdf - second item) suggesting that high oil prices, by making shipping much more expensive, may reverse a significant amount of globalization. A new NBER working...
603 2008-06-21 Croatia then made a mess of the penalty shootout, with Luka Modric and Ivan Rakitic missing the target before Turkey's 3-1 shootout victory was clinched when Rustu Recber saved from Mladen Petric.

Turkey trio Arda Turan, Semih Senturk and Hamit Altintop were all successful with their spot kicks.

"We fought and fought and the players keep outdoing themselves," said Turkey manager Fatih Terim. "Our people can celebrate now.

"This victory is very important for us. If our people are proud of us then we're proud of our people." Defeat was rough on Croatia, who overall had the better of the chances with Turkey weakened by a string of injuries plus suspensions to keeper Volkan Demirel and defender Mehmet Aurelio.

Slaven Bilic's Croatia got into their stride early and repeatedly managed to penetrate the Turkish defence.

One such occasion led to the best opportunity of the half in the 19th minute when Modric's low cross found striker Ivica Olic close in but his sliding effort rattled the bar under pressure from keeper Rustu.

Niko Kranjcar then headed the rebound over to the anguish of the Croatian contingent of fans inside the noisy Ernst Happel stadium, where several flares were lit during the game.

Mehmet Topal sent a 30-metre piledriver just wide towards the end of the first period in a rare effort for the Turks.

Croatia went close at the start of the second half when Gokhan Zan's weak back header let in Olic, who nodded over Rustu but failed to add the finishing touch with two defenders on the line.

Olic had two more chances and Darijo Srna forced Rustu into two saves from free kicks late in the 90 minutes but Turkey hung on to take the game into extra time.

The only sour notes for Terim's side were the bookings for Arda, Tuncay Sanli and Emre Asik which mean they will be banned for the semi-final together with first-choice keeper Volkan, who was suspended for two matches after being sent off in the group stage.

"I want to congratulate both teams for a great game of football," said Bilic. "This match shows why it's the most dramatic and most popular game in the world.

"My players put in a heroic performance and I can have no complaints about any of them. Penalties are a lottery and the players felt confident enough to take the spot kicks."
604 2008-06-21 Boeing said that tests on the 787 Dreamliner’s power systems were successful, putting the plane on schedule for its initial flight in the fourth quarter and delivery to customers next year. The Dreamliner’s reliance on electricity, along with lighter-weight composite materials and new technology, will reduce fuel consumption by 20 percent from comparable planes in service now. The electrical system on the 787, which has power levels five times higher than on Boeing’s 767, is largely independent of the jet engines, reducing fuel usage because power isn’t being bled away to run lights and other systems.
605 2008-06-21 But even though many business owners remained resilient, some said they understood Mr. Sambucci’s decision and might do the same if the offer was sufficiently appealing.

“God bless them,” said Paul Cohen, who has owned Roosevelt Auto Wrecking for nearly two decades. “You got to do what’s best for yourself.”

Since the city’s plan was announced last year, Mr. Sambucci’s 57-year-old family business, Sambucci Brothers Auto Salvage, has stood as a symbol of the fight against city control.

Signs decrying eminent domain, the government’s power to seize private land for public use, line the fences and windows near the 52,000-square-foot lot, stacked with tons of metal, glass and chrome.

Mr. Sambucci said he agonized over the decision to sell. The son of immigrants from Naples, Italy, he built the business from a scrap metal dump into a popular trove of used auto parts by working 18 hours a day.

Despite his decision, he said, he still hopes that the city fails in its quest.

“My first wish was to stay where I was created,” he said over a quick hot dog lunch in his office. “I don’t want to go, but they’ve got the gun on the table.”

Mr. Sambucci’s business is part of a group of organizations and property owners that has opposed the city’s efforts. Ultimately, Mr. Sambucci said, the cost of protesting the city’s efforts grew too large.

“The city could fight us for 100 years,” he said. “We’re going to run out of money, but they’re not. You can’t fight a war without money.”

Down the pothole-covered streets from Sambucci Brothers sits House of Spices, a producer and distributor of Indian food and a member of the business consortium. Gordhandas Soni, owner of the business for 38 years, said the pressure to sell had become intolerable in recent months.

“It is like a sword hanging over you, spinning slowly,” he said. “They should not be using divide-and-rule tactics.”

Neil Soni, Mr. Soni’s son and the company’s vice president, said he did not see the sale of Sambucci Brothers as a significant threat to Willets Point.

“They are only one business out of more than 200,” he said. “I don’t call that progress.”

Mr. Cohen, owner of the nearby wrecking lot, said his business was in a state of limbo. He said that he wanted to make improvements to his business, but that they would be pointless if he reached a deal to sell his land or if the city invoked eminent domain.

The city has said that the development project will create union jobs and that eminent domain will be used only as a last resort.

“There’s no question that Willets Point has to be cleaned up and the businesses have to be relocated for that to happen,” said Andrew Brent, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

Mr. Cohen said he was also concerned about the employees of Willets Point businesses that would not be compensated if their owners decided to sell.

“They’re good people,” he said. “They come to work on time, 365 days a year.”

Mr. Sambucci said he worried most about his 50-year-old son and 21-year-old grandson, who have helped the business prosper.

When the business moves next year, it will start from scratch, leaving behind parts amassed over the years.

Mr. Sambucci said he also worried about the future of family-owned businesses in the area.

“I’ll be fine,” he said. “But where do they go?”
606 2008-06-21 The problem is that rail has shriveled. The number of “passenger miles” traveled on intercity rail has dropped by about two-thirds since 1960, and the companies that build rail cars and locomotives have also shrunk, making it hard to expand.

In 1970, the year that Congress voted to create Amtrak by consolidating the passenger operations of freight railroads, the airlines were about 17 times larger than the railroads, measured by passenger miles traveled; now they are more than 100 times larger. Highway travel was then about 330 times larger; now it is more than 900 times larger.

Today Amtrak has 632 usable rail cars, and dozens more are worn out or damaged but could be reconditioned and put into service at a cost of several hundred thousand dollars each.

And it needs to buy new rail cars soon. Its Amfleet cars, the ones recognizable to riders as the old Metroliners, are more than 30 years old. And the Acela trains, which have been operating about eight years, have about a million miles on them.

Writing specifications for bids, picking a vendor and waiting for delivery takes years, even if the money is in hand.

Amtrak is an alternative to airlines along the Boston-New York-Washington corridor, and on some routes out of Chicago and a few in California. But most of its other routes are so slow that people take those trains because they have no alternative to reach places like Burlington, N.C., or Burlington, Iowa. Or they go for the train ride itself.

The railroad carried about 25 million passengers last year and may hit 27 million this year. (That is all intercity traffic; commuter rail, connecting suburbs and cities, is also growing, but that is not Amtrak’s market.) By contrast, the airlines carry about 680 million domestic passengers a year. If Amtrak were an airline, in terms of passenger boardings it would rank approximately eighth, behind Continental and US Airways and ahead of AirTran and JetBlue.

H. Glenn Scammel, a former head of staff of the rail subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said the railroad should give up on some of its cross-country trains and redeploy the equipment on relatively short intercity trips, where it could provide enough frequency to attract new business. (Providing one train a day in each direction will not draw many new business travelers.)

But the railroad’s labor contracts provide stiff penalties for dropping routes, and dropping states from its itinerary would hurt its political support, especially in the Senate, where thinly populated states are overrepresented relative to their population.

Scarcity is not all bad for the railroad, though. It has raised ticket prices, so that it recorded ticket revenues of $153.4 million in May, up 15.6 percent from $132.7 million in May 2006. That jump is higher than the ridership increase of 12.3 percent, to 2.58 million, from 2.30 million.

Most of the money came from airline-style “yield management,” using a computer to look ahead, see how many seats are filled, and raising or lowering the price on the remainder. Mr. Black said that while the railroad is not set up to make money, “we’re intended to maximize revenues.”

Profits are unlikely. The Government Accountability Office found last November that Amtrak had received more than $30 billion in federal aid since its creation in 1971, but was still in “poor financial condition,” with extensive deferred maintenance.

When Amtrak began operating 37 years ago, the plan was for it to eventually break even. In 1997, Congress passed a law threatening dire consequences if it did not reach self-sufficiency by 2002.

But by 2002 the mood had changed, and the appropriations have continued, financing losses of over $1 billion a year.

The G.A.O. analysis noted the continued operation of cross-country trains with low ridership and high costs. “The current structure does not appear to effectively target federal funds where they may provide the greatest level of public benefits, such as reduced traffic congestion and pollution,” it said.

Oil costs hurt Amtrak, too. Fuel is projected to reach 11 percent of Amtrak’s budget this year, up from 6 percent in 2004. The railroad is not radically more energy-efficient than other means of travel. Amtrak can move a passenger a mile with 17.4 percent less fuel than a passenger car can, and about 32.9 percent less than an airline can, according to the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.

It does save oil, however, since much of the fuel Amtrak uses is in the form of electricity, made from coal, natural gas and nuclear power.

Despite its popularity with passengers, the biggest determinant of the railroad’s health is still the federal government, and in Washington, views diverge sharply.

Last year Senator Frank Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, and others won overwhelming Senate approval for a bill that would offer the states 80 cents for every 20 cents they spend on new intercity passenger rail service, the same as the match offered for highway projects.

The House passed a bill with the same provision by a veto-proof margin earlier this month. The bill will soon go to a conference committee, but the White House is threatening to veto it because it wants the passenger rail system to be turned over to private operators.

Some members of Congress think the private sector should play a bigger role, and that that congestion and fuel prices should push the country to trains, but not necessarily to Amtrak.

The House version of the Amtrak reauthorization bill has a provision that invites private companies to build a rail link between New York and Washington that would make the trip in less than two hours.

The Florida Representative John Mica, a senior Republican member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure committee who wrote the provision, said, “We have no passenger high speed rail service in this country. To really change that, you’re going to have to bring in the private sector to develop, finance and operate the system.” Both versions of the bill authorize bigger subsidies, but Congress is often more generous in authorization bills than in actual appropriations.

Amtrak’s fortunes also hinge on who wins the White House; Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, was a staunch opponent of subsidies to Amtrak when he was chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee. Barack Obama, the probable Democratic nominee, was a co-sponsor of the Senate version of the bill to provide an 80/20 financing match.
607 2008-06-21 On the military front, the picture is fuzzier. Two senior administration officials said that barring a move by Israel, which one characterized as “the wild card” on the Iranian issue, this administration would not be likely to pursue military strikes against Iranian nuclear targets.

Mr. Bush himself seemed to signal as much at the start of his European tour last week in Slovenia, when he said of Iran that he expected to “leave behind a multilateral framework to work on this issue,” a statement that seemed to suggest that military action against Iran may no longer be on the table.

But there remains the possibility that Israel could force the hand of the Bush administration, foreign policy analysts and diplomats said. Israel carried out a three-day military exercise this month that American intelligence officials say appeared to have been a rehearsal for a potential strike on nuclear targets in Iran.

Israeli officials have tried to put pressure in recent months on the Bush administration to consider such a strike if Iran did not abandon its nuclear program, and the exercise may have been intended as a new signal that Israel might be willing to act alone if the United States did not.

“Israel prefers this threat be dealt with peacefully, by dramatically increasing sanctions and maintaining a credible resolve to keep all options on the table,” said Sallai Meridor, the Israeli ambassador to the United States. “But time is running out.”

Iran, he said, “should understand that under no circumstances will the world allow it to obtain a nuclear capability.”

Mohamad ElBaradei, director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, told Al Arabiya television that he would quit his job in the event of a military strike on Iran.

“It would turn the region into a fireball,” he said in an interview broadcast Friday, according to Reuters.

Israeli officials have expressed fear to the Bush administration that a new administration would take months, if not years, to decide on its approach to Iran. The consensus in the United States and Europe is that Iran is still at least two years away from a nuclear weapon. Israeli officials say they believe the threshold is closer to a year.

An Israeli military strike on Iran would almost certainly require American help. For one thing, Pentagon officials say, it would take hundreds of sorties to take out a big swath of Iranian air defense. For another, the United States controls much of the airspace around Iran. Beyond that, Iran would hold the United States accountable for an Israeli strike, and could retaliate against American troops in Iraq.

In Moscow on Friday, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov urged dialogue rather than confrontation with Iran and said that the United States and Israel had not offered any proof that Iran was pursuing a nuclear weapons program. “So far we have not seen any,” Mr. Lavrov said, according to Interfax news agency.

A trip to Tehran last weekend by European diplomats with a new package of incentives was largely for Iranian public consumption, and to appease Russia and China by appearing to be still trying to woo Iran, European and American diplomats said.

But European diplomats have been loath to acknowledge publicly that diplomacy on Iran’s nuclear development is in a holding pattern for the next eight months because they fear that Iran will only use that time to make progress on its nuclear program, which Iran says is for peaceful purposes.

“One should not talk about keeping the status quo because that would be dangerous,” one European diplomat said, speaking on condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules. “We can’t say the clock has stopped and we will begin work again after Jan. 1; that is not a good recipe for success.”

Administration efforts to convey a sense of urgency about stopping Iran’s nuclear program were dealt a blow late last year with the release of a National Intelligence Estimate reporting that Iran had stopped work on a nuclear weapons program in 2003. In recent months, Bush administration officials have tried to walk back from that report, repeating often that Iran’s nuclear program remains a threat.

Many foreign policy experts are now looking to the next administration for a possible new approach to the standoff with Iran. “The Europeans all understand that the carrots-and-sticks approach is not working, and the entire Iran diplomatic policy has to be rethought,” said Vali R. Nasr, an Iran expert at Tufts University. Until a new administration takes over, he said, “we’re stuck in a process where the ball is kicked to the bureaucrats.”
608 2008-06-21 How much has a free E-ZPass account been worth to David S. Mack, the vice chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority who stirred controversy this week over free travel privileges for authority board members?

The answer would seem to be more than $2,000 a year.

Data provided on Friday by the authority shows that between Nov. 1, 2006, and Nov. 1, 2007, Mr. Mack recorded a total of 585 transactions on the six free E-ZPass tags he was issued. During that 12-month period, the one-way E-ZPass toll on the principal bridges and tunnels controlled by the authority was $4, which would put an equivalent value of $2,340 on a hypothetical bill for Mr. Mack.

Over the same 12 months, the data shows that 45 current and former board members used the free passes a total of 7,513 times. Using the same math, that would add up to $30,052 in uncollected tolls.

It is difficult to determine the exact value of the transactions for Mr. Mack or the other board members, since the data does not show which crossings they used. Tolls on some of the bridges controlled by the authority were less than $4 at the time, while the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge toll for E-ZPass users was $8.

On Wednesday, Mr. Mack, a wealthy real estate executive from Long Island, defended the use of free E-ZPass tags and free subway, rail and bus passes by the authority’s board members, saying that he might not ride the Long Island Rail Road if he had to pay. But a day later, after being criticized by Gov. David A. Paterson, Mr. Mack backtracked and said he would support the revocation of passes held by former board members and would back a policy change that would allow current board members to use free passes only while on official business.
609 2008-06-21 In besieged cities and towns along the Mississippi River, a tense calm descended Friday as residents greeted federal officials’ predictions of lower flood levels with hope and caution.

In some towns, residents smiled as they saw the water creep back down the walls of homes and makeshift barricades. Frantic sandbagging efforts stopped in places like Quincy, Ill., and Winfield, Mo.

But for many it was a temporary reprieve as they braced for another crest of water.

“Will it come in slow like it did before and ease itself into the sandbags?” asked Darin Davis, 41, as he lay exhausted on the couch in his home in Louisiana, Mo., after a week of feverish sandbagging. “Will it come in fast and knock them down?”

Near Louisiana, a city of about 3,800, the river had dropped more than a foot since Wednesday, and Mr. Davis could tell. The water lapping the sandbags around his home was down to about 6 inches, he said, from about two and a half feet. But by Sunday, it was forecast to rise again to more than 11 feet above flood stage. Mr. Davis hoped his sandbags and the weather would hold.

“You never let your guard down with the Mississippi,” he said.

In Quincy, Ill., the authorities were cautiously optimistic that they had saved their water treatment plant, their bridge, the industry along the riverfront. On Thursday evening, they suspended a huge sandbagging effort, one that included volunteers from New Orleans and Salt Lake City and produced up to 20,000 sandbags an hour, officials said.
610 2008-06-21 But for the Saudis, the meeting is a crucial opportunity both to calm the market’s volatility and to get their point of view across. They say they have been unfairly blamed for the crisis, which has seen the price of oil rise 40 percent since the start of the year.

“There has been a great deal of political propaganda about this in the West,” said Ihsan Ali Bu Hulaiga, an economic analyst. “Maybe this conference will be able to shed light on the facts.”

Saudi officials acknowledge that fast growth in China and India has stimulated demand and contributed to the oil price spike. But they say the chief causes of the price increase are speculation in oil futures markets and a shortage of capacity to refine oil into gasoline in rich countries. For that reason, there is widespread anger that oil producers here are being blamed for high prices. Last week some members of the Kuwaiti Parliament said pumping more oil would be harmful to their country’s economic prospects, and suggested that Kuwait should instead be conserving its oil. The fact that the United States has been reluctant to drill for oil in some of its own territories exacerbates the resentment.

“People keep asking: is the U.S. trying to dry up our reserves and keep theirs for the future?” said Khaled al-Dakhil, a professor of political sociology at King Saud University.

The resentment may seem surprising in light of the vast profits Saudi Arabia and other gulf nations have reaped from the oil boom. But many Saudis have seen few tangible benefits. Inflation, caused partly by higher oil prices, has pushed up food prices drastically, cutting into the income of poor and middle-class Saudis.

And much of the oil profits have been spent on ambitious long-term government efforts, including new industrial cities and a vast new university. Many Saudis felt that the wealth created here by the oil shocks of the 1970s was largely wasted, and the Saudi government has chosen a different approach this time, building an economy that can outlast its oil.

“During the first oil boom, people squandered the money, but now we’re investing in smarter ways,” said Amr Khashoggi, a prominent businessman here. “We’ve learned our lesson.”

At the same time, Saudi officials recognize that the fast-rising price of oil — for all the vast profits it has brought them in the past year — also represents a significant risk. If prices continue to rise, they could prompt an economic downturn or a faster shift toward alternative energy sources that could sharply reduce demand, causing oil profits to collapse.

The Saudi strategy also risks breaking a broad consensus that has served OPEC well since the 1998 oil crisis, when prices collapsed. Since then, countries like Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia set aside their political differences to work together and regain clout in the market. The result has been a 13-fold increase in oil prices since the lows of the 1990s.

Now, even as they head into the meeting, OPEC producers, who have been left in the dark about Saudi intentions, are split about the need for increased supplies. The current president of OPEC, Chakib Khelil, who is also Algeria’s oil minister, said that any request to raise output was “illogical.”

He said that gains in oil had been driven by “speculation and geopolitical tension,” according to Algérie Presse Service.

Saudi Arabia already increased its production by 300,000 barrels a day, or 3 percent, to 9.45 million barrels a day last month after President Bush visited the kingdom. But that did little to slow down the rise in prices.

Discussions about any new increase in production could also backfire, reminding everyone how little spare capacity is actually available worldwide. Members of the oil cartel hold less than two million barrels a day of unused production capacity, the bulk of which lies in Saudi Arabia.
611 2008-06-21 The backdrop to the unusual trip was a simmering debate that Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has been waging with Mr. Obama, his all-but-certain Democratic rival. The debate centers on Nafta, but it is really about much more than tariffs and treaties.

The McCain campaign is using the issue of free trade in part to appeal to economic conservatives who have sometimes been wary of him, but more to question Mr. Obama’s candor after he has sent shifting signals about trade in the past year.

Mr. Obama and the Democrats are using the issue to question Mr. McCain’s empathy, and support, for struggling working people, especially in the Rust Belt, where many workers blame free trade for the closing of factories and the loss of jobs.

Free trade became a major issue in the Democratic primaries, when all the major candidates, courting votes in Rust Belt states and the support of unions that oppose free trade agreements, took a sharply critical view of free trade agreements. Mr. Obama said that he would favor an “opt-out” clause that would allow the United States to walk away from the deal if better labor and environmental standards could not be negotiated.

Mr. McCain alluded to that in his speech here. “Demanding unilateral changes and threatening to abrogate an agreement that has increased trade and prosperity is nothing more than retreating behind protectionist walls,” he said.

A political sensation — and minor international incident — erupted during the Democratic primary when a leaked memorandum surfaced in which a Canadian consular officer wrote that a senior Obama adviser had assured him that Mr. Obama’s protectionist stand on the campaign trail was “more reflective of political maneuvering than policy.” The Obama campaign denied that that had been its message to the Canadians.

In a recent interview with Fortune magazine, Mr. Obama, who has been sharply critical of Nafta for doing too little to protect workers or the environment, was quoted as saying, “Sometimes during campaigns the rhetoric gets overheated and amplified.”

Speaking at a fund-raising event in Jacksonville, Fla., late Friday, Mr. Obama insisted that he had been “entirely consistent” on Nafta, repeating that he would seek to have it renegotiated because it does not enforce labor or environmental standards.

He also took a shot at Mr. McCain, noting, “It’s interesting to me that he chose to talk about trade in Canada rather than in Ohio or Michigan.”

In a memorandum titled “Words Matter,” Steve Schmidt, a senior adviser to the McCain campaign, linked Mr. Obama’s shifting tone on free trade to his decision not to participate in public financing after saying that he would. “As we scrutinize Barack Obama’s words,” Mr. Schmidt wrote, “it is increasingly difficult for those of us with the responsibility of following this year’s election closely to discern what Obama truly believes at his core on the issues of great importance to the American people.”

A senior economic adviser to Mr. Obama said the senator’s position on Nafta was “exactly” the same as it was during the primaries. He said Mr. Obama would renegotiate the pact to strengthen provisions for workers and the environment in all countries. Asked about Mr. Obama’s support of the opt-out clause, the adviser said that “he wanted all options on the table.” The Obama campaign pushed back with a conference call in which several Democratic officials, including Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, attacked Mr. McCain’s trade policies.

Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a Democrat, was asked whether Mr. Obama, if elected, would have the United States withdraw from Nafta if he were not satisfied with any renegotiated deal. “That’s just not going to happen,” he said. “It’s beyond the realm of any real possibility that people are going to stomp away from the table and one of the countries is going to walk away from Nafta.”
612 2008-06-21 Stewart Cink moved to the top of the Travelers Championship leader board Friday, making two long eagle putts in a six-under-par 64 that left him a stroke ahead of the defending champion, Hunter Mahan, and two others in Cromwell, Conn.

Cink, the 1997 winner at T.P.C. River Highlands, is seeking his first victory of the season after six top-10 finishes. “I hope it’s just a matter of time,” Cink said. “I hope it’s a matter of about two days.”

Cink’s start was not promising. He began the day at four under and bogeyed the first two holes. He got one back with a birdie at the third before knocking in a 26-foot putt for eagle on the par-5 sixth. He bettered that shot by curling in a 49-foot right-to-left eagle putt on the 13th.

“I just kept staying down and staying focused on doing what I can do and that’s just stroking the putter through the ball, almost not looking up to watch it,” said Cink, who opened with a 66 Thursday and has a 10-under two-day total.

Mahan shot a 63, the best round of the day, to join Ken Duke and Lucas Glover at nine under. Duke and Glover each shot 66s.
613 2008-06-21 Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from June 13 through June 20:

2. Your Money: A Primer for Young People Starting Their First Job

3. With Tim Russert’s Death, NBC News Must Replace a Man of Many Roles

5. Charging by the Byte to Curb Internet Traffic

9. Talking Business: Oh, Jerry, It’s No Longer Your Baby
614 2008-06-21 When I made some inquiries this week, the strong sense I got was that the commissioners wanted to get to the bottom of the Intel accusations once and for all, and needed subpoena power to gather all the evidence they needed.

But in antitrust, the notion of “getting to the bottom of it” is notoriously squishy, and this case is squishier than most. There is no question that Intel offers large discounts to its big customers, along with rebates, quarterly marketing dollars and other goodies. Because those discounts are directly related to how much business a manufacturer gives to Intel, it necessarily has the effect of excluding A.M.D.—since it’s the only other company competing for the business.

Is that predatory behavior? Or is that good old-fashioned competition? What makes antitrust so maddening is that the answer depends as much on who is asking the question — and where — as it does on the evidence.

Let’s start with a simple question: Are discounts good or bad? When I put it like that, the answer is obvious: discounts are clearly good. They allow consumers to buy things at lower prices. Indeed, price competition is at the very heart of free-market capitalism, and it is the natural result of competition. It’s what we as a society want companies to do.

For as long as we’ve had antitrust laws in the United States, predatory pricing — pricing intended solely to prevent a rival from being able to compete — has been against the law. After all, if a big company drops its prices on a short-term basis to drive a smaller rival out of business — and then can raise prices with impunity because it has eradicated its competitor — consumers are ultimately harmed by the price cuts.

But our definition of predatory pricing has tended to vary over time. In the 1950s and 1960s, United States antitrust enforcers — and the courts — tended to view many forms of discounting as predatory. One sorry result was that actions that actually helped consumers were considered illegal practices.

But in the 1970s, that all changed, as legal scholars argued persuasively that anticompetitive behavior had to be defined in more rigorously economic terms, and that there needed to be a high standard of proof that monopolistic behavior was harming consumers. This became known as the Chicago School of antitrust theory, and in time, the courts embraced many of its theories.

One consequence is that today, it is almost impossible to bring a discounting case, even if it has exclusionary consequences. It is presumed by the courts that discounting benefits consumers. The only form of discounting that is now viewed by the courts as proof of predatory behavior is pricing below cost. When I spoke to Robert E. Cooper, a lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, who is representing Intel, he cited a series of Supreme Court cases, going back 20 years, that has come down in favor of discounting — even enormous discounts based on market share, which have the effect of excluding rivals. Intel insists that it doesn’t price below cost, and given the nature of these things — selling in huge volume brings Intel’s own costs down, thanks to economies of scale — it will be almost impossible to prove otherwise.

Does this mean that Intel is all warm and fuzzy when it is negotiating with the big computer manufacturers? Not remotely. Roger Kay, the president of Endpoint Technology Associates, and a very close observer of the Intel-A.M.D. wars, laid out a scenario to me that he thought likely. A computer manufacturer sees its market share declining. When it comes time to negotiate a new microprocessor contract with Intel, it is told that its volume has diminished so much that it can not longer get the same big discounts it has come to depend on for its own profits. But, the Intel salesman adds, if the company is willing to shift more business to Intel, and increase the volume a little, it will still get the discount. Naturally, the company agrees.

Indeed, Mr. Kay says he believes this is precisely what happened in Japan, where the two companies that abandoned A.M.D. completely were Toshiba and Sony — which were both losing market share to competitors. “Thus,” he wrote me in an e-mail message, “Intel can claim it is doing nothing wrong and A.M.D. can claim its options are being foreclosed, and in a sense, they’re both right.”

One reason A.M.D. has had more success pressing its case abroad than in the United States is that in many places in the world, the reigning antitrust view is what’s called the post-Chicago School, which holds that there are times when pricing above cost can still constitute predatory behavior. Indeed, the European Commission tends to put far more emphasis on competition than on consumers, and views with suspicion companies with oversize market share, like Intel

But what happens if the commission rules against Intel — as seems likely — but the F.T.C. and the United States courts rule in favor of the company? That’s what happens these days with mergers that need government approval — Europe has turned thumbs down on a number of mergers involving two American companies, and as a result they haven’t gone through. The world economy really won’t function very well if multinational companies have to dance between dueling regulators. Either we need to adopt their standards, or they need to adopt ours. The Intel-A.M.D. shows, if nothing else, how untenable the current state of play is in antitrust.

Despite its recent investigation, the F.T.C. has long been reluctant to pursue a formal investigation against Intel; I hear that even now many of its economists simply do not believe that Intel’s policies amount to predatory pricing. But there is one other reason why A.M.D. faces an uphill struggle pressing its case in the United States. Its own market share numbers don’t seem to back up its contention that Intel is preventing it from competing. According to data provided to me by Ashok Kumar, a well-known technology analyst with CRT Capital Group, A.M.D.’s overall market share in microprocessors was 17 percent in March 2005. By December 2006, it had risen to 25 percent. Today it has sunk back to 20 percent.

The rise in market share is directly attributable to A.M.D. having strong products like the Opteron. But then Intel came roaring back, leap-frogging A.M.D.’s technology. Meanwhile, the smaller company’s latest high-end chip, code-named Barcelona, has been delayed when a flaw was discovered in it. A.M.D. has lost money for six quarters in a row.
615 2008-06-21 The winners of the senior trial for the first World Mind Sports Games in Beijing in October were Reese Milner of Los Angeles; Grant Baze of San Diego; Billy Eisenberg of Perris, Calif.; Sam Lev of New York; Russ Ekeblad of Providence, R.I.; and Matthew Granovetter of Cincinnati. (Granovetter replaced Ron Rubin of Miami at the last minute when Rubin’s wife had a medical emergency.)

In the final on Thursday in Sturbridge, Mass., they defeated John Onstott of New Orleans, Drew Casen and Bobby Wolff of Las Vegas and Dan Morse of Houston by 143 international match points to 73. Milner, after being down by 17 imps at halftime, gained 31 imps in the third quarter and 56 imps in the final session.

In the semifinals Milner beat Steve Robinson, Peter Boyd, Fred Stewart and Kit Woolsey by 179 imps to 123.

Onstott was involved in a much closer match against James Tritt, Bob Etter, Farid Assemi, Edward Wojewoda, Keith Garber and Jim Looby. After 45 of the 60 boards, Onstott led by 82 imps to 69. The diagramed deal was Board 46.

In the other room Assemi (South) opened one no-trump. Casen (West) overcalled two diamonds, showing both majors. Wojewoda (North) jumped to three no-trump. And Onstott (East) sacrificed in four spades. If this had been doubled, and the defenders had cashed two rounds of trumps before or after taking their three club tricks, the result would have been down two. But South preferred to try five diamonds, which East happily doubled.

The contract went down one. When East took a diamond trick, he shifted to his singleton heart and got a heart ruff.
616 2008-06-21 “As gasoline prices average more than $4 a gallon and consumers worry about the weak U.S. economy, we see June industry-wide auto sales slowing further and demand for large trucks and S.U.V.’s at one of the lowest levels in decades,” Ford’s chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said in a statement. “Ford has taken decisive action to respond to this accelerating shift in customer demand away from large trucks and S.U.V.’s to smaller cars and crossovers.”

Two debt-rating services, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, warned on Friday that they might downgrade Ford, along with the other Detroit automakers. Bruce Clark, a senior vice president at Moody’s, said Ford’s ability to finance its reorganization was becoming a concern. Ford said cash outflows would be larger than expected and that its automotive business would lose more money this year than in 2007, the opposite of its previous guidance.

“Ford is going to burn a considerable amount of cash until it adequately expands its fleet of fuel-efficient cars and convinces consumers that these vehicles offer competitive value relative to Japanese product,” Mr. Clark said.

A liquidity crisis could allow Kirk Kerkorian, the billionaire investor, to gain influence at Ford. On Thursday, Mr. Kerkorian said he had increased his stake in the company to 6.49 percent and offered to infuse additional capital.

Ford took another step back from its long-held goal of returning to profitability by 2009, saying it would have difficulty breaking even, which is the projection that executives made in late May. Ford lost $2.7 billion over all in 2007 and has not earned a full-year profit since 2005.

The automaker said the market had deteriorated to such a degree that its financing arm, Ford Motor Credit, which had been a dependable source of profit, would lose money this year and was no longer planning a distribution payment to Ford in 2008. Ford Credit will have a pretax loss — excluding any potential payment related to Ford’s profit maintenance agreement — primarily because of further weakness in large truck and S.U.V. auction values.

Brian Johnson, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, projected that both Ford and General Motors might have to write down the value of their financing arms by at least $1 billion because of falling used-car prices.

Shares of Ford declined more than 8 percent Friday, closing at $5.81, and have fallen 31 percent since May 1. G.M. shares were down nearly 7 percent, to $13.79.

The F-150 delay increases the likelihood that the F-series will lose its distinction as the best-selling vehicle in the United States after 26 consecutive years. In May, four Japanese sedans, led by the Honda Civic, outsold the F-series, the first time in 16 years that a pickup truck was not the nation’s top seller in any given month. Sales of the F-series fell 33 percent last month and were down 20 percent so far this year.

Ford has spent several years and hundreds of millions of dollars, if not billions, overhauling the F-150, which has generated huge profits and is responsible for a large part of Ford’s image. It is one of two new full-size pickups scheduled to go on sale this fall, along with Chrysler’s 2009 Dodge Ram.

Chrysler said it had no plans to delay the Ram’s release.

“There’s no better way to fight a slower pickup market than to introduce what we think is a game-changing truck,” a Chrysler spokesman, Bryan Zvibleman, said.

G.M., meanwhile, has indefinitely halted plans to revamp its pickups and S.U.V.’s in order to focus on smaller cars. Earlier this month, G.M. announced plans to close four truck plants in North America.

Ford is idling its truck plant in Wayne, Mich., for nine weeks starting Monday, though the adjacent car plant is adding workers. The company will eliminate a shift at each of the two plants that build the F-150 and plans to shut one of them for most of the third quarter before starting to build the new F-150.

“We view the move to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles as permanent, and we are responding to customer demand,” Mr. Mulally said.
617 2008-06-21 The day’s trading was particularly volatile because of quadruple witching, the quarterly expiration of options and futures contracts.

Contributing to the anxiety of investors, analysts said, has been a somewhat mixed message sent by the Federal Reserve. Fed officials delivered several speeches last week that suggested the bank had shifted its focus to fighting inflation, an implication that interest rates could rise by the end of the year.

Yields in the bond market, which offer a gauge of the expectations of investors for future rates, moved sharply upward on the remarks, while the stock market gyrated.

The Fed appeared to back off its hawkish talk earlier this week. It is nearly impossible to determine the motivations of central bankers, but many analysts saw the retrenchment as an attempt to tamp down expectations of a rate increase.

All the back-and-forth resulted in jitters across the investment landscape. The S.& P. 500 has made its way down in a series of bumps; the Dow followed a similarly staggered path.

The rise in oil prices has only added to the anxiety: crude oil for July delivery settled up $2.69, to $134.62 a barrel, on Friday.

“In March, a recession was being priced in and people were greatly concerned about the state of the financial system,” said Brian Gendreau, a strategist at ING Investment Management. “Then when the Fed organized the rescue of Bear Stearns, the market said, ‘Well, things aren’t going to look so bad.’ ”

“Then,” he continued, “all of a sudden people started talking about oil going over $130” and investors began to wonder “when the economy becomes healthy enough” for the Fed to start taking back its interest rate cuts.

Investors are hoping to glean some answers after the Fed’s meeting next week. Central bankers are expected to hold benchmark interest rates steady at the meeting, which ends Wednesday. But their policy statement will be picked over by analysts seeking some guidance on whether high inflation, or a recession, poses the greater risk to the economy in the months ahead.

On Friday, investors focused on both issues. Oil traded higher, reversing declines on Thursday, after reports of increased tensions between Israel and Iran that could, in the long run, decrease the supply of Middle Eastern crude.

But stocks took a beating on new woes from the financial sector. Dreary reports on the prospects of regional banks, which have been battered by the tight credit market, weighed down the major indexes and sent shares of financial firms lower. Shares of Bank of America, Citigroup, Merrill Lynch, Royal Bank of Scotland and UBS all dropped.

Investors also remained rattled after Moody’s Investors Service, the ratings agency, issued downgrades on the credit ratings of MBIA and Ambac. Shares of MBIA dropped more than 13 percent, to $5.59, while Ambac Financial rose 2 cents, to $2.05.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 11/32, to 97 21/32. Its yields, which move in the opposite direction, fell to 4.16 percent, from 4.21 percent.
618 2008-06-21 Many Chinese investors are angry over the prolonged downturn. “I invested 80 percent of my savings,” said Wang Li, a 30-year-old manager in Shanghai. “And I’ve lost over half my money now. I’m angry — the government’s measures to keep the stock market above 3,000 have failed.”

Such stories are common. Record numbers of Chinese invested in China’s stock market from late 2006 through the end of 2007. Now, many of those investors have been caught in a steep, sustained drop in prices since the end of 2007.

Before the government let diesel prices increase 18 percent and gas prices 16 percent Thursday, the Shanghai exchange had lost 14 percent of its value last week — and more than 50 percent since its high last year.

Sinopec’s Shanghai-listed stock ended 2.1 percent higher Friday. PetroChina rose 4.6 percent, while the Shanghai index gained 3 percent to 2,831.74 points.

The price of light crude fell $4.02 to $132.66 a barrel following the fuel price increase announcement.

Mr. Zhang’s complaints about high gas prices might not elicit sympathy from Americans: after the hikes, prices rose to about $3 a gallon.

As a matter of policy, the Chinese government sets gasoline and diesel prices well below international market prices in order to encourage economic growth. In 2007, China’s subsidy of gasoline alone was $22 billion, close to 1 percent of its gross national product.

While in the past this formula for economic growth worked miracles by allowing businesses and factories in China that use oil to operate at low cost, it is now at the crux of one of China’s biggest policy issues.

With oil prices topping $130 a barrel mark this week, Sinopec and PetroChina shut down gas stations across the country. Long lines formed in front of gas and diesel pumps as the oil giants strove to cut their refining losses by selling less fuel.

The decision by the Chinese government to raise consumer fuel prices illustrates the balancing act Beijing is compelled to perform in advance of the Olympics.

On one hand, raising gasoline prices could stoke inflation, and that could spark protests among poor Chinese who are hit hardest by price increases for staples like food and fuel.

On the other hand, the surprise announcement about the fuel price increases seemed to be a reply, at least in part, to widespread calls for change.

Financial analysts have urged China to raise its gasoline and diesel prices, suggesting prices that more accurately reflect cost will help determine supply. Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States’ Treasury secretary, this month urged Beijing to reduce subsidies.

Lon Fong Shon, director of China Market Research for JPMorgan, wrote in the June 11 edition of The Securities Times, a Chinese newspaper: “If China were to have the courage to increase gasoline and diesel prices by 20 percent, it will send a message to the global market. Then perhaps global oil prices may fall.”

Back on the highway in Gansu, Mr. Zhang is happy to be exiting the gas station and its long, tiresome lines. He tunes the radio to an upbeat pop song, and rockets his Land Rover down the highway. Then he complains a little more about his stocks:

“When the market took a dive earlier this year, I was really depressed for a while,” he said. “I didn’t go to work several days; I just drank. Now I’m anxious everyday; I watch the stocks and I can’t sleep. I’m just simmering inside with anger. Who knows? One day I might just explode.”
619 2008-06-21 That black hole that was going to eat the Earth? Forget about it, and keep making the mortgage payments — those of you who still have them.

A new particle accelerator, the Large Hadron Collider, scheduled to go into operation this fall near Geneva, is no threat to the Earth or the universe, according to a safety review that was approved Friday by the governing council of the European Organization for Nuclear Research, or CERN, which is building the collider.

“There is no basis for any concerns about the consequences of new particles or forms of matter that could possibly be produced by the LHC,” the safety assessment group wrote in the report.

Whatever the collider will do, they said, nature has already done many times oversummary.

The report is available on the Web at lsag.web.cern.ch/lsag/LSAG-Report.pdf.

The machine is designed to speed protons, the building blocks of ordinary matter, to energies of seven trillion electron volts, then crash them together to produce tiny fireballs, miniature versions of the Big Bang.

Some critics argue that CERN has ignored or played down a risk that the collider could produce a black hole that would swallow the Earth or create some other dangerous particle.
620 2008-06-21 INFLATION is suddenly turning into a worry for the Federal Reserve, which knows that its credibility as a central bank would be damaged if investors concluded it was not determined to combat the recent rise in prices.

It still seems unlikely that the Fed will actually raise rates in an election year when the economy is probably in recession. But the surprisingly strong increases in producer prices for May, reported by the government this week, increased the pressure on the Fed at least to sound tough about inflation.

The report showed that, over all, producer prices of finished goods rose 1.4 percent in May, raising the 12-month increase to 7.2 percent. That annual gain is still smaller than the 7.8 percent increase reported in the year through January, a figure that was the highest in a quarter century.

Not since September 1981, when a severe recession brought on by a large Fed increase in interest rates was beginning to bring down inflation, has the overall producer price inflation rate been that high.

Until recently, the Fed has emphasized the so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes energy and food prices. But in recent speeches, officials have conceded the obvious fact that increases in those prices have been large and serious for many consumers.
621 2008-06-21 McCLUSKEY--Neil, author and pioneering educator, died May 27 at age 87. Mass: Fordham U., June 21, 4pm. Burial: Sharon Gardens, June 22, 10am. He is survived by his wife, Elaine Lituchy Jacobs....
622 2008-06-22 The Russian league is starting to dangle money in front of N.H.L. players -- just like the World Hockey Association did back in 1972, when salaries went through the roof....
623 2008-06-22 BASEL, June 21 (Reuters) - Russia grabbed an unexpected place in the Euro 2008 semi-finals with a thoroughly deserved 3-1 extra-time win over Netherlands on Saturday.

Goals from substitute Dmitry Torbinsky and playmaker Andrei Arshavin finished off a subdued Netherlands team in the extra period after the teams finished level at 1-1 on 90 minutes.

Russia had taken a deserved lead through Roman Pavlyuchenko 11 minutes into the second half but were pegged back by a Ruud van Nistelrooy header with just four minutes remaining.

Netherlands came into the match at St. Jakob Park as strong favourites after winning all three of their group stage matches.

Russia, coached by Dutchman Guus Hiddink, had the better of the opening exchanges and could have taken an eighth minute lead if Pavlyuchenko had got a firm header on Igor Semshov's cross.
624 2008-06-22 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
625 2008-06-22 China's subsidized fuel prices worked miracles in the past, but because they hurt energy stocks, they are now a major policy concern.
626 2008-06-22 Roman Kreuziger took control of the Tour de Suisse cycling race by winning an individual time trial in the mountains. A rider for Liquigas, he has a 48-second overall lead with one stage left.

Kreuziger, a 22-year-old Czech, finished the 16-mile eighth stage from Altdorf to Klausenpass in 1 hour 22 seconds. José Rujano of Venezuela finished 16 seconds slower in second place for Caisse d’Epargne. Andreas Klöden of Germany was another second back in third for Astana, moving up to second place over all.

The tour concludes Sunday with a 104-mile ride from Altdorf to the Swiss capital, Bern.
627 2008-06-22 For Democrats, one of the biggest questions surrounding campaign financing is whether large contributors to Mr. Obama’s campaign will now help Mrs. Clinton pay off her outstanding debt to vendors and, should she choose, to herself. In turn, it is not clear whether — or how enthusiastically — Mrs. Clinton’s fund-raisers will start to write checks and raise money for Mr. Obama.

Both camps have been circling each other warily. From the Obama perspective, hard feelings linger in some quarters over the rhetoric from the Clinton campaign, said one Obama fund-raiser, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak on behalf of the campaign.

“Some people felt that she hung around and threw dirt at Obama and ran up a lot of debt and is now asking us for help in paying those bills,” the fund-raiser said.

Moreover, of the millions Mrs. Clinton owes vendors, some $4.6 million is owed to Mark Penn, a controversial pollster, who is not popular in many Democratic circles, making debt-retirement an even harder sell.

Efforts to heal the rift between the two camps have already begun. Last week, around 20 to 30 Clinton supporters met with Mr. Obama’s national finance committee in Chicago, each pledging to raise $250,000 for him. Mr. Obama is scheduled Thursday to meet with Mrs. Clinton and some of her top financial supporters at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington in a first, and very visible, step toward party re-unification. A big topic will be the fund-raising challenges facing both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton.

Mrs. Clinton, meanwhile, ended her campaign with nearly $27 million on hand. But $23 million of it was raised for the general election and must now be returned to donors. Overall, Mrs. Clinton raised $238 million since entering the race.

For Mr. Obama, the nearly $22 million he raised in May was the smallest monthly total in 2008. In February, he broke records by bringing in $55 million. Donations tapered off to $40 million in March and fell again to $31 million in April, as the primary battle dragged on.

For Mr. McCain, the trend line has been just the opposite. His nearly $22 million tally in May surpassed the $18.5 million he raised in April and the $15.4 million he took in during March.

But he was helped by his party, with the powerful Republican fund-raising machine holding three dinners to jointly benefit the party and his campaign, including some fund-raisers headed by President Bush. Those events contributed $4.3 million to Mr. McCain’s total.

To date, Mr. Obama has raised a record $296 million, relying in part on small-dollar donations brought in through the Internet from large numbers of supporters. By comparison, Mr. McCain has raised $122 million since he began the race.

On Monday, Mr. McCain will attend a fund-raiser in Fresno, Calif., following a town-hall-style meeting. On Sunday, Vice President Dick Cheney will be hosting a reception on behalf of Republicans in Casper, Wyo.
628 2008-06-22 Russia scored two goals in extra time Saturday to advance to the semifinals of the European Championship with a 3-1 victory against the Netherlands in Basel, Switzerland.

Dimitry Torbinski and Andrei Arshavin scored in a five-minute span in the second half of extra time. In regulation time, Roman Pavlyuchenko scored for Russia, and Ruud van Nistelrooy scored the tying goal in the 86th minute.

Russia will play Thursday against the winner of Sunday’s match between Spain and Italy.

“What the boys did tonight, their commitment, to outplay tactically, physically a Dutch team — after the game I don’t want to talk in big words, but it’s a miracle,” said Russia’s coach, Guus Hiddink, who is Dutch. “It’s super what the guys did. Super.”

The Russians showed more pace and stamina through the final 75 minutes, particularly in the 30-minute overtime. Torbinski, a substitute, surged toward the far post in the 112th minute and barely deflected a deep cross from Arshavin.

Arshavin then shot between the legs of goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar for the final goal in the 116th minute.
629 2008-06-22 The Federal Communications Commission has voted to stop Verizon Communications from trying to talk its customers out of switching to another telephone provider while they wait for their phone numbers to be transferred.

The decision is a victory for Comcast and Time Warner Cable, the biggest cable-television providers, and closely held Bright House Networks. The companies, which offer Internet-based phone service, filed a complaint against Verizon in February.

Phone and cable companies are trying to lure customers with packages of Internet, phone and television service. Verizon is spending $23 billion on a fiber-optic network for television and faster Internet service.
630 2008-06-22 KLAUSENPASS, Switzerland (AP) — Roman Kreuziger took control of the Tour de Suisse cycling race Saturday by winning an individual time trial in the mountains.

A rider for Liquigas, he has a 48-second overall lead with one stage left.

Kreuziger, a 22-year-old Czech, finished the 16-mile eighth stage from Altdorf to Klausenpass in 1 hour 22 seconds. José Rujano of Venezuela finished 16 seconds slower in second place for Caisse d’Epargne. Andreas Klöden of Germany was another second back in third for Astana, moving up to second place over all.

The overnight leader, Kim Kirchen of Luxembourg, was more than three minutes slower than Kreuziger and dropped to seventh place over all.

The tour concludes Sunday with a 104-mile ride from Altdorf to the Swiss capital, Bern.
631 2008-06-22 Charlene M. Frizzera, chief operating officer of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, played down the risk of identity theft from the misuse of Medicare cards. If the government suddenly issued new Medicare cards or identification numbers, she said, it could startle or alarm beneficiaries. “We don’t want to scare them,” Ms. Frizzera said.

Most private insurance companies have abandoned the use of Social Security numbers as identifiers because many states forbid it.

Gail K. Hillebrand, a lawyer at Consumers Union, said, “A person holding a private health insurance card now has more privacy protections than a person holding a Medicare card.”

Byron Hollis, director of the antifraud department at the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, said, “Medical identity theft is the fastest-growing form of health care fraud.”

To prevent such fraud, Mr. Hollis said, Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans stopped using Social Security numbers on their cards several years ago. The 39 Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies provide coverage for more than 100 million people.

Ms. Frizzera, the Medicare official, said that issuing new Medicare cards would be “a huge undertaking.” The agency would need three years to plan such a move and eight more years to carry it out, she said.

Medicare officials estimate that it would cost $500 million to change their computer systems if they issued new ID numbers to beneficiaries. Doctors, hospitals and other health care providers use those numbers in filing claims with Medicare, which pays a billion claims a year.

A survey by America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, found that at least 31 states had laws prohibiting or restricting the use and display of Social Security numbers.

Many are modeled on a 2001 California law that says companies cannot print a person’s Social Security number on any card needed to obtain goods or services offered by the companies.

In his report, Mr. O’Carroll noted that Social Security numbers were “linked to vast amounts of personal information.”

“Many individuals carry their Medicare cards in their wallets or purses and could become victims of identity theft should dishonest individuals steal such items or lift their Medicare number from a beneficiary card or medical document,” Mr. O’Carroll said.

Other federal agencies are taking steps to remove Social Security numbers from identification cards. The Department of Veterans Affairs said that new identification cards issued to veterans generally did not display Social Security numbers.

Mary M. Dixon, director of the Defense Manpower Data Center, said the Defense Department planned to issue eight million new identification cards in the next few years. New cards will have just the last four digits of Social Security numbers.
632 2008-06-22 On June 1, Roberts was batting .262 — 19 points below his career average. In his next 17 games through Friday, he went 27 for 74 (.365) with 11 runs batted in and 6 stolen bases. His two-run homer last Sunday in the bottom of the ninth took the Orioles into extra innings against the Pittsburgh Pirates.

Roberts, 30, is playing again like a two-time All Star.

“I just realized that everything is out of my hands,” he said. “I knew that from the beginning, but at some point, you just have to stop worrying about all that junk and just play the game.”

Roberts, a switch-hitting leadoff hitter, has been an integral part of the Orioles since his rookie year in 2001. But because he has yet to have a winning season in Baltimore, Roberts indicated he would not return when his contract expired after the 2009 season.

So the rebuilding Orioles made Roberts available during the off-season. The Chicago Cubs expressed the most interest. On Jan. 10, The Chicago Tribune columnist Phil Rogers wrote, “Don’t be surprised if the trade is finalized later this week.”

It still has not happened, and perhaps it never will.

Although the overachieving Orioles were 38-34 and four and a half games behind second-place Tampa Bay in the American League East through Friday, the decision to trade Roberts remained in the hands of Andy MacPhail, the president for baseball operations.

“We will entertain any offer we believe will make the team better now and in the long term,” MacPhail said.

It is unlikely that MacPhail could work a deal that would provide Baltimore with a better leadoff hitter than Roberts.

“Everybody was bummed out when we heard about the trade rumor,” Orioles first baseman Kevin Millar said. “But he’s here, and we’re better that he’s here. Any team is better with a guy like Brian Roberts at the top of the lineup.”

MacPhail probably feels the same way. But he is interested in keeping Baltimore competitive into the next decade, which is why he traded the standout shortstop Miguel Tejada and the star left-hander Érik Bédard for a total of 10 players. Soon after Tejada was dealt to Houston in December, Roberts figured he was next.

“Unfortunately for Brian, he had to deal with it for a whole off-season and all the way through spring training, which is a little weird,” his teammate Jay Payton said. “You don’t hear of a guy getting traded for five months and then nothing happens. I’m sure that was a little different.”

Roberts became so tired of getting calls from friends and reporters that he changed his cellphone number.

The trade talk was not the only topic that marred his off-season. Roberts was named in George J. Mitchell’s report on steroid use in major league baseball, and he acknowledged in December that he tried steroids once in 2003.

But long after the ramifications of that admission passed, his pending departure by way of trade remained a hot topic. Virtually every time he arrived at the ballpark, Roberts said, he wondered if it might be his last day in an Oriole uniform.

“I tell you one thing, it’s probably one of those years where I’ve worked the hardest to get things going,” he said. “And now I’m finally starting to see the fruits of it.”

Coincidentally, his recent surge has heightened his trade value.

After watching Roberts go 6 for 14, score 4 runs and collect 5 R.B.I. last weekend, Pittsburgh’s Doug Mientkiewicz said: “The way he plays, the amount of ability he has, you understand why a team wants to keep him and how a team can get a lot back for him. There’s not too many leadoff hitters with power. He can still hit 10 to 20 homers, he can steal 50 to 60 bases, he plays every day, he plays the game right.”

Payton added, “He’s a guy you can trade away, but he’s also a guy you can’t easily replace.”

Having finally cleared his head of all those rumors, Roberts said he did not even want to think about how he might feel when the nonwaiver trade deadline approaches at the end of July. He is operating on the assumption that he will be in Baltimore at least until the end of next season.

“That’s my plan at this point — until something else happens,” he said. “I stopped worrying about everything else.”
633 2008-06-22 These messages were complicated by a pair of sequels: Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, released in late 2001, introduced a shadowy supernational group called the Patriots, so powerful that even the president of the United States answers to it. (A commentary on the disputed 2000 election? The cabal theories of post-9/11 politics?) And Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater, released in 2004, explored the cold war origins of its characters, whose personal stories are intertwined with the rise of the military-industrial complex.

“This is a just-off-center world that gamers can almost believe in,” said Rob Smith, the editor in chief of PlayStation: The Official Magazine. “All the important world history of the 20th century matches up in ways that say, ‘If we’d gone down this path then, this is what we’d now be facing.’ ”

Metal Gear Solid 4, released for the PlayStation 3 console, further upends traditional notions of heroism and villainy: in this game Solid Snake (think James Bond meets Rambo) has aged considerably, as have several of his archenemies; the forces he battles are not the soldiers of identifiable nations but the mercenaries on the payroll of private military companies. “The issue of good guys and bad guys doesn’t exist anymore,” Mr. Smith said. “It’s just: here’s the guys.”

Even as gamers ponder what this symbolism means (an allegory of war in the era of Blackwater Worldwide and stateless enemy combatants?), they are also debating whether the story of Metal Gear Solid 4 is a satisfying one, and if its storytelling techniques are used effectively.

“You get so caught up in just figuring out, Does this story need to be here?” said Stephen Totilo, an MTV News reporter who covers video games. “That’s not a question you wind up asking yourself when you’re reading a novel. Of course the story needs to be there! Otherwise you don’t have a novel.”

Players like Shawn Elliott, the senior executive editor of the gaming Web site 1up.com, have criticized the game for its preachiness, and for its reliance on lengthy cinematic interludes that can run 30 minutes or longer.

“It can basically become a movie for long stretches,” Mr. Elliott said. “It’s not necessarily a game catching up with movies, but a game kind of cheating and using a language that isn’t native to its own medium.”

Others object to the sheer density of the story, spanning seven games released over 20 real-world years, that players are asked to master. “Let’s just say it’s not something any of us gamers are nearly as used to doing when we’re playing a game as when we’re reading a novel,” Mr. Totilo said.

Players can skip over the storytelling elements in Metal Gear Solid and still play the game.

But unrepentant fans like Ms. Alexander of Kotaku.com argue that, coherent or not, the narrative of Metal Gear Solid 4 is an inseparable part of the “package experience” that makes it an evolutionary step beyond fare like Halo 3, a first-person shooting game designed to soothe itchy trigger fingers.

Metal Gear Solid, Ms. Alexander said, “has the characters and the narrative, the symbolism and the metaphors, and all of the lore that ties it together,” whereas Halo is popular “not because of any of its peripheral elements or anything else about it, other that you shoot people.”
634 2008-06-22 The stock market took a beating last week, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index down by more than 10 percent for the year.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed below 12,000 for the first time since March.

The market was already down for the week by the end of trading on Thursday. Then Moody’s Investors Service announced that it was cutting ratings on units of two bond insurers, M.B.I.A. and Ambac, further than investors had anticipated. Early on Friday, S.& P. said that it might cut the bond ratings of General Motors and Ford because of higher fuel costs and reduced demand for automobiles. The market fell sharply. G.M., which lost 16.17 percent for the week, had the worst performance among the Dow industrials.

For the week, the Dow fell 464.66 points, or 3.8 percent, to close at 11,842.69. The S.& P. 500 lost 42.1 points, or 3.1 percent, to close at 1,317.93. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 48.41 points, or 2 percent, to close at 2,406.09.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.16 percent from 4.26 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER
635 2008-06-22 What’s it actually worth? — Our estimates and methodology

... adjusting for index appreciation and producing the net inflows by quarter reveals that the apparent index steamroller is very deceptive indeed. Recently, inflows into commodities have actually been split between indices and other investments. Index inflows peaked in Q4 06; since then the rate of inflow has been fairly patchy, held back first by poor roll returns, then general market conditions, and then also by the outflows necessary to keep percentage allocations constant following price increases. ... The growth of investment vehicles to enable investors to short commodities recently, in order to gain from price falls as well, has truly been the highlight this year, as this marks the growing maturity of commodities as an asset class.

Unfortunately much of the data and analysis that is presented on the subject of commodity investments is ill-founded and confusing. Here we highlight some of the most common errors.

The scale of index investments in commodity markets is being widely over-estimated: A wide range of estimates concerning the scale of investment activity in commodity indices has been published lately, with figures of up to $250bn being quoted, and with almost all of them being significantly higher than our own figures. ... Our own figures of $140bn at the end of Q108, based on a survey of industry estimates (as described above), eliminates the distortion that seems to have caused so much confusion.

Growth in commodity index assets under management that is attributable simply to rising prices is being misclassified as fresh investment buying: A major confusion that exists concerns the lack of distinction between assets under management and fresh flow of funds. Assets Under Management (AUM) is a term used by companies to gauge how much money they are managing. ...

However, the vast bulk of the increase in commodity index AUM this year has simply been due to the increase in prices. As the indices rise, so does the value of index-linked assets. That is an automatic accounting change that happens without it representing any new inflow of money, or indeed any intervention or activity at all by investors. For example, our estimate is that the value of commodity index AUM rose by $13bn in Q1 08, and of this $11bn was simply due to the increase in the underlying indices. The net inflow of new money over the quarter was then about $2bn. Instead of $1bn per trading day, the net inflow of new money into commodity indices was more than 30 times smaller at closer to $30mn per trading day.

Futures market open interest held by index investors is being interpreted incorrectly as directly equivalent to the physical demand for a commodity: This represents a basic misunderstanding of the link between the physical and financial aspects of commodity trading. ...

Placed into a more relevant context alongside the value of futures market turnover or value of total physical market size it becomes very clear that institutional and retail holdings of commodity futures are extremely small and nowhere near big enough to distort the relationship between prices and market fundamentals.

We do not see commodity prices as being a bubble, nor do we see the involvement of institutional investors as being a cause of price rises. Indeed, given that institutional investors rebalance portfolios to achieve a desired allocation across assets, they are generally a stabilising influence, in that to achieve their desired balance they tend to sell after prices have risen and they buy after prices have fallen. In other words, they do exactly the reverse of what participants in a bubble do. In terms of more speculative and unhedged money flows, there is also no evidence, in our view, that these flows are keeping prices high. ...

However, the level of bad information and bad analysis currently active in policy circles and in some media coverage appears to be at record levels. It would then perhaps not be a total surprise if bad policy might flow from bad analysis. ...

Given that we see current prices as rational and fair, it follows that we would view policy aimed at reducing prices as being self-defeating and distortionary in the medium term. Tackling a bubble that does not actually exist is more than pointless, it is counter-productive in that it stops the correct market signals being sent to both the supply and demand sides of the market.
636 2008-06-22 The recent surge in small-cap stocks “fits with many other economic and stock market indicators suggesting recovery,” said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. He points out that not only are small stocks generally doing well, but also that the most economically sensitive sectors of the small-cap universe have performed best of late.

They include energy stocks in the S.& P. 600 small-stock index, which are up more than 40 percent since the start of April; the technology sector, up more than 9 percent; and industrial stocks, up more than 8 percent.

Bradford Evans, co-portfolio manager of the Heartland Value fund, which specializes in small stocks, says that other signs also support this optimistic view of the economy. For example, he said, “I would look to the yield curve as confirmation that the economy is possibly staging a stealth recovery.”

Last year, the yield curve — the spectrum of interest rates paid by bonds of various maturities — was inverted. In other words, a two-year Treasury note was paying out more than a 10-year note, even though the 10-year Treasury locked you into a longer commitment. Historically, this has signaled economic troubles ahead.

Today, the yield curve is sloped normally, with 10-year Treasuries paying substantially more than two-year notes. This typically signals economic growth ahead.

Still, not all market watchers are convinced that the small-cap rally is an all-clear signal for Wall Street. “I would say it’s too soon to tell,” said Samuel S. Stewart Jr., chairman of Wasatch Advisors, an asset manager based in Salt Lake City that specializes in investing in small and medium-sized companies.

Tim Hayes, chief investment strategist at Ned Davis, agrees. “I’m playing it cautiously until I can be confident in saying that the stock market has bottomed,” he said. “And we can’t say that yet.”

But even if the economic and market storm is continuing, small caps don’t necessarily have to start underperforming large-company stocks.

Small-stock earnings have held up surprisingly well during this slowdown. In the first quarter, as profits for companies in the S.& P. 500 sank 17 percent versus the same period a year earlier, earnings for the S.& P. 600 small-stock index fell less than 9 percent, according to Merrill Lynch.

AND Wall Street analysts are forecasting that S.& P. 600 earnings this year will grow just as fast as large-cap stock profits — by around 8 percent, according to S.& P. “On average, earnings for the companies we own are coming through reasonably well,” Mr. Stewart said.

Moreover, with inflation fears heightened, there is a growing sense that the Federal Reserve, which meets this week, won’t cut interest rates again.

That should be good for small stocks. Standard & Poor’s studied the performance of large and small stocks after various series of Fed rate cuts going back to 1954. On average, in the six months after the last rate cut of a series, the Russell 2000 index advanced 14.9 percent, versus just 9.4 percent for the S.& P 500.

And 12 months after the last rate cuts, the small-cap advantage persisted. Small stocks surged 25.2 percent, on average, in the year after the Fed stopped trimming rates, versus 18.9 percent for large-cap shares.

Of course, what if the biggest threat isn’t a slowdown, but inflation?

Don’t worry, Mr. Paulsen said. Historically, small stocks have typically outpaced large stocks during periods of accelerating inflation. In the 1970s, for example, as inflation was running at an average annual rate of 7.4 percent, small stocks gained 11.5 percent a year, on average, versus 5.9 percent for large stocks. Similarly, in the 1940s, when inflation was 5.4 percent, on average, small stocks doubled the performance of big stocks.

Why? Mr. Paulsen argues that just to compete, many small-cap companies must run more efficiently than industry-leading large caps. “If you’ve got companies that are operating extremely lean,” he said, “and they’re now able to raise prices, more of that increase will fall to their bottom line.”
637 2008-06-22 But here is where the situation becomes confusing. Corporate leaders often speak out on issues that cost them tens of billions of dollars annually. Numerous executives have called for a plan for providing health insurance to the uninsured, for example. So why aren’t they making more noise about obesity?

“People in charge of benefits plans completely, 100 percent get it,” said LuAnn Heinen, director of the Institute on the Costs and Health Effects of Obesity, an offshoot of the National Business Group on Health. It is also clear, she said, that top executives are very interested in health benefit costs. But, she added, “their perception of obesity as a driver of costs — they may not understand that as well.”

Or maybe they are generally aware of obesity’s cost — almost 14 percent of United States chief executives counted it as a top health care benefits concern in the Conference Board-RTI report — but, as Ms. Heinen said, “It’s a sensitive issue to address head-on.” (It’s quite a contrast to Japan, where employers are actually measuring workers’ waists and doling out dieting guidance.)

American employers may also believe that obesity is not their problem to solve, particularly in industries with high employee turnover. After all, workers’ health care costs do not rise the minute they gain weight. And people tend to change jobs every four or five years, taking their health care costs with them.

“For most companies, it’s not a smart business move,” said Eric Finkelstein, director of the public health economics program at RTI. “Putting on a public health hat, you might say it’s unfortunate that companies don’t do more for employees. But it doesn’t make sense from an employer’s point of view.”

Still, companies can — and a few do — take cost-effective steps to encourage employees to lose weight and keep it off. Several studies indicate that simple cash incentives, like payments to employees for completing questionnaires assessing their health, discounts at health clubs, reduced health insurance premiums, can all help.

In addition, changing the habits of a few workers may affect the behavior of many more. Nicholas A. Christakis, a doctor and a sociology professor at Harvard, has studied the effects of social networks on obesity. When one friend gains or loses a lot of weight, he found, the odds improve that another will, as well. “You can take advantage of this multiplicative power of networks, so my behavior influences you, and you influence the next guy, and so on,” he said.

PSEG, the utility company based in Newark, recognizes in its wellness and weight-management programs the power of employees to influence one another. Several years ago, it began analyzing which illnesses and injuries were most common among employees. Not surprisingly for a company with workers who carry heavy equipment and operate jackhammers, musculoskeletal injuries were the most common cause of disabilities and absences. Digging deeper, the company found that obese employees were far more likely to get hurt.

One lineman who weighed 350 pounds could not ride in a bucket to elevated wires and other equipment, recalled Dr. Ronald Mack, PSEG’s medical director. Dr. Mack had long been generally aware that obesity was an issue for many workers, but “that was an aha moment,” he said.

Over the last few years, PSEG has revamped its wellness programs to emphasize weight and nutrition. It has also added some modest financial incentives for participation, like payments for filling out personal health evaluations.

The programs have not yet changed overall injury rates, but the employees who used all the services have 18 percent fewer missed days than their counterparts.
638 2008-06-22 SILVIA STEUDE made a 90-mile journey recently between her home in Brooklyn’s Clinton Hill neighborhood and Southampton, Pa., by train and by car, and she had the satisfaction of saying she made the entire trip by mass transit.

Ms. Steude, 35, was one of the first to take advantage of New Jersey Transit’s new partnership with Zipcar, a national car-sharing system already popular in New York City, Hoboken and Jersey City. She took the subway from Brooklyn to Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan, where she hopped on a New Jersey Transit train that took her to Morristown, where she picked up her reserved Zipcar.

“I was going to New Jersey, and I was taking the train, but I needed to be a bit flexible because where I’m going isn’t near a train station,” said Ms. Steude, a Brooklyn-based architect, as she climbed into the Toyota Prius that she had reserved to complete her trip to Pennsylvania.

In a two-year pilot program with the Zipcar program, New Jersey Transit has made 10 cars available at four train stations and a light rail station: Morristown, Princeton Junction, Metropark in Woodbridge, Montclair State University and the Liberty State Park light rail stop.

Since April, transit riders have been able to take a train to one of those stations, and then pick up a Zipcar reserved ahead of time through New Jersey Transit to drive the rest of the way to their destination.
639 2008-06-22 Melissa Amy Schweiger and Mitchell Seth Kleinman are to be married on Sunday in New York. Rabbi Daniel Pernick is to officiate at Pier 60, Chelsea Piers.

The bride, 34, will continue to use her name professionally. A freelance magazine writer specializing in fashion and beauty, she is the author of “Sephora: The Ultimate Guide to Makeup, Skin and Hair from the Beauty Authority.” She graduated from New York University.

She is the daughter of Alice Burdick Schweiger and Dr. Bruce D. Schweiger of New York. The bride’s father is a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst in private practice in Livingston, N.J., and the medical director for adolescent residential treatment at Trinitas Hospital in Elizabeth, N.J. Her mother is a freelance magazine writer who specializes in health and entertainment, and an author of “Secrets of the Sexually Satisfied Woman.”

Mr. Kleinman, also 34, is an associate at Stern & Montana, a New York law firm. He graduated from the State University at Albany, and received his law degree from Yeshiva University.

He is the son of Barbara Kleinman and Gerald Kleinman of Spring Valley, N.Y. The bridegroom’s mother is a teacher’s aide at the Elmwood Elementary School in Spring Valley. His father retired as a senior real estate appraiser for the New York State Board of Equalization and Assessment; he worked in Garden City, N.Y.
640 2008-06-22 Christine Marie Cinella, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Cinella of Lee, Mass., was married on Saturday to Patrick Joseph McCurdy, the son of Mr. and Mrs. John S. McCurdy of Killingworth, Conn. The Rev. John P. Duffell, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Joseph’s Church in Stockbridge, Mass.

The bride, 31, is a senior account executive at Komar, a company in New York that markets women’s sleepwear and lingerie. She graduated from Boston College.

The bride’s parents retired from Lee High School, where her father taught math, and her mother, Mary Diane O’Donnell Cinella, was the nurse.

The bridegroom, 28, is an associate in the prime brokerage unit at Morgan Stanley in New York; he helps hedge funds raise money. He graduated from Williams College.

His mother, Kathleen Thompson McCurdy, teaches third grade at the Country School in Madison, Conn. His father owns McCurdy & Partners, an advertising agency in Newington, Conn.
641 2008-06-22 The New York metropolitan area has more than a half million businesses owned by women, employing 533,437 people. These businesses have brought in $93 million in receipts this year, according to the Center for Women’s Business Research, in Washington.

For years, women have been twice as likely as men to start their own businesses. And even though the current economic downturn has made credit even harder to come by for small-business owners, particularly women, since 2002 there has been an 8.9 percent increase in the number of businesses owned by women, a 2.3 percent increase in employees of companies owned by women, and a 16.6 percent increase in receipts at such companies, according to the women’s business research center.

Ms. Schneider, who works out of her home, named her product the WubbaNub, after her favorite stuffed dog from childhood. After selling enough WubbaNubs wholesale (they retail for $11.95) her eight-year-old company, which also makes Wubbie baby blankets, is now profitable.

“Last year we tripled our revenue, so we are in the six figures, over half a million at this point and climbing,” said Ms. Schneider, who has five part-time employees.

She says she enjoys being in charge of her own time.

“I’m working late at night, but I can go to the children’s play or their doctor’s appointment,” said Ms. Schneider, who also has a daughter, Alaina, 4. “I don’t have the stress of finding someone to watch the baby.”

For 10 years Lisa Krizner-George had worked as a draper, making costumes for Broadway shows like “Wicked,” “Hairspray” and “Oklahoma!” She took sketches from designers and turned fantasies into fabric. But becoming a designer herself would have required an extra degree and starting over in the kind of company where she worked.

“It was something I’d always dreamed of,” said Ms. Krizner-George, 42. “I really wanted to get back into designing.”

So Vanilla Pink was born, in January 2007, six months after her son, Graeme.

Ms. Krizner-George works in a studio in her garage in Bloomfield, N.J., designing custom bridal dresses and evening wear, first fashioning them in muslin, then with real fabric, allowing for several fittings and revisions at the customer’s request.

She enjoys being up to her elbows in duchess satin, silk gazar or chiffon, on her own terms, even though her business is not yet profitable. “I like being in charge of my days, and where I want to take my business, and not having to ask for time off or anything like that,” she said. “With a child at home, it’s so great.”

Then again, she said: “The worst is when I’m right in the thick of working on an idea for a dress and then I hear the cry on the baby monitor. Nap time is over!”

Nationally, more women-owned businesses resemble Ms. Krizner-George’s than Ms. Schneider’s in scale. According to 2002 census figures, nearly half of companies owned by women have less than $10,000 in annual revenues, compared with one-third of all privately held businesses. But several organizations are trying to address that discrepancy by helping women expand their businesses.

Soon after Stacey Smith and Linda Shapiro, friends on Long Island, had their first babies, they found that their frequent discussions revolved more around what they needed for their start-up businesses than for their little, start-up humans. (Ms. Smith had begun creating handmade invitations, and Ms. Shapiro was selling children’s clothing and accessories.)

In 2005, they started what became the Hybrid Mom Consulting and Media Group, a service that uses the professional talents of women like themselves to help mompreneurs, as some call them, start new businesses. Their specialists work flexible hours, helping start-ups with Web site development, marketing and public relations.

“I don’t have to go work for a corporate environment, with its very rigid time format, where I’m not being able to be home when I’m needed to be, for my kids,” said Ms. Smith, who is based in St. James and has a son, 6, and a daughter, 3. The business made $350,000 last year, Ms. Smith said.

As Ms. Smith helps other women share their expertise and enjoy the same flexibility she does, she can also speak frankly about the realities of entrepreneurship.

“A lot of sacrifice goes into it,” she said. “The laundry, when it’s done, is not folded immediately, and gets very, very wrinkly. Dinner is not necessarily gourmet. You get one-pan wonders and call it a day.”

While many others end work at regular hours, many entrepreneurs don’t have that luxury. “Five p.m. is the end of the day? What, are you kidding me?” Ms. Smith said. “Five o’clock is my lunch hour.” She takes time off to have dinner and to put her children to bed, then goes back to working.

On a national level, a nonprofit provider of online business loans for women called Count Me In for Women’s Economic Independence sponsors a competition for entrepreneurs who are women and who want to reach the $1 million annual revenue mark. Count Me In wants one million women to reach that goal by 2010.

In the contest, known as Make Mine a Million $ Business, finalists prepare a three-minute pitch, for an audience of budding entrepreneurs and a panel of judges, in hopes of winning coaching, help with raising capital and networking activities.

In the recent competition in Newark on June 3, Count Me In’s founder and chief executive, Nell Merlino, 55, paused to talk about how it can be hard for women to raise capital in the current market.

“I think there’s a correction going on,” said Ms. Merlino, who said that 650 used to be considered a decent credit score, but that banks now want 750. “Companies got so comfortable with the subprime situation, but I think now they’re looking much more carefully at credit scores.

“Resources are always precious, but in this climate even more so,” said Ms. Merlino, who worked with the Ms. Foundation to popularize “Take Our Daughters to Work Day."

One of the day’s winners, Robin Wilson, 38, of A Blue Egg Corporation, a design company in Manhattan, has found this to be all too true. “I was told by a bank that had we come in seven months ago we would have been fine,” Ms. Wilson said. “That was about two weeks ago.”

And Julie R. Weeks, 50, president of Womenable, a consulting firm in Empire, Mich., focusing on female entrepreneurs, said the difficulty of securing money particularly hits women-owned businesses that are established and hoping to expand.

“The money is not so scarce for those who are starting their businesses, but it’s more so for growth capital,” she said.

But Ms. Merlino is not discouraged about the availability of capital. People who have great ideas and well-developed business plans are generally not being turned down for money, she said.

The day after the conference, when many of the winners were networking, Elizabeth Perelstein, president of a business called School Choice International, was helping her 20-year-old son, David, move from a dorm to a house. “He has a 103-degree fever,” she said. “It’s O.K. to take a day off and help them when they’re sick.”

A former deputy principal at a public grade school in Armonk and a former education board member in Rye Neck, Ms. Perelstein, 52, started her business 10 years ago, soon after her family relocated to London. She had enrolled her two children at the American school there, but noticed a need for someone local to counsel expatriates about how to choose a school.

Her business, now based in White Plains, has grown to include boarding-school searches and the development of a high school in Manhattan for British expatriates. It employs 90 consultants in 50 locations, including India and China. She won a Make Mine a Million contest in 2006.

“It was pivotal for me,” she said, explaining how she learned the value of looking regularly at her financial statements, from a woman she met through the program, a plumber turned consultant.

“For a lot of women, it’s very awkward for us to think about money, to talk about money, to act as though we are motivated by money,” said Ms. Perelstein, who anticipates revenue of $1.8 million this year.

Maureen Borzacchiello, chief executive of Creative Display Solutions, which makes displays for trade shows, “off-ramped,” as she says, from a corporate job in that industry about seven years ago.

“I really wanted to take control over my own destiny, and I wanted flexibility and options,” said Ms. Borzacchiello, 39, of West Hempstead. “I knew I wanted to start a family at some point in the near future, and I really just decided it was time to create a new path.”

She won a Make Mine a Million award during her company’s first year, 2005, reached $1 million in revenue in 2006, and is projecting revenue of $3 million this year.

THE Newark conference included, for the first time, a seminar for the daughters of women who are entrepreneurs. (There appears to be a genetic marker for starting a business.) Lindsey Pollak, 33, a New York City author who specializes in career advice and women’s issues was the speaker at the Make My Daughters a Million seminar. She recalled having her own business card when she was 9 and helping with her mother’s decorative egg and jewelry business.

In introducing herself, one person attending, Melissa Longman, 13, of Frenchtown, N.J., said she and her best friend had a five-year-old beading business with “revenues of $350 so far, I think.” Melissa, who a had a business card and said she kept the e-mail addresses of all her customers, attended the event with her mother, Chrysanthe Longman, 43, who works at a graphics company in Hillsborough, N.J.

Ms. Merlino said that while most entrepreneurs in the program start their businesses after they have had their children, younger women, especially daughters of entrepreneurs, can benefit from learning business skills early.

“We wanted to tell them, when they’re thinking about what they’ll be studying in high school and college, to know about the steps to take to start their own businesses, instead of going to work for somebody,” Ms. Merlino said. “Many wish they’d started their businesses sooner.”
642 2008-06-22 The architecture-themed issue, “The Next City” (June 8), was a wonderful exploration of how today’s cutting-edge architectural firms, like OMA and MVRDV, are exploding the boundaries of conventional architecture. However, I would have liked to have seen perspectives from landscape architects, or what some refer to as “landscape urbanism.” Even architects like Rem Koolhaas, Bernard Tschumi and Stan Allen are turning toward landscape architecture to infuse and renew their own architectural-design strategies. Planning cities by single buildings was, and continues to be, a shortsighted strategy. To truly design our urban centers, we must now think of the city as a landscape of infrastructure (transportation, utilities) and systems (ecological, social, institutional).

Nicolai Ouroussoff (“The New, New City”) puts forth the idea that so called “instant cities” pose a challenge for architects because of a lack of relevant context, but if there was one lesson that 20th-century urban development and observation served to illustrate, it is the existence of universal principles that make spaces and cities livable. Why not start by designing cities based on metrics we know to be relevant, regardless of country, continent or creed: the finite distance people are willing to walk to work, the distance a child playing can be heard through an open window, the width of sidewalks necessary for ease of movement and public exchange, street dimensions that prioritize people over traffic. There is more to these principles than the vagaries of style.

“The New, New City” is an interesting reflection on international architecture and emerging global urbanism of the 21st century but does not speak enough to the development of sustainable or humane communities. As Gus Speth’s new book, “The Bridge at the End of the World,” details, we are reaching the point of no return as a planet. There are some promising new directions based on a radical revision of the process and product of building, including the concept of Living Buildings promoted by the Cascadia Region Green Building Council and Harrison Fraker’s EcoBlocks. Without radical rethinking, we are building new and shiny dinosaur cities that have zero chance of being sustainable into the future. We need a complete break with the past to build biologically based cities that restore nature.

Sze Tsung Leong’s stunning photo accompanying “The New, New City” could perfectly illustrate the Nobel laureate José Saramago’s novel “The Cave.” Saramago’s protagonist is forced from his simple life in the countryside into a surreal mega-megalopolis carved out of a destroyed landscape, an environment of total social control enabled by futuristic urban and architectural design. Searching for a route of escape underground, unable to determine the real from the unreal, he stumbles into Plato’s cave. As with Plato’s allegory, Saramago’s message is cautionary. Architecture and urban design subtly yet powerfully affect the lives lived in them. As architects and designers labor to build our metastasizing world within multiple requirements, Plato and Saramago send a message to the future.

While the future of the city will no doubt be gauged by the beauty it displays, whether in crinkled aluminum or renegade gardens, it will also be a lived experience that demands visionary environmental thinking today. One man has bet his academic career on a structure that seeks to revolutionize the way cities look, are experienced and impact the world: the vertical farm. Dickson Despommier of Columbia University, his students and collaborators have spent the past several years nurturing a fanciful idea into a realizable model for greatly increasing the efficiency and reliability of food production while still incorporating the striking designs we have come to demand. The next city will have to be fed, and vertical farms are the way to get the job done.

Having lived in a shipping container for two years while leading an American effort to provide housing in Armenia following its 1988 earthquake, I read about Lot-Ek’s incorporation of containers in their designs (“The Lot-Ek Solution”) with a mix of melancholy and envy. The camp we established in Armenia was dominated by the shipping containers that had been used to provide all our supplies. Housing ourselves became their next use, quickly followed by use as garages, workshops and warehouses.

The local people saw the containers’ potential, and at times there appeared to be more interest in acquiring them for housing than the large American-style wooden-construction apartments we were erecting. As I now work in the troubled environment of U.S. homebuilding, I find it interesting that “container housing” may have the potential to provide more worldwide housing than the traditional American “stick-built” homes we took great pains to export.

As a reader with a perhaps more than ordinary interest in the career of Tom Wolfe, I couldn’t help noticing one sentence in Virginia Heffernan’s highly entertaining story on June 8, “Rank and File,” about “Listmania”: “Last year, while declaring in Time magazine that ‘literary lists are basically an obscenity,’ Tom Wolfe admitted to having made many in his life, and then introduced a new one, ranking the best novels in the world.” In fact, (1) the quote about lists being an obscenity comes not from Mr. Wolfe but from Time’s Lev Grossman, tongue-in-cheek; (2) I don’t think Mr. Wolfe has ever “admitted” or otherwise indicated he has made many lists in his life; (3) Mr. Wolfe did not “introduce” a list of favorite novels but merely responded to a questionnaire sent out to more than 100 writers. In baseball lingo, that’s 0 for 3. But I bet Mr. Wolfe really likes Ms. Heffernan’s style and would tell her he adores lists, whether it’s his old graduate-school mate Harold Bloom’s “canon” or David Letterman’s nightly “Top Ten” feature on television. Most people adore lists, if you ask me, because all of us are concerned about our status and others’ every conscious moment of our lives.
643 2008-06-22 Hits from the menu included the red and yellow beet salad with mâche, orange and grapefruit segments and Gorgonzola; it was dressed with a Champagne vinaigrette and garnished with crisp beet chips. The classic Caesar had a silken Parmesan flan and garlic toast alongside the hearts of romaine. Other winners were Charlotte’s salad, with mixed greens, roasted tomatoes and goat cheese; the baby spinach laced with julienned strips of fennel, endive and slices of apple, and the pear salad with baby arugula, frisée, pecans and goat cheese.

Skip the amuse-bouche. These are not complimentary tidbits sent out by the chef, but sampler plates of three dishes. The one called “the rustic” included braised short ribs, banana-leaf-wrapped pork and braised pulled chicken in a tomato sauce. The meats were all tender and tasty, but the amuse-bouche concept is neither appetizer nor entree.

Better to start with one of the outstanding salads and go on to an entree from a list of “plates,” all priced at $15 or less. The portions, in most cases, are about two-thirds the size of a regular restaurant entree at about two-thirds the price. (The lunch menu has a different structure, including higher-priced entrees.) Given the size of portions at most places, the shaky state of the economy and the size of Americans’ waist lines, these plates are a good idea.

The rack of lamb featured five medallions of meat cooked to order; the bones, which had been crisped and stacked in a pile; Parmesan-crusted asparagus, and creamy potatoes au gratin. The sliced sirloin accompanied by garlic mashed potatoes and broccoli rabe was another good choice. We also liked the horseradish-crusted salmon and its accompanying crunchy potato cake. The boneless short ribs were succulent but were served with “mac and cheese” made from orzo and butternut squash — a bland deviation from the classic.

Most portions were suitable as entrees, with the exception of the diver scallops plate, which was flavorful but minuscule. It consisted of two scallops, a small mound of microgreens and a tiny Parmesan basket filled with more microgreens in a bacon vinaigrette. At $15, it cost the same as an offering of shrimp and scallops that consisted of two shrimp, two scallops, two clumps of tasty sautéed spinach and a large mound of wheat berry and wild rice mixture with great texture.

The best desserts were the individual cheesecake garnished with whipped cream and berries, and the light-yet-rich flourless chocolate cake. Skip that rubbery-crusted, hard-to-eat apple galette. It made me miss the pies from the old Wyland’s Country Kitchen.

THE SPACE Clean, airy look with French doors opening to tables with umbrellas on the sidewalk. One step at entrance; restrooms are wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD Casual, but not too noisy. Couples and small family groups, including children.

THE BAR Mirror-backed with a granite top and a few high tables plus regular dining tables. When visited, the restaurant was waiting for its liquor license.

THE BILL Lunch entrees, $16 to $26, as well as sandwiches and salads. Dinner, small plates, $11 to $15. American Express, MasterCard, Visa and Discover accepted.

WHAT WE LIKE All salads, salmon, rack of lamb, sirloin, scallops and shrimp, cheesecake, flourless chocolate cake.

IF YOU GO Lunch daily, noon to 4 p.m. Dinner: Sunday to Thursday, 5 to 9 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 10 p.m. Reservations are recommended on weekends.
644 2008-06-22 TENANTS at the Apthorp, the elegant full-block complex built by the Astor family for the New York elite, were amused at the high prices listed by the owners when they filed preliminary plans last year to convert its 163 apartments to condominiums.

Last week, the state attorney general’s office finally signed off on the conversion plan for the sprawling apartments, tucked behind the limestone archway on Broadway and West 79th Street. When the tenants get copies of the final offering plan, they may be stunned to find that the asking prices have gone up — by just under 20 percent, to an average of $6.5 million an apartment.

The total asking price for all apartments, including apartments of 88 tenants protected by rent-regulation laws, is $1.06 billion, which would make it one of the most expensive condominium-conversion projects, although less than the conversion of Manhattan House, the postwar full-block complex on Second Avenue and East 66th Street.

The Apthorp price works out to nearly $3,000 a square foot, which is somewhat above the initial offering prices at 15 Central Park West when it went on the market in the fall of 2005, and below that of the Plaza condominiums on Fifth Avenue and Central Park South, which began sales a few months later. The only park views at the 12-story Apthorp are views of the interior fountains and garden.

“These prices are market driven, and the demand is tremendous,” said Jon Herbitter, the president of Mann Realty, which paid $426 million for the Apthorp in 2007. “There is a scarcity of apartments of this size and grandeur.”

While condominium conversion plans have traditionally offered discounts to insiders who buy, tenants at the Apthorp won’t be getting any price cuts when the offering is distributed on Monday, Mr. Herbitter said.
645 2008-06-22 ME by Meliá (www.mebymelia.com), a hotel line that integrates modern design and fusion cuisine, will add a fourth property to its roster on July 22: the ME Barcelona. This will be the second ME property in Spain, following the opening of the ME Madrid in October 2006. The ME Barcelona is in the Innovation District, a waterfront business park that houses about 200 international companies — many of them technology-related — and is near the convention center. Highlights of the 259-room hotel include the 24th-floor restaurant, Dos Cielos, which has 360-degree views of the mountains and the Mediterranean (a rooftop garden will provide the restaurant with fresh herbs and other ingredients). There is also a pool on the sixth-floor terrace, along with two night life spots: the Chocolate Bar and the Penthouse Pool Lounge. Nightly rates start at 200 euros, or about $322 at $1.61 to the euro.
646 2008-06-22 It opened late last year but already feels like a classic. The look is basically Art Deco. Though there’s a shiver of formality, there’s also something relaxed and inclusive.

It’s actually part of a large shopping center, Whiteleys, but you hardly know it. It’s a lofty, long room — perhaps double the size of the chef-owner Rowley Leigh’s previous success, Kensington Place.

There was the ideal blend of repose and anticipation in the air the night I was there. Maybe the fact that Mr. Leigh is a kind of gentleman chef has something to do with it. An ex-Cambridge man, he’s notoriously well-read and affable, a different cut from the bad-boy chefs who have popularized British cuisine.

In spite of its size and newness, it was full, yet felt busy rather than crowded. And the menu felt classic already as well. It had ingenious features: a dozen different hors d’oeuvres, all at £3 ($6.03 at $2.01 to the pound); then a handful of first courses; then the mains, including roast chicken with thyme and garlic in four sizes (whole, half, breast or leg). It was halfway to a DIY menu, offering the flexibility we might always have longed for.

There’s surely something in the English soul that despises sophistication. I once saw a hair-raising Victorian recipe book, “Beef With Potatoes,” for example: Combine 5 lbs. beef, 5 lbs. potatoes, salt and water in good-sized pot. End of recipe. At least they thought of the salt. But since the early ’90s, a specifically English haute cuisine has been emerging, treating the fine native produce with a new respect.

With its rain and coastline, Britain has some of the best meat and seafood on earth. It even has its own porcini, samphire, and forgotten vegetables like sprout tops, salsify and baby turnips. These days, instead of tasting of depression and rain, they taste of hope. They’re being cooked as though someone cared about them.

The original Café Anglais in Paris was, I believe, Proust’s favorite restaurant. The 21st-century Bayswater version may not offer the original’s quaille en sarcophage (quail in sarcophagus) but does run to that other glory of late 19th-century French cuisine, quenelles de brochet.

It’s on the menu, which is seasonal and changes frequently, as pike boudin, but apart from the slightly fatter shape, it is quenelle, all right. This gravity-defying wonder floating between mousse and soufflé tames the bite of our most fearsome native fish, the giant-jawed pike, and just may be the most delicious starter known to humankind.

The native oysters were not cheap at six bucks apiece, but extraordinarily zesty, with a sweet citrus hint about them, and, unusually, circular. They came from Whitstable, a few miles down the Thames. Among the hors d’oeuvres, the anchovy toast to be dipped in Parmesan custard was strange, inspired and very English; and the salsify fritters — white asparagus-like lengths deep-fried in batter — could have come from some country garden.

One of the mains was a fat slab of roasted turbot from native waters; and the baby lamb with cannellini bean purée was succulent and tender, young enough to carry the lamb accent in its flavor only faintly.

Noteworthy, too, was the glazed partridge with walnut and chili sauce — the nuts and the fowl both endemically English with that exotic dash of piquant. It’s something of a signature of the new English cuisine to add one esoteric touch.

I had not had pommes Anna, a crispy cake of butter-glazed potatoes invented by the famed chef Adolphe Dugléré of the original Café Anglais, since I was a child on a trip to Normandy. The crunch of the outside, thin as crisps, and the soft potato within, infused with the shell of caramelized butter that encases the whole thing, tall as a pudding bowl — this is old-style Cordon Bleu cuisine, the kind of thing Audrey Hepburn would have had to learn in Paris as Sabrina, and as Gigi would have eaten.

To finish, there was queen of puddings — a bizarre sweetness of sponge and jam with a crown of torched meringue on top, originally from Manchester, so they say — and trifle, russet apples, rice pudding: dishes that assert we’re still in good old rainy England.

Great Queen Street (32 Great Queen Street, WC2; 44-20-7242-0622) offers a kind of rustic minimalism that is congenial to the English soul. It’s a bit like some vision of a pub you might have found in the 1920s in a remote corner of Norfolk or Shropshire (at least from what I could make out of the dimly lighted interior on a packed winter’s night). Bare wood tables, wood floorboards, cozy and elegant dark-red walls, a long wooden bar top.

It hasn’t thrown off the feel of a pub, although it’s a serious restaurant, brainchild of the team behind the Anchor and Hope in London, and has made a virtue, or perhaps a statement, out of simplicity.

Its minimalism extends to the menu, a daily piece of paper. The wine list ditto, changed about monthly. And you’ll find no fancy phrases about the dishes.

“Hereford beef” comes two ways: sirloin with anchovy butter, or rib, chips and béarnaise for two. There was a mutton pie, seven-hour lamb shoulder for four or five people (a highlight, but we were only two in my party), wild duck, greens, mash. And so on.

Nobody’s wasting ink on salivating mini-paragraphs of decorative nonsense. But the difference from the Victorians is that it’s all very well cooked. These modern cooks know how to season, they know their times and temperatures. The young servers squeeze with efficient haste between the tables; it’s noisy, it’s a bustle.

As for the food, we began with excellent crab on toast, a thick porridge of chunky, buttery crab in a sort of gruel of crab juice. And a broad bowl of mussels and grilled calamari, with long hanks of braised fennel in a brown broth.

The sirloin with anchovy butter was succulent and à point, but the dish of the night was rabbit stuffed with black pudding. Black pudding, the bane of British breakfasts, as unclean a concoction as the human palate has ever tasted, has recently undergone rehabilitation; it has been inducted into serious cuisine. The contrast between the springy yet tender white rabbit flesh and the crumble of sausage, between the relative plainness of the rabbit and the dense subdued power of the pudding, worked well.

Who would ever have thought, 20 years ago, that the scourge of the B & B breakfast plate, this salty, sweaty, bloody pudding, would ever be exalted to its current status? Accompanied by a vaporous Bandol rouge off the no-nonsense wine list, it made a superb heart to the evening.

Figure on roughly £30 a person for dinner, without wine.

Naming itself, like Great Queen Street, after its address — in effect, not naming itself — Hereford Road (3 Hereford Road, off Westbourne Grove, W2; 44-20-7727-1144; www.herefordroad.org) still has the look of the Victorian butcher shop it once was: through the glass front, you can see a counter of gleaming cream tiles, and behind it the busy chef, the owner himself, Tom Pemberton, at work in the diminutive public kitchen, dressed in his white coat.

There’s also a prep kitchen downstairs, but it’s up in the unfussy space beside the narrow front room where the cooking happens. You can sit there at small tables, or go downstairs to a larger, brighter dining room.

Of these new venues, this struck me as the unfussiest, and perhaps most English. Great Queen Street had a touch of Celtic somewhere in it, and Le Café Anglais was deliberately Anglo-French. Hereford Road is plain old England. Or rather plain new England.

The décor is predominantly brown and white, a livery of simplicity. And the sans-serif menu, which changes daily, couldn’t have been more plain-spoken. Duck breast, turnips and black cabbage, for example. (Once again, that one slightly exotic note.)

The dishes followed equivalent pairings of color and flavor. Warm chicken livers sautéed with floppy green beans; celery and mussel soup.

Potted crab is the kind of dish at which we might have turned up our noses 20 years ago. But today, prepared perfectly — with its lid of chilled butter sealing in the flavor, which you break up with your fork like a tectonic plate to reach the flaking, chunky flesh beneath, with just a hint of mace in its taste — it’s hard to fault.

Next, pheasant on a bed of small brown lentils and withered watercress, redolent of a fragrant fresh olive oil, and roasted Jerusalem artichokes. The leg had a touch of gaminess, the breast was tender and plainer. And a slice of roast pork thick as a hunk of peasant bread, golden-rimmed, resting on an even fatter slab of potato cake — something like pommes dauphine without the cheese or sauce — sheltering a huddle of luminous green kale.

To finish, we tried custard tart, something I never even liked as a kid. But in this shallow, broad slice, the chemical custard taste was entirely absent. Instead, it was almost like a chilled crème brûlée without the crust, almost bland but tantalizingly not; and a mini-dish of apple and quince crumble with its own tiny jug of crème anglaise — surely allowed as English.

At Hereford Road, expect to pay about £25 a person for dinner, without wine.

Could it be that the days when good food in Britain was foreign are over? Is it that the English are no longer too busy storming around the globe subjugating people rather than attending to their tables? Who knows, and who cares? Bring on the grub.
647 2008-06-22 IF there's a subject that's as contentious as war itself, it might be a video game about war.     It's been just over a week since the release of Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots, the latest chapter in the popular video game series about a...
648 2008-06-23 Netflix customers are upset that the profile pages are gone. Why this happened, though, is a bit of a mystery....
649 2008-06-23 A senior adviser to Senator John McCain apologized Monday for saying in a magazine interview that another terrorist attack in the United States would "be a big advantage" for Mr. McCain in the upcoming election....
650 2008-06-23 Did anyone else catch Zinedine Zidane and Arsenal Manager Arsene Wenger sitting together at the Euro 2008 quarterfinal between Spain and Italy?...
651 2008-06-23 This week, The New Yorker publishes its second story by Alice Munro post-"Castle Rock," "Deep-Holes."...
652 2008-06-23 A technology company announced Monday morning that it will provide NBC Olympics content on-the-go....
653 2008-06-23 Besides invaluable tips on low-cost hotels, cheap eats and free attractions, the Frugal Traveler wants readers to pick where he'll go in Week 10 of his 12-week Grand Tour....
654 2008-06-23 It speaks volumes about George Carlin's prominence as a comedian that the NBC executives turned to him to host the inaugural episode of "Saturday Night Live."...
655 2008-06-23 With a major league-leading 38 wins, you can make a case that the Angels have the deepest and best rotation in the game....
656 2008-06-23 The British novelist Ian McEwan has launched an "astonishingly strong attack on Islamism."...
657 2008-06-23 The presumptive Republican nominee makes a pitch for cleaner-running vehicles even as some of his recent positions have put him at odds with environmentalists....
658 2008-06-23 Bunge said Monday that it would buy Corn Products International for $4.4 billion in stock, as the fertilizer and oilseed processor seeks to better compete against other American agricultural giants. The takeover of one of the United States's oldes...
659 2008-06-23 Twenty years after warning the world on warming, James Hansen tries again....
660 2008-06-23 Headlines from the world of property: In Spain, a new costa corruption scandal This time the investigation focuses on the popular resort of Estepona and it is believed to once again center on real estate deals. From Olive Press. U.K. Property pric...
661 2008-06-23 OMAHA (AP) — Fresno State’s improbable postseason run will end with a chance at the national title.

Tommy Mendonca drove in four runs, Clayton Allison came back from a shoulder ailment to allow one run in six innings, and the Bulldogs defeated North Carolina, 6-1, to win their bracket in the College World Series on Sunday night and advance to the championship round for the first time.

Fresno State (45-30) will play Georgia (44-23-1) in the best-of-three championship series starting Monday.

North Carolina (54-14), the No. 2 national seed and College World Series runner-up the past two years, was denied a third straight appearance in the finals.

Fresno State is the first No. 4 regional seed to make it into the C.W.S.

Georgia is the first team to bounce back from a losing season to reach the C.W.S. final round the next year.

No team with more than 23 losses has ever won the C.W.S. title.
662 2008-06-23 Roman Kreuziger held off Andreas Klöden and won the Tour de Suisse in Bern. Kreuziger, from the Czech Republic, held a 49-second lead over Klöden going into the final stage and was never threatened during the 104-mile ride from Altdorf to the Swiss capital, winning by the same margin.
663 2008-06-23 Obama supporters again assailed Mr. McCain for saying, in a reversal last week, that he now favors allowing coastal oil drilling by states that want it.

“Senator McCain is basically following the policies of George Bush — drill, drill, drill,” Mr. Richardson said. New offshore drilling, he said, would bring new oil online in a decade.

But McCain supporters said that record gas prices had changed everything. Opening up offshore drilling, said Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, a McCain economic adviser, would not only increase supply but also clearly signal the oil markets that betting on future high prices is risky.

“Our national security’s at risk, our economy’s at risk and our environment’s at risk” if the country fails to become more energy-independent, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said on CNN.

Mr. Obama received some support for his policies from a new quarter, former President Bill Clinton. Addressing the United States Conference of Mayors in Miami, in his first public appearance since his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, ended her presidential campaign on June 7, he predicted Congress would pass a cap-and-trade system to reduce carbon emissions.

“Because I believe so strongly in this, I favor Senator Obama’s position, which is to go to 80 percent reduction in greenhouse gasses over Senator McCain’s position, which is to go to 70 percent,” Mr. Clinton said, according to Reuters. “But that’s light years ahead of where Republicans have been.”

But asked by journalists when he might endorse Mr. Obama, Reuters said, Mr. Clinton smiled and shook hands with members of the crowd without acknowledging he had heard the question.

Mrs. Clinton, who has appeared publicly only once, at the journalist Tim Russert’s funeral last week, since she conceded the Democratic nomination to Mr. Obama, spoke Sunday at a high school graduation in the Bronx. Mrs. Clinton had a personal connection to one of the graduates, Aleatha Williams, 17, whom she first met when Aleatha was 2, and her mother, Patricia Williams, 45. Both Aleatha and her mother have long been volunteers for the Clintons.

Mrs. Clinton told Aleatha and her 83 fellow graduates of the Pelham Preparatory Academy, a small public school in the Bronx, that she had “just finished the most extraordinary experience that anyone could possibly have,” describing her time on the campaign trail.

“If you never give up, you never give in, and you keep believing that you are the best you can be, you have no idea where life will take you,” she said.
664 2008-06-23 The United States advanced to the regional semifinals of qualifying for the 2010 World Cup with a 1-0 victory against host Barbados on Sunday.

Eddie Lewis scored in the 21st minute off a through ball from 19-year-old Freddy Adu, who started in a World Cup qualifier for the first time. Lewis put the ball through the legs of goalkeeper Alvin Rouse for his 10th goal in 80 international appearances.

The United States already was far ahead in the home-and-home, total-goals series after an 8-0 victory in Carson, Calif., on June 15.

“This was an opportunity to use different players and it is important to get some young players experience,” Coach Bob Bradley said. “We had the confidence that we were strong enough defensively that we would hold together to get the win.”

The United States, seeking its sixth straight World Cup berth, will be joined in the regional semifinals by Cuba, which won, 4-0, to beat Antigua and Barbuda, 8-3 on aggregate; Guatemala, which defeated St. Lucia, 9-1 on aggregate; and Trinidad and Tobago, which defeated Bermuda, 3-2 on aggregate. Trinidad won, 2-0, at Bermuda after being upset at home last week.

Barbados nearly tied the score in the 58th minute, when Emerson Boyce’s header beat goalkeeper Brad Guzan but bounced off the crossbar.QATAR ELIMINATES IRAQ Iraq was eliminated from World Cup qualifying with a 1-0 loss to Qatar.
665 2008-06-23 Arthur W. Galston, a Yale plant biologist who did early research that helped lead to the herbicide Agent Orange, then helped raise awareness of the military’s use of it in Vietnam in the 1960s and its devastating effects on river ecosystems, died on June 15 in Hamden, Conn. He was 88.

The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.

In letters, academic papers, broadcasts and seminars, Dr. Galston described the environmental damage wrought by Agent Orange and traveled to South Vietnam to monitor its impact. From 1962 to 1970, American troops released an estimated 20 million gallons of the chemical defoliant to destroy crops and expose Viet Cong positions and routes of movement.

Dr. Galston asserted that harm to trees and plant species could continue for an untold period, and perhaps for decades. He pointed out that spraying Agent Orange on riverbank mangroves in Vietnam was eliminating “one of the most important ecological niches for the completion of the life cycle of certain shellfish and migratory fish.”

Then, in 1970, with Matthew S. Meselson of Harvard and others, he made a case that Agent Orange presented a potential risk to humans. The scientists lobbied the Department of Defense to conduct toxicological studies, which found that compounds in Agent Orange could be linked to birth defects in laboratory rats. The revelation led President Richard M. Nixon to order an immediate halt of spraying.

In later years, Dr. Galston tied his activism to his own early research. In the 1940s, at the University of Illinois, he had experimented with a plant growth regulator, triiodobenzoic acid, and found that it could induce soybeans to flower and grow more rapidly. But if applied in excess, he noted, the compound would cause the plant to catastrophically shed its leaves.
666 2008-06-23 For weeks industry executives had privately warned that “Get Smart” and “The Love Guru,” comedies with a similar target audience, were certain to hurt each other by insisting on the same release date. No weekend for the rest of the summer promised quite so brutal a showdown.

But a crowded field of comedy releases could well reduce the prospects for each. “You Don’t Mess With the Zohan,” an Adam Sandler comedy from Sony Pictures, for instance, took in $7 million over the weekend, bringing its total so far to $84 million. But the film will be hard-pressed to match the $137 million earned two years ago by Mr. Sandler’s “Click,” given competition from comedies already in the market and others, like Sony’s Will Smith film “Hancock,” that are yet to come.

“The Love Guru’s” weak opening was a setback for Paramount, which has otherwise dominated the spring-summer box office with hits like “Iron Man,” a Marvel Studios film that over the weekend reached $304.8 million in total ticket sales, and “Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull,” a sequel, directed by Steven Spielberg, that is close behind with $290.8 million in ticket sales.

“Kung Fu Panda,” from Paramount and DreamWorks Animation, placed No. 2 in its third weekend, with $21.7 million in ticket sales, bringing its total to $155.6 million, according to figures from the Screenline box office reporting service.

“The Incredible Hulk,” from Marvel and Universal Pictures, placed third, with $21.6 million, for a total of $96.5 million to date.

Overall the Top 10 films took in $134.4 million, according to Screenline. That is about 10 percent higher than the $122 million in ticket sales for the top 10 films during the equivalent weekend last year, when “Evan Almighty” held the top spot.

“The Happening,” a thriller with an environmental theme from the filmmaker M. Night Shyamalan, took in $10 million over the weekend, for a total of about $50.3 million. “Sex and the City,” a surprisingly strong performer from Warner and its New Line Cinema unit, had $6.5 million in ticket sales, bringing its total to $132.4 million.

In a limited release preceding a wider opening in early July, “Kit Kittredge: An American Girl” took in a relatively strong $222,697 from just five theaters for Picturehouse. This G-rated film has been heavily promoted by Mattel’s American Girl unit, on whose characters the movie is based.
667 2008-06-23 “Reuters used to be B.O.A.C.,” Mr. Glocer said, referring to one of the airlines that later formed British Airways. “Along came Richard Branson and Virgin, and suddenly British Airways became a much better airline. Bloomberg is that Virgin that forced Reuters to sharpen up.”

That point is not lost on Peter T. Grauer, who was appointed chairman of Bloomberg in 2001 shortly before the company’s founder, Michael R. Bloomberg, became the mayor of New York. The takeover of Reuters by Thomson might be a first step to reclaiming a business that Bloomberg redefined and in which Bloomberg has set the standard.

“My job is to worry, to take nothing for granted and make sure that we think about things in terms of humility,” said Mr. Grauer, a close friend of Mr. Bloomberg and a former investment management executive. “Great companies have begun to believe their own press and hubris has killed them. My mission in life is to never let that happen.”

It was in the early 1980s that Mr. Bloomberg, a former trader at Salomon Brothers, took the high pressure atmosphere of the trading floor, imported it to the newsroom and delivered the result through proprietary, advanced technology backed by exceptional customer service.

“This company has, in many ways, the most powerful business model I’ve ever encountered,” said Daniel L. Doctoroff, who stepped down in December as Mr. Bloomberg’s deputy mayor for economic development to become the company’s president.

The roots of Thomson Reuters go deeper. Thomson, which is controlled by the Toronto-based family of the same name, began with a newspaper empire that the company abandoned to concentrate on electronic data. While Reuters is best known for its news service, the company turned to financial information in the 1980s and is now the leading information provider in some arenas, including foreign exchange and commodities.

While Mr. Glocer may have to deal with all the usual problems that mergers bring, he has the advantage of running a significantly bigger company. The combined revenues of Thomson and Reuters last year were $12.5 billion, more than twice those of Bloomberg, and Thomson Reuters has about five times as many employees.

Mr. Glocer thinks he can go after Bloomberg on price and, more important, on flexibility. While Bloomberg, which is privately held, generated about $5.4 billion in revenue last year and has about 10,000 employees, the company still offers, for the most part, a single product: the Bloomberg terminal and its vast array of data — once available only through Bloomberg’s proprietary desktop system, but now found on ordinary computers and even BlackBerrys. Bloomberg combines that news and data with sophisticated analytical software that allows traders to swiftly execute and track trades.

For clients, Bloomberg is a “take it or leave it” proposition that supplies everything the company generates for a monthly fee of $1,500 a user ($1,800 a month for the small number of firms that use only one terminal). Traders who have no interest in, say, debt markets cannot reduce their Bloomberg costs by subscribing to a service that drops that data.

Bloomberg’s price and packaging may not have mattered as much during a bull market, but with Wall Street firms looking to cut costs, the fourth Bloomberg terminal on a trading desk could start to be seen as a luxury.

Thomson Reuters has its own terminal products, some of which are delivered through proprietary terminals. Mr. Glocer said that a customer could pay about $1,000 a month for a Thomson Reuters terminal.

Indeed, some Thomson Reuters terminals offering minimal information cost just $25 to $50 a month, depending on volume, according to Douglas B. Taylor, the managing partner at Burton-Taylor International Consulting and a former executive with both Thomson Financial and Reuters.

“Bloomberg has a real problem finding new business. They priced themselves at the top of the market,” Mr. Taylor said. “There are different points on a pricing curve that Bloomberg can’t hit but that Thomson Reuters can deliver. It’s going to be hard to figure out where Bloomberg’s new growth opportunities will be that don’t cannibalize its current pricing.”

Mr. Grauer and Mr. Doctoroff both dismissed suggestions that the Bloomberg terminal is too costly, arguing that the price is offset by the returns subscribers generate by using it.

“Price is really not the issue for the vast majority of customers,” Mr. Doctoroff said. “It’s not how cheap you are.”

Some analysts disagree. Brad Hintz, a bank analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said that the high price of Bloomberg terminals meant that he did not qualify for one when he was the chief financial officer of Lehman Brothers. That firm, he said, had an executive who was constantly on the hunt for Bloomberg terminals that were not being used. If no one claimed it, Mr. Hintz said, the executive “would grab the terminal and rip it out of the trading turret and carry it off the trading floor triumphantly.”

Price may be a larger factor in emerging markets, particularly Asia, which both companies agree is the next battleground in their war for financial information supremacy.

Thomson Reuters has been traditionally stronger outside of North America than Bloomberg, especially in India, and it has been aggressive in China.

Bloomberg rejects the idea that it is lagging in emerging markets. Mr. Grauer said that “five or six major, government-owned banks” in China use Bloomberg exclusively and that Bloomberg’s business rose 55 percent in that market last year. (The company declined to quantify the size of its business in China either by revenue or customers.) Reuters’s business in all of Asia grew by 14 percent last year, although analysts estimate that came on top of a much larger base.

The next stage of the battle may also involve technology. Even before the takeover, both Thomson and Reuters were developing products for so-called black box trading, computer systems that replace human traders. The combined company now leads the business of selling data with minimal time delays for black box systems, a highly profitable line of products, according to Mr. Taylor.

Thomas F. Secunda, a former Salomon Brothers programmer who helped Mr. Bloomberg found the company and who remains in charge of its products, acknowledged that “we’re not a big black box shop.” However, he added that the company has technology and expertise it needs to expand that business if demand grows.

While the market downturn has yet to significantly affect either of the two competitors, Thomson Reuters serves its electronic data and services to a much broader range of businesses, giving it protection from financial industry cycles. (The activities of physicians and scientists, key Thomson customers, do not track the markets’ fortunes.)

Even Reuters’s founding business — the news agency that supplies articles and photos to newspapers and Web sites as well as news video to broadcasters and publishers — is growing. As traditional publishers like newspapers shrink their staffs, they rely more on news agencies, Mr. Glocer said. Although he added, perhaps only half-joking, “longer term, I hope the patient doesn’t die.”

But the growth of the Internet can cut both ways. Thomson-Reuters and Bloomberg face common enemies in sites like Yahoo Finance and Google Finance, which offer a much lower level of sophistication and depth but are improving and are, after all, free.

Reuters is allowing several companies to fill the Internet with free news and, like Bloomberg, posts freely available stories on its own Web site, although Reuters carefully keeps some stories back for paying business customers.

Neither company has sorted out a strategy for competing with online services. Michael F. Holland, the chairman of Holland & Company and the former chief executive of First Boston’s asset management division, said he can no longer justify a Bloomberg terminal for his current role and often turns to the Web for data. He first used a terminal in the 1980s and remains a fan: “There really is nothing else that’s quite like the Bloomberg,” he said. “From the beginning, it has provided incredible information. But at a very high price.”

And when asked what Google Finance and Yahoo Finance might mean for Bloomberg’s future over time, Mr. Grauer paused. “I don’t know how to answer that,” he said. “I really don’t know how to answer that.”
668 2008-06-23 For Johnson, a 16-year-old from West Des Moines, Iowa, the victory ended a long 10 days and a much longer journey. Her gym in Iowa was flooded two weeks ago, displacing her for about two days.

She started gymnastics at age 3 and starting thinking about the Olympics a few years later, squeezing in practices before and after school and sacrificing some of her social life for her sport.

On Sunday, she reached her goal.

“It was the most overwhelming sensation of happiness,” she said. “I finally proved that I am the person that everybody’s been talking about.”

Johnson acknowledged that she was scared, too. She said she felt anxiety before the trials, wondering if she could perform to the expectations that she could be the next Mary Lou Retton.

“In the back of my mind, sometimes I could feel those feelings coming up,” she said. “But those thoughts can hurt your confidence and kill your performance.”

Unshaken, Johnson delivered the trials’ strongest performances. In the two days of competition, she won the balance beam and the floor exercise, finished second on the vault and took fourth on the uneven bars.

Her floor exercise Sunday was so good that Martha Karolyi, the women’s national team coordinator, put down her pen, transformed from a coach to a fan.

Johnson flipped her tiny body again and again, stirring the crowd. Her sparkly purple outfit became a blur as camera flashes went off. At the end of the routine, the usually steel-faced Karolyi raised her hands above her head to applaud, yelling, “Good job!” over and over.

For the rest of the gymnasts, though, the night had its ups and downs. Liukin, an 18-year-old from Parker, Tex., had several mistakes on her usually spectacular uneven bars routine.

“Just from the beginning, I was a little off,” Liukin said. “But hopefully before the end of the summer, it will be perfect.”

Among those on the bubble to make the team, nerves were frayed. Shayla Worley, an uneven bars specialist, fell flat on her face during a release move. Bridget Sloan, coming back from surgery on her left knee, fell on the balance beam, had trouble on the uneven bars and twice stepped out of bounds on the floor exercise.

Worley and Sloan are fighting for what may be the final spot on the Olympic team. Karolyi said that if the team were to be chosen immediately, only one spot would be left to fill. She said that would also be the case at the training camp, barring any injuries.

Memmel, Samantha Peszek and Alicia Sacramone were nearly guaranteed spots, said Karolyi, who bristled at having to name two gymnasts at the trials instead of waiting until late July.

“If it were up to me, I wouldn’t name nobody,” she said. “I like to wait to the very last minute to name the team, so we can be sure the gymnasts are in competitional shape for the Games.”

According to Karolyi’s husband, Bela, who coached the Olympic champions Retton and Nadia Comaneci, the final spot will probably go to Sloan, Worley, Ivana Hong or Jana Bieger.

“This is just a new beginning for us, and anything can happen,” Hong said.

Meanwhile, Johnson and Liukin are thinking about Beijing. As the red, white and blue confetti fell from the ceiling during the final ceremony, Liukin said it had started to sink in.

“You felt like you were living in a dream, but when you looked around, it was real,” said Liukin, whose father, Valeri, won two gold and two silver medals for the Soviet Union at the 1988 Seoul Olympics. “I wanted to soak up every second of it. Whoa, I’m an Olympian, just like my dad was. This is surreal.”
669 2008-06-23 LEGAL CONFIDENTIALITY Nearly three dozen former federal prosecutors have thrown their weight behind a Congressional bill intended to safeguard confidential communications between lawyers and their clients.      NEWS ON THE WEB When the NBC News ho...
670 2008-06-24 Also in Morning Buzz: the dismissal of a Columbia University professor, M.T.A. budget woes and more headlines from papers in the New York region....
671 2008-06-24 The office of City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. found that the Department of Buildings had repeatedly failed to make sure that hazardous conditions were fixed....
672 2008-06-24 I'm trying to get my own thoughts on the oil stuff clear; so for the econowonks, a tiny theoretical paper for your enjoyment and/or detestation....
673 2008-06-24 The newly launched TimesPeople Beta is where The New York Times meets the social Web - think of it as all the news that's fit to share....
674 2008-06-24 Why attacks on Obama's lack of experience could backfire....
675 2008-06-24 What do a James Bond villain and Barack Obama have in common? Ask the McCain campaign....
676 2008-06-24 Democrats are suing to embarrass John McCain, who has positioned himself as a campaign finance reformer -- also trying to change the subject from Barack Obama's decision to forgo public financing for the general election....
677 2008-06-24 Many of the people John McCain met in California this week did not want to hear about his newfound support for off-shore drilling....
678 2008-06-24 His Web gurus try to defend the candidate's lack of dexterity with the intersection between politics and its online connectivity....
679 2008-06-24 Yahoo 's shares surged Tuesday afternoon after TechCrunch reported that Microsoft is back in talks to buy the company. Yahoo's stock was up more than 2 percent on the news. However, people close to both companies, told DealBook that neither side w...
680 2008-06-24 First, Friedrich von Schiller was right. About 20 years ago there was an argument about exchange rates and the trade balance that, to me, resembles some of what I'm hearing now. The issue then was whether the United States had to have a real depre...
681 2008-06-24 I am a contrarian by nature. These days that requires me to look for good economic news. And there is some of that in the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller house price indexes released today. Of course, there are other indications that things are get...
682 2008-06-24 The McCain campaign uses a video to criticize Obama's decision to forgo public financing....
683 2008-06-24 Obama surrogates accused Charlie Black of viewing terrorism through a political lens, but declined to call for his ouster....
684 2008-06-24 CNBC interviews Andrew Liveris, chief executive of Dow Chemical, on the company's plans to increase prices and institute freight charges.
685 2008-06-24 We all know that Photoshop is amazing, but sometimes things go terribly wrong....
686 2008-06-24 Hedge funds around the world became more cautious, reducing the amount of debt they took on to buy assets by the end of last year as returns took a beating from turmoil in global credit markets, according to a study released on Monday by Greenwich...
687 2008-06-24 In the 18th century the British offered a 20,000 pound prize to anyone who figured out how to calculate longitude. More recently, Netflix offered a million dollars for improving movie recommendations on its Web site. Now Senator John McCain is sug...
688 2008-06-24 A judge has dismissed several claims made by American International Group in its three-year battle to regain control of a block of its shares held by an investment fund once used mainly to compensate A.I.G. executives. The ruling, made in Manhatta...
689 2008-06-24 Trans-Atlantic stock market operator NYSE Euronext said it would buy a 25 percent stake in the Doha Securities Market for $250 million, boosting its access to the fast-growing Middle East economy. NYSE Euronext, which owns the New York Stock Excha...
690 2008-06-24 A South Korean high court on Tuesday cleared U.S. private equity house Lone Star of manipulating the stock price of a former credit card unit of Korea Exchange Bank, rejecting an earlier ruling. The verdict is widely expected to provide a catalyst...
691 2008-06-24 The New York metro area tops the country in the number of high-tech jobs, according to a national study by the AeA, a technology trade group....
692 2008-06-24 Of course, the Mets helped create the atmosphere. After they mishandled a seven-game cushion in the final 17 games of the 2007 season, they waited a day before saying that Randolph would return in 2008. By doing that, the Mets made it obvious that Randolph would be in a perilous position if the team sputtered this season. The Mets were 34-35 when Randolph was replaced by Jerry Manuel.

Wilpon said Minaya first told him that he wanted to fire Randolph on June 15, after a doubleheader split against the Texas Rangers. Wilpon said Minaya told him he wanted to “think about it overnight.”

After Minaya slept on the notion, he spoke with team executives again on June 16 and confirmed what he wanted to do: fire Randolph, the pitching coach Rick Peterson and the first-base coach Tom Nieto. Minaya traveled to California and met with Randolph after the Mets beat the Los Angeles Angels that night.

“Management and the owners approved of what his plan was, so we were O.K. with the switch and we were O.K. with his recommendation, and he implemented that recommendation,” Wilpon said.

Wilpon and Minaya disputed criticism that the Mets were disrespectful to Randolph because they announced the firing at 3:12 a.m. Eastern. Minaya said he gave Randolph the news at about 11 p.m. Pacific.

“I wanted to do it face to face,” Minaya said.

Wilpon said: “The intent here clearly was to respect Willie, to respect his feelings and to do it in person. It’s never easy to fire anybody. Believe me, it is not easy to do, and Omar took a lot of time. We took a lot of time listening to him and thinking about it.”

Randolph took the Mets to one win from the World Series in 2006, but now the Mets had been underachieving for more than a year. Randolph was 302-253 as a manager, but the 34-35 start doomed him this season.

“It’s all a matter of performance, and Willie knew this when he started,” Wilpon said. “Recognize we gave Willie the chance, Omar gave Willie the chance to be in this position. He had never been a manager in the major leagues or minor leagues.”

WORKOUTS FOR CHURCH Ryan Church ran sprints, fielded fly balls, played catch and took batting practice Monday. Church, who is on the disabled list with postconcussion symptoms, said he felt fine. But Church said it was crucial to see how he felt Tuesday.

“It all depends on how I react,” Church said. “We’ll see how it is tomorrow and keep progressing from there.”

If Church does not have any setbacks, he could play in a rehabilitation game for Class A Brooklyn on Wednesday or Thursday. Church said the earliest he could return to the Mets would be against the Yankees this weekend.

The Mets and the Yankees start a four-game series Friday, but Church did not know which day he might return.

Church said he had been symptom-free since he went on the disabled list two weeks ago. He said, “We were in uncharted waters” after he initially sustained the concussion May 20. Anytime Church’s head bounced, as it did when he pursued fly balls, it was painful, he said.

“My body was telling me I needed to shut it down,” Church said.
693 2008-06-24 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France told the Israeli Parliament that there could be no Mideast peace unless Israel dropped its refusal to cede sovereignty over parts of Jerusalem claimed by the Palestinians. Mr. Sarkozy also called on Israel to stop building settlements in the West Bank. But he tempered his address by assuring Israel that it could count on France’s support in halting Iran’s nuclear program. The president, whose maternal grandfather was a Greek Jew, praised Israel’s democracy and quoted the biblical passage in which God promises the Holy Land to the children of Israel.
694 2008-06-24 Heavy sectarian fighting between groups supporting and opposing the government in the northern Lebanese city of Tripoli continued for a second day, with officials saying that at least four more people had died. Lebanese soldiers and police officers began deploying in the tense neighborhoods in the afternoon, and the fighting appeared to subside. A total of eight people have been killed and 42 wounded since the violence broke out Sunday between Sunni Muslims who support the government and Alawites allied with the opposition, which is led by Hezbollah.
695 2008-06-24 A Greek industrialist who was kidnapped two weeks ago was freed unharmed after his family paid an unspecified sum in ransom. George Milonas, 49, is chairman of Alumil, an aluminum company with operations in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. He was released in a deserted area west of the city of Thessaloniki, where his business empire has its headquarters, the police said, hours after his captors collected the ransom in a parking lot.
696 2008-06-24 A group of Democratic senators led by Charles E. Schumer of New York is appealing to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to block a set of contentious no-bid oil contracts that Iraq has decided to award to the Western oil giants Exxon Mobil, Shell, Total and BP.

And if that appeal, which Mr. Schumer’s office said it faxed in the form of a letter to the State Department on Monday afternoon, is not heeded, the senators will try to cut off financing for as-yet-unspecified programs in Iraq that are not directly in support of American troops, Mr. Schumer said in an interview on Monday.

The letter is scheduled to be made public on Tuesday at a news conference in Washington by several senators: Mr. Schumer, vice chairman of the Senate Democratic Caucus; John Kerry of Massachusetts, the former presidential candidate who is a senior member of the Foreign Relations Committee; and Claire McCaskill of Missouri, who serves on the Armed Services Committee.

The New York Times reported last week that the oil companies were in the latter stages of negotiating service contracts that would return them to Iraq 36 years after they were forced out by Saddam Hussein. The contracts, which have not been put out for bid, are modest in size but would also grant the companies advantages in later bidding for much more lucrative agreements to exploit Iraq’s richest oil fields.

No deals should be signed, particularly without bidding, until Iraq enacts a long-delayed law that would regulate its oil industry, the letter says.
697 2008-06-24 PURCHASE, N.Y. — In the cafeteria at the headquarters of MasterCard on Monday morning, Peyton and Archie Manning were the hottest items on the menu.

Peyton, the Indianapolis Colts’ quarterback, and his father, Archie, a former N.F.L. quarterback, huddled with nearly 3,000 MasterCard employees — most of them watching via live Web cast — to discuss leadership qualities and what it takes to become a champion.

Peyton, whose Colts won the 2007 Super Bowl, and Archie, a star who played a majority of his career with the New Orleans Saints, spoke to a crowd of about 400 that included everyone from the mailroom clerk to the chief executive. Some 2,500 others watched the two on the Web from MasterCard offices around the world, including England, France, China, Japan, Brazil, Singapore and Dubai.

“I’m a quarterback, and I have my coaches,” Peyton Manning said before his company pep talk. “But really, on the field, the coaches can’t be in the huddle and the quarterback is responsible for coaching and encouraging and trying to be the leader out there, so there are certainly a lot of connections you can make between the football field and the business world, especially during these tough economic times, when leaders have to step forward, step up their games and get the people around them to elevate their games.”

In a role normally reserved for business and scholarly types — past speakers have included Bill George, author of the book “True North” and the former chief executive of the medical technology company Medtronic; and Dr. Daniel Goleman, an author and former New York Times reporter — the Mannings created the kind of buzz that a football Sunday can generate.
698 2008-06-24 Mr. Sharif had been barred from running in the February parliamentary elections because of a conviction on charges of hijacking, which stemmed from an earlier tangle with Mr. Musharraf.

Trying to pre-empt the overthrow of his government when he was prime minister in 1999, Mr. Sharif diverted a plane carrying Mr. Musharraf, who was then head of the military. The military then sided with Mr. Musharraf anyway, and Mr. Sharif was ousted and eventually forced into exile until he returned late last year.

Earlier this month, the national election commission ruled that the hijacking conviction was not sufficient to prevent Mr. Sharif’s candidacy.

But on the basis of a voter’s petition that argued the election commission was wrong, the three-judge panel in Lahore cited the hijacking conviction on Monday as sufficient reason to bar Mr. Sharif from running in the by-election.

A lawyer for Mr. Sharif, Ashtar Ausaf Ali, said the ruling on Monday would have immediate political repercussions. “The political situation in Pakistan is more intense now. The whole matter seems to be heading for an impasse,” he said.

Mr. Sharif prevented Mr. Ali from appearing on his behalf before the Lahore High Court to argue the case. Such an appearance, in Mr. Sharif’s opinion, would be tantamount to a recognition of judges he deemed to be working illegally, Mr. Ali said.

On the same ground, Mr. Sharif had ordered him not to appear before the Supreme Court to lodge an appeal, Mr. Ali said.

Newspaper editorials and analysts have argued that Mr. Zardari was intent on keeping the judges appointed by Mr. Musharraf because he believed they would protect an amnesty on corruption charges granted to him and Ms. Bhutto on their return to Pakistan from exile.

Mr. Sharif withdrew his 9 ministers from the 24-member cabinet in May in protest of Mr. Zardari’s failure to agree to reinstate the fired judges, including the chief justice of the Supreme Court, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.

After the ruling on Monday, Ahsan Iqbal, a spokesman for the Pakistan Muslim League-N, the party that Mr. Sharif leads, said on Dawn television that Mr. Zardari was allowing “a mockery” to be made of democracy in Pakistan.

In a more cooperative spirit, Farhatullah Babar, a spokesman for the Pakistan Peoples Party, which is led by Mr. Zardari, said he was disappointed with the ruling, and added that it could force the parties to settle their differences on the judges.
699 2008-06-24 In his more than three decades on Wall Street, Leon D. Black has played many roles, including wunderkind investment banker and private equity mogul. On Monday, however, he assumed an altogether different one: defendant in a civil lawsuit.

Apollo Management and two of its founders, Mr. Black and Joshua J. Harris, were sued on Monday by the Huntsman Corporation, accused of interfering in the company’s $10.6 billion merger with an Apollo company, Hexion Specialty Chemicals.

Huntsman, a chemical maker, is seeking more than $3 billion in damages. Shares in the company closed at $12.80, down about 0.3 percent and far from the $28 that Hexion agreed to pay in July.

The lawsuit, filed in a Texas state court, is the latest legal salvo in one of the few big deals remaining from last year. Apollo and Hexion sued Huntsman in Delaware’s Chancery Court last week, seeking to end the merger agreement. The two said that, given Huntsman’s lower earnings and increased debt, completing the deal would plunge the newly combined company into insolvency.

Given that, the banks that had agreed to finance the deal, Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse, were unlikely to lend the $15.35 billion needed, Apollo and Hexion argued. And given the state of the credit markets today, alternative financing would probably not be available.
700 2008-06-24 North of Winfield in the nearby town of Foley, Mo., floodwaters first submerged the eastern part of town before moving westward across Highway 79 and inundating the town’s western section, said Mr. Binder, who estimated that 110 homes were underwater.

Upriver in Clarksville, Mo., residents awaited the river’s crest, which the Weather Service predicted would arrive Monday evening at more than 11 feet above flood stage and remain there through Wednesday morning.

“We’re in a holding pattern,” said Jo Anne Smiley, the town’s mayor. “So far we’ve had 30 or more homes that have flooded.”

The swollen river, which has forced tens of thousands to evacuate across six states, is expected to crest in St. Louis on Wednesday and continue running at more than seven feet above flood stage through Friday.

“It’s hard to know how many people have been evacuated in Missouri,” said Susie Stonner, a spokeswoman for Missouri’s emergency management agency. “We can’t do damage assessment because there’s still water. Once the water recedes, we’ll have a much better sense of the losses.”

Across the Mississippi River in Illinois, the authorities said they were also waiting for the waters to recede before they could accurately assess flood damage.

“The water’s still coming up,” said Scott Gauvin, manager of the state’s emergency operations center. “Damage assessment is a high priority, but it’s going to take a while.”

Here in Grafton, a small tourist town not protected by a levee, the river has swallowed some 20 homes in the past week. Floodwaters are threatening the town’s well, and officials have shipped in an emergency supply of bottled water in the event that they must order that piped-in water be boiled before use.

“We’re still in pretty good shape,” said Richard Mosby, Grafton’s mayor, adding that after the flood of 1993 the town removed about 100 structures from the riverfront. “We can see the end is in sight. All the things we’ve worked for seem to have worked pretty well.”

Mike Amburg, 51, whose home on a hill about 100 yards from the river is dry but surrounded by water, was similarly sanguine.

“The only way I’d move is if the price were right,” Mr. Amburg, a correctional officer, said as he transferred bags of groceries into his boat. “I’ve got a hell of a view, and this is the first time I’ve been bothered since ’93.”

Across the river in Clarksville, another tourist town not protected by a levee, Jackie Mills had lived in her home for less than a year before it was inundated.

“I just moved in in August, and now I’m camping,” said Ms. Mills, 39. “I’m still trying to figure out where all my things are.”

“We don’t have any impediment between our town’s shops and the Mississippi, and we’ve liked it that way. We’ve never wanted protection,” she said. “Now that may have to change, because I don’t know if we can go through this again.”
701 2008-06-24 WASHINGTON (AP) — Lawmakers continued to contend Monday that large investors are propping up oil prices, saying that speculation in crude futures has nearly doubled since 2000.

Pension funds, Wall Street banks and other large investors that have no intention of taking delivery of fuel have increasingly pumped money into contracts for oil and other commodities as a hedge against inflation when the dollar falls.

After more than a half-dozen hearings in Congress, Democratic House lawmakers said they intended to tighten restrictions on pension funds, investment banks and other investors that they say are driving up fuel prices.

Many Republicans, analysts and regulators, however, say soaring oil prices are a reflection of macroeconomic factors, including the falling dollar, unrest in the Middle East and increased demand from countries like China and India.

Oil prices rose $1.38, to settle at $136.74 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Monday, on disappointment about Saudi Arabia’s modest production increase and concerns that output from Nigeria will decline.
702 2008-06-24 China’s largest steel maker, Baosteel, and the Australian mining company Rio Tinto have agreed on the highest price increase in at least a decade in iron ore term contracts, the companies announced on Monday.

Baosteel has agreed to pay up to 96.5 percent more for its iron ore under a term contract with Rio Tinto, higher than the 67 to 71 percent that Chinese mills and the Brazilian mining company Companhia Vale do Rio Doce agreed to earlier this year.

But the company, which negotiated on behalf of the Chinese steel industry, said the annual pricing system had been maintained despite an unprecedented divergence in the price rise of Australian ore and Brazilian ore.

“To maintain the traditional pricing system and normal market order and to hold a long-term friendly cooperation between the upstream and downstream sectors, Baosteel has settled 2008 benchmark iron ore prices with Rio Tinto after friendly negotiation,” Baosteel said in an e-mailed statement.

Baosteel agreed to a 79.88 percent price rise for Pilbara blend fines and Yandicoogina fines, and a 96.5 percent price rise for Pilbara blend lump for the 2008 fiscal year. Fines and lump differ in the size of the ore particles.

“This is an extremely healthy price for Rio Tinto. It’s about $14 higher than we had expected,” said John Meyer, head of resources at Fairfax I. S. in London.
703 2008-06-24 Students at the school expressed disbelief and awe at the lengthy, high-tech effort that prosecutors said the two young men used to switch their C, D and F grades and those of 12 friends to A and A minus grades.

Wes Dales, 15, who just finished his freshman year at Tesoro, likened the alleged crime to a “really cool” James Bond mission. “Maybe they were just doing this to help their friends,” he said.

Aja Voorhees, 18, a member of the class of 2008 who plans to study pre-law, said she and several other seniors had felt stung by the thought that college admissions officers might have given more weight to a 4.0 average achieved through a couple of keystrokes than to their own years of hard work.

“This deserves punishment,” Ms. Voorhees said. “But, personally, I think the charges are a little harsh.”

Speaking of Mr. Khan, she said, “He hasn’t even been able to be an adult yet.”

Parents of students said they had been shocked to learn of the cheating at Tesoro, which often places high in national rankings. “It’s awful, and it really concerns me,” said Michelle Dales, Wes’s mother, who said she feared that some children in the affluent “Orange County bubble” had a flip attitude toward breaking the rules.

The Khan family lives in the same gated community as the “Real Housewives” stars, a sprawling complex called Coto de Caza. Tanvir Singh lives nearby.

Mr. Khan is accused of stealing a master key to the school and entering campus buildings on several nights between his 18th birthday, Jan. 23, and May 20, according to the 17-page complaint filed by the Orange County district attorney.

When Mr. Khan requested a copy of his official transcripts on the morning of April 20, school administrators said, they noticed that his average grades had changed into top scores. They suspected tampering, said Tesoro’s principal, Dan Burch, and contacted the sheriff’s department later that day.

“This isn’t your average cheating incident,” Mr. Burch said in an interview.

On May 19, Mr. Singh sent text messages to Mr. Khan, asking him to “go to the school” with him that night and “go into disomma,” a reference to the classroom of an Advanced Placement English teacher, Alyssa Di Somma.

“I have a huge test on a book tomorrow I haven’t read,” the text message read.

Later that night, Mr. Burch said, a school custodian saw two figures running from a classroom in the darkened building.

Sheriff’s deputies arrested Mr. Khan on his way to school last Tuesday, said his lawyer, Carol Lavacot. He was released the next morning, hours before graduation, after his parents posted $50,000 bail. If convicted on all charges, including identity theft, burglary and computer fraud, Mr. Khan faces up to 38 years in prison.

Ms. Lavacot said Mr. Khan and his family were devastated by the charges. She described her client as respectful and generous, but also naïve. “It is apparent to me that he has a strong desire to please others,” she said.

Mr. Singh’s lawyer, Marlin Stapleton, said that cheating should be condemned, but he compared the crimes committed at Tesoro to those of Ferris Bueller, the character in a 1986 movie who hacks into his school’s attendance records.

“Does this young man deserve to have his future ruined over this event?” Mr. Stapleton said of Mr. Singh, who faces up to three years in prison if convicted on four felony counts. “I think absolutely not.”

Mr. Singh turned himself in and was released on his own recognizance. He and Mr. Khan are scheduled to be arraigned on July 8.

Ms. Voorhees said that she had been surprised to learn of break-ins at the school but that cheating was not uncommon. “I’ve seen people copy from each other’s papers and text answers to each other,” she said. “It’s irritating, but life isn’t fair.”

“Some people can buy their way into things, or cheat their way in,” Ms. Voorhees said. “If you care about good character, you won’t do that.”
704 2008-06-24 WASHINGTON — Two American businessmen were charged Monday with selling military parts to Iran to help prop up its aging air fleet, the latest in a string of cases that American prosecutors say violate longstanding bans on exports to Tehran.

Federal prosecutors in Florida said the two men — Hassan Saied Keshari, a naturalized citizen from Iran who runs an aviation parts company in Northern California, and Traian Bujduveanu, a naturalized citizen from Romania who ran an aviation company in the Fort Lauderdale area — shipped parts to the United Arab Emirates for resale to Iran. Some of the parts, prosecutors said, were for the repair of Iran’s aging F-14 jet fighters, while others were for military helicopters.

R. Alexander Acosta, the United States attorney in Miami, said the sales helped Iran “build up its military strength.”

The sale of military parts to Iran, a violation of American export law since 1995, has become a source of growing concern to American law enforcement officials at a time of rising military tension between the Bush administration and Tehran.

In the last year, federal prosecutors have brought at least a dozen cases accusing businesspeople in the United States of illegally selling aircraft parts, submachine guns, engineering software and other material to Iran. Last Friday, a Pakistani man living on Long Island pleaded guilty to charges that he had sold parts for F-14 and F-5 fighter jets that prosecutors said might have eventually ended up in Iran.
705 2008-06-24 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Internal Revenue Service, citing the drain of high gas prices on households, said Monday that it was raising the automobile mileage rate that businesses and others could claim.

The tax agency said the optional standard rate to calculate deductible operating costs for business vehicles will rise to 58.5 cents a mile, from 50.5 cents, for the final six months of 2008.

That rate also applies to businesses and others entitled to depreciation allowances that operate autos for charitable, medical or moving purposes.

The I.R.S. said it was also changing the rate for computing deductible medical or moving expenses to 27 cents a mile, from 19 cents, for the final six months of the year.

That applies to individuals not entitled to depreciation allowances.

Congress must enact legislation to change the rate for providing services for charitable organizations, so that will stay at 14 cents a mile.

The I.R.S. normally updates the rates once a year in the fall for the next calendar year.
706 2008-06-24 G. M.’s no-interest financing offers, which are good on loans of up to six years, begins Tuesday.

Inventories of trucks made by all of the automakers are piling up. G. M. had a 104-day supply of the half-ton Chevrolet Silverado in stock, and Nissan had a 132-day supply of its full-size pickup, the Titan, a record high, according to Edmunds.com

“We’re really just trying to spark the market.” said Mark LaNeve, G. M.’s vice president for North American sales and marketing.

But Mr. LaNeve, though optimistic about how consumers will respond to G. M.’s new offer, conceded that such sales might not work as well in today’s market as they had in the past, with fuel efficiency foremost in the minds of shoppers who used to focus on their monthly loan payment amount. Three years ago, the Detroit automakers generated huge demand by offering “employee pricing” discounts to everyone.

Ford this month started an “employee pricing” sale on its F-series pickup truck after the Honda Civic displaced the F-series line to become the country’s top-selling model in May. (The F-series, which had been the top seller on an annual basis for 26 consecutive years, was fifth last month.)

Yet the F-series sale has not done enough to thin bloated inventories of the trucks, prompting Ford to delay the introduction of its new F-150 truck by two months to give dealers more time to sell off the current version.

Analysts say G. M. has little choice but to try the sale strategy. J. D. Power & Associates estimates that overall industry sales through the first three weeks of June were equal to an annual rate of 12.5 million vehicles, making it the worst month in 15 years.

“I think it’s the smart thing to do right now,” said David Healy of Burnham Securities. “They have to clean out these inventories. I think it will help. The fact that they have raised the prices on the 2009 models is a motivation for consumers to take advantage of these zero-interest deals.”

G. M. is excluding some fast-selling models from its “72-hour sale” (most dealers are open for a total of about 72 hours during the seven days that the offers are available) including the Chevrolet Aveo, Cobalt and Malibu.

In past sales, those same models were among those that G. M. tried to clear out because they were slow sellers otherwise. But now their high fuel-economy ratings, along with a redesign for the Malibu, have made them far more desirable.

Mr. LaNeve said he hoped that the market would improve toward the end of the year, although he said he did not believe it could recover as much as he once thought. He acknowledged that he was wrong in thinking that a recovery would have begun by now.

“I do believe,” he said, “at least we hope — that Q2 was the bottom.”
707 2008-06-24 IT’S no secret that publicists travel a lot. In nearly two decades, I’ve probably circled the globe at least twice, going on tour, on photo and video shoots and doing what publicists do, which is helping clients at a moment’s notice. I always loved the whole experience of arriving in a new place.

I have become the queen of the one-day trip. I never thought I’d be this person who wants to be close to home all the time. But I am, and my friends think I’m nuts.

My crazy one-day-trip obsession was born from both practicality and paranoia. I can’t stand losing a whole day on a cross-country flight so I’d rather be sleep-deprived than stuck on a plane. And paranoia is something that almost all entrepreneurs understand. When my daughter was born, I was in a senior position at Epic Records. It’s tough to run with the big boys, and I didn’t want my boss or my artists to think a new baby would stop me from traveling.

Now with my own company, I have the same challenges. My clients have become my bosses, and I don’t want them feeling abandoned.

My goal for the perfect business trip is to leave in the morning, come back in the evening, with no one the wiser, especially my daughter, who counts on me for gymnastics and music classes, home-cooked meals and mom time.

Recently, I’ve flown twice to Las Vegas to meet with my client Michael Jackson. For my first meeting, I left on a 6:30 a.m. flight from Kennedy International Airport and, because of the time change, arrived in Las Vegas early in the morning.
708 2008-06-24 On Monday, Hu Bin, a visa official at the foreign ministry, said the ministry had no statistics on the number of visa denials, but that the new policies were put in place for “security considerations.”

Travel business analysts had forecast that the Games would bring 500,000 foreign visitors and an extra $4.5 billion in revenue to Beijing this summer. But now, even though some five-star hotels are fully booked for the Olympics, many economists are beginning to doubt the city will get the kind of economic windfall it was hoping for.

Many hotels in Beijing are struggling to find guests; some large travel agencies have temporarily closed branches; and people scheduled to travel here for seminars and conferences are canceling. The number of foreign tourists visiting Beijing fell sharply in May, dropping by 14 percent, according to the city’s statistics bureau.

Beijing residents, meanwhile, are complaining that heightened security measures could spoil what was supposed to be Beijing’s long anticipated coming-out party. Despite years of careful preparation — including teaching taxi drivers English and instructing locals in how to wait in a line (not common here), and spending billions on mammoth building projects for these Games — Beijing is starting to appear less welcoming to foreigners.

“Business is so bleak,” said Di Jian, the sales manager at the Capital Hotel in Beijing. “Since May, very few foreigners have checked in. Our occupancy rate has dropped by 40 percent.”

Many other cities in China are also feeling the pain of fewer tourists, including Shanghai, where some hotels say occupancy rates are down 15 to 20 percent.

The government has publicized its determination to combat possible threats to the Games, including suicide bombings, bus hijackings and chemical attacks. In April, Interpol warned that a terrorist attack during the Beijing Olympics is a “real possibility.” And in a year plagued by riots in Tibet, protests of the Olympic torch relay, a terrorist plot to kidnap journalists covering the Olympics (according to Beijing officials) and the Sichuan earthquake, the government is stressing public safety above all else.

But Beijing appears to be less concerned about hosting a global party and more concerned with making sure no one spoils it. Officials announced Thursday that 100,000 commandos, police and army troops would be placed on high alert during the Games.

The heightened sense of alert over security threats in the capital has done something else too: it has spawned a huge number of rumors about other actions the government may or may not be taking.

Among them: a border region with North Korea has been closed to prevent security risks; foreign students and migrant workers are being asked to leave Beijing during the Olympics; all volunteers need to register with the police; bars will be forced to close early; and all outdoor parties planned for the three-week-long Olympic celebration have been banned, putting the hex on some of the entertaining events that had been planned for the Games.

The Beijing police and security officials denied some of the reports, but also, at times, insisted in telephone interviews last week that they could not disclose some security matters. Poor official communication about regulations and restrictions in Beijing may be contributing to public uncertainty and feeding the rumor mill.

Nothing is more of an obstacle than the new visa policy. Businessmen, particularly from the United States, Hong Kong and Taiwan, have complained that new visa restrictions have prevented business meetings from taking place and crimped deal making.

Many Hong Kong-based businessmen, for example, say new visa rules require frequent and complicated applications, often including proof of a hotel booking, round-trip airline tickets, and in some cases, a letter of invitation.

“It’s kind of draconian,” said Richard Vuylsteke, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, which represents American companies doing business in the region. “But politics and security trump economics, especially during the Olympics. We just hope that after the Olympics things will change.”

The European Union Chamber of Commerce in Beijing has also complained to China’s foreign ministry.

Chinese hotel operators are also frustrated. A hotel construction boom in which the number of four- and five-star hotels in Beijing jumped from about 64 in 2001 to 161 as of the end of April, according to government figures, is beginning to look overly optimistic. Many hotels are still under construction in a city that now has over 5,000 hotels.

Hotel operators also say the earthquake and Olympic torch relay protests may be having an impact on tourism. “Usually May and June are the busy season for our hotel,” said Jiang Zhiqiang, a spokesman for the New Otani Changfugong Hotel in Beijing. “This year is quite unusual. I think several natural and man-made disasters happened subsequently, which hurt our business.”

With the opening ceremony of the Olympics just seven weeks away, only 44 percent of the rooms in four star hotels and 77 percent of five-star hotel rooms are booked, according to the Beijing Tourist Bureau.

If visitors cannot get visas to enter the country, many of those hotels may be forced to slash rates, which had jumped as high as $2,000 a night when prospects were brighter.

In some ways, the hotels are also on the front lines of the security crackdown. They typically share lists of their guests with the government, on a daily basis. But now they are being asked to supply photographs of all their employees too, as well as help the government in visa approvals, some hotel managers said.

Many large tourism agencies have already given up. “Now most of my colleagues for inbound tourism don’t come to work,” said Wang Ge, director of the inbound tourism department at the Beijing Tourism Group. “We have no clients this month.”

Indeed, when an American called the China Travel Guide Tourist Agency last week, a sales clerk even discouraged the person from visiting Beijing during the Olympics.

“You really don’t want to go there,” said Lorna Liu, the sales representative at China Travel Guide. “Why don’t you try Xi’an or Shanghai and visit Beijing a little later?”
709 2008-06-24 The fertilizer and oilseed processor Bunge said on Monday that it would buy Corn Products International for $4.4 billion in stock, seeking to better compete against other American agricultural giants.

The takeover of Corn Products, which is one of the United States’ oldest agribusinesses, is yet another move by a food producer that is taking advantage of a rise in food prices. Many in the sector are scrambling for bigger scale to meet soaring demand across the world.

It also represents the growing clout of international businesses. While Bunge has its headquarters in White Plains, its roots are in the Netherlands, Bermuda and Brazil.

Corn Products shareholders will receive Bunge stock worth $56 a share for their current holdings, a 31 percent premium to Corn Products’ closing price last Friday, and will end up owning 21 percent of Bunge after the deal. The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter, pending shareholder and regulator approval.

Tapping into Corn Products’ customer base, which includes Coca-Cola and Kellogg, will give Bunge a huge foothold in the syrups and sweeteners business. It is the third-largest American agribusiness by revenue, behind Cargill and Archer Daniels Midland.

The company said it expected to achieve annual cost savings of $100 million to $120 million.

Bunge reported $778 million in net income last year, while Corn Products reported $198 million in profits. Bunge said on Monday that it was also raising its earnings guidance for this year.
710 2008-06-24 Depressed people may have an increased risk of Type 2 diabetes, and those with diabetes may be at increased risk for depression. A study published on June 18 in The Journal of the American Medical Association suggests a new level of complexity in the relationship between the disorders.

Researchers studied 5,201 people without Type 2 diabetes and determined the risk for developing it among those with and without depressive symptoms over three years. The incidence of diabetes increased 1.1 times for each five-point increase in scores on a depression questionnaire.

Then they looked at 4,847 people without depressive symptoms and calculated the risk for developing depression among those with and without diabetes. Surprisingly, people with untreated diabetes or prediabetes were less likely to be depressed, but those being treated for Type 2 diabetes had more than a 50 percent increased relative risk for depression compared with those who did not have diabetes.

“The complications and burdens of managing significant diabetes can increase the risk for depression,” said Dr. Sherita Hill Golden, the lead author and an associate professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins. “And in our study, the people who had depression ate more, smoked more and were more obese, all of which can increase the risk for diabetes.”
711 2008-06-24 Rather than finding areas of agreement, participants in the one-day meeting in this coastal city on the Red Sea illustrated the sharply diverging views on what has caused oil prices to double in the last year to the $130- to $140-a-barrel range.

Consumer nations, led by the Britain, Japan and United States, see more supply as the answer to higher prices. But most producing nations are either reluctant to or unable to pump more oil, and they say a big reason for the price inflation is speculation. Everyone agreed that surging demand in the developing world was a major factor.

That point was punctuated last Thursday when China, the world’s fastest-growing consumer of oil, announced it was sharply raising the subsidized prices that its own citizens pay. The price of oil temporarily dropped more than 3 percent on that news alone because of expectations that demand from China would slow.

But the overall demand for oil by China, India and other rapidly developing nations, including many in the Middle East, is still expected to grow relentlessly, putting enormous pressure on producers to keep pace.

If anything, the Saudi summit meeting made plain the limited options available to push prices down.

For King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who called for the meeting just two weeks ago, it was an opportunity to show that his oil-rich kingdom was aware of growing anger and frustration caused by surging prices in oil-importing countries. It also reflected some alarm by the Saudis that the price inflation was causing consumer nations to look far more seriously at energy alternatives, which eventually could hurt the price of oil.

The crisis is also becoming a central issue in the American presidential race, where arguments over who is to blame for high oil prices echoed some of what was heard at the Saudi summit meeting.

President Bush has supported calls by Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, to allow for more drilling off the coast of the United States. Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, opposes more offshore drilling and has called for a crackdown on market speculators, whom he blamed for pushing up prices.

The question of whether speculators are influencing prices is expected to get closer scrutiny this week in Washington, where a Senate committee led by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent and former Democrat who supports Mr. McCain, will hold hearings on the price swings in the crude oil market.

The oil summit meeting here was attended by energy ministers from 35 nations, who convened in a vast ballroom and listened as King Abdullah said he understood the pain that $140 oil was causing.

But King Abdullah and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, who walked into the high-ceilinged hall together as a military band played, soon offered totally different perspectives on the problem.

The king spoke of the “selfish interests“ of speculators as a primary reason and urged the gathered ministers to “rule out biased rumors“ and to “reach the real causes for the increase in price.“

But Mr. Brown pointed to fundamental economics and “oil demand rising faster than supply.“ The American energy secretary, Samuel W. Bodman, put it more bluntly in a meeting with reporters, saying, “There is no evidence we can find that speculators are driving futures prices.“

Both sides spoke about the need for compromise, with Mr. Brown calling for a “global new deal“ that would allow a “greater commonality of interest“ between consumers and producers, including greater freedom to invest in one another’s markets.

But asked how all this would help remedy the worst oil crisis in decades, some ministers seemed baffled and uneasy.

“Let me ask you,“ said India’s petroleum minister, Murli Deora, when a group of reporters asked him for his views, “what else can we do to bring harmony between buyers and sellers?“

Despite the urgency that brought hundreds of participants here, Jeroen van der Veer, the chief executive of Royal Dutch Shell, summarized the difficulties faced by oil producers in dealing with record prices: “There are no overnight solutions.“

King Abdullah also called for OPEC, the oil cartel, to pledge $1 billion to help developing nations deal with the effects of soaring energy costs, to which the Saudis would contribute an undetermined share. He also offered an additional $500 million in loans from Saudi Arabia.

Beyond that, participants called for both more transparency and more regulation in energy markets, more investments in both production and refining capacity, and more cooperation between producers and consumers.

While it is reaping record profits, Saudi Arabia is growing increasingly concerned that current oil prices might eventually dampen economic growth around the world and lead to lower oil demand, as is already happening in the United States and other developed countries. The current prices could make alternative fuels much more viable and threaten the long-term prospects of the oil-based economy.

Japan’s minister for economy, trade and industry, Akira Amari, made some sharply worded comments on that subject, warning that steep increases in the price of oil were already leading to greater energy efficiency and to the introduction of alternative fuels. He called these “natural self-defense measures“ that would “inevitably reduce the revenues of oil producing countries in the medium- to long-term.“

To ease fears over the supply of oil, a crucial factor behind the rally in prices, Saudi officials said the kingdom would be able to increase production capacity in the coming years. The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said that Saudi Arabia would be capable of adding an additional 2.5 million barrels a day to its output beyond the current expansion plans the kingdom is completing.

Saudi Arabia is increasing its production capacity to 12.5 million barrels a day in a $90 billion expansion plan that is scheduled for completion next year. Beyond that, Mr. Naimi said, oil experts in the kingdom had identified additional opportunities to expand production, if needed, to 15 million barrels a day in future years.

Mr. Naimi said this additional capacity would be used only “if and when crude oil demand levels warrant their development.“ He used the same language in saying the kingdom could add even more than the new 200,000-barrels-a-day increase in the short term.

The Saudis have already said they believe current demand is being met, despite the high prices — suggesting that high prices alone might not be enough to warrant the increase in supply.

Saudi Arabia has already increased its daily production by 300,000 barrels, or about 3 percent, to 9.45 million barrels. But that has had little impact.

“There is a very clear difference of opinion on key issues underpinning the high price of oil,“ said Raad Alkadiri, an energy analyst at PFC Energy, a consulting firm, who was present in Jidda. “It’s not clear that anything you heard today is going to reverse sentiment. One thing is clear: You are not going to wake up tomorrow and find that oil prices have dropped 20 or 30 dollars.“

LAGOS (Reuters) — Nigeria’s senior oil workers’ union began strike action at the energy giant Chevron on Monday but said it had not yet shut down any production, pending further talks with the government.

“A limited form of protest has started but we have not yet gone deep,” Lumumba Okugbawa, deputy secretary general of the union, told Reuters. “We have not shut down the oilfields, but administrative functions are affected.”

He said union representatives will travel to the Nigerian capital Abuja for talks with the federal government about the dispute, after negotiations with Chevron management reached deadlock.

Chevron confirmed that union members had declared a work stoppage but said it was “continuing to engage all the stakeholders” through dialogue.

“It is still too early to comment on any potential impact of the declared work stoppage on our operations,” Chevron spokeswoman Margaret Cooper said.

Chevron’s output from Nigeria is around 350,000 barrels a day, of which its equity share is around 129,000 barrels a day. A strike could further cut Nigeria’s production, already driven down by militant attacks on oil operations.

The oil minister,Odein Ajumogobia, said on Sunday that Nigeria was producing around 1.8 million barrels a day before the most recent attacks, less than two-thirds of its output capacity.
712 2008-06-24 An array of human rights groups has strongly criticized the United States government, saying it withheld money meant to provide clean drinking water to Haiti as leverage for political change in the country.

The activists, in a report released Monday, called the delay of $54 million in international loans to the Haitian government “one of the most egregious examples of malfeasance by the United States in recent years.”

The loans from the Inter-American Development Bank were intended to revamp the water and sanitation systems in Les Cayes and Port-de-Paix, two Haitian towns in dire need of the money to improve their infrastructure. Nearly 70 percent of Haitians lack regular and direct access to potable water, experts say. The lack of clean water contributes to intestinal parasites and amoebic dysentery.

The development bank, over which the United States Treasury Department holds significant influence, approved the loans in 1998. Although payments began to be made several years later, the water projects have yet to be started, the report said, “largely the result of aggressive attempts by the U.S. government to block the disbursement of these loans.”

Haiti’s own political turmoil and financial difficulties also contributed to the delays, the report acknowledged.
713 2008-06-24 That image and his solid standing with the religious right helped propel Mr. Jindal, a 37-year-old former Rhodes scholar, into the front ranks of Senator John McCain’s possible running-mate choices. But now some conservative critics are saying the pay-increase episode demonstrates weakness as well as Mr. Jindal’s unreadiness for the prime time of the vice presidency.

“This pay raise is devastating him,” said Moon Griffon, a conservative talk-radio host with a wide following in northern Louisiana, the most Republican and evangelical part of the state. “I’ve gotten over 5,000 e-mails from people who say they voted for him, and who say they would never vote for him again.”

Mr. Griffon added, “People don’t like hypocrisy, and they like somebody with guts.”

The legislative session ended Monday, and Mr. Jindal now has two weeks to veto the pay increase, though he has given no indication that he will do so.

Even while denouncing the money lawmakers are giving themselves, the governor has tried to depict the matter as an internal legislative affair that does not require his meddling.

“I will keep my pledge to let them govern themselves,” the governor said in a statement last week after the State Senate passed the increase, backing off a rejection of the raise, though he also said he was “very sorry” about it. Editorialists and radio show hosts have since had a field day juxtaposing that “pledge” to the Legislature with the promise Mr. Jindal made when he was running last fall to “prohibit legislators from giving themselves pay raises.”

Jim Brandt, president of the Public Affairs Research Council of Louisiana, an independent good-government research organization in Baton Rouge, said voters did not appreciate a broken pledge.

“It puts a real dent in any sort of reform credential of either the governor or the Legislature,” Mr. Brandt said.

That theme of perceived weakness is echoed by other political experts.

“No matter where I go, they certainly are disappointed, and they are using some very unkind words related to his spine,” said Bernie Pinsonat, a pollster in Baton Rouge. “It’s pretty ferocious.” He added, “I’m quite positive his base is very upset with him.”

The legislators have not had a base pay increase since 1980 and complain that with the governor frequently calling them into special session, their job is no longer part-time. The increase would put salaries in the upper tier for similar part-time legislatures, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Mr. Brandt agreed that some sort of modest raise could be justified — an independent commission recommended a 12 percent increase several years ago — but said the 123 percent rise, with additional increases pegged to inflation, was “problematic.”

Mr. Jindal’s strategy was apparently based on a desire not to jeopardize the other elements he won in his legislative wish list, like a voucher program for private schools in New Orleans, or restoring spending cuts made by fiscal conservatives in the Capitol.

“He was not about to give the Legislature any excuse to block his reform agenda,” said the governor’s spokeswoman, Melissa Sellers, adding: “The governor has opposed the legislative pay increase loudly every step of the way.”

But the furor over the pay raise has put in the shadows the rest of his program, and other bills pushed by conservatives sympathetic to him, like one the Legislature overwhelmingly approved allowing science teachers to use “supplemental” material that critics say is merely a stalking-horse for teaching creationism.
714 2008-06-24 The Obama campaign countered by noting that Mr. McCain had voted against improving fuel efficiency standards in the Senate. Jason Furman, the Obama campaign’s economic policy director, said in a conference call that Mr. McCain had been focused on “meaningful relief for oil companies that are struggling with record profits.”

In his speech in Fresno, Mr. McCain called for automakers to act more quickly to build so-called flex-fuel vehicles than can run on alternative fuel. He approvingly cited the example of Brazil, which he said had moved to building 70 percent of all new vehicles that way in just three years, and he issued a not-so-veiled threat to automakers.

“Whether it takes a meeting with automakers during my first month in office, or my signature on an act of Congress,” he said, “we will meet the goal of a swift conversion of American vehicles away from oil.”

And Mr. McCain emphasized one of his differences with Mr. Obama, without mentioning him by name, by restating his opposition to subsidies for corn-based ethanol, which Mr. Obama supports.

“As taxpayers, we foot the bill for the enormous subsidies paid to corn producers,” he said. “And as consumers, we pay extra at the pump because of government barriers to cheaper products from abroad.”

Mr. McCain, who spoke against corn-based ethanol when he ran for president in 2000, said this time around that he became a supporter of it when oil grew too expensive, but he has said he still opposes subsidies for ethanol.

While the McCain and Obama campaigns were sparring over energy, Mr. Obama was in Albuquerque, where he focused on the economy and working women, a critical constituency. He journeyed deep into the prosaic land of gut-level economics at the Flying Star Café Commissary, where talk of globalization and vertical economies yields to “how can I afford to make it through this week and the one after that?”

Speaking to a group of women, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, was offered a glimpse into one of the realities of the American economy: that wages for the working-class have lagged far behind those of upper-income Americans. Some of the women at the commissary, like Carrie Hummel, 28, told of holding down multiple jobs and still barely being able to find the money to pay for gas, much less for her health insurance. “You know, this life is pretty hard,” she said.

Ms. Hummel was followed by a woman who asked Mr. Obama if he would consider waiving taxes on tips, and another who asked about the cost of college tuition, which has risen at a rate far outstripping inflation.

Mr. Obama offered a variety of proposals, including requiring employers t0 provide seven paid sick days for all employees (he has not specified the size of the employer) and extending the Family and Medical Leave Act to cover any company with 25 or more employees (the act now applies to those with 50 or more employees).

He also criticized Mr. McCain over his opposition to legislative action to help bring wages of women up to those of men. The McCain campaign fired back, saying the legislation to do so would have been a boon to trial lawyers, who have supported Mr. Obama’s campaign.
715 2008-06-24 In these circumstances, it’s amazing that George Bush decided on the surge. And looking back, one thing is clear: Every personal trait that led Bush to make a hash of the first years of the war led him to make a successful decision when it came to this crucial call.

Bush is a stubborn man. Well, without that stubbornness, that unwillingness to accept defeat on his watch, he never would have bucked the opposition to the surge.

Bush is an outrageously self-confident man. Well, without that self-confidence he never would have overruled his generals.

In fact, when it comes to Iraq, Bush was at his worst when he was humbly deferring to the generals and at his best when he was arrogantly overruling them. During that period in 2006 and 2007, Bush stiffed the brass and sided with a band of dissidents: military officers like David Petraeus and Raymond Odierno, senators like John McCain and Lindsey Graham, and outside strategists like Fred Kagan of the American Enterprise Institute and Jack Keane, a retired general.

Bush is also a secretive man who listens too much to Dick Cheney. Well, the uncomfortable fact is that Cheney played an essential role in promoting the surge. Many of the people who are dubbed bad guys actually got this one right.

The additional fact is that Bush, who made such bad calls early in the war, made a courageous and astute decision in 2006. More than a year on, the surge has produced large, if tenuous, gains. Violence is down sharply. Daily life has improved. Iraqi security forces have been given time to become a more effective fighting force. The Iraqi government is showing signs of strength and even glimmers of impartiality. Iraq has moved from being a failed state to, as Vali Nasr of the Council on Foreign Relations has put it, merely a fragile one.

The whole episode is a reminder that history is a complicated thing. The traits that lead to disaster in certain circumstances are the very ones that come in handy in others. The people who seem so smart at some moments seem incredibly foolish in others.

The cocksure war supporters learned this humbling lesson during the dark days of 2006. And now the cocksure surge opponents, drunk on their own vindication, will get to enjoy their season of humility. They have already gone through the stages of intellectual denial. First, they simply disbelieved that the surge and the Petraeus strategy was doing any good. Then they accused people who noticed progress in Iraq of duplicity and derangement. Then they acknowledged military, but not political, progress. Lately they have skipped over to the argument that Iraq is progressing so well that the U.S. forces can quickly come home.

But before long, the more honest among the surge opponents will concede that Bush, that supposed dolt, actually got one right. Some brave souls might even concede that if the U.S. had withdrawn in the depths of the chaos, the world would be in worse shape today.

Life is complicated. The reason we have democracy is that no one side is right all the time. The only people who are dangerous are those who can’t admit, even to themselves, that obvious fact.
716 2008-06-24 NEW TACK IN OBSCENITY TRIAL In a bid to establish community standards in a pornography trial, the defense for a Web site operator in Florida is planning to show that residents of Pensacola are more likely to use Google to search for terms like org...
717 2008-06-24 WEISSMAN--Stuart V. 1928 1998. Ten years since his passing, how fast the years have gone by. He remains in our hearts and thoughts every day and always will. The Weissmans and The Privens...
718 2008-06-24 A senior adviser to Senator John McCain apologized on Monday after he was quoted as saying in a magazine interview that another terrorist attack in the United States would ''be a big advantage'' for Mr. McCain in the coming election.     The advis...
719 2008-06-25 In a letter to stockholders, Yahoo defends its recent decision to sign a search advertising partnership with Google and urges them to vote for the existing board of directors....
720 2008-06-25 The Republican candidate's views on religion will not sit well with Christian conservatives....
721 2008-06-25 I live in a rent-stabilized apartment in Brooklyn, and rumor has it that the building is going to be converted to a co-op or condo. Is it the landlord's choice whether to offer me an insider price? There is no way I would be able to afford market-...
722 2008-06-25 Intel, Microsoft's long-time partner in the development of the personal computer, has decided that it won't upgrade most of the computers used by its employees to Microsoft's Vista operating system....
723 2008-06-25 John McCain lamented "the timid litany of limitations" when it comes to energy policy and offered a plan "named for the town where Americans asserted their independence once before.''...
724 2008-06-25 Over at Barrons.com, they provide instant analysis of various economic indicators here. If you click on yesterday's consumer confidence report, you will find a quite accurate summary of the report. The writer, who is not named, finds it surprising...
725 2008-06-25 "Wipeout," a new reality series in which people compete for cash prizes by traversing a mud-filled obstacle course, became the highest rated new show of the summer, lifting ABC to first place on Tuesday night among adults 18 to 49....
726 2008-06-25 On our redesigned Personal Tech product pages, powered with the help of the CNET folks, we provide the unbiased descriptions (high-caliber sound, check; easy to use, not as much) to guide you through the increasingly crowded world of tech products...
727 2008-06-25 OK, Tyler Cowen weighs in - but I think that he partly misunderstands my point. I'm not asking (at least in the latest entry) whether there's a bubble; I'm asking whether expectations of a higher future price and/or investment in the futures marke...
728 2008-06-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
729 2008-06-25 Global concerns over energy supply still trumping global warming worries....
730 2008-06-25 Even Bill Gates gets mystifying technical advice sometimes....
731 2008-06-25 A true minimalist preparation - it can be made in minutes - this purée is the foundation for any number of impressive dishes....
732 2008-06-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
733 2008-06-25 Barclays, the British bank, on Wednesday joined Royal Bank of Scotland and HBOS in seeking new funds after it wrote down 1.7 billion pounds, or about $3.4 billion, in bad loans this year. The bank said it would raise 4.5 billion pounds, or about $...
734 2008-06-25 Even if these other interests were not in the balance, America would still need to follow the straightest path to energy security, because of a threat literally gathering around the Earth itself. Back when Americans first learned to associate the word "energy" with the word "crisis," we didn't fully understand how fossil fuel emissions retain heat within the atmosphere. We didn't know that over time these greenhouse gasses could warm the planet. We didn't know they could melt glaciers and ice sheets, or raise the waters and alter the balance that sustains life. Good stewardship, prudence, and simple common sense demand that we act to meet this challenge, act quickly, and act together, and I know we can do it.

Energy security requires unity because it is not just one issue among many -- another box on the candidate questionnaire. Our country's need for a safe, clean, and affordable supply of energy is not just one more competitor for attention in Washington, one more special interest in an overcrowded field. The great issue of energy security is the sum total of so many problems that confront our nation. And it demands of us that we shake off old ways, negotiate new hazards, and make hard choices long deferred.

This is a matter that has confounded nearly twenty Congresses and seven presidents. Yet even now our energy debates carry the echoes of ten, twenty, or even thirty years ago. We hear the same calls for new energy taxes, instead of new energy production. We are offered the same agenda of inaction -- that long recitation of things we cannot do, energy we cannot produce, refineries we cannot build, plants we cannot approve, coal we cannot use, technologies we cannot master. The timid litany of limitations goes on and on. And it says more about the culture of Washington than it does about the character of America.

In the same way, energy bills are debated, passed, and signed into law with little serious thought to energy reform -- but never without the familiar corporate handouts and fighting over scraps of pork. Even now, some in Washington still seem to think the best plan is a direct, heartfelt appeal for Saudi sympathy, as if that conveyed anything other than weakness. In the way of new ideas, get this – in the way of new ideas a majority of the House of Representatives actually voted in favor of suing OPEC, as if we can litigate our way to energy security.

Ladies and gentlemen, America is going to meet this great challenge, but we are not going to do it as a supplicant or as a plaintiff. We are not going to meet it with words at all. We are going to meet it with action. And we are going to meet this challenge in a way that’s consistent with the character of our nation. Three decades of partisan paralysis on energy security is enough. Since I am not president, I cannot say the buck stops here -- but I will say that it must stop now.

Should I be entrusted with the honor of that office, I will break the stalemate in Washington, and I will put this country on a course to energy security. I will authorize and support new exploration and production of America's own oil and gas reserves -- because we cannot outsource the solution to America's energy problem.

Opponents of domestic production cling to their position even as the price of foreign oil has doubled and doubled again. They were against it when a gallon of gas cost two dollars. They are still against it when a gallon of gas cost well over four dollars. And we're left to wonder what it will take to shake their faith in this dogma of dependence on foreign oil. As for me, my convictions place a priority on the well-being of people who cannot afford these ever-rising prices. Every year, we are sending hundreds of billions of dollars out of the country for oil imports, much of it from OPEC, while trillions of dollars' worth of oil reserves in America go unused. As a matter of fairness, we must deal with the here and now, and assure affordable fuel for America by producing more of it ourselves.

Fairness also requires that we reform the oil futures market. We must purge the market of the reckless speculation, unrelated to any kind of productive commerce, that has inflated the price of gasoline -- at the expense of working men and women across our country. With new regulations, I intend to assure integrity in oil-futures trading, and to protect the public interest.

The need for more production extends as well to another long-neglected source of energy, and that’s nuclear power. Here, too, opposition to this clean and proven technology has more to do politics than with the merits. The experience of nations across Europe and Asia has shown that nuclear energy is efficient. It is safe, it is proven, and it is essential to America's energy future.

Therefore, if I am elected president, I will set this nation on a course to building 45 new reactors by the year 2030. And I will set the goal of 100 new plants to power the homes and factories and cities of America. This task will be as difficult as it is necessary. We will need to recover all the knowledge and skills that have been lost over three stagnant decades in a highly technical field. As Nevadans are well aware, we will need to solve complex problems of moving and storing materials that will always need safeguarding. We will need to do all of these things, and do them right, as we have done great things before.

Perhaps no achievement would do more to secure our energy future than the mastery of clean-coal technology. From Wyoming to West Virginia, America's coal resources are greater than the oil riches of any kingdom of the Middle East. Burning coal cleanly is a challenge of practical problem-solving and human ingenuity -- and we have no shortage of those in America either. So, as president, I will commit two billion dollars each year, until 2024, to clean-coal research, development, and deployment. We will build the demonstration plants. We will refine the techniques and equipment. We will deliver not only electricity but jobs to some of the areas hardest hit by our economic troubles. And in the end, we will make clean coal a reality.

The strategy here is to produce more, use less, and invent new ways of doing both. And inventing new ways is what we Americans do. What we need most right now is better and faster innovation in the cars and trucks we drive. And government policy is supposed to serve this purpose. Yet the highest fuel efficiency standards are useless if violations incur no serious penalty. Incentives for the purchase of fuel-efficient cars are too often the handiwork of lobbyists, with all the inconsistency and irrationality that that involves. Support for corn-based ethanol has been a case study in the law of unintended consequences, distorting food markets through cropland competition, depriving America of better and cheaper alternative fuels.

In each case, our government has sought the right objectives, but often with very bad execution. And this failure of leadership must end. Standards in fuel efficiency serve a great national goal, and in my administration the penalties will assure compliance. In place of the current patchwork of incentives and credits for hybrids and other carbon-cutting vehicles, we will issue a Clean Car Challenge to the automakers of America, in the form of a single and substantial tax credit to buyers based on the reduction of carbon emissions. For every automaker who can sell a zero-emissions car, or nearly so, we will commit a 5,000 dollar tax credit to each and every customer who buys that car. For other vehicles, whatever type they may be, the lower the carbon emissions, the higher the tax credit.

Instead of playing favorites among the lobbyists, our government must also level the playing field for all alcohol fuels that break the monopoly of gasoline, to lower both gasoline prices and carbon emissions. This can be done with a simple federal standard to hasten the conversion of all new vehicles in America to flex-fuel technology -- allowing drivers to use alcohol fuels instead of gas in their cars. Whether it takes a meeting with automakers during my first month in office, or my signature on an act of Congress, we will meet the goal of a swift conversion of American vehicles away from oil.

At the same time, we must not overlook the possibility that one day our cars can run without burning liquid fuels at all. Instead, cars can run on battery power alone, or as plug-in hybrids using both liquids and electricity. Some talented engineers are on the case, but this is a national priority and we must give it national focus. To add urgency to the mission, we’ll offer a prize: 300 million dollars – one dollar for every citizen -- to the creator of a battery package of a size, capacity, cost, and power far surpassing existing technology. In the quest for alternatives to oil, our government has thrown around enough money subsidizing special interests and excusing failure. From now on, we will encourage heroic efforts in engineering, and we will reward the greatest success.

At this moment, some of the best minds in our country are also at work discovering or perfecting alternative technologies. They are not tilting at windmills -- they're building them. They are capturing the boundless powers of the sun, the tides, the mighty rivers, and the warmth of the Earth itself. Yet for all the good work of entrepreneurs and inventors in finding cleaner and better technologies, the fundamental incentives of the market are still on the side of carbon-based energy.

Even with oil running at about 140 dollars per barrel, these new alternatives have yet to take the place of oil in our economy for two basic reasons: our infrastructure is outdated and our production capacity has been constrained. And this has to change this has to change as we can make the great turn away from fossil fuels. To lead in this effort, our government must strike at the source of the problem -- with reforms that only Congress can enact and the president can sign.

We must do this in a way that gives American businesses new incentives and new rewards to seek, instead of just giving them new taxes to pay and new orders to follow. The most direct way to achieve this is through a system that sets clear limits on all greenhouse gases, while also allowing the sale of rights to excess emissions. And this is the proposal I will submit to the Congress if I am elected president -- a cap-and-trade system to change the dynamic of our energy economy.

For all of the last century, the profit motive basically led in one direction, toward machines, methods, and industries that used oil and gas. Enormous good came from that industrial growth, and we are all the beneficiaries of the national prosperity it built. But there were costs that we weren't counting, and these have added up now, in the atmosphere, in the oceans, and all across the natural world. And what better way to correct past errors than to turn the creative energies of the free market in the other direction?

Under the cap-and-trade system, this can happen. In all its power, the profit motive will suddenly begin to shift and point the other way toward cleaner fuels, wiser ways, and a healthier planet. As never before, the market would reward any person or company that seeks to invent, improve, or acquire alternatives to carbon-based energy. It is very hard to picture venture capitalists, corporate planners, small businesses and environmentalists all working to the same good purpose. But such cooperation is actually possible, and this reform will set it in motion.

My friends, America's dependence on foreign oil was a troubling situation 35 years ago. It was an alarming situation twenty years ago. It is a dangerous situation today. And starting in the term of the next president, we must take control over our own energy future, and become once again the master of our fate.

In recent days I have set before the American people an energy plan, the Lexington Project, the Lexington project – remember that name -- named for the town where Americans asserted their independence once before. And let it begin today with this commitment: In a world of hostile and unstable suppliers of oil, this nation will achieve strategic independence by 2025.

This pledge is addressed to all concerned -- to those abroad whose power flows from an accident of geology, and to you, my fellow Americans, whose strength proceeds from unity of purpose. Together, we will break the power of OPEC over the United States. And never again will we leave our vital interests at the mercy of any foreign power.

Some will say this goal is unattainable within that relatively short span of years -- it's too hard and we need more time. Let me remind them that in the space of half that time -- about eight years -- this nation conceived and carried out a plan to take Americans to the Moon and bring them safely home. In less than a third of that time, they gathered the energies of my father's generation built the industrial might that overcame Nazi Germany and imperial Japan. That is the scale of our achievement when we set our minds to a task. And that is what this country can do when we see a danger, and declare a purpose, and find the will to act.

As president, I will turn all the apparatus of government in the direction of energy independence for our country -- authorizing new production, building nuclear plants, perfecting clean coal, improving our electricity grid, and supporting all the new technologies that one day will put the age of fossil fuels behind us. Much will be asked of industry as well, as automakers and others adapt to this great turn toward new sources of power. And a great deal will depend on each one of us, as we learn to make smarter use of energy, and also draw on the best ideas of both parties, and work together for the common good.

This Project is not a plan calibrated to please every interest group or to meet every objection. That is how we arrived to our present predicament. That is how energy policy in Washington became a long list of subjects avoided, obptions ruled out, and possibilities foreclosed. Nor can I promise you that the long-term success of this Project will bring instant relief. In the mission of energy security, some tasks are the work of decades and some are the work of years. And they will take all the will and resolve of which we are capable. But I can promise you this. Unless we begin this mission now, nothing will change at all, except for the worse. And when we succeed in the hard reform ahead, your children will live in a more prosperous country, and in a more peaceful world.

This is a test of foresight, of political courage, and of the unselfish concern that one generation owes to the next. It is a test of our nation's ability to deal with serious matters in a serious way. It is even a test of America's character, of our capacity to respond to pressure and to overcome adversity. We must put our country first. Americans don't hide from history or acquiesce in playing its victims. We make history, and we make the future better than the past. In my life I have seen the character of Americans tested, and tested in the most extreme circumstances, and I never doubt that Americans can do hard things and do them right. That is what is asked of us right now, once again, and together we will see the mission through. Thank you.
735 2008-06-25 New British home loan approvals fell at their sharpest annual rate in at least a decade, reaching a record in May, raising fears that the housing slowdown was escalating. The British Bankers’ Association said mortgage approvals, an indicator of future house prices, fell to 27,968 in May from 34,752 in April. The figure was 56 percent below the year-earlier level, the biggest decline since the recordkeeping began in 1997. It was “a very worrying picture of how the credit crunch is unfolding. A U.S.-style housing slump looks increasingly likely,” said Michael Hume, an economist at Lehman Brothers.
736 2008-06-25 Alabama linebacker Jimmy Johns was arrested on felony drug charges and was almost immediately dismissed from the team by Coach Nick Saban.

The 6-foot-2, 233-pound Johns, who moved to defense for his senior year after playing running back and receiver in 2007, was selling cocaine on and around the University of Alabama campus, the police said. Records did not indicate whether Johns had hired a lawyer. He was being held at a local jail with bond set at $120,000.
737 2008-06-25 “It is simply unacceptable that D.O.B. has permitted buildings with multiple open hazardous violations to go un-inspected for years,” Mr. Thompson, who is expected to run for mayor in 2009, said in a statement. “Even by D.O.B.’s admission, these are the worst cases, yet it has stood by and let the violations go unchecked and put New Yorkers at risk. The Department of Buildings’ violation enforcement is crucial to ensuring that buildings in the city are being constructed safely and pose no risks to area residents.”

The audit found that the department’s efforts to follow up on violations “were less than adequate not only because of deficiencies in the execution of its programs, but also because the agency is limited in its ability to compel property owners to remedy violations on their property.”

For example, in September 2007, the department issued 1,449 hazardous violations citations through an entity known as the Environmental Control Board.

Follow-up inspections found that 845 properties had no new violations, while 312 of the hazardous conditions still existed, resulting in additional citations. For the remaining 292 violations, inspectors could not gain access to the properties.

Mr. Thompson’s office found that inspectors left the required form, requesting that the property owner call the department to reschedule the reinspection, for only 100 of the 292 properties.

Mr. Thompson said the department should ensure that inspectors are leaving the forms and do more to follow up on the buildings in question.

The auditors also looked at the department’s Multi-Hazardous Re-Inspection program.

The audit reviewed 14 buildings that had at least three hazardous violations still open during the time period studied. The citations had been issued from September 2003 to December 2004. Of the 14, eight had corrected the violations, and six had yet to be resolved.

Of those still unresolved, as of March 2008, the department had not taken any action for 11 months since at least April 2007 for five of the six buildings. In one case, the last recorded action was in October 2005 — two and a half years earlier.

Finally, the auditors examined the department’s self-certification audit program, which requires that 10 percent of randomly selected properties be reinspected. The audit found that the department did not check on compliance for one-third of the 1,628 self-certifications randomly selected.

Furthermore, of the 31 cases in which the department did find violations that were not corrected, it “took no further action and did not issue false certification violations against 17,” or 55 percent of the cases.

In a response, the department said it had already begun to carry out the 11 recommendations of Mr. Thompson’s report, saying, “The content of these recommendations has helped the department review and strengthen our procedures.”
738 2008-06-25 “When an issue is this hot, it would be so much easier if there was a single reason to blame,” Mr. Yergin said in an interview on Tuesday, previewing his testimony before Congress.

“The oil shock is real and is about the hottest political issue right now,” he said. “So Congress feels the pressure to do something but there is not much it can do to promote peace in Nigeria or to get the value of the dollar to go up.”

Mr. Yergin is the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm, and the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of “The Prize,” an authoritative history of the oil business. He will speak on Wednesday before the Joint Economic Committee, headed by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.

Mr. Yergin said the market is relentlessly bidding up oil prices in response to deep-seated fears that the growth in demand will keep outpacing the growth in oil supplies in coming years.

“There is a shortage psychology in the financial markets and that is reflected in the price of oil,” Mr. Yergin said in the interview. “You are seeing a lot of people who have never invested in commodities who are now piling into the market. But calling it speculation is way too simplistic.”

What role financial institutions — pension funds, mutual funds, and hedge funds, among others — are playing in driving up the price of oil to nearly $140 a barrel remains a key question. Regulators in Washington have acknowledged that they do not have enough information on speculative trading in commodity markets. Even though the evidence is incomplete, speculators have nonetheless become prime targets for legislative action.

Gasoline prices now average $4.07 a gallon, up more than $1 a gallon in the past year, according to AAA, the automobile group. The price of oil — the main reason behind the run-up in gasoline prices — has doubled in the past year, settling Tuesday at $137 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 26 cents.

There is little doubt that investments in commodity markets have grown in recent years as investors sought assets offering better returns than stocks, bonds or currencies. Investors, faced with a weakening dollar, a slowing economy and rising inflation, found a hedge in crude oil.

Some analysts who testified before a House panel on Monday estimated that oil prices could fall to around $60 a barrel if speculators were driven out of the commodity market.

But others warned that assessing how much, if at all, investors have pushed up prices is an impossible task. Relatively little is known about oil investments in some lightly regulated markets, like the IntercontinentalExchange, an electronic exchange based in Atlanta that has gained prominence as an energy marketplace.

Facing mounting pressure to step up its oversight, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in Washington, said that it had recognized the need for better information. Its acting chairman, Walter L. Lukken, said his agency was seeking more trading data from exchanges in both the United States and abroad.

Senator Schumer’s committee provided an advance copy of Mr. Yergin’s prepared testimony. In it, Mr. Yergin did not discount the rising role of investors in energy markets. But he said their presence was more a consequence than a cause of the tight markets.

“Financial markets are today playing an increasingly important role in price formation — responding to, accentuating, and exaggerating supply and demand, geopolitics, and other trends,” Mr. Yergin says in the prepared remarks.

But he pointed to a variety of other factors that have made the run-up possible. Nigeria, for example, is producing one million barrels a day less than its production capacity because of disruptions caused by attacks in the oil-rich Niger Delta. Production has stagnated in countries like Russia and Venezuela and is even plunging in places like Mexico.

All these factors have left the global oil industry with little capacity to boost supplies. There is now less than two million barrels a day of unused capacity, a safety cushion that has declined from about five million barrels a day in 2002.

“In a tight market, prices go up,” Mr. Yergin said. “And a tight market is also a market that is more crisis-prone, more vulnerable to the impact of disruptions.”

Senator Schumer, in an interview, said he could see no easy answers to high oil prices.

“Everyone would like to believe that there is a silver bullet — like a bubble or speculation — that can solve our oil problem,” he said. Instead, he said, it would be better for the nation to focus on conserving energy and reducing its oil consumption.
739 2008-06-25 On his visit Saturday, Mr. Terrazas saved about $20 filling his 1990 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera. He said that when he returned to El Paso, he would monitor the bridge traffic from his house, and that once it waned, he would come back to fill his other vehicle, an S.U.V., for an even bigger saving.

And while here he would pick up six-packs of Tecate beer and produce like passion fruit, and even visit an orthodontist. In all, he expected to save $200. The border, he said, flashing a mouthful of braces, is “our advantage.”

The low gasoline and diesel prices that draw Americans here are a result of subsidies provided by the Mexican government to curb inflation and make fuel affordable to the poor.

The moment may not last. Severe gasoline and diesel shortages, caused by the increased demand from Americans and delivery problems as well, have been reported from here to Mexico’s border with California. (On Friday the government-owned monopoly oil company, Petróleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, said that it would provide a one-time allotment of an extra 300,000 barrels of diesel fuel to meet increased demand along the border.)

Moreover, experts question how long the government can continue providing gasoline subsidies, which will amount to more than $20 billion this year.

For now, though, many South Texans are buying all the fuel they can south of the border, and little wonder. Four of the seven poorest urbanized counties in the United States are along the Texas border, including El Paso, according to a 2006 Census Bureau report.

El Pasoan desperation shows in the leathery face of Jimmy Gann, 57. Mr. Gann’s employer, a family trucking business, is on the verge of bankruptcy, he said, and to help the owners stay afloat, he makes three 32-mile round-trip sprints across the border each day. Once here, he fills a 100-gallon tank with diesel — which is going for $2.20 a gallon on this side, compared with $4.55 on the other — then returns north, unloads the tank at his employer’s business and does it all over again.

One Texan in the trucking industry, who declined to give his name for fear of being prosecuted for tax evasion, said he saved $12,000 a month by fueling his four-truck fleet in Mexico.

On the El Paso side, service station employees say business is down about 40 percent, even at a Chevron station that may have the best deal in town: gasoline at $3.89 a gallon. Just two months ago, stations on the Texas side attracted many Mexicans, who crossed to buy what they considered higher-quality gasoline that was more expensive but still affordable.

“We keep saying, ‘Have you seen so-and-so?’ and the answer is always no,” said Rocio Salazar, 30, a station attendant in El Paso. “It used to be like rush hour on the freeway in here.”

The drop in business has made all the worse along the Texas border what were already hard times for many owners of American service stations. The spike in gasoline’s price has caused many customers to cut back, and that, coupled with increased fees of credit card companies, has “put an increasing number of retailers on the brink of bankruptcy,” says the National Association of Convenience Stores, which represents convenience and petroleum retailers in the United States.

Jose Alfredo has worked at a Chevron station in El Paso for 18 years. With no convenience store to cushion a 50 percent drop in business, the station has laid off five of its eight employees.

“Everyone knows Mexican gas is watered down, but customers don’t care anymore,” Mr. Alfredo said with a shrug.

Managers of Mexican stations deny that accusation. They also say that most of the gasoline they sell is refined in the United States. But one American oil executive noted that the sulfur content allowed in gasoline by the Mexican government was higher than what is allowed in the United States, and said that over time, the higher level could compromise vehicle emissions systems. In addition, Mexican refineries lack a capacity to produce low-sulfur diesel, which is standard in the United States.

The Mexican diesel is “not a good thing for the air, but it’s a good thing for people who want to save money,” said Tom Kloza, a chief analyst at Oil Price Information Service.

Edith Marquez is one American who has so far resisted buying Mexican gasoline, citing quality concerns. But she visits Juárez every Saturday for the $15 saving at a weight control doctor, whose office is attached to a Pemex station. “I’m afraid for my car, but I’ll let the doctor here put vitamins in me,” Ms. Marquez said with a laugh.

For gas station attendants in Mexico, who earn $100 a week, the surge in sales has meant extra money to tuck into the pockets of their olive green overalls. To tip attendants is the custom here, and one of them, Alejandro Jurado, flashing a brick-size wad of pesos and dollars, said, “Americans tip better.”
740 2008-06-25 Various players said Tuesday that shots into the green need to be played with thought and care, left below the hole or hole-high. With a U.S.G.A.-targeted 11.5 speed on the Stimpmeter, downhill putts hit too firmly on some smaller greens might roll off.

Asked which greens were the scariest, Ochoa named four: No.s 3, 5, 9 and 17. “You really need to pay attention to them,” Ochoa said after a practice round. “And even if you have a 25-foot putt, just make sure it’s an uphill putt.”

For logistical reasons, the front and back nines at the Open were switched from the way they are for Interlachen’s members. So No. 9, the signature 530-yard, par-5 hole with a large pond on the right, will play as No. 18. This is the hole where, in the second round of the 1930 Open, a distracted Bobby Jones skipped a shot across the pond — the so-called lily-pad shot — en route to a birdie.

The lily pads are gone, and any shot into the pond might frighten the ducks. But it sets up as a dramatic finishing hole. Depending on the wind, big hitters like Ochoa could carry the pond and reach the green in two. Ochoa said she did it in a practice round Monday, hitting a 3-wood 213 yards to the middle of the green.

WIE IS BACK (SHE HOPES) Two years ago, Michelle Wie led this tournament after three rounds before finishing tied for third. Last year at Pine Needles, Wie was 17-over-par and about to miss the cut when she walked off the course in the second round with a throbbing left wrist.

Now Wie, who broke her wrist while jogging the previous February, said she never should have played.

“I was in no condition to play,” Wie said. “I don’t know what I was thinking.” Wie said no one pressured her to play, and her parents and David Ledbetter, her swing coach, told her not to. But she was too stubborn.

“I hate to say it, but they were right,” she said.

Though still not pain-free, Wie is playing better. She qualified for the Open, and last week tied for 24th at the Wegman’s L.P.G.A. event, shooting a final-round 69. Wie feels her game is good enough to win this weekend.

“I think last year was: ‘Oh God, don’t let this hurt. Come on, just let me swing the golf club. Just let me finish 18 today,’ ” she said. “And I think it’s a lot different now.”

NO PLAYOFF, PLEASE Lorena Ochoa, on whether this tournament will be as exciting as the men’s Open, in which Tiger Woods beat Rocco Mediate in a 19-hole playoff: “Hopefully, we don’t have to play 91 holes. I need to be home on Monday.”

Unless it rains, she will. The tie breaker is a three-hole aggregate-score playoff on Sunday, rather than 18 holes on Monday.
741 2008-06-25 In interviews at West Point, seven cadets, two officers and a former chaplain said that religion, especially evangelical Christianity, was a constant at the academy. They said that until recently, cadets who did not attend religious services during basic training were sometimes referred to as “heathens.” They said mandatory banquets begin with prayer, including a reading from the Bible at a recent gala.

But most of their complaints center on Maj. Gen. Robert L. Caslen, until recently the academy’s top military leader and, since early May, the commander of the 25th Infantry Division in . The cadets and staff said General Caslen, as commandant of cadets at West Point, routinely brought up God in speeches at events cadets were required to attend.

In his farewell speech to the cadet corps this spring, General Caslen told them: “Draw your strength in the days ahead from your faith in God. Let it be the moral compass that guides you in the decisions you make.”

The groups of cadets and midshipmen, who do not know each other, echo the same view: that the military, regardless of its official policies, by emphasizing religion, especially Christianity, at events that students are required to attend sends the message that to be considered successful officers they have to believe in God.

“Nowhere does it say that you have to be a good Christian officer or Jewish officer or Muslim officer: You need to be an officer dedicated to the Constitution of the United States,” said Steven Warner, who graduated from West Point last month. “They tell us as an officer you have to put everything aside, all your personal stuff. But religion is the one thing they encourage you to wear on your sleeve.”

Cynthia Lindenmeyer, a 1990 West Point graduate who was a civilian chaplain at the school from 2000 to 2007, offered a similar view.

“As a cadet, you are at a very vulnerable place in your spiritual development,” she said, “and you want to be like the people who mentor you.”

Col. Bryan Hilferty, a West Point spokesman, rejected the idea that the academy endorses religion, even tacitly, or that General Caslen had said anything inappropriate in his time there. And others, including many cadets, endorsed that view.

In interviews on campus, 15 randomly selected cadets said that they did not feel religion was foisted upon them.

“There is a spiritual aspect here that people feel is part of the development of an officer,” said Brad Hoelscher, who graduated last month, “but not a specific brand of religion or even religion itself.”

Col. John J. Cook III, head chaplain at West Point, said, “No one is pushing them to believe.”

Referring to prayers at mandatory settings, he said: “This is something we have done in the military for centuries. It is not designed to make people religious. The majority of people here are people of faith, and a prayer asks God’s blessing on a gathering and on the food.”

The Air Force, however, took a different view in the guidelines it adopted in 2005. For example, the guidelines say: “Supervisors, commanders and leaders at every level bear a special responsibility to ensure their words and actions cannot reasonably be construed as either official endorsement or disapproval of the decisions of individuals to hold particular religious beliefs or to hold no religious beliefs.”

Since the Air Force investigation, controversies over religion in the military have continued. Last year, the Army inspector general issued a report critical of seven officers, including four generals, who appeared, in uniform and in violation of military regulations, in a 2006 fund-raising video for the Christian Embassy, an evangelical Bible study group. General Caslen was among the officers.

The cadets and midshipmen do not claim practices at West Point and the Naval Academy are as egregious as those at the Air Force Academy, which were found to include expressions of anti-Semitism, official sponsorship of a showing of and a locker room banner that said athletes played for “Team Jesus.” But given the vast authority superiors have over subordinates in the military, prayer and repeated mention of God in mandatory settings can communicate a requirement to be religious, military and legal experts said.

“You always have to be aware of the authority you have within your rank and uniform and the coercive potential of that authority,” said Robert Tuttle, a constitutional law expert and professor at Law School whose father is a retired four-star Army general

At the Naval Academy, midshipmen have contacted the A.C.L.U. over the years, questioning the constitutionality of the noon meal prayer, especially after the 2004 court ruling, said Debbie Jeon, legal director of the group’s organization.

No midshipmen have wanted to take action until now, Ms. Jeon said. Three recent graduates, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation, said that all 4,300 midshipmen enter the noon meal together and that before they eat they are invited to pray by a chaplain. The academy’s eight chaplains are all officers, and all but one are Christian. Those midshipmen who do not bow their heads with their hands clasped in front are conspicuous, they said, which makes some, especially underclassmen, feel very uncomfortable.

“By these people talking everyday, whether they make it voluntary or not, they make it very clear that this is the standard, and the standard is Judaism or Christianity,” said a recent graduate who was raised Roman Catholic but is now an atheist. “I feel it’s inappropriate to have this in a public institution.”

The midshipmen used an anonymous feedback system at the academy to voice their concerns to the administration. But its response, in a list of answers to questions about “the U.S.N.A. noon meal prayer,” contends that exposure to religious customs is important to the development of midshipmen and that those against the prayer should compromise.

The Navy’s arguments, however, were rejected by appellate court decisions in earlier lawsuits, Mr. Tuttle said.

Religious liberty advocates like Mikey Weinstein of the Military Religious Freedom Foundation said fear silenced those troubled by religiosity at the academies.

“There is this massive sense of two things: that you are not wanted and you are made to feel like last-class citizens,” said Mr. Weinstein, a former Air Force officer. He added that he had been contacted by 31 cadets and staff members from West Point, including those who raised concerns about General Caslen, and 56 people from the Naval Academy, including 39 midshipmen. Almost all are afraid to go public.

At West Point, nearly all of those who raised concerns about religion at the academy in interviews were raised as Christians, though some are now agnostic or atheist.

They said the primacy of faith was apparent at West Point. This year, all cadets received a book about moral development based on the cadet prayer. At his commencement speech this year at West Point, Secretary of the Army Pete Geren started and ended with a quote from the Bible when God speaks to Isaiah, and he cast the wars in and as a clash between American and radical Islamic approaches to religious liberty.

General Caslen served as commandant of cadets from mid-2006 to last month. Cadets praised him as a military commander, but they said religiosity at West Point increased under him.

In a speech last August that all cadets had to attend, General Caslen told cadets they were all God’s children and that was why he respected them.

“It wasn’t the first time,” said Mr. Warner, who was raised Pentecostal but is now atheist. “He always brings it up when he talks about leadership or moral values.”

In an interview, General Caslen said he had a “hard time” understanding how describing the dignity of others in terms of their being God’s children would be offensive, but nonetheless he apologized.

He said he was careful not to use his position to impose his religious views on others. But he said that while one need not be religious to be a good officer, a West Point field manual on leadership talks of the spiritual formation of cadets.

“That is the leadership development model for West Point and that recognizes there is a supreme being,” he said. “The values of one’s faith play an important role in moral development, and they undergird the development of ideas like duty, honor, country.”

The West Point cadets and Navy midshipmen said they wanted the practices to end, and their hope is that the military will make changes on its own.

“I have more faith in the Army than most people do,” said Mr. Warner, 27, who served as an enlisted man before enrolling at West Point. “It can police itself if it chooses to.”
742 2008-06-25 The surgical guidelines grew out of a similar checklist aimed at reducing infections in hospitals. The infection guidelines were developed by Dr. Peter J. Pronovost of Johns Hopkins University, who borrowed the idea from the aviation industry, said Dr. Atul Gawande, of the Harvard School of Public Health.

Dr. Gawande and his team at Harvard had been asked by the W.H.O. to develop a method to reduce surgical deaths, and he said they used the infection guidelines as a model.

Three countries — Britain, Ireland and Jordan — have said they will put the surgery guidelines in force in all hospitals, Dr. Gawande said. Professional groups endorsing checklists include the American College of Surgeons, the American Society of Anesthesiology and the Association of Perioperative Registered Nurses.

To develop the guidelines, the Harvard team did two studies with W.H.O.

Using surgical data from more than one-fourth of the organization’s 192 member states, Dr. Gawande’s team estimated that 234 million major surgical procedures were undertaken each year worldwide. Of the total, 172 million, or 74 percent, were in the wealthier countries, and 40 million of those were in the United States.

The number of surgical procedures performed in a year is nearly double the number of births “and is probably an order of magnitude more dangerous,” Dr. Gawande’s team reported in an article in the journal Lancet, which was released on Tuesday.

The team also conducted a pilot study involving 3,600 patients in eight hospitals in poor and rich countries to determine whether using a checklist could help reduce surgical complication rates.

Data from the first 1,000 patients, which is expected to be reported at a meeting in Washington on Wednesday, showed that the use of a checklist increased adherence to standards of care to 68 percent from 36 percent, and approached 100 percent in some hospitals. Final results are expected later this year.

Some sites in richer countries did worse than ones in poorer countries, Dr. Gawande said. The researchers and hospitals agreed not to disclose specific data from individual institutions.

The hospitals included the University of Washington in Seattle; the University of Toronto; St. Mary’s Hospital in London; the University of Auckland in New Zealand; Philippine General Hospital in Manila; Prince Hamza Hospital in Amman, Jordan; St. Stephen’s Hospital in New Delhi; and the District Hospital in Ifakara, Tanzania.

Creating an accurate, functional checklist for surgery took many revisions, Dr. Gawande said, adding: “You can make bad checklists and you can make good checklists. It is very easy to make a bad checklist that people want to throw away and never use.”
743 2008-06-25 Fears have been growing over the future of the world’s biggest rain forest. Though annual deforestation figures fell to a 16-year low of 4,333 square miles in 2007 — from a nine-year high of 10,571 square miles in 2004 — government agencies reported this year that deforestation was on the rise again, and cattle farmers were blamed for much of the increase.

A recent report by the environmental group Friends of the Earth said that Brazil’s growing dominance of the global beef market was in large part because of the expansion into the Amazon, where land is cheap.

Brazil surpassed Australia and the United States to become the world’s biggest beef exporter in 2004, and has more than 200 million head of cattle. The report said a third of Brazil’s fresh beef exports last year came from the Amazon, and three of every four head of cattle added to Brazil’s herd since 2002 were added in the region.

Mr. Minc said that thanks to operations like those announced on Tuesday, ranchers with cattle in embargoed and protected areas such as indigenous reservations and forestry reserves are starting to move their herds for fear of having their livestock confiscated. He also announced that Ibama had begun legal proceedings to seize another 10,000 cattle grazing on illegally deforested land in Rondônia state.

Environmental advocates lauded the move but warned that it must be the first of many if Brazil is to have any chance of seriously stemming deforestation.

“This can be a good way of at least showing the government is concerned about the contribution of ranching to the problem of deforestation,” said Peter May, associate director of Friends of the Earth Brazil. “It’s an important strategy, but if they do it just once and then never do it again it will be seen as a media event.”
744 2008-06-25 Boy George, below, has canceled his American summer tour after being denied a visa by the United States because he is facing trial in London in the fall, his management said in a statement. He had been scheduled to show up in New York in August for the Department of Sanitation’s annual family day. (Boy George cleaned the streets for five days in 2006 as court-ordered community service after falsely reporting a break-in to his New York home. He wanted to give a concert for department workers.) The statement said that Boy George was “devastated” and that “George is astounded at the decision and is having lawyers here in the States look at it in the hope that someone will change their mind.” Boy George, whose real name is George O’Dowd, is facing trial in November on a charge of falsely imprisoning a man. The statement said, “George has not been convicted of anything in London, and there is a presumption in the Western world of innocence until proven guilty.”
745 2008-06-25 Re “The Small Business Administration’s Comeback,” by Jovita Carranza, the acting administrator of the Small Business Administration (letter, The New York Times on the Web, June 19):

I would suggest that Ms. Carranza check out the reports from the S.B.A.’s own inspector general.

In 2005, the inspector general released three reports, which found that the S.B.A. was reporting awards to large corporations toward the small-business procurement goal, that large businesses were improperly getting federal small-business contracts and that the diversion of federal small-business contracts to large corporations was one of the biggest challenges facing the S.B.A. and the entire federal government today.

Since 2002, there has been a series of federal investigations that have all found that the S.B.A. has allowed some of the largest corporations in the world to get federal small-business contracts.

It is disappointing to see Ms. Carranza continue the Bush administration’s trend of muddying the water around the diversion of billions of dollars in federal small-business contracts to large corporations.

We believe that President Bush will take one last shot at dismantling federal small business programs before he leaves office by changing the definition of a small business to include companies that have no business anywhere near federal small-business programs.
746 2008-06-25 Across the nation, the realization is taking hold that rising energy prices are less a momentary blip than a change with lasting consequences. The shift to costlier fuel is threatening to slow the decades-old migration away from cities, while exacerbating the housing downturn by diminishing the appeal of larger homes set far from urban jobs.

In , , and , homes beyond the urban core have been falling in value faster than those within, according to an analysis by .

In Denver, housing prices in the urban core rose steadily from 2003 until late last year compared with previous years, before dipping nearly 5 percent in the last three months of last year, according to Economy.com. But house prices in the suburbs began falling earlier, in the middle of 2006, and then accelerated, dropping by 7 percent during the last three months of the year from a year earlier.

Many factors have propelled the unraveling of American real estate, from the mortgage crisis to a staggering excess of home construction, making it hard to pinpoint the impact of any single force. But economists and real estate agents are growing convinced that the rising cost of energy is now a primary factor pushing home prices down in the suburbs, particularly in the outer rings.

More than three-fourths of prospective home buyers are now more inclined to live in an urban area because of fuel prices, according to a recent survey of 903 real estate agents with Coldwell Banker, the national brokerage firm.

Some now proclaim the unfolding demise of suburbia.

“Many low-density suburbs and McMansion subdivisions, including some that are lovely and affluent today, may become what inner cities became in the 1960s and ’70s — slums characterized by poverty, crime and decay,” declared Christopher B. Leinberger, an urban land use expert, in a recent essay in The Atlantic Monthly.

Most experts do not share such apocalyptic visions, seeing instead a gradual reordering.

“It’s like an ebbing of this suburban tide,” said Joe Cortright, an economist at the consulting group Impresa Inc. in , Ore. “There’s going to be this kind of reversal of desirability. Typically, Americans have felt the periphery was most desirable, and now there’s going to be a reversion to the center.”

In a recent study, Mr. Cortright found that house prices in the urban centers of , , , Portland and have fared significantly better than those in the suburbs. So-called exurbs — communities sprouting on the distant edges of metropolitan areas — have suffered worst of all, Mr. Cortright found.

Basic household arithmetic appears to be furthering the trend: In 2003, the average suburban household spent $1,422 a year on gasoline, according to the . By April of this year — when gas prices were about $3.60 a gallon— the same household was spending $3,196 a year, more than doubling consumption in dollar terms in less than five years.

In March, Americans drove 11 billion fewer miles on public roads than in the same month the previous year, a 4.3 percent decrease — the sharpest one-month drop since the Federal Highway Administration began keeping records in 1942.

Long before the recent spike in the price of energy, environmentalists decried suburban sprawl a waste of land, energy and tax dollars. Governments from to have in recent decades lavished resources on building roads and schools for new subdivisions in the outer rings of development while skimping on maintaining facilities closer in. Many governments now focus on reviving their downtowns.

In Denver — a classic Western city, with snarling freeway traffic across a vast acreage of strip malls, ranch houses and office parks — the city has had an urban renaissance over the last decade.

A $6.1 billion commuter rail system has been in the works over the last four years, drawing people downtown without cars, while stimulating swift sales of densely clustered condos near stations.

Coors Field, the intimate, brick-fronted baseball stadium for the , has transformed the surrounding area from a desolate skid row into fashionable Lower Downtown, a neighborhood of restaurants and microbreweries in restored warehouses. Along the Platte River, new condos set on a park strip offer an arresting tableau of glass, steel, and futuristic geometry, attracting throngs of buyers at rising prices.

“This is a city where it’s fun to be in the center,” said Tim Burleigh, 56, who sold his house in the suburbs and now walks to Rockies games from his downtown condo.

To Denver’s mayor, John W. Hickenlooper, $4 gasoline offers a useful incentive for such plans.

“It can be an accelerator,” he said during an interview inside the imposing column-fronted City Hall. “It’s not going to be the dagger in the heart of suburban sprawl, but there’s a certain inclination, a certain momentum back toward downtown.”

Dollars spent at the gas station leave fewer for mortgage payments. Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com, calculated that the jump in gas prices from $2 a gallon to $4 has taken $50 a month from the typical suburban commuter driving 25 miles a day.

“The fuel price change should be capitalized into the cost of houses,” Mr. Zandi said. “Prices in the outer suburbs will get clobbered.”

Elizabeth is the archetype of a once-rural community sucked into the orbit of the expanding metropolis, its ranch lands given over to porches, picket fences and two-car garages.

Megan Werner, 39, a mother of three, moved here five years ago from a dense suburb closer to Denver. She and her husband bought a home set on a 1.5-acre lot in the Deer Creek Farm subdivision. The space justified her husband’s 40-minute commute.

“We wanted more than a postage stamp,” she said, as her 5-year-old daughter walked barefoot across the driveway.

It used to cost her about $30 to fill her minivan with gas. Now, it is more like $50, and she coordinates her trips — shopping in town, combined with dance lessons for her children. But she has no thoughts of leaving.

“I can open up my door and my kids can play,” Ms. Werner said.

For others, though, new math is altering the choice of where to live. Houses are sitting on the market longer than in years past. “The pool of buyers is diminishing,” said Jace Glick, an agent with Re/Max Alliance in Parker, Colo., next to Elizabeth.

Juanita Johnson and her husband, both retired Denver schoolteachers, moved here last August, after three decades in the city and a few years in the mountains. They bought a four-bedroom house for $415,000.

Last winter, they spent $3,000 on propane for heat, she said. Suddenly, this seemed like a place to flee. “We’d sell if we could, but we’d lose our shirt,” Ms. Johnson said. Recently she counted 15 sale signs. One home nearby is listed below $400,000.

“I was so glad to get out of the city, the pollution the traffic, the crime,” she said. Now, the suburbs seem mean. “I wouldn’t do this again.”
747 2008-06-25 SEOUL — A South Korean high court cleared the American private equity firm Lone Star on Tuesday of manipulating the share price of the former credit card unit of the Korea Exchange Bank.

The ruling, rejecting an earlier decision, reduces legal uncertainties for Lone Star and is expected to clear the way for HSBC’s $6.3 billion purchase of the Korea Exchange Bank from Lone Star, a deal seen as a major test of the country’s openness to foreign investors.

While the stock price manipulation case is the only legal issue involving Lone Star directly, former government officials and bank executives still face accusations that Lone Star’s 2003 purchase of Korea Exchange Bank was illegal. A decision is expected by the end of the year.

“The main case is whether or not Lone Star bought K.E.B. on the cheap in collusion with various government officials. That hasn’t been resolved,” said Peter Tebbutt, a director of Fitch Ratings in Hong Kong, who added that Tuesday’s ruling might be an indication that the courts were leaning in Lone Star’s favor.

A lower court in February found both Lone Star and the head of Lone Star’s South Korean operations, Paul Yoo, guilty of driving down the share price of K.E.B.’s former credit card unit by spreading rumors to allow the bank to buy the unit at below-market prices.

But the Seoul High Court threw out the judgment, saying that Lone Star’s 2003 announcement of a possible write-down of the card firm was not giving out false information, but was rather one option it was considering.

“There is no evidence to prove Lone Star guilty of stock manipulation,” Koh Eui-young, judge of the Seoul High Court said in a court ruling.
748 2008-06-25 LONDON — NYSE Euronext agreed on Tuesday to buy a 25 percent stake in the Qatar securities market, gaining a lead in the race against its British and German rivals to become a truly global stock exchange at a time when growth has slowed in their home markets.

NYSE, which is based in New York and owns several European exchanges, will pay $250 million in cash for the stake in the Doha Securities Market and gain a foothold in the fast-growing Middle Eastern economy. NYSE Euronext beat the London Stock Exchange, which counts Qatar’s investment authority among its shareholders, and Deutsche Börse in a six-month takeover competition.

“There is no doubt that in the medium to long term, the Middle Eastern markets will grow faster than the West, and the idea to buy into it is a good one, but it also has to make economical sense,” said Colin Morton, a fund manager at Rensburg Fund Management in Leeds, England.

Stock markets are combining or buying stakes in one another to meet clients’ demands to trade shares anywhere and at a faster pace. The recent turmoil in the credit markets increased the pressure to look for growth in less-developed markets as trading in many of the more established markets slowed and fewer companies sold shares in initial public offerings.

NYSE announced in January that it would pay $115 million for 5 percent in the National Stock Exchange in India, and Dubai ended up with minority stakes in Nasdaq OMX and the London exchange as part of the takeover battle.
749 2008-06-25 Analysts said they expected other companies to follow suit. When Dow announced last month’s increases, it spurred a series of similar increases by other chemical manufacturers, including DuPont and BASF.

Dow’s announcement is the latest indication that companies are beginning to pass along the burden of high energy prices to consumers. Until now, those prices had largely been absorbed by company profits because market competition prevented retailers from increasing prices at their stores even as skyrocketing costs continued to strain earnings. But extreme pressure is building in the production chain.

For example, Lowe’s, the home improvement company, has been receiving “unprecedented requests” for price increases from its suppliers, Robert F. Hull Jr., the chief financial officer, said at a conference. Mr. Hull added that the company had been absorbing price increases itself “to maintain the supply of product,” which has put a strain on gross margins, but he forecast that some of that increase would be passed along later this year.

In addition to soaring energy costs, companies are also having to deal with the increase in the cost of raw materials.

Posco of South Korea, one of the world’s largest steel producers, said Tuesday that it was raising prices by more than 20 percent. That followed an agreement Monday between the global mining company Rio Tinto Group and the biggest steel maker in China, Baosteel, to raise the price Baosteel pays for Australian iron ore by as much as 97 percent.

“It’s clearly a global trend that the higher costs of raw materials are being passed on along the production chain,” said Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at the London office of Bank of America. “Companies have no alternative but to pass that along to their customers.”

Producer prices in the United States rose 7.2 percent in May from a year earlier, while comparable euro zone prices rose 6.1 percent in April, the latest month for which data were available. Chinese producer prices are rising at nearly a 12 percent annual rate.

The rise in prices also partly reflects the weakness of the dollar, as producers outside the United States demand more of the currency for their goods as its buying power declines. In addition, a ripple effect has been created in which the rise in crude oil costs has carried over into other sectors.

Economists say the $664 billion chemical industry has been among the hardest hit by soaring energy prices. Every $1 increase in crude oil prices costs the industry $660 million a year, said Kevin Swift, chief economist at the American Chemistry Council.

For Dow Chemical, its feedstock and energy costs, which are up more than 40 percent since last year, have increased fourfold in the last five years, to more than $32 billion this year. Dow, whose shares fell nearly 3 percent on Tuesday, has been steadily increasing prices for the last several years, but it is only in the last month that consumers have been directly hit.

“These costs have surged so much that the middle guys say they can’t absorb any more,” Mr. Liveris said in an interview this month. “There is no reason the middle of the supply chain should have to absorb it.”
750 2008-06-25 1. Line a 6-cup metal loaf pan with parchment paper, leaving generous overhang on the sides. Place in freezer. Place root beer in a saucepan and bring to a simmer. Crush allspice, juniper and coriander in a mortar and add. Boil root beer until reduced to 1 1/2 cups, about 25 minutes. Strain into a measuring cup. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla.

2. Beat egg yolks in a small saucepan. Gradually whisk in 1/2 cup warm reduced root beer. Place over low heat and whisk until steam starts to rise and mixture has thickened to custard consistency. Do not overcook. Place bottom of pan in bowl of ice and water to chill.

3. Bring 1/4 cup remaining root beer to a simmer in a small saucepan. Beat egg whites until softly peaked. Very gradually beat in hot root beer and continue beating about 3 minutes until firmly peaked. Slowly beat in 3 tablespoons syrup. Refrigerate.

4. Beat cream until it holds peaks. Beat in remaining syrup. Fold egg yolk mixture into whipped cream, then fold in egg white mixture. Spread in pan, overlap paper to cover and freeze at least 6 hours.

5. Heat remaining 3/4 cup reduced root beer in a saucepan with apricots. Simmer 5 minutes. Add rum and remaining vanilla. Refrigerate. To serve, unmold semifreddo onto a chilled platter, peel off paper and cut in slices. Spoon apricot sauce alongside each portion.
751 2008-06-25 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
752 2008-06-25 The list of ways to put root beer to use is fairly brief. A root beer float or granita are obvious options, as is making a Cuba libre (cola, rum and ice) with root beer instead. Root beer can also be used as the basis for a barbecue marinade, best made by first reducing and concentrating the root beer.

I took bits of some of these applications to make a frozen dessert, a semifreddo that’s got root beer every which way. The root beer is reduced and infused with spices, then used to make a custard and mixed with whipped cream and egg whites. There is also some birch or maple syrup to enhance the texture as well as the flavor, and rum to spike the sauce of apricots poached in — you guessed it — root beer. FLORENCE FABRICANT
753 2008-06-25 BERLIN — Nokia, the world’s largest maker of cellphones, said Tuesday that it would make the software that runs its phones available to outside developers, as the company tries to head off competition and stimulate the use of mobile music, video, e-mail and other services.

The company will spend 264 million euros ($411 million) to buy the 52 percent it did not already own in Symbian, a company whose software runs two-thirds of the world’s smartphones and other advanced mobile devices, according to Canalys, a researcher in Reading, England.

The growing adoption of such phones, which include the Apple iPhone, has greatly increased the use of high-speed wireless data networks. Symbian’s software competes with offerings from Microsoft and Research in Motion, the company behind the BlackBerry. Google also plans to enter the fray with a system called Android, which can be used on a variety of phones.

Nokia said it planned to turn Symbian, founded in 1998, into a foundation that would make the software available royalty-free to the world’s five largest phone makers — Nokia, Samsung, SonyEricsson, LG Electronics and Motorola. It would offer the software under the same terms, under a so-called open-source license, to the network operators AT&T Wireless, NTT DoCoMo of Japan and Vodafone of Britain.

Some operators have recently urged mobile manufacturers to reduce the number of software systems to accelerate mass-market adoption of new services. Smartphones accounted for 10 percent of global cellphone sales in 2007, according to Canalys, and are the fastest-growing segment in the industry. Their sales rose 72 percent in 2007 to 35.5 million units.

Graham Titterington, an analyst at the research firm Ovum in London, said Nokia’s strategy highlighted the role software was playing as cellphones rely more and more on sophisticated computing power and large memories.

He said the decision to use an open-source model mirrored efforts by other technology companies, like I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems, for the computer market.
754 2008-06-25 The Bush administration’s climate-change policies have been evolving over the past two years. It now accepts the work of government scientists studying global warming, such as last week’s review forecasting more drenching rains, parching droughts and intense hurricanes as global temperatures warm (www.climatescience.gov).

But no administration decisions have supported the regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act or other environmental laws.

Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman, refused to comment on discussions between the White House and the Environmental Protection Agency. Asked about changes in the original report, Mr. Fratto said, “It’s the E.P.A. that determines what analysis it wants to make available” in its documents.

The new document, a road map laying out the issues involved in regulation, is to be signed by Stephen L. Johnson, the agency’s administrator, and published as early as Wednesday.

The derailment of the original E.P.A. report was first made known in March by Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The refusal to open the e-mail has not been made public.

In early December, the E.P.A.’s draft finding that greenhouse gases endanger the environment used Energy Department data from 2007 to conclude that it would be cost effective to require the nation’s motor vehicle fleet to average 37.7 miles per gallon in 2018, according to government officials familiar with the document.

About 10 days after the finding was left unopened by officials at the Office of Management and Budget, Congress passed and President Bush signed a new energy bill mandating an increase in average fuel-economy standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. The day the law was signed, the E.P.A. administrator rejected the unanimous recommendation of his staff and denied California a waiver needed to regulate vehicle emissions of greenhouse gases in the state, saying the new law’s approach was preferable and climate change required global, not regional, solutions.

The Transportation Department made its own fuel-economy proposals public almost two months ago; they were based on the assumption that gasoline would range from $2.26 per gallon in 2016 to $2.51 per gallon in 2030, and set a maximum average standard of 35 miles per gallon in 2020.

The White House, which did not oppose the Transportation Department proposals, has become more outspoken on the need for a comprehensive approach to greenhouse gases, specifically rejecting possible controls deriving from older environmental laws.

In a speech in April, Mr. Bush called for an end to the growth of greenhouse gases by 2025 — a timetable slower than many scientists say is required. His chairman of the Council of Environmental Quality, James Connaughton, said a “train wreck” would result if regulations to control greenhouse gases were authorized piecemeal under laws like the Clean Air Act and the Endangered Species Act.

White House pressure to ignore or edit the E.P.A.’s climate-change findings led to the resignation of one agency official earlier this month: Jason Burnett, the associate deputy administrator. Mr. Burnett, a political appointee with broad authority over climate-change regulations, said in an interview that he had resigned because “no more constructive work could be done” on the agency’s response to the Supreme Court.

He added, “The next administration will have to face what this one did not.”

The House Select Committee for Energy Independence and Global Warming, led by Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, has been seeking the discarded E.P.A. finding on the dangers of climate change.

After reading it last week, Mr. Markey’s office sent a letter to Mr. Bush saying, “E.P.A. Administrator Stephen Johnson determined that man-made global warming is unequivocal, the evidence is compelling and robust, and the administration must act to prevent harm rather than wait for harm to occur.”

Simultaneously, Mr. Waxman’s committee is weighing its response to the White House’s refusal to turn over subpoenaed documents relating to the E.P.A.’s handling of recent climate-change and air-pollution decisions. The White House, which has turned over other material to the committee, last week asserted a claim of executive privilege over the remaining documents.

In an interview on Sunday, Mr. Fratto, the White House spokesman, said the committee chairmen did not understand the legal precedent underlying executive privilege. “There is a long legal history supporting the principle that the president should have the candid advice of his advisers,” Mr. Fratto said.
755 2008-06-25 The electoral energy wars have raged from Florida — where Mr. McCain has proposed offshore oil drilling — to California and now Las Vegas. The candidates are trying to define how they would tackle the sharp spiral upward in gasoline prices and its ever more severe impact on the economy, and so far their policy proposals are poles apart.

Mr. McCain emphasizes greatly expanded drilling, offshore and on public lands. And he would revitalize the nearly moribund nuclear power industry, noting that France draws much of its energy from nuclear plants.

He suffered a bit of an embarrassment on Tuesday in Santa Barbara, Calif., as he heard his own invited panelist, Michael Feeney, executive director of the Land Trust for Santa Barbara, worry aloud about offshore drilling. “It makes me nervous to think about those who are proposing to drain America’s offshore oil and gas reserves as quickly as possible in the hopes of driving down the price of gasoline,” Mr. Feeney said.

Mr. McCain noted that Republican governors were divided on his proposal, with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California opposed and Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida in favor.

Mr. Obama illustrated the gap between the candidates by giving a speech at a water plant in Las Vegas that laid heavy emphasis on $150 billion worth of alternative energy, including wind and solar power and hoped-for clean coal technology (Mr. Obama acknowledged, in response to a question, that he was not ruling out nuclear power, but he strongly suggested it was a distinctly lower priority). He asserted that these investments in technology would yield five million new jobs.

He also proposed to charge oil companies an undefined fee for every acre that they lease but fail to drill on. Oil companies now lease but are not drilling on about 68 million acres, according to the Obama campaign.

“If that compels them to drill, we’ll get more oil,” Mr. Obama said. “If it doesn’t, the fees will go toward more investment in renewable sources of energy.”

The goal, Mr. Obama said, would be to catch and replicate the success of the world leaders in this field.

“Germany, a country as cloudy as the Pacific Northwest, is now a world leader in the solar power industry and the quarter-million new jobs it has created,” Mr. Obama said. “To truly harness its potential, we urgently need real leadership from Washington — leadership that has been missing for decades.”

He also poked fun at Mr. McCain’s proposals, specifically his suggestion to establish a $300 million prize for the scientist who could come up with a long-lasting car battery. “When John F. Kennedy decided that we were going to put a man on the Moon, he didn’t put a bounty out for some rocket scientist to win,” he said. “He put the full resources of the United States government behind the project.”

Mr. McCain lashed back at Mr. Obama when speaking in Riverside.

“On this energy issue, yeah, it’s easy to say ‘no’ to everything,” Mr. McCain said. “That’s what Senator Obama is doing. We’ve got to come forward with bold proposals, innovative ones, and ones that will bring this nation to energy independence for national security reasons as well as others.”
756 2008-06-25 Mr. Silver offered praise for Mr. Skelos on Tuesday and said he anticipated a good working relationship, but some of Mr. Silver’s members were not so sure.

“Shelly and Bruno, they learned how to dance over the years. They learned how to do the two-step,” said Assemblyman Jeffrion L. Aubry, a Queens Democrat.

“The personal relationship between Skelos and Shelly is going to be more edgy, that’s for sure,” he added.

The new role for Mr. Skelos makes him the state’s highest-ranking Republican. Still, it is not clear how long he will remain in the job. The Senate adjourned Tuesday and will not begin its next regular session until January, after what is expected to be a difficult election for the Republican majority in November.

Mr. Skelos, a senator for 23 years, is best known for writing numerous laws cracking down on sex offenders and New York’s version of Megan’s Law, which requires sex offenders to register with the state. A practicing lawyer who grew up and lives in Rockville Centre, in Nassau County, he lobbied forcefully for Long Island’s share of state school aid, clashing with the Spitzer administration over the issue last year.

He has been the Senate’s second most powerful Republican as both deputy majority leader and head of the influential Long Island delegation of eight Republican senators.

He faces the challenges of keeping the Senate in Republican hands in the November election and reviving the struggling state Republican Party, which has suffered a series of bruising electoral defeats. Holding the Senate will be a daunting task given the advanced age of a number of Republican senators, the Democratic enrollment advantage in the state and the growing dissatisfaction among voters nationwide with the Bush administration and the Iraq war. In the last four years, the Republican edge in the chamber has narrowed from seven seats to one.

Like Mr. Bruno, Mr. Skelos is known for delivering state money to his district, sometimes with his name attached. The Dean G. Skelos Sports Complex in Rockville Centre, for example, cost the state $1 million.

Senator Thomas P. Morahan, a Rockland County Republican, praised Mr. Skelos after his selection became known: “He’s got the experience necessary to do the job. He’s been serving in the shadow of Senator Bruno as deputy majority leader,” adding, “He knows his politics.”

Mr. Bruno held a news conference Tuesday morning and said he would decide in the coming days whether to step down from his Senate seat before the end of his term this December.

Mr. Bruno told reporters, as he had told his colleagues Monday, that his decision to leave the Senate was unrelated to a two-year-old federal investigation into his business activities. Still, it is clear that the investigation has been active in recent months. As recently as Monday, his Senate office turned over dozens of boxes of documents and legislative material to federal investigators, in response to a subpoena. The United States attorney’s office in the Southern District of New York is assisting in the inquiry, according to an official who has been briefed on the investigation.

“We’ve been continuing to cooperate fully, and this is no different from what we’ve been doing,” said John C. McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno.

Investigators have been focused on Mr. Bruno’s role in generating business for Wright Investors’ Service, a Connecticut firm that employed him until late last year. Investigators appear to be looking for signs that unions in and around Mr. Bruno’s district in the Albany area received legislative favors from Mr. Bruno in exchange for business.

Mr. Bruno said his departure was not related to the investigation and or to any health problems, but simply reflected his wish to spend more time with his family at the age of 79.

“I have never been accused of anything and don’t ever expect to be accused of anything, because I haven’t done anything wrong,” he said at the press conference.

“They’ve been at this for two years, and I am confident that absolutely nothing has been done wrong and that time will reveal that,” he added. “That has absolutely no bearing on my life — none.”

James D. Featherstonhaugh, a prominent Albany lobbyist who is one of many of Bruno’s friends and business associates subpoenaed in the investigation, said he thought the investigation had taken a toll on Mr. Bruno, as had the death in January of Mr. Bruno’s wife of 57 years, Bobbie.

Mr. Bruno did succeed in negotiating a smooth transition in the Senate by telling the other senators the news on Monday night and then sequestering his two top lieutenants who had wanted to succeed him: Mr. Skelos and Senator Thomas W. Libous, a Binghamton Republican. Behind the closed doors, Mr. Libous agreed to become deputy majority leader while Mr. Bruno urged unity.

“Senator Skelos has my full support, and our goal is to finish out the session and come back in the Senate majority,” Mr. Libous said Tuesday.

One of the most pressing priorities for Mr. Skelos as leader will be persuading a number of elderly senators not to follow Mr. Bruno into retirement.

Senator Caesar Trunzo, who represents a Suffolk County district and at 82 is the oldest member of the Senate, said Tuesday that he planned to run again and expected that his colleagues would do the same.

“I don’t think anybody wants to retire,” he said.

Senator William J. Larkin Jr., an Orange County Republican and longtime friend of Mr. Bruno’s, said he “was not shocked like you might think.”

“You know when you get as old as us — I’m 80, Joe’s 79 — I think the loss of his wife had a lot to do with it,” he said. “When I saw him in October when his wife was ill, he said, ‘What can I do, what can I do?’ And you know what, there’s nothing you can do.”

Mr. Larkin said he was still planning to run again.
757 2008-06-25 HOUSING TROUBLES Congress is preparing to approve housing legislation that includes the most sweeping government overhaul of mortgage financing since the New Deal.       Americans are rethinking life in the suburbs as housing prices fall and energ...
758 2008-06-26 Olafur Eliasson’s four “New York City Waterfalls,” a $15.5 million public art project, opened in the New York Harbor after two years of planning....
759 2008-06-26 "Anyone who tells you that this will bring down our gas prices immediately, or anytime soon, is blowing smoke," said Arnold Schwarzenegger at a climate summit in Florida....
760 2008-06-26 The battle for the maker of Budweiser has been joined. Anheuser-Busch formally rejected InBev's $46.4 billion takeover offer late Thursday, calling it "financially inadequate and not in the best interests of shareholders." The company said it has ...
761 2008-06-26 Oil prices are up sharply (again) today. But stocks in oil companies are not. For most of the run-up in oil prices, the stocks of the oil companies have moved right along. But lately, that has not been the case. The divergence came after June 4, a...
762 2008-06-26 John McCain and Barack Obama both called North Korea's nuclear declaration a "step forward," but the senators also warned that the tense relations with the reclusive dictatorship are far from resolved....
763 2008-06-26 I have a round-trip ticket to Sydney and plan to spend a couple of days there before going to the Australian Open. I'd like to know what flights there are between Sydney and Melbourne and how soon I should make the reservations. I'd also like to k...
764 2008-06-26 BG Group's $13.6 billion hostile bid for Australia's Origin Energy looks like another complicated energy deal chocked full of confusing jargon that only an engineer could decipher. But the dispute boils down to one simple question: What is the val...
765 2008-06-26 "Dear David," a recent e-mail message began. "People like you and Mark Cuban publish and answer your e-mails, which many appreciate. I am about to enter a somewhat public life. In an effort to create my own system for handling 'requests,' I would ...
766 2008-06-26 Not everyone is happy with that degree of engagement. After reading one reader's six-page account of his customer-service nightmare, I wrote back, "What a horror story. So sorry to hear it!" But the reader, evidently having expected me to take up his cause personally, wrote back simply, "**** you, too." (Swear word omitted.)

(C) Yes, I have about 40 subfolders for filing my e-mail. Many of them, like Column Ideas, Blog Ideas and Speaking Engagements, turn my e-mail program into a life-planning tool.

I once read a popular book called "Getting Things Done" (you can read about its philosophy on Wikipedia), (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_things_done) in which author David Allen maintains that you should empty your Inbox at least once a week. An Inbox with zero messages, he implies, is important for maintaining your sanity. Reply to everything you can deal with in under two minutes, he says, and file the rest into mail folders (or delete them if you can).

You know what? It sounded so great, so satisfying, that I gave it a try. And I couldn't do it. I just could not get my Inbox empty. I'm in the habit of treating my Inbox as a "to do" file; whenever I get time, I work through some more of the items there. It occurred to me that all you're doing in Mr. Allen's system, really, is hiding your unprocessed Inbox items by shuffling them around. What's the difference between using my Inbox as a "to do" folder and just putting its contents into a "To Do" folder?

(D) and (F) I don't really know how much time I spend on e-mail, because I dip into it for a couple minutes at a time, all day long. I use it as a form of procrastination, or gear-switching between tasks. It probably adds up to an hour or two a day.

(E) I generally don't reply to "What should I buy?" questions, and my Web site says so. I just hope that people can understand the reason: volume. If I were in the business of making individual recommendations, it'd be my full-time job.

I don't always answer feedback to my blog posts, either; there's a Comments section right on the blog, which seems to be a more appropriate forum.

Everything else I try to answer. I use a macro program called QuicKeys to spew out canned answers to common questions with single keystrokes, which saves a lot of time. ("How do I sign up for your videos?".)

Even those steps, however, don't solve the problem completely. At this moment, I'm 6,500 reader messages behind.

(G) I've spoken to lots of people, like fellow columnists, about how they handle their e-mail. Some ignore all of it except a few that catch their eye. Some spend all day at the computer, trying to keep up.

You should probably post your guidelines on your Web site, letting people know what kinds of e-mail you're likely to ignore, so people can manage their expectations. Develop some good macros. Consider hiring someone to pre-screen your messages and process the easy ones.

Otherwise, I'm afraid I have no brilliant advice. Your time is a zero-sum game, and only you can decide how to slice it up.
767 2008-06-26 Photo: Vincent Laforet for The New York Times
768 2008-06-26 Christopher Cooper-Hohn and his wife, Jamie, follow a simple economic formula: he makes money, and she gives it away. Mr. Cooper-Hohn runs The Children's Investment Fund, or T.C.I., a successful – and controversial – hedge fund that has become...
769 2008-06-26 Google named an executive from Bell Canada with nearly 20 years of experience in the telecom industry as its new chief financial officer. The executive, Patrick Pichette, will succeed George Reyes, who retired in December. Mr. Pichette most recent...
770 2008-06-26 Though Conrad Black may have lost lost his latest appeal, he apparently plans to continue the fight to overturn his criminal conviction. After a three-judge panel of the Seventh Circuit appeal court in Chicago unanimously rejected every argument m...
771 2008-06-26 Verizon Communications on Wednesday filed to periodically sell as a much as $10 billion in common and preferred stock and debt securities. The telecommunications firm said in the filing that it planned to use the net proceeds from the sale of the ...
772 2008-06-26 Securities regulators proposed weaning investors and Wall Street institutions from over-reliance on credit ratings, part of changes to the rating industry prompted by the subprime mortgage crisis. The Securities and Exchange Commission voted 3-0 o...
773 2008-06-26 Tyson Foods said on Wednesday that it has inked a deal to sell its Canadian beef operation to XL Foods for 107 million Canadian dollars ($106 million). Tyson said it had decided to unload its Lakeside Packers business to the Canadian-owned beef pr...
774 2008-06-26 Nike reported a 12 percent rise in quarterly profit on Wednesday, helped by international growth, but weakness in the United States sent its shares down about 5 percent.

The company, the world’s largest athletic shoe and apparel maker, said American advance orders for its goods through November were flat, which one analyst called a “a sign of the times.”

“The U.S. market is the most mature so you would expect after a time it’s hard to keep growing and growing,” a McAdams Wright Ragen analyst, Sara Hasan, said. “Add on top of that the consumer is pretty weak. They’ve been pretty immune to that.”

Besides robust international growth, Nike benefited from a $32 million gain in the quarter from its sale of Nike Bauer Hockey, while its tax rate fell compared with a year earlier because more profit came from outside the United States.

Nike’s net income in the fiscal fourth quarter rose to $490.5 million, or 98 cents a share, from $437.9 million, or 86 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 16 percent, to $5.1 billion.

Analysts, on average, had expected earnings of 96 cents a share on revenue of $4.95 billion, according to Reuters estimates.
775 2008-06-26 “We just take it day by day,” he said.

In Hannibal, Mo., officials asked for volunteers to help sandbag as the rain backed up water in tributaries.

“Until these floodwaters recede and soil moisture levels go down, any rain event will be very noticeable in these tributaries and rivers,” said Jim Keeney, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service.

Even before the rain, levees were saturated. Hundreds of National Guardsmen and prison inmates continued to patrol and sandbag a levee known as the Sny, which stretches for more than 50 miles south of Quincy.

Missouri officials also closed a state highway near St. Louis overnight after several accidents prompted concerns that animals driven from flooded areas would cause more crashes.

In Winfield, Mo., where the river had been forecast to crest on Wednesday, Chris Azar, the administrator of the fire department, had to give the updated forecast to weary residents calling to find out when they could return home. Because of the new rainfall, Ms. Azar told them, the river would keep rising until Saturday.

“It’s extremely disappointing,” Ms. Azar said. “I heard more depression from callers today.”

But there also was some good news: the battered Pin Oak levee east of town was holding.

In Clarksville, rainwater ran down the hills, pooling inside the sandbag walls. Residents fought back, adding six or so more pumps to the dozens already removing river seepage.

“All we’re doing is recycling it,” Mr. Garrison said of the water. “We pump it over the wall, and it comes back in. But we’re pumping it faster than it comes back.”

As they faced higher river levels, town officials re-evaluated their plan to start having residents take over duties from the National Guard. Clarksville was less populated, since the last big group of volunteers had left on Tuesday.

The new forecast would increase the river’s crest just two-tenths of a foot, so the walls around town would be high enough, as long as they could withstand the pressure from the river and rain seeping into the bags. An overnight leak required 1,000 more sandbags, officials said.

The latest predicted crest is a foot lower than some forecasts last week, which had the river breaking the record set in 1993.

Still, Jo Anne Smiley, the mayor of Clarksville, grimaced as she looked at the pouring rain on Wednesday and shook her head as she considered gearing back up to fight the water.

“There’s more work to be done than we anticipated,” Ms. Smiley said. “We just have to solidify the determination.”
776 2008-06-26 LIVONIA, Mich. — President Bush, offering a glimpse of the White House strategy for selling Senator John McCain to voters this fall, told a Republican crowd here on Wednesday that Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, is the only candidate “who knows what it takes to defeat our enemies.”

Mr. Bush’s speech, at a Michigan Republican Party fund-raiser, carried strong echoes of the national security themes he used during his re-election campaign in 2004. Then, as now, the Iraq war was deeply unpopular. And then, as now, Republicans hoped the election would turn on matters of terrorism and domestic security, which Mr. McCain, of Arizona, views as his strength.

Casting the 2008 election as one in which “the American people are going to have a clear choice when it comes to protecting our country and winning the war on terror,” Mr. Bush opened by talking about his own experience.

“I know a lot about the Oval Office, the daily intelligence briefings, the unexpected challenges and the tough decisions that can only be made at the president’s desk,” he said. “In trying times, America needs a president who has been tested and will not flinch.”

The president continued: “We need to elect a president who knows what it takes to defeat our enemies. And this year there is only one man who has shown those kind of leadership qualities, and that man is John McCain.”
777 2008-06-26 California will introduce a detailed plan on Thursday to cut greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels in 12 years by requiring more energy-efficient appliances and buildings, lowering vehicle emissions and generating 33 percent of its energy from renewable sources.

But the greatest source of reductions would come from capping emissions from utilities, industrial facilities and other businesses, while allowing them to use permits to emit authorized amounts of pollutants. The companies could buy and sell these permits with their counterparts in seven Western states and three Canadian provinces.

These are the broad details of the plan by state regulators to meet the goals of California’s groundbreaking 2006 law requiring reductions in carbon dioxide and other emissions that contribute to climate change.

Since the probable death of national climate-control legislation after a brief Senate debate this month, the California plan is the most comprehensive effort in the country to devise an economy-wide program to reduce heat-trapping gases.

The plan does not , however, offer details about some politically delicate questions, including the costs it will impose on various industries, among them automobile manufacturers and electric utilities, which together contribute 61 percent of these emissions.
778 2008-06-26 Congress is finally asking hard questions about Mississippi’s handling of $5 billion in emergency federal aid that was supposed to help victims of Hurricane Katrina.

As the poorest state in the nation, Mississippi should have had no problem with spending a respectable part of that money on much-needed housing for low- and moderate-income families. But according to a scalding letter to the House Appropriations Committee, signed by a dozen members of Congress, the state designed a recovery program that shortchanges affordable housing in general and that “leaves renters and low-income families out in the cold.”

The members are rightly outraged by a state plan that will siphon off more than a half-billion dollars in disaster aid for the redevelopment of the port of Gulfport, which local boosters have long envisioned as a hub for cruise ships and gambling. That is not what Congress intended when it voted to distribute the Katrina aid through the Community Development Block Grant program, which was set up in the 1970s to improve housing, economic opportunities and quality of life for the poor.

The original law requires states and localities to spend 70 percent of the money they receive on projects that clearly benefit low- and moderate-income people. Recognizing that the disaster had affected people of all incomes, Congress lowered that requirement to 50 percent after Katrina and allowed the Gulf Coast states to waive the income tests for certain projects.

Mississippi was quick to take advantage of that flexibility.

Alphonso Jackson, the former secretary of Housing and Urban Development, believed that he had to approve the Gulfport project because of the way the funding law was written. But in a letter to Mississippi’s governor, Haley Barbour, he warned “that this expansion does indeed divert emergency federal funding from other more pressing recovery needs, most notably affordable housing.”

Congress must use its power to ensure that any remaining Katrina money goes to low-income households. It can start by barring Mississippi from using the block-grant funds for the Gulfport project. It must also close the loopholes in the block-grant law to ensure that future disaster aid goes to those who truly need it.
779 2008-06-26 The chief sponsor of the bill, the House Democratic leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, said the situation was now bizarre. “An individual may be considered too disabled by an employer to get a job, but not disabled enough by the courts to be protected by the A.D.A. from discrimination,” Mr. Hoyer said.

The chief Republican sponsor, Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, said the Supreme Court had “chipped away at the protections” of the 1990 law, leaving millions of Americans with no recourse or remedy for discrimination.

His wife, Cheryl Sensenbrenner, has testified in support of the bill as chairwoman of the American Association of People With Disabilities, an advocacy group. Mrs. Sensenbrenner suffered a spinal cord injury in 1972, when she was 22, and sometimes uses a wheelchair. In addition, she noted in an interview, she has a sister with Down syndrome.

Supporters of the bill immediately shifted their attention to the Senate, which is expected to pass a similar bipartisan measure. Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat leading the effort, predicted that the Senate would act “in the near future.”

The White House said that although President Bush “supports the overall intent” of the House bill, he was concerned that it “could unduly expand” coverage and significantly increase litigation.

The House bill reflects a deal worked out in months of negotiations by business groups and advocates for the disabled. The United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers helped shape the bill and endorsed it as a balanced compromise.

Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, called the Supreme Court reading of the 1990 law “cramped and misguided.” Remedial legislation is needed now more than ever, Mr. Nadler said, because “thousands of men and women in uniform are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with serious injuries, including the loss of limbs and head trauma.”

The House Republican whip, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, said the bill “puts people to work, creates opportunity and makes America a more productive country” by unlocking new pools of talent.

The 1990 law said “individuals with disabilities are a discrete and insular minority.” The bill passed Wednesday deletes that phrase, which the Supreme Court has cited as a reason for limiting the definition of disability.

The law generally prohibits an employer from discriminating against a qualified individual who has, or is perceived as having, a disability, defined as a physical or mental impairment that “substantially limits” one or more major life activities.

The Supreme Court said in 2002 that “these terms need to be interpreted strictly to create a demanding standard for qualifying as disabled.” To meet this test, the court said, a person has to have “an impairment that prevents or severely restricts the individual from doing activities that are of central importance to most people’s daily lives.”

Under the bill passed on Wednesday, Congress would establish a less stringent standard, saying an impairment qualifies as a disability if it “materially restricts” a major life activity like seeing, hearing, eating, walking, reading or thinking.
780 2008-06-26 Speaking at an annual shareholders meeting on Wednesday in Yokohama, Nissan’s chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, said that surging prices for raw materials would force car companies to raise prices — but that the economic malaise afflicting the United States and Japan would make it harder to increase sales in the face of higher prices.

So places with rapidly escalating demand — like India, Brazil, Russia and China — will be more important than ever. “We intend to take full advantage of growth in emerging markets,” Mr. Ghosn said.

“These developing markets used to be an afterthought” for Japanese automakers, said Hirofumi Yokoi, an analyst in Tokyo for CSM Worldwide, the auto market research company. “Now they are the industry’s future.”

According to CSM, vehicle sales in developing regions are expected to rise by about 10 million units over the next six years, contributing 76 percent of the industry’s entire global growth.

In the last seven years, Nissan’s vehicle sales in all developing nations have nearly tripled to 1 million units, out of the company’s 3.7 million vehicle sales last year.

“It used to be that Honda relied on its U.S. business, maybe too heavily,” said Honda’s president in India, Masahiro Takedagawa. “Nowadays, we are trying to spread the sources of profits more globally, beyond just one market.”

To be sure, the United States will remain the world’s biggest and richest market for the foreseeable future, contributing some 70 percent of the profits at most Japanese automakers. But Japan’s automakers need to offset what is shaping up to be one of the worst years for United States auto sales in more than a decade.

Breaking into far-flung emerging markets comes with its own hazards, especially when the Japanese carmakers’ most lethal competitive weapon is world-leading quality. This is especially true as they build factories in places where local parts suppliers are accustomed to lower standards — and where even electricity is unreliable.

In India, for instance, Nissan faces challenges from ensuring timely delivery of parts via half-finished roads clogged with trucks and bullock carts, to teaching its new workers and local suppliers exacting Japanese precepts like kaizen, or “constant improvement.” “The hardest part will be teaching the mindset and culture of kaizen,” said Shouhei Kimura, a former factory manager who now heads Nissan’s operations in India.

Still, in recent months, the big Japanese automakers have announced a slew of new factories in the Middle East, South Asia and Latin America.

Toyota, the biggest of the three — eyeing rapid deployment in less developed markets in its bid to unseat General Motors as the world’s largest carmaker — has opened a factory in Russia, is building a second Indian plant, and recently announced a new small car for India.

Honda is building a plant in Argentina and expanding production in Brazil and India. Honda, which has long sold motorcycles in India, has also expanded its automobile production capacity from 30,000 units a year three years ago to a planned 160,000 units by the end of next year.

Nissan is erecting factories in Russia, Morocco and China, as well as a second plant in Chennai to make commercial vehicles. It has teamed up in India with Bajaj Auto to build a $2,500 entry-level car, which will also compete with the Nano by Tata Motors.

Sales of cars and trucks are expected to double in India to 3.92 million by 2012, according to a forecast by the market research group Global Insight. India’s burgeoning middle class has embraced the automobile with such fervor that cars now clog the nation’s crumbling roads and outdated infrastructure, vying for space with taxis, scooters, wandering cows and even an occasional elephant.

The Japanese are not alone. Just in Chennai, Ford, BMW and Hyundai Motors of South Korea have all built factories, leading some locals to call the city the “Detroit of India.”

General Motors sells Chevrolet-branded vehicles in India. It has just one plant with a capacity of 85,000 vehicles a year, and a second plant with capacity for an additional 140,000 vehicles is scheduled to start production at the end of this year. Ford recently announced plans for a $500 million investment to double production at its Indian plant to 200,000 vehicles annually by 2010.

The large Japanese automakers also find themselves in the unaccustomed position of trying to catch their much smaller Japanese rival Suzuki, which became the largest car company in India by being one of the first to arrive, a quarter-century ago.

Concerns of falling behind are felt keenly at Nissan, which last year sold only 500 vehicles at its five dealerships in India. By 2012, the company hopes to increase that to more than 200,000 at 55 dealerships. In April, Nissan created a six-person marketing team for India that is considering steps like hiring Bollywood actors to appear in ads.

To head its push into India, Nissan tapped Mr. Kimura, a 29-year veteran who had been running the company’s model factory in Oppama, two hours outside Tokyo.

A thin man with a quick smile and an engineer’s habit of speaking with careful precision, Mr. Kimura says his main mission is to bring the highly efficient and flexible manufacturing methods that Nissan has perfected in places like Oppama to Chennai.

He plans to send Indian workers to Oppama for training in everything from how to tighten a bolt to the principles of quality control.

With Indian wages only about a tenth of wages in Japan, the Chennai factory will rely more on human labor than Oppama, where robots staff many assembly lines.

Mr. Kimura, who worked five years at Nissan’s plants in Tennessee, said he expected personal adjustments as well in Chennai, where he will move in September. He noted that the city had only 2 Japanese restaurants, versus 10 near Nissan’s Tennessee plants.

“There’s a big difference between Tamil Nadu and Tennessee,” said Mr. Kimura, referring to Chennai’s state.

The other big challenge has been finding Indian parts suppliers the Japanese can raise to their quality standards. One is Caparo India, the Indian unit of a British auto parts maker that manufacturers steel body panels and other metal parts.

Under the guidance of teams of engineers from Honda and Nissan, Caparo has built new assembly lines near Chennai using the latest Japanese and Taiwanese factory equipment. Caparo has also adopted kaizen management, with its colorful bar charts posted on factory walls showing individual employees’ goals for raising production and reducing errors, and whether those goals were met — for all to see.

“We are not as good as Japan. Far from it,” said Caparo’s chief executive in India, Deb Mukherji. “But the Japanese hold our hand, work with us on the shop floor, help us develop.”

Many here see enormous potential for the Japanese brands among Indians, many of whom became used to driving Nissans and Hondas while living abroad, and became accustomed to their quality and reliability.

“Expectations are getting higher here when it comes to cars,” said Sudhir Natarajan, who runs Nissan’s sole dealership in Chennai. “This is a chance for the Japanese.”
781 2008-06-26 “I can be an emotional player, but I can also be a very cold player. I just try to stay cold about my emotions and just focus on what I have to do. But I do know in the back of my mind that when Sunday comes, I will not be playing here any more.”

Limited by neck and back problems through a winless 2007, Sorenstam has not regained her No. 1 world ranking from Lorena Ochoa. But her three victories on the Tour this season trail only Ochoa’s eight, and she also ranks second to Ochoa in scoring average and earnings.

Her putting has been spotty lately, although Sorenstam said a putting lesson from the former pro Dave Stockton earlier this month helped. She will need touch on slick, sloped greens that Mike Davis, a U.S.G.A. senior director, said were running above 12 on the Stimpmeter, faster than expected.

“These greens, as you know, are quite tricky,” Sorenstam said. “I would say they make the golf course. So I’m going to need to feel the roll I have on the ball right now.”

And if she does, plenty of people here will be pulling for her. Fischer, a 40-year-old former Asian Tour player who qualified for the Open for the first time in 22 years, learned that by happenstance on Wednesday. Earlier in the week, Fischer called the pro shop looking for a tee time of about 8 a.m.

“They said, ‘How about 8:06 with Annika?’ ” Fischer said. “And I said, ‘O.K. ”

The practice round Fischer played with Se Ri Pak on Monday drew a gallery, she said, but nothing like this. The autograph requests, though polite, were relentless.

“Over here,” one fan at the 16th green said.

A security guard with an earpiece trailed Sorenstam on the fairways and stood close to her as she signed autographs between holes.

As Sorenstam walked down the 17th fairway, a 7-year-old girl with blonde hair and sunglasses called to her, “Annika! Please!” while holding a lime-green cap that matched her shoes. Sorenstam looked over, pointed down the fairway and said, “Get me between the holes, O.K.?”

Minutes later, as Sorenstam stepped toward the 18th tee, the girl — Annie Wilson of Shakopee, Minn., who came with her mother and two older brothers — called Sorenstam’s name again. This time, she got her autograph. Fans around her applauded.

Fischer marveled at how Sorenstam managed it all.

“What a thrill to be able to see how she was able to handle the crowds at a championship with everybody wanting her autograph, and to see her do it so graciously, and then refocus it between the ropes and play good golf, was really impressive,” Fischer said.

Sebonack Golf Club in Southampton, N.Y., will be the site of the 2013 United States Women’s Open, the U.S.G.A. announced Wednesday.
782 2008-06-26 The couple met at a party while they were attending Harvard. Mr. Cooper-Hohn was smitten immediately, but Ms. Cooper-Hohn was openly uninterested in a man whose goal in life was to become wealthy. Mr. Cooper-Hohn, displaying skills he would later use to shake up boardrooms around the world, eventually won her over. The foundation, and T.C.I.’s role in financing it, sprung out of a spirit of compromise between the two. The couple have four children, including triplets.

T.C.I. and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation were set up simultaneously in 2003 with an unusual fee structure. Investors pay T.C.I. a 1 percent fee, about half the industry average, as well as a 0.5 percent fee to the foundation. If the fund earns more than 11 percent profit, investors pay another 0.5 percent to the foundation. T.C.I.’s profits are funneled back to the foundation, not to Mr. Cooper-Hohn.

Investors who have been with the fund since the beginning say it has a 42 percent annual internal rate of return, and earned 37 percent in 2007. So far this year, the fund is flat, they say — not bad, given the economic environment.

Ms. Cooper-Hohn, meanwhile, runs the foundation like a business.

Many foundations “write their check and wait for the reports to come in,” said Ms. Cooper-Hohn. But the foundation is bringing in tools from what she calls the “best of the private equity world” to re-evaluate projects and help the organizations running the projects make course corrections.

The notion of treating charitable giving like a business has been growing in recent years, as executives who have made fortunes look to give them away. While T.C.I. isn’t the first hedge fund to give donations with strings attached — calling for accountability — it has certainly built the largest such hedge fund endowment.

The Children’s Investment Fund Foundation has racked up a series of successes. It worked with the Clinton Foundation to cut prices of H.I.V. drugs for children in a housing project, and it shepherded economic and nutritional programs for children and families affected by H.I.V. and AIDS in India. With the new money come even more ambitious goals.

“We’re no longer satisfied by just getting a large number of children covered” by an existing program, Ms. Cooper-Hohn said. One such push, in tandem with the Gates Foundation, is a project to make enriched food standard in countries where poverty and malnutrition are common — fundamentally changing the way that billions of people eat.

The Children’s Investment Fund Foundation’s total funds in Britain total about £802 million, or $1.6 billion, according to filings over the weekend with the Charity Commission. The foundation maintains a separate, smaller presence in the United States, which has about $156 million.

About 90 percent of the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation’s assets are reinvested with T.C.I., which charges no fees and allows the foundation to withdraw funds at any time. “It is hard to match those returns with any other investment,” Ms. Cooper-Hohn said. “I may have a biased perspective, but we have one of the best investment firms in the world taking care of our capital.”

Dr. Bitra George, of Family Health International, met the Cooper-Hohns in 2003, when they were considering projects to support. He is the India director of family health, which runs the H.I.V. and AIDS program the foundation supports, in the state of Andhra Pradesh.

“It was a new area for them, but they were passionate about what they wanted to do and they wanted ideas,” Dr. George said. “Jamie was the one driving most of the conversation, the one who made the site visits,” he said, adding that both seemed knowledgeable and involved. “It’s not as if they were both coming out with a check,” he said. “I had no idea her husband was this big multimillionaire.”

Despite Mr. Cooper-Hohn’s interest in the foundation’s work, his wife said, he is not likely to follow in Bill Gates’s footsteps in the near future by resigning from the fund to pursue foundation work. “He is best as an investor,” she said. “While I like to think of us both silver-haired and working hand in hand, that isn’t around the corner.”
783 2008-06-26 Q. I can’t select the TV Out menu option on my new iPod when I have it connected to my television with an iPod video cable. Is there some other setting I need to adjust so I can play videos from my iPod on the TV screen?

A. Most of the audio-video cables or docks that work with older iPods don’t work with Apple’s latest iPod models. While you can still watch videos directly on the iPod Classic, Nano or Touch players or the iPhone, you need an AV cable or dock that is designed to work with these particular models to play the picture on the TV.

Apple has an illustrated explanation of which iPod models work with which specific AV cables and docks at support.apple.com/kb/HT1454. The company sells its own special iPod docks and AV cables for component or composite connections to your television; each one costs about $50 on the Cables & Docks page at apple.com/store.

Third-party manufacturers have also started to release their own updated video hardware for the latest iPods. But because many had docks and cables for earlier iPods, you should carefully check each product’s specifications to make sure it works with the new iPods.

The DLO HomeDock HD, for example (available at dlo.com in August for about $250) offers an HDMI cable connection and video conversion up to screen resolutions of 1080i or 720p for iPod owners who want to watch their movies on their high definition TVs.
784 2008-06-26 MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. (AP) — Google named an executive from Bell Canada with nearly 20 years of experience in the telecom industry as its new chief financial officer.

The executive, Patrick Pichette, will succeed George Reyes, who retired in December.

Mr. Pichette most recently served as president of operations at Bell Canada and was previously a partner at the management consulting firm McKinsey & Company.

Google says Mr. Pichette will start Aug. 1 and will become chief financial officer on Aug. 12.

Mr. Reyes had been chief financial officer of the Internet search company since 2002.
785 2008-06-26 Giving your digital movie the feel of opening credits in a 1970s action movie is now a drag-and-drop affair with Pinnacle Studio 12, the latest version of the video-editing software.

The program’s new Montage feature has animated text and bright graphics and can play multiple clips simultaneously. It comes with 80 templates that make up 11 themes to perk up those home productions.

The feature is in all three versions of the program: Pinnacle Studio ($50), Pinnacle Studio Plus ($100) and Pinnacle Studio Ultimate ($130), available in stores or at pinnaclesys.com. The software works with Windows XP and Vista, and the two high-end versions can burn video to Blu-ray discs.

The Ultimate edition includes several professional plug-ins for more picturesque pizazz, like a green-screen feature for adding special effects and the Red Giant Software Magic Bullet Looks tool, which lets you simulate the visual appearance of classic movies and film stocks. All three Pinnacle editions offer direct Web uploading to release the finished video quickly into the wilds of YouTube. J. D. BIERSDORFER
786 2008-06-26 The Metropolitan Opera may have dropped its commitment to presenting a concert tour of parks throughout the boroughs of New York this summer. But not the New York Philharmonic, which began its 43rd season of these popular free programs with a concert on Tuesday night on the Great Lawn of Central Park.

Last week the Met drew more than 50,000 people to Prospect Park in Brooklyn for its splashy one-event substitute for a parks tour: a concert of arias and duets featuring the soprano Angela Gheorghiu and the tenor Roberto Alagna. But when the weather is cooperative, the Philharmonic’s concerts in Central Park have drawn even bigger numbers. The weather was ideal on Tuesday night, balmy and clear. The police estimated the crowd at 61,000.

Standing at the podium looking south from the Great Lawn to the skyscrapers of Midtown, the conductor Bramwell Tovey declared the sight “one of the great views in the world.” Best known to New Yorkers from his guest stints conducting the Philharmonic’s Summertime Classics concerts, Mr. Tovey brings droll British wit to his impromptu commentaries. He was in good form on Tuesday night.

After opening the program with an exuberant account of Shostakovich’s “Festive Overture,” Mr. Tovey tried to explain to concertgoers how they could vote to choose an encore for the orchestra. “No superdelegates here,” he added.

The crowd had earlier been asked to turn off all cellphones, but Mr. Tovey now said, “I want you all to take out your cellphones and turn them back on.” He then explained that by entering a specific numerical code and typing text-message cues, the audience could choose either “HAZE,” for Jimi Hendrix’s “Purple Haze,” or “BEE,” for Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Flight of the Bumblebee.”
787 2008-06-26 John Derian, the designer who made découpage stylish, didn’t plan to open a store in Provincetown, Mass. “I hadn’t been here in years, came to visit a friend, happened upon the house and fell in love,” he explained. The object of Mr. Derian’s affection was a 1789 sea captain’s house. He bought it last year and put a smaller version of his East Village shop in the gray-shingled carriage house just behind it.

Stylishly crammed into just 360 square feet is everything one might need to spruce up a summer rental: pieces from Mr. Derian’s popular découpage line, sheets by Matteo and John Robshaw, brightly colored lanterns from Turkey, votive candle holders from Paris, poufs and vintage trays from Morocco, pottery by Astier de Villatte and linoleum cuts by Hugo Guinness, bottom right. Open weekends in June, and every day starting July 1, at 396 Commercial Street (Law Street), Provincetown, Mass., (508) 487-1362.
788 2008-06-26 MasterCard Worldwide agreed on Wednesday to pay $1.8 billion to its credit card rival American Express to settle claims related to a 2004 antitrust lawsuit.

Seven months ago, Visa paid more than $2.1 billion to American Express to put similar claims behind it as it raced ahead with plans for an initial public offering in March. MasterCard, which went public two years ago, had been under pressure to resolve the suit because uncertainty surrounding the litigation was one of the few clouds hanging over its rapidly rising stock.

The agreement brings the total that American Express has collected to more than $4 billion, one of the richest settlements in corporate history. With losses rising and the economy in a slump, American Express can use the cash.

“Business conditions continue to weaken in the U.S., and so far this month we have seen credit indicators deteriorate beyond our expectations,” the chairman and chief executive of American Express, Kenneth I. Chenault, said. He said the settlement would provide a multiyear source of funds that would “lessen the impact of this weakening economic cycle and, when conditions improve, give us the ability to step up investments in the business.”

Investors sent American Express shares down as they absorbed the news that even its customers, who tend to have strong credit histories, are falling behind on their payments. Its shares fell $1.16, or 2.8 percent, to close at $40.94. Shares of MasterCard, which processes payments but does not directly lend customers money, rose $9.42, or 3.4 percent, to $289.79.
789 2008-06-26 LONDON — Barclays joined rivals in tapping the wealth of Asian and Middle Eastern investors to strengthen its capital base on Wednesday, indicating that losses from the subprime mortgage turmoil in the United States still wear on European banks.

The British bank plans to raise £4.5 billion ($8.9 billion) by selling new shares to Qatar, Singapore’s Temasek Holdings, China Development Bank and the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation of Japan. Barclays is at least the fourth British lender in the last three months to announce a share sale to shore up its capital ratios, but it is the only one to line up a handful of overseas investors to guarantee the proceeds of the sale.

Sumitomo will buy £500 million worth of shares at £2.96 a share, a 4.7 percent discount to the closing price on Tuesday.

The rest of the shares will be sold to the other overseas investors and other institutional investors. The bank’s individual shareholders will also have the opportunity to buy some shares.

Middle Eastern investors, flush with cash because of record energy prices, and their Asian counterparts have repeatedly come to the rescue of American and European lenders hurt by the credit market turmoil.

Qatar Investment Authority and Challenger, the investment vehicle of Sheik Hamad bin Jasim bin Jabir al-Thani and his family, agreed to invest £2.3 billion; Temasek committed to buy up to £200 million worth of shares and China Development Bank signed up for up to £136 million at £2.82 a share, a 9.3 percent discount to Tuesday’s closing price. Barclays shares rose 6.7 percent to £3.32 in London on Wednesday.
790 2008-06-26 As rolling thunderstorms broke over the tent, Wall Street types in suits pecked on BlackBerrys next to everyday investors in polo shirts and khakis. The inconclusiveness of the meeting was of a piece with the six-month proxy fight. Already, CSX and T.C.I. have taken their feud to federal courts, which so far have produced decisions that allowed both sides to claim victory.

At stake is the future of CSX, a once-struggling company that has turned its fortunes around. CSX has argued that it must devote its capital to expanding its railroad lines, especially at a time when fuel costs have soared, threatening to ratchet up the prices of food and other goods. The company reported $2.3 billion in operating income last year, and its stock price has tripled since Mr. Ward became chief executive in 2003.

But T.C.I. has said that the company lags behind its peers in several key measures and that its corporate governance needs revamping. Though its executives do not accept the moniker “activist investor,” T.C.I. successfully pushed the Dutch bank ABN Amro to sell itself last year.

T.C.I., based in London, and another hedge fund, 3G Capital Partners, together hold an 8.7 percent stake in the company. And the hedge funds also claim what is effectively an additional 12.3 percent through derivatives known as equity swaps.

A federal district court found this month that the funds had not complied with regulatory disclosure rules and had effectively ambushed CSX’s management. The court, along with a federal appeals court, still allowed the funds to vote the disputed shares, pending an appeal.

No love was lost between the two sides at the meeting. Several times during CSX’s presentations, Mr. Amin walked up to a floor microphone, requesting that the company collect outstanding ballots and close the polls. Mr. Ward cited the company’s bylaws in saying that such proposals must be made before the meeting.

Nothing about Wednesday’s meeting was typical, not even the location. To reach CSX’s Gentilly rail yard, shareholders had to drive several miles outside New Orleans’s city center, then follow a series of signs that CSX had planted along the exit from Interstate 10.

Though T.C.I. had at one point accused CSX of holding its shareholder meeting in a “swamp,” the place was dry — at least until the rains came. Several flat-screen TVs dotted the interior of a vast air-conditioned tent, as did several tables overflowing with food.

CSX executives said holding the meeting at Gentilly would let shareholders see the progress that the company had made in rebuilding the yard after Hurricane Katrina nearly three years ago. But the dozens of individual shareholders who showed up were not allowed near the heart of the rail yard operations because of safety concerns.

Some shareholders came to the meeting determined to make a statement. Charles T. Heimerdinger, a self-described railroad nut, said in an interview before the meeting that he did not want to see the company fall into foreign hands.

“CSX is a part of the American infrastructure,” Mr. Heimerdinger said. Referring to the British T.C.I., he added, “we saved you from the Huns twice.”

Other minds were far from made up. William Bauch, a retired engineer from nearby Metairie, was debating which one — and only one — of T.C.I.’s nominees to vote for, and flipped through a thick stack of printouts and notes throughout the meeting.

“I’ve just been bombarded with information,” he said as he thumbed through CSX financial reports. Mr. Bauch ended up being the last shareholder to submit his ballot, checking off boxes while Mr. Ward watched from the tent’s stage.

And some shareholders came for other reasons entirely.

“CSX used to have its meetings at the Greenbrier in West Virginia, but because of work my wife and I were never able to go,” said George Rigney, who despite wearing a navy blue CSX tie had never attended the company’s annual meetings. “When we heard that the meeting was being held in New Orleans, we decided it was as good a reason as any to go.”
791 2008-06-26 DNA HOME TESTING A crackdown by regulators in California and New York State on companies offering genetic tests, like the one at left, directly to consumers could put a crimp in a growing new sector of the biotechnology industry. [C1.]     INFLATI...
792 2008-06-27 The most presidential place in New York City at the moment might be a studio in Brooklyn, where a grand Lincoln statue is being made....
793 2008-06-27 Senator John McCain said Friday that he thought it was "unlikely" that he would get the one-on-one, town-hall-style meetings he had been asking Senator Barack Obama to hold with him during the summer....
794 2008-06-27 Chastising letters have gone out to both candidates just as they have been courting high-dollar donors....
795 2008-06-27 The Federal Reserve scrambled to avert an "expected contagion" that risked infecting the nation's financial system when its took unprecedented actions in mid-March to provide financial backing to a Bear Stearns rescue package and provide emergency...
796 2008-06-27 Via Greg Mankiw, he complains about my profession: "You know the economists?" McCain said June 12 at Federal Hall, near the New York Stock Exchange. "They're the same ones that didn't predict this housing crisis we're in. They're the same ones tha...
797 2008-06-27 The latest downturn in the stock market reflects growing fears that this time, the Fed cannot work magic, and that a global downturn is upon us. The fact Washington seems obsessed with finding the speculators to blame for high oil prices does not ...
798 2008-06-27 It feels like bank analysts are competing with one another to see who can make the gloomiest predictions. Goldman Sachs kicked off the party on Thursday with a downgrade of the brokerage sector and the slapping of a rare "conviction sell" rating o...
799 2008-06-27 A dinner of Aleppo pepper and bluefish....
800 2008-06-27 Human Rights Watch today released its guidebook for the estimated 25,000 reporters traveling to China to cover the Olympics. The guide is free and available for download by anyone....
801 2008-06-27 The Academy of Television Arts and Sciences took the unprecedented step of releasing top-ten lists in the categories of outstanding comedy and drama series on Thursday, three weeks before the nominees are revealed. Here's how the finalists stack u...
802 2008-06-27 The 30-second spot will be broadcast in battleground states and on cable television....
803 2008-06-27 A spokesman for Chrysler said on Thursday that market rumors of a bankruptcy filing by the privately held automaker were "without merit," saying the company had ample liquidity. "The rumor is without merit," Chrysler spokesman Dave Elshoff said. "...
804 2008-06-27 The $8.9 billion that Barclays plans to raise will be backed by several of London's largest hedge funds, The Financial Times reported citing a prospectus issued by the bank on Thursday. But an analyst said that fundraising round may not be enough....
805 2008-06-27 Gloom has descended over Wall Street once again. While the price of oil is rising, the health of the financial sector is flagging, taking yet another heavy toll on the markets. And that has hit deal-making hard as well: Global mergers and acquisit...
806 2008-06-27 The majority of U.S. banks would have the option to adopt alternative risk-based capital adequacy rules based on the Basel II accords, under a proposal agreed to by a top U.S. banking regulator, Reuters reported. The long-awaited "standardized" ca...
807 2008-06-27 Britain's High Court has rejected a last-gasp effort mounted by a group of hedge funds to block Candover's 1.8 billion pound bid for oil services group Expro, The Telegraph reported. The hedge fund group, holding around 25 percent of Expro, includ...
808 2008-06-27 Microsoft has agreed to buy Silicon Valley semantic search engine Powerset, Venture Beat reported. The acquisition price is rumored to be slightly more than $100 million with an announcement expected in July. Powerset has developed a technology th...
809 2008-06-27 With the EU capping emissions on intercontinental flights, American airlines might be forced out of Europe if they fail to comply. (Daniel Munoz/Reuters) Ever since the European Union threatened to cap emissions on intercontinental flights, the Un...
810 2008-06-27 Janel McCarville scored a career-high 31 points and Shameka Christon had 6 of her 23 points in the third overtime, lifting the New York Liberty to a 102-96 victory over the Indiana Fever on Thursday night at Madison Square Garden.

Essence Carson had 18 points, Loree More added 12 and Cathrine Kraayeveld 11 to lead the Liberty (7-6) in a game that was the second-longest for overtime periods in the regular season in W.N.B.A. history.

Ebony Hoffman scored a career-high 26 points and Tammy Sutton-Brown had career highs with 23 points and 15 rebounds for Indiana (7-7). Katie Douglas added 18 points and Tamika Catchings had 15.

Hoffman was 11 for 19 from the field, including a career-best three 3-pointers, before fouling out with about two minutes to go in the second overtime.

After Sutton-Brown had consecutive baskets in a 33-second span to give the Fever a 96-94 lead with 2 minutes 12 seconds left in the third overtime period, Christon’s 3-pointer nearly a minute later started the Liberty’s game-ending 8-0 run.

The Liberty, which rallied from a 13-point deficit in the second quarter, was 26 of 30 from the free-throw line and outrebounded the Fever, 46-42.
811 2008-06-27 The police in Niger arrested Hama Amadou, a former prime minister and governing party chief, on corruption charges, a judicial source said. He was jailed in Koutakale, about 40 miles from the capital, Niamey, the source said. Niger’s Parliament voted this week to try Mr. Amadou, who is accused of embezzling $237,000. A conviction could bar him from running for president next year, when President Mamadou Tandja will be unable to run because of term limits.
812 2008-06-27 Cities and states have tried to stanch the killing with gun-control laws. The District of Columbia, which has one of the nation’s highest crime rates, banned the possession of nearly all handguns and required that other firearms be stored unloaded and disassembled, or bound with a trigger lock.

Overturning that law, the court’s 5-to-4 decision says that individuals have a constitutional right to keep guns in their homes for self-defense. But that’s a sharp reversal for the court: as early as 1939, it made clear that the Second Amendment only protects the right of people to carry guns for military use in a militia.

In his dissent, Justice was right when he said that the court has now established “a new constitutional right” that creates a “dramatic upheaval in the law.”

Even if there were a constitutional right to possess guns for nonmilitary uses, constitutional rights are not absolute. The First Amendment guarantees free speech, but that does not mean that laws cannot prohibit some spoken words, like threats to commit imminent violent acts. In his dissent, Justice argued soundly that whatever right gun owners have to unimpeded gun use is outweighed by the District of Columbia’s “compelling” public-safety interests.

In this month’s case recognizing the rights of the detainees at , , Justice Scalia wrote in dissent that the decision “will almost certainly cause more Americans to be killed.” Those words apply with far more force to his opinion in this District of Columbia case.

The gun lobby will now trumpet this ruling as an end to virtually all gun restrictions, anywhere, at all times. That must not happen. And today’s decision still provides strong basis for saying it should not.

If the ruling is held to apply to the states, and not just to the District of Columbia — which is not certain — there will still be considerable dispute about what it means for other less-sweeping gun laws. Judges may end up deciding these on a law-by-law basis.

Supporters of gun control must fight in court to ensure that registration requirements and background-check rules, and laws against bulk sales of handguns — a major source of guns used in crimes — are all upheld.

The court left room for gun-control advocates to fight back. It made clear that there were gun restrictions that it was not calling into question, including bans on gun possession by felons and the mentally ill, or in “sensitive places” like schools and government buildings.

That last part is the final indignity of the decision: when the justices go to work at the Supreme Court, guns will still be banned. When most Americans show up at their own jobs, they will not have that protection.

This audaciously harmful decision, which hands the far right a victory it has sought for decades, is a powerful reminder of why voters need to have the Supreme Court firmly in mind when they vote for the president this fall.

Senator has said he would appoint justices like and Justice — both of whom supported this decision. If the court is allowed to tip even further to the far right, there will be even more damage done to the rights and the safety of Americans.
813 2008-06-27 An Indian fabric maker paid nearly $250,000, a record price, for a 200-pound bale of exceptionally high grade wool at an auction Thursday in Australia.

Five exporters bid for the bale, and “there was quite a lot of excitement and anticipation” during the auction, said Craig Lawson of AWB Ltd.’s Landmark unit, the company that conducted the sale.

Mr. Lawson described the wool as the finest ever sold at an auction in Australia. The fineness of the wool refers to the thickness of the fiber and is one measure of its quality: the finer the wool, the lighter the resulting fabric.

It was bought by Raymond Ltd., the biggest maker of woolen fabrics in India. Raymond paid 247,480 Australian dollars ($237,417) for the bale, which weighed 92 kilograms.

The price equates to 2,690 Australian dollars a kilogram, more than 300 times the benchmark price of standard Australian wool, Mr. Lawson said.

The bale of wool has a fiber width of 11.6 microns compared with an average width of 21 microns for the benchmark. It will be enough to make as many as 50 suits, Mr. Lawson said.
814 2008-06-27 Corey Pavin, Bo Van Pelt and Dudley Hart shot eight-under-par 64s to share the first-round lead Thursday at the Buick Open in Grand Blanc, Mich. Briny Baird and Daniel Chopra were a stroke back, and Woody Austin, Shigeki Maruyama, Kenneth Ferrie and Jon Mills shot 66s on the Warwick Hills course. Rocco Mediate, making his first start since pushing Tiger Woods at the United States Open, opened with a 71.
815 2008-06-27 EDINA, Minn. — Lorena Ochoa, annoyed at being three over par and still awaiting her first birdie after 13 holes, spied a leader board teeming with red numbers. The names mixed the familiar (Laura Davies, Helen Alfredsson) and the unknown (Ji Young Oh of South Korea). Even the amateur María José Uribe, the bubbly Colombian playing in the same group with Ochoa, was three under.

The multiple low scores were not supposed to happen in the first round of the United States Women’s Open. But the conditions at Interlachen Country Club on Thursday morning were far more benign than expected. Course workers soaked the lightning-fast greens the night before, and watered a few again in the morning, softening them up and rewarding players who attacked the pin. Ochoa said it took her 13 holes to figure this out.

Ochoa birdied three of her final five holes, including the par-5 No. 18 that yielded birdies all day, to finish at even-par 73. That put her six shots behind the co-leaders Oh, whose 67 was the best of the 22 players who broke par in the morning, and the afternoon starter Pat Hurst, who missed the cut in her last two tournaments but matched Oh with a birdie on her final hole, the par-4 No. 9.

Over all, 32 players finished under par, among them 6 amateurs.

“I was just disappointed that it was not me,” said Ochoa, the world’s top-ranked player.

Song-Hee Kim was one stroke back at 68. Uribe, last year’s United States Amateur champion, and the L.P.G.A. Tour rookie Louise Friberg of Sweden shot 69s to tie for fourth, one stroke ahead of the 1987 Open champion, Davies, and the veterans Alfredsson and Catriona Matthew.
816 2008-06-27 They also suggested that a survey distributed by union chapter leaders might not yield objective results, although union officials said the responses were confidential.

“Other people want to play politics, they can play politics,” Mr. Klein said. “I just know that fundamentally, I’m staying focused on the things that matter, getting the results that matter for our kids, and I’m grateful for the teachers for that.”

Later, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s chief spokesman, Stu Loeser, issued a statement in response to the union survey, saying: “Chancellor Klein’s results speak for themselves.”

“Test scores and graduation rates are up, the achievement gap is narrowing, and our schools are safer than ever,” the statement said, adding that Mr. Klein “has brought accountability to a system that had none.”

Mr. Klein, who spoke on Thursday at the first graduation ceremony of the Bronx Lab School, a high-profile small high school created by the Bloomberg administration, told reporters that it had been a “great year,” and he praised innovations like assigning each school a letter grade. Since Mayor Bloomberg took control of the schools in 2002, he said, it had become “a very different school system,” adding, “There’s an energy and an excitement.”

At union headquarters, Ms. Weingarten conceded that it had been “a good year in terms of academic success for kids.” Indeed, on Monday, she stood by the chancellor’s side to celebrate the striking gains the city’s students had posted on state math and reading exams.

But on Thursday, Ms. Weingarten used the survey to suggest that climbing test scores were not enough. “Let’s focus on educating the whole child, not simply on test results,” she said.

The dueling messages were quite a distance from the political embrace Ms. Weingarten and Mr. Klein shared on the opening day of the school year, at Public School 53 in the Morrisania section of the Bronx, where they stood with the mayor and Eliot Spitzer, who was the governor then, to affirm their commitment to accountability.

As the school and union leaders assessed the year, dozens of students and parents marched to City Hall to protest overcrowding at several Manhattan schools, one issue Mr. Klein must confront in the coming months.

Eleanor Happy, who just finished first grade at Public School 89 in Battery Park City, shook a tambourine and carried a sign that said: “Stop, our school is going to pop!” P.S. 89 is one of several schools in rapidly growing neighborhoods that are bracing for a surge in kindergarten enrollment this fall.

Eleanor, who is 7, said that all in all, it had been “a pretty good year,” noting, “My teacher was a very nice teacher.”

Complaining about overcrowding, too, had its pluses. “I skipped a little bit of class to help give out pins,” she said, her eyes brightening. “I really like helping out.”
817 2008-06-27 “It’s booming, and it’s still growing,” said Michael Allocco, 24, the general manager of the A.R.C. recycling plant, one of 68 scrap metal processing firms licensed by the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs. The number of these businesses has grown nearly 20 percent in three years.

But the increase in the price of scrap metal has led to a rise in the theft of metal products, particularly anything made of copper. Mr. Allocco said he is vigilant about trying to ensure that none of the metal that is brought to his plant was stolen.

“I don’t accept the shopping-cart guys,” he said, adding that the police had visited the plant with photographs of people suspected of stealing metal, asking if anyone had seen them.

Mr. Allocco takes precautions like photographing his customers and keeping their driver’s licenses on file. “I try to keep the place on the up and up.”

Mr. Allocco’s plant is located in an industrial part of the Greenpoint neighborhood, alongside Newtown Creek and across the street from a new sewage treatment plant, whose bulbous towers add to a surreal landscape. Allocco Recycling, a transfer station for dirt, concrete and other types of fill, was founded by Mr. Allocco’s father on the two-and-a-half-acre site 20 years ago.

A.R.C., which is open 24 hours, buys hundreds of tons of ferrous metal a day. A large portion of it is steel.

At the plant, some of the oversize metal is fed to a huge hydraulic shearer resembling a Tyrannosaurus Rex. Its mighty jaws rear up and rip bulky metal items to pieces.

The arm of a heavy-duty material handler also routinely sweeps across the yard. Its enormous clawlike grapples release squirming loads of twisted metal onto a pile that rises 40 feet while awaiting compacting.

The company also buys thousands of pounds of nonferrous metal daily, which is placed in a warehouse, where a mound of brass car radiators sits alongside a collection of sinks, stacks of aluminum window frames and buckets of copper wiring.

“Nonferrous is worth more,” said Bill Monteleone, A.R.C.’s director of sales. He explained how customers are paid based on the type of metal they sell and whether they have separated the metals.

“The more you fine-tune it, the more you separate, the more money you get,” said Kevin Westhall, 39, who runs a small business removing items from the homes of people who have died. He strips the insulation from old copper wiring and he pries the nonferrous metal out of washing machines.

Separating the metal is hard work, said Mr. Westhall, who makes as many as five trips a day to the recycling yard. “I walk around like a magnet,” he said. “Metal is always on my mind.”

A.R.C. has more than 500 customers that sell to it regularly, including manufacturers, private sanitation and rubbish removal companies and major demolition contractors.

Among the items that have landed in the plant’s heap are miles of the metal bridge decking that made up the former left lane of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. It was deposited by the construction contractor who is rehabilitating that stretch of the highway.

The company also attracts smaller-scale customers, like Johnny Slavos, 23, whose ponytail dripped with sweat the other day as he unloaded a 100-pound Cadillac engine that he said he had picked up at a junkyard. He would not say anything more about where he collects scrap metal.

“I can’t tell you my secrets,” he said, explaining that he worried that others might elbow in on his turf. “It’s like the old gold rush.”

Alfred Tiscani, a longtime employee of A.R.C., said he is constantly amused by the variety of things that people bring in, displaying, for example, an ornate tin lamp that he was saving for his wife.

“When I see old cars, I feel bad,” he said, recalling the time someone brought in an antique B Model Mack Truck like the one his grandfather drove.

Nobody at the yard knows what happens to any of the scrap metal after it leaves the site. “Metal has no memory,” Mr. Monteleone said, looking down at the pen in his hand. “It could be made into this pen tip.”
818 2008-06-27 The government’s counterattack comes on the heels of a long-awaited safety report issued by Cern physicists last week and approved by an outside panel that concluded there was no danger to the Earth from black holes or anything else that might come out of the collider. Everything that could happen in the collider has already happened millions of times over due to cosmic rays, the physicists said.

“There is no basis for any concerns about the consequences of new particles or forms of matter that could possibly be produced by the LHC,” the report said.

Citing this and a previous safety report in 2002, the government argued that the plaintiffs, Mr. Wagner and Mr. Sancho, had no standing because they could not demonstrate any credible injury. “Scientifically,” the brief says, “there is no basis for any conceivable threat that Plaintiffs have theoretically envisaged, such as strangelets, black holes, and magnetic monopoles.”

This is not the first time, as the government noted, that Mr. Wagner has forecast the apocalypse. In 1999 and 2000, he sued to stop the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider, or Rhic, at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island using the same arguments, which were found to be “speculative.” Those cases were dismissed.

“This court should similarly reject Plaintiffs’ challenges for the pure speculation they are and dismiss Plaintiffs’ claims against Federal Defendants,” the government said this week.

The lawyers also argued that even if Mr. Wagner and Mr. Sancho won, it would do them no good because the American share of the collider’s $8 billion cost — some $531 million — has now all been spent. Indeed, on Wednesday, June 25, Raymond Orbach, under secretary for science at the Department of Energy, issued a formal proclamation that the U.S. construction effort had been completed.

“Although the U.S. continues to spend some money to support the experiments that will sift and analyze the products of these subatomic collisions, the machine will start up this fall with or without American participation.

In a deposition filed along with the government brief, Bruce P. Strauss, associate program manager for the collider at the Dept. of Energy, said, “If U.S. scientists were pulled back from the LHC today, this would have no impact on CERN’s start of LHC operations.”

He added that important discoveries could be made almost immediately once the collider started up. “If U.S. physicists were enjoined from participating in experiments during that period, the U.S. would miss the early scientific benefits of its $531 million investment in the LHC.”Of course, Cern, being a European organization based in Geneva, is outside the jurisdiction of a court in Hawaii.

Meanwhile, the government also argues, Fermilab should be let off the hook. It cannot be sued, they said, because it is not a legal entity, not an agency of a corporation. It is “simply a collection of physical asssets (such as scientific equipment and buildings)” owned by the Department of Energy, which approves and pays for all the operations there, according to an affidavit from Joanna M. Livengood, the department’s site manager there.

According to Andrew Ames, a spokesperson for the Department of Justice, the court set the date of Sept. 2 for on the government’s motions, which means both sides will be producing more briefs and depositions in the next two months.

Mr. Wagner said by e-mail that he plans to fight on. “I believe the Complaint does state a valid case,” he said, referring to his lawsuit.

Among other things, he said, he and Mr. Sancho will be filing affidavits saying that the safety report is flawed and incomplete, that Fermilab really is a legal entity, and that the U.S. agencies still have “obligations to Cern.”
819 2008-06-27 American officials warned that the requirements probably would be illegal under the convention governing international civil aviation.

“The mandatory application of the European Emissions Trading System to U.S. airlines and airlines of other non-European countries is, we think, both contrary to international law and ultimately unworkable,” said Robert Gianfranceschi, a spokesman at the United States Mission to the European Union in Brussels.

The compromise was reached Thursday by representatives of the European Parliament and by European governments represented by Slovenia, which currently holds the revolving presidency. It states that Europe “should continue to seek an agreement on global measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation,” according to a copy of the text seen by The International Herald Tribune.

The proposal still needs the approval of the European Parliament and individual countries. But people involved in the negotiations said those steps were likely to be a formality, given the political agreement.

Including airlines is also a victory for European regulators, who are seeking to include more polluters in the system. That could help blunt criticism by those who see the European Union as unfairly targeting heavy industry. The carbon trading market, which was started in 2005, caps the overall amount of pollution emitted by industries like electric utilities and steel makers.

The transport association spokesman, Mr. Concil, said the costs to the airline industry of buying permits to comply with European emissions regulations would be more than $4 billion. Imposing new, costly rules on airlines was “incredible” at a time when the industry is expected to lose more than $6.1 billion this year, he said.

Opponents argued that the plan would be an ineffective regional effort tackle a problem that requires a global solution. European airlines and charter companies also have said they would be at disadvantage to overseas competitors that operate fewer European routes.

Giovanni Bisignani, the director general of transport association, took out full-page advertisements in newspapers this week calling the plans “crazy” and saying that support for the proposals by governments meant that they had “lost the plot.”

Mr. Bisignani said that the aviation industry was already doing enough to reduce its carbon footprint by investing in new technology and using less fuel. He said negotiations on the creation of an emissions trading program for the world’s airlines should be conducted by the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations body.

The European Commission, Europe’s executive arm, which first proposed the rules, has said a global deal would take too long. European officials are determined to put forward their own plans, which would cover the emissions from aircraft flying both legs of journeys to and from major destinations like London, Paris and Frankfurt.

Even so, the agreement reached Thursday reduced the chances of international disagreement, said one person closely involved in the negotiations. He would not be identified in order to allow European governments to make an official announcement about the accord.

He said that if other countries introduced approximately similar measures, Europe would drop its jurisdiction covering emissions on flights leaving countries like the United States, to avoid double regulation.

Most of the initial permits would be allocated to airlines by the European authorities, but airlines would be obliged to buy 15 percent in auctions. A decision on whether airlines would be obliged to buy more permits in later years could be made in coming months, he said.
820 2008-06-27 When you are as closely identified with a role as Idina Menzel is with Elphaba, the Wicked Witch of the West in the Broadway musical “Wicked,” how do you step out of it into a concert without alienating your fans (in her case mostly girls and young women) who expect her to be a version of Elphaba? That was the question Ms. Menzel wrestled with in her eccentric concert on Wednesday evening at Town Hall, where she appeared with a drum-heavy rock quartet and two backup singers.

For much of the concert Ms. Menzel presented herself to her core audience as a flouncing bohemian older sister. Though she is 37, she acted like an impulsive teenager, kneeling or sitting on the stage much of the time. She took questions from the audience (she is a Gemini, she replied to the inevitable “What’s your sign?”) and delivered a heartfelt personal story about her younger sister, a single mother with two children, whom she described as a wonderful singer who never pursued a career because her family chose only one daughter to be an entertainer.

She also sang a prayer in Hebrew and recounted her amusing early adventures as a wedding singer on Long Island, when she sometimes worked with an Elvis impersonator. Her own wedding song, she said (she is married to the actor Taye Diggs), was “Time After Time.”

Midway in the concert, she momentarily turned into a rocker with a flailing rendition of the Police’s “Roxanne” (minus the reggae beat), tossing her hair, shaking her fist and pounding on the floor.

As the concert zigzagged here and there, the picture of Ms. Menzel that emerged was of an entertainer with a phenomenal voice in search of a coherent stage personality. Vocally she suggests a robust Diana Ross with 10 times the stamina and lung power; the resemblance is mostly in her vinegary timbre, especially in high notes. She cited Aretha Franklin, Chaka Khan and Billie Holiday as role models, not Ms. Ross.

Ms. Menzel performed most of the songs from her newest album, “I Stand” (Warner Brothers), a collection of tuneful, assertive pop anthems composed with several writers including her producer, Glen Ballard, and delivered as full-bodied romantic war cries. Given the band’s straightforward but colorless arrangements, they came across as well made but anonymous formula power ballads that might sound more distinctive in softer, more carefully shaded settings. Elphaba’s signature song, “Defying Gravity,” closed the concert.
821 2008-06-27 Justice Scalia and Justice Stevens went head to head in debating how the 27 words in the Second Amendment should be interpreted. The majority opinion and the two dissenting opinions totaled 154 pages.

Justice Stevens said the majority opinion was based on “a strained and unpersuasive reading” of the text and history of the Second Amendment, which provides: “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.”

According to Justice Scalia, the “militia” reference in the first part of the amendment simply “announces the purpose for which the right was codified: to prevent elimination of the militia.” The Constitution’s framers were afraid that the new federal government would disarm the populace, as the British had tried to do, Justice Scalia said.

But he added that this “prefatory statement of purpose” should not be interpreted to limit the meaning of what is called the operative clause — “the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.” Instead, Justice Scalia said, the operative clause “codified a pre-existing right” of individual gun ownership for private use.

Contesting that analysis, Justice Stevens said the Second Amendment’s structure was notable for its “omission of any statement of purpose related to the right to use firearms for hunting or personal self-defense,” in contrast to the contemporaneous “Declarations of Rights” in and that did explicitly protect those uses.

It has been nearly 70 years since the court last examined the meaning of the Second Amendment. In addition to their linguistic debate, Justices Scalia and Stevens also sparred over what the court intended in that decision, v. Miller. In the opaque, unanimous, five-page opinion issued in 1939, the court upheld a federal prosecution for transporting a sawed-off shotgun. A Federal District Court had ruled that the provision of the National Firearms Act the defendants were accused of violating was barred by the Second Amendment, but the Supreme Court disagreed and reinstated the indictment.

For decades, the overwhelming majority of courts and commentators regarded the Miller decision as having rejected the individual-right interpretation of the Second Amendment. That understanding of the “virtually unreasoned case” was mistaken, Justice Scalia said Thursday. He said the Miller decision meant “only that the Second Amendment does not protect those weapons not typically possessed by law-abiding citizens for lawful purposes, such as short-barreled shotguns.”

Justice Stevens said the majority’s understanding of the Miller decision was not only “simply wrong,” but also reflected a lack of “respect for the well-settled views of all of our predecessors on the court, and for the rule of law itself.”

Despite the decision’s enormous symbolic significance, it was far from clear that it actually posed much of a threat to the most common types of gun regulations. Justice Scalia’s opinion applied explicitly only to “the right of law-abiding, responsible citizens to use arms in defense of hearth and home,” and it included a number of significant qualifications.

“Nothing in our opinion,” Justice Scalia said, “should be taken to cast doubt on longstanding prohibitions on the possession of firearms by felons and the mentally ill, or laws forbidding the carrying of firearms in sensitive places such as schools and government buildings, or laws imposing conditions and qualifications on the commercial sale of arms.”

The opinion also said that prohibitions on carrying concealed weapons would be upheld, and suggested somewhat less explicitly that the right to personal possession did not apply to “dangerous and unusual weapons” that are not typically used for self-defense or recreation. The Bush administration had been concerned about the implications of the case for the federal ban on possession of machine guns.

President Bush welcomed the decision. “As a longstanding advocate of the rights of gun owners in America, I applaud the Supreme Court’s historic decision today confirming what has always been clear in the Constitution: the Second Amendment protects an individual right to keep and bear firearms,” the president said in a statement.

The opinion did not specify the standard by which the court would evaluate gun restrictions in future cases, a question that was the subject of much debate when the case was argued in March.

Among existing gun-control laws, only comes close to the complete handgun prohibition in the District of Columbia’s 32-year-old law. The District’s appeal to the Supreme Court, filed last year after the law was struck down by the federal appeals court here, argued that the handgun ban was an important public safety measure in a congested, crime-ridden urban area.

On the campaign trail on Thursday, both major-party presidential candidates expressed support for the decision — with more full-throated support from Senator , the presumptive Republican nominee, and a more guarded statement of support from Senator , his presumptive Democratic opponent.

Senator McCain called the decision “a landmark victory for Second Amendment freedom in the United States” that “ended forever the specious argument that the Second Amendment did not confer an individual right to keep and bear arms.”

Senator Obama, who like Senator McCain has been on record as supporting the individual-rights view, said the ruling would “provide much-needed guidance to local jurisdictions across the country.” He praised the decision both for its endorsement of the individual-rights view and for its description of the right as “not absolute and subject to reasonable regulations enacted by local communities to keep their streets safe.”

Unlike the court’s ruling earlier this month on the rights of the detainees, this decision, District of Columbia v. Heller, No. 07-290, appeared likely to defuse, rather than inflame, the political debate. The ’s platform in 2004 included a plank endorsing the individual-rights view of the Second Amendment.

The case reached the court as the result of an assumption by the , a libertarian policy organization here, that the time was right to test the prevailing interpretation of the Second Amendment. Robert A. Levy, a lawyer and senior fellow of the institute, looked for law-abiding District of Columbia residents, rather than criminal defendants appealing their convictions, to challenge the local law.

Mr. Levy, who financed the litigation, recruited six plaintiffs. Five were dismissed for lack of standing, but the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled in favor of one, Dick Anthony Heller. He is a security guard who carries a gun while on duty at a federal judicial building here, and was denied a license to keep his gun at home. The court said Thursday that assuming Mr. Heller was not “disqualified from the exercise of Second Amendment rights,” the District of Columbia government must issue him a license.
822 2008-06-27 SEOUL -- Thousands of tons of American beef, held for months in South Korean warehouses because of concerns about mad cow disease, will be released to the markets next week, officials said on Thursday.

But the meat still has barriers to overcome before reaching South Korean tables: labor activists rallying to block shipments, women’s organizations threatening a supermarket boycott and consumers unsure about the safety of meat from the United States.

Earlier Thursday, the government lifted its ban on American beef, ignoring an overnight protest in which thousands of people rallied in Seoul to protest the government move. The police detained at least 130 demonstrators.

Lifting the ban opened the door for 5,300 tons of American beef to be inspected and released from storage facilities around the country where it has been held since last October, when public fears of mad cow disease scuttled a brief easing of the import ban.

"We will start the inspection on Friday morning, and the first meat that passes the test will be released from the facilities around July 3 or 4," said Lee Byung-kwon, a spokesman for National Veterinary Research and Quarantine Service.
823 2008-06-27 “I recommend people build their shower to the most prudent of bathers,” Mr. Fierro said. “Some people have no problem being nude outside, and there are people on the opposite end of the spectrum.”

To ease fears about who can see what, Mr. Fierro suggested looking for sight lines from second-story windows or neighbors’ homes, and taking into account the surrounding environment.

That environment isn’t just a hurdle to be overcome, though, it’s an asset, too. “The Japanese have a wonderful term called borrowed scenery,” Mr. Fierro said. “And it’s typically the scenery that you don’t have to pay taxes on, but that’s there nonetheless as a part of your landscape. And so making the most out of those types of attributes and the landscape — an outdoor shower is great for that.”

To that end, you could locate the shower near a garden or overlooking hills, and then put a little window in, one that you can see out of but that neighbors can’t see into.

Materials are another consideration. For pipes, copper is the standard. “Typically, I recommend using copper if you’re going to create a permanent shower,” said Mr. Fierro, who prefers recycled materials. PVC, the hard plastic polymer polyvinyl chloride, “is not a long-term, ultrapermanent material,” he said.

Mr. Mammano agreed. “PVC isn’t completely UV stabilized,” he said. “Plastics really take a beating in sunny locations. I’m still a purist. I still use copper.”

That takes care of bringing the water in, but what about getting the used water out?

“Typically, someone has a stone or wooden platform that gets them off the ground, and water percolates into the ground,” Mr. Fierro said. “You can dig a dry well, which is basically a big hole filled with gravel, and put your platform on top of that, and that allows for the water to immediately seep into the gravel and not stay on the surface. You don’t want standing water on the surface. Insects breed in it. It creates a nasty little environment.”

In a more urban site, he added, you could connect the drain back to a waste line in your house or into the municipal septic line.

If you’re building the shower against a wall of your home, consider installing marine-grade plywood beneath the exterior of the house to prevent rotting. If your home is already built, Mr. Fierro noted that extra layers of sealant will do the trick. As for the shower itself, resilient hardwoods like teak, cedar or mahogany work well.

And be sure to build the shower enclosure and platform to allow for air flow — by spacing the slats or leaving a gap at foot level — so the enclosure can dry. As you’d expect, mold and odors do not add to the idyllic ambience.
824 2008-06-27 On traditional exchanges, buying a large block of shares typically causes the price of a stock to rise substantially, while selling a large block causes it to fall. Big institutional investors, like hedge funds, have been seeking out new platforms to cut execution costs, especially as they increasingly use algorithmic trading, slicing orders into small chunks and trading rapidly according to computer programs.

Competition for new trading platforms got a lift last year when the European Union enacted regulations aimed at cutting trading costs and harmonizing financial regulation in all member states.

Michael Long, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London, said the link between the London Stock Exchange and Lehman Brothers was an “understandable step” for London, considering the competition in its core business from the rise of alternative trading platforms.

“It’s an arena that is attracting a lot of new entrants,” Mr. Long said. But he said that success would be contingent on signing up more banks.

The project pits Lehman and the London exchange against several competitors, including Nasdaq OMX, Instinet’s Chi-X Europe unit, and Turquoise, a platform created by nine major banks, including BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.

Chi-X has 10 to 15 percent of the daily trading volume in FTSE 100 companies since it went live last year, a spokeswoman, Julia Streets, said.

Turquoise will begin trading on a limited basis on Aug. 15, and is set for full operations on Sept. 5 with trading in 1,500 stocks, a spokesman, Adrian Flook, said.

The chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, Clara Furse, will be chief executive of the combined venture, but the companies did not disclose other details of their governance plans.

Baikal, named for a lake in southern Siberia, will be regulated by the British market watchdog, the Financial Services Authority. Baikal will offer trading access to securities across 14 European countries and at least 22 trading venues.

David Shrimpton, head of equity market development at the London Stock Exchange, said his group was hoping to bring other investors aboard as partners, and the response to the announcement had been “very positive.”

He said it might be possible for a quite a few trading systems to co-exist. “You’ve got 50 broker dark pools in the U.S.,” he added, “and they share about 10 percent of the market.”
825 2008-06-27 Although Mr. Gates will spend one day a week at the company, it will be up to his successors, led by , the chief executive, to master the challenges of the Internet or watch Microsoft’s wealth and stature in the industry steadily erode. “Bill’s legacy is Windows and Office, and that will be a rich franchise for years to come, but it’s not the future,” said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School.

Still, the Gates legacy is impressive. In addition to the software itself, Mr. Gates and his company have fundamentally shaped how people think about competition in many industries where technology plays a central role. Today, there are more than one billion copies of the Windows operating system on PCs around the world.

Industry experts and economists say that Windows is not necessarily the best or most admired software for running the basic operations of a personal computer — ’s Macintosh can claim the most devout fan club. But Mr. Gates grasped and deployed two related concepts on a scale no one ever had in the past: the power of network effects and the value of establishing a technology platform.

Put simply, the network effect describes a phenomenon in which the value of a product goes up as more people use it. E-mail messaging and telephones are classic examples.

A technology platform is a set of tools or services that others can use to build their own products or services. The more people who use the tools, the more popular the platform can become.

Mr. Gates took advantage of both notions and combined them to build Microsoft’s dominance in PCs, spreading its influence with computer makers and software developers.

Today, there are many thousands of software applications that run on the Windows platform, not just word processing and spreadsheets but also the specialized programs in doctors’ offices, factory floors and retail stores — a very broad network on a nearly ubiquitous technology platform.

“Gates saw software as a separate market from hardware before anyone else, but his great insight was recognizing the power of the network effects surrounding the software,” said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the ’s Sloan School of Management.

That, Professor Cusumano added, was the essential difference in the paths of Microsoft and Apple, the early leader in personal computing. Apple, he said, focused on making outstanding products alone, while Microsoft nurtured a growing ecosystem of outside software developers who use, and are dependent on, Microsoft’s technology.

The result, he added, is that, while Apple continues to make outstanding products, more than 90 percent of personal computers run Microsoft software.

In the early years, it was unclear how much Mr. Gates was pursuing each opportunity as it came, as opposed to carrying out a grand strategy. He certainly had large ambitions. When he was a Harvard undergraduate, Mr. Gates lamented that so many of his fellow students pursued a “narrow track for success” instead of being willing to “take big risks to do big things,” recalled Michael Katz, a Harvard contemporary who is now a professor at .

In a Harvard Business School case study, published in 1994, Mr. Gates spoke of Microsoft’s strategy in terms of network effects and technology standards that, combined, enabled the company to command markets. “We look for businesses where we can garner large market shares, not just 30 or 35 percent,” he said.

In the past, Microsoft has beaten back challenges and vanquished rivals, even when it came late to markets, as it did in the first wave of Internet technology. Mr. Gates’s shrewd 1995 decision to embrace Internet browsing technology and attack the early leader, Netscape Communications, started a pitched antitrust battle with the government. “But he extended Microsoft’s hegemony for a decade,” said Mitchell Kapor, a longtime rival.

However, Microsoft is lagging badly in current round of Internet competition and, analysts say, is facing more formidable challengers this time — notably Google.

Microsoft’s share of Internet search in the is less than 10 percent, while Google holds more than 60 percent and has about 20 percent. And search is only part of the new platform on the Web, which includes social networks like and and Internet-based alternatives to traditional desktop software, including e-mail messaging, word processors and spreadsheets.

Traditional desktop software — and the technology standards Microsoft controls there — matter far less when more software is accessed with a Web browser and delivered over the Internet from vast data centers run by Google and others. The new approach is known as “cloud computing,” and the business model behind it is typically to sell online advertising and software services.

At Microsoft, there is scant sign of panic, despite its trailing position and its failed bid to buy Yahoo for $47.5 billion as a catch-up strategy. Microsoft sees an evolution in computing, not a disruptive revolution that will imperil the company, said Craig Mundie, Microsoft’s chief research and strategy officer.

Mr. Mundie said Microsoft is preparing for a widening world of both cloud computing and “client” machines, not only personal computers but also cellphones, cars, game consoles and televisions, all running Microsoft software.

“The next big platform is the union of the clients and the cloud,” he said.
826 2008-06-27 LEAVING HIS LEGACY Friday is Bill Gates's last day at Microsoft, marking the unofficial end of his career as a leader of the business he co-founded in 1975.      STOCKS TUMBLE The abrupt reversal in the stock market reflects the realization among ...
827 2008-06-27 McCARTHY--John Charles , of Lawrence, NY and Stuart, FL on June 24, 2008 at his home. Son of the late Thomas and Anna McCarthy of Allenhurst, NJ. He is survived by his children Winifred Post of San Francisco, CA, Curtis Dwyer of Darien, CT, and Ro...
828 2008-06-28 The eye-opening times in the women's 100 meters continued on Saturday, with Torri Edwards running an astounding 10.78 in her semifinal....
829 2008-06-28 The candidates addressed the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials on Saturday....
830 2008-06-28 OK, I finally decided that I needed a wireless card; there have been enough occasions when I was hard-pressed for lack of wi-fi that it seemed worthwhile. So I got Verizon, did the installation - and not only didn't it work, it killed the wi-fi on...
831 2008-06-28 Mark Thoma does a nice job putting the pieces together. Here's the continuous time version. First, we suppose a demand for inventory that depends on the interest rate minus the expected rate of increase in prices: ND = N(i-(PE-P)/P) This implies a...
832 2008-06-28 Ak Bars of the KHL, somewhat to the disappointment of their fans, signs the Islanders' jettisoned backup....
833 2008-06-28 But she struggled after a staggered start, stumbling twice after runners from behind clipped her. Price finished sixth in her heat in 2:05.93, as only the top four advanced, and prematurely exited the trials.

“It’s something I’m not used to, but I can’t use it as an excuse,” Price said. “I should have just got back into the race and did what I had to do. I just lost focus.”

Twice, she swung wide but seemed to run out of gas and drifted far off the pace. “It took it out of my legs a little bit,” she said.

In a previous heat, Roesler found herself boxed on the rail, but she moved outside a lane or two and assertively took fourth place, seeming to surf home on the support of the crowd of 20,964 at Hayward Field. The time was not her personal best — she has run 2:03.08 — but it was the highlight of a dominant high school career.

“It was kind of crazy; I’ve never been in front of all those people before,” Roesler said. But she was not nervous as she expected to be. “It was kind of fun. All the way around, the crowd kinda helped you out.”

She began running competitively three years ago as a seventh grader. “I was just running; I didn’t know what I was doing,” she said. Her results suggest otherwise. Already, Roesler has won four North Dakota state titles at 400 meters (the first as a seventh-grader) and three each at 100, 200 and 800 meters, along with two state cross-country titles.

Her twin brother, Kyle, is also a runner, and an older sister, Emily, will run track in the fall at North Dakota State University. Friday, Laura said she had no real strategy, only to “go out and see what I could do” in advancing to the second round.

At the end, either the race or the moment left her lightheaded. She placed a bottle of water on her neck and cheek, and told reporters, “I gotta sit down.”

She then vomited into a trash can, but returned to continue her interview sitting in a chair, still breathing with the exertion of the race.

“It’s pretty cool even just to come and watch, much less to get to run,” Roesler said. On any other Friday night, she said she would probably just be hanging out with friends.

“There’s not much to do in Fargo,” she said.

Finishing in the top three of the 800 final and making this Olympic team remained a long shot. But Roesler will only be heading into her junior year in college by the time of the London Olympics in 2012.
834 2008-06-28 WASHINGTON (Dow Jones) — The Senate has cleared three nominees to the Securities and Exchange Commission, agreeing by unanimous consent to confirm Luis A. Aguilar, Elisse B. Walter and Troy A. Paredes.

The three nominees, who won approval from the Senate Banking Committee late Wednesday, were confirmed by the Senate on Friday along with a nominee to the Federal Reserve Board and others named to fill openings at the Treasury Department, the Commerce Department and the President’s Council of Economic Advisers.

Mr. Aguilar, an Atlanta lawyer, and Ms. Walter, a senior executive at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, will fill openings for Democrats on the five-member commission, serving terms that end in mid-2010 and mid-2012, respectively.

Mr. Paredes, a Washington University professor, will serve a full five-year term ending in June 2013 and will succeed Paul S. Atkins, a Republican commissioner. By law, no more than three commissioners may be from the president’s party.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said he was pleased that Senate Democrats were able to reach a deal with Republican lawmakers and the Bush administration to fill so many positions, and he said, “We are restoring Democratic representation to the S.E.C., where it had been absent.”
835 2008-06-28 Higher refinancing costs may leave American home builders, including D. R. Horton and Lennar, the two largest, with negative cash flow in 2009, according to a report by Goldman Sachs. Goldman changed its neutral rating on homebuilders to cautious. Goldman holds at least $15 million of D. R. Horton’s debt, according to the report.
836 2008-06-28 WINFIELD, Mo. — The Pin Oak levee, the last remaining barrier between about 100 homes here and the lakelike Mississippi River, finally gave way before dawn Friday. But the fight to save those homes continued into the evening as the authorities coordinated an effort to wall them off with a new sand-filled barricade.

National Guard soldiers and volunteer firefighters fought for more than a week to save the levee, sandbagging weak spots and reinforcing areas where the saturated earth had simply slid down, but the river proved too strong. In the end, it was the southeast corner that gave way: the river pushed against muskrat holes in the levee until it burst through, lifting a pile of sandbags that soldiers had laid Monday and sweeping away a section that soon grew to a 65-foot-wide gash in the levee.

The disappointment among those who had fought to save the levee was thick.

“I feel like hell,” said Brian Gardner of the Missouri National Guard. “My little levee that could, couldn’t.” It was the last earthen levee in Lincoln County that had not been overtopped or breached.

The authorities sounded tornado sirens and went door to door in east Winfield, about 50 miles northwest of St. Louis, alerting the 25 or so residents who remained that water would reach their homes within hours. Many people here have lived through several floods, and had emptied their homes in preparation for a levee break even as they prayed that the Pin Oak would hold.

Some winced or cried when they learned that the levee had been breached, but soon stoicism, even joviality, took hold, as they packed their cars with the few items they had kept — a half-gallon of milk, a few shirts, a pillow, the coffee maker.
837 2008-06-28 With more reductions coming next year, all the domestic industry’s growth over the last decade will most likely be lost. “The U.S. industry is undertaking a historic restructuring,” Gary Chase, an industry analyst with Lehman Brothers, wrote in a research report Friday.

Air fares, which are up about 17 percent this year on average, may rise as much as 40 percent within the next four years, Mr. Chase predicted.

And airlines continue to add fees — Delta said Friday that because of high fuel costs, it will start charging up to $50 to book a frequent-flier awards ticket. American and US Airways also recently announced they would charge to book tickets using miles.

Leisure travel falls in September, so occasional fliers may first encounter the harsh new reality of flying at Thanksgiving, with fewer flights and less-convenient connections.

By year’s end, roughly 100 American communities will be left without regular commercial air service, and that number may double next year, according to the Air Transport Association, the industry trade group.

“The guy who is used to taking a nonstop flight on a small airplane now has to drive an hour to an hour and a half to an airport to take a trip,” said David Castelveter, a vice president with the trade group. “It is a crisis of great magnitude and it is having an impact already.”

At least one major carrier could liquidate, the trade group has warned, on top of eight small airlines that have disappeared or filed for bankruptcy protection this year.

The prospect of losing service alarms passengers and politicians alike. “I implore American Airlines, as well as the other carriers considering various cost-saving scenarios, to take into account more than profit when they evaluate routes,” Gov. David A. Paterson of New York said this week after American announced a series of cuts affecting La Guardia and other state airports.

Airlines know the changes are painful. Said John P. Tague, United’s chief operating officer: “There’s going to be a period of adjustment in the last half of the year that will be unpleasant.” But the downsizing of the airlines is unlikely to be reversed anytime soon. Carriers are selling off hundreds of older, less-efficient planes, so the industry would have trouble growing sharply again even if oil prices were to drop and the economy were to rebound quickly.

Well before jet fuel costs jumped, analysts were saying there were too many carriers and that a round of mergers was needed to consolidate the industry.

In effect, travelers are seeing the likely results of such mergers — reducing operations to save costs — with only one merger occurring, the combination of Delta and Northwest.

“It’s not for the faint of heart,” David Barger, chief executive of JetBlue, said of the current environment.

For the airlines, the steps are an effort to stave off losses this year that could be the worst in industry history, even greater than in 2002, when travel plummeted in the wake of the 2001 terrorist attacks.

The A.T.A. predicts the domestic airlines will collectively lose a minimum of $7 billion this year, and as much as $13 billion, which would eclipse the $11 billion the carriers lost during 2002.

For passengers like Allon Lefever of Harrisonburg, Va., the looming cuts threaten to make his trips even more cumbersome. Mr. Lefever prefers to fly Continental from Washington-Dulles airport to the Toledo Express airport, through Cleveland, for the board meetings he attends four times a year.

But this month, Continental announced it would drop service to Toledo, including the flight Mr. Lefever waited for on Wednesday afternoon.

“It’s disappointing to see another airline walking away from the Toledo airport,” Mr. Lefever said. It is also disappointing to airport officials, who try to persuade Toledo residents not to drive to larger airports in Detroit, Cleveland and Columbus.

They were hoping to attract more passengers when Continental, which used to serve the airport with 19-seat turbo-prop planes, began flying 37-seat aircraft there in February. “We haven’t had much time to really enjoy it,” said Eric J. Frankl, the airport’s director.

The loss of service “really hurts our ability to serve the business community,” Mr. Frankl said. “Most companies that are looking for a location want to have good, convenient access to the air transportation system.”

Mr. Castelveter of the Air Transport Association said the airlines regret having to prune a system that essentially promised Americans — and even international travelers — that they could fly to any corner of the country within a day.

“I don’t think any airline wants to say to any community, ‘We can’t serve you,’ but they’ve got no choice,” he said. “It’s now a matter of survival.”

Mr. Chase at Lehman Brothers said the airlines probably would save about $1 billion by replacing less-efficient planes with newer aircraft and eliminating money-losing routes.

That could help airlines recover lost profits, particularly if they charge more for fares, which he forecast will rise by at least an additional 8 percent this year, and as much as 40 percent higher in 2012 compared with 2007.

That is not much consolation to travelers like Ken Schulze, a farmer from McClure in northwestern Ohio.

Mr. Schulze and his wife, Val, fly three or four times a year, often to visit their son in Utah, and like to start out from Toledo. Otherwise, the Schulzes must drive a minimum of 90 minutes to a bigger airport, he said.

Echoing the wishes of travelers across the country, he added, “We would really like to see the airlines stay here.”
838 2008-06-28 N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said Friday that rewarding untested rookies with lucrative contracts was “ridiculous” and that the issue needed to be addressed in contract talks.

“There’s something wrong about the system,” Goodell said during a question-and-answer period at a sports symposium in Chautauqua, N.Y. “The money should go to people who perform.”

Goodell said he favored lowering salaries for rookies, but allowing a provision for those players to renegotiate deals after proving themselves on the field. He said he planned to open negotiations with the players union on a labor deal this fall.
839 2008-06-28 More than 2,000 people followed Sorenstam and her playing partners, Creamer and Suzann Petterson, on a drizzly morning that gave way to sun. Although Creamer played the best of the three, the name most often called by the gallery was Sorenstam’s. “You’re walking out there and you hear everybody saying, ‘Thanks for the memories, thank you for what you’ve done,’ ” Creamer said. “And it’s true.”

Sorenstam birdied two of the first three holes, sticking her approach on the par-5 No. 3 to 2 feet. The greenside gallery roared so loudly that Sophie Gustafson, addressing her ball on the adjacent fourth tee, stepped away from her shot.

After a bogey on No. 7, where Sorenstam nearly fell into a bunker playing her second shot from the rough, but she rolled in an 11-footer for a birdie on the tricky ninth green to get back to par for the tournament. Another birdie, on No. 10, was her last until her eagle attempt on No. 18 slid past the cup on the right. Sorenstam took 33 putts, the same as she did Thursday, which she attributed to a short, jabby stroke.

“It has to do with tempo,” she said. “It has to do with the length of my backswing. It just takes a while to get that. Playing fast greens like this, you need to stick to your routine, but it also makes it tougher when it’s just so tricky out there.”

It was not as tricky for Park. In a four-hole stretch, she sank three putts of at least 30 feet, two for birdies and another for an eagle on the par-5 No. 2. “Every putt I hit out there was flawless strokes,” Park said. “And I read the greens really well.”

In a season in which her best finish has been a tie for fifth, the 67 marked Park’s best round since February. Then there is the memory of last year, when she tumbled from the lead with a third-round 74 before rallying with a 70. “Having a good finish last year gives me that reminder that I can do well,” she said.

Sorenstam, a three-time Open winner, needs no reminder of how difficult an Open course can be on the weekend or of how quickly players four or five strokes ahead can come back to the field. “I expect it to happen even more this weekend,” she said.
840 2008-06-28 PRAGUE — Serbia’s finance minister, Mirko Cvetkovic, was nominated on Friday to become prime minister of a new pro-European coalition government.

If confirmed by Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, 57, a low-key technocrat in the pro-Western Democratic Party of President Boris Tadic, would succeed Vojislav Kostunica, the departing nationalist prime minister. Mr. Kostunica, who helped lead the revolution that overthrew Slobodan Milosevic in 2000, has railed against the West in recent months.

The formation of a government, perhaps as soon as next week, comes after weeks of intense jockeying and is the result of an unlikely alliance between Mr. Tadic’s pro-European party and Mr. Milosevic’s Socialist Party, which fought a war against the West in the 1990s.

By agreeing to form a coalition, Mr. Milosevic’s old party paradoxically would be helping to bring Serbia back into the European fold. Mr. Cvetkovic is expected to focus on Serbia’s drive to enter the European Union while trying to improve its economy. Serbia is among Europe’s poorest countries.

The Democrats won the most seats in a parliamentary election on May 11, but not enough to form a majority in the 250-seat Parliament. Mr. Kostunica’s nationalist party initially wooed the Socialists, but the talks broke off when it became clear that the Socialists wanted to link Serbia’s future to the European Union, while Mr. Kostunica was seeking to forge closer ties with Russia.

“I expect the new government to be stable, to work for the national interest and European integration,” said Ivica Dacic, the leader of the Socialist Party.

While Serbian liberals on the whole have embraced the prospect of a pro-European government, many also say they are uneasy with the decision by President Tadic to join forces with Mr. Milosevic’s old party. Some analysts say the coalition of former ideological rivals could prove unstable and short-lived.
841 2008-06-28 “Padmavati” was an effort to remain true to what the festival has prided itself on: presenting the unexpected, the unusual, the new.

“It’s a piece that everybody’s always talking about but nobody’s ever doing,” said Emmanuel Villaume, the conductor. “I can’t figure out why people don’t want to program it.”

Mr. Villaume, a native of France, speculated that presenters might be intimidated by its half-man, half-beast quality — it’s as much a ballet as an opera — and that the French are “bad at defending their own repertoire.”

A landmark of musical Orientalism, “Padmavati” was composed between 1914 and 1918. Inspired by a long trip that he and his wife had made in India, Roussel based the opera on events and myths from about 1300.

“Padmavati” begins with the Mogul ruler Allauddin (Giorgio Surian) and his army at the gates of Chitor (now Chittaurgarh, in Rajasthan). He enters the court of its Hindu ruler, Ratan-Sen (John Bellemer); is welcomed with some fine dancing; and induces his host to have his legendarily beautiful wife, Padmavati (Nicole Piccolomini), lower her veil. Big mistake. Allauddin, entranced by her beauty, tells Ratan-Sen to hand her over or face the city’s destruction.

Ratan-Sen refuses, and war breaks out. Ratan-Sen is wounded, his army is defeated, and he suggests that perhaps it might be best for his wife to surrender. She refuses to dishonor herself or her husband’s love, kills Ratan-Sen and self-immolates on his funeral pyre. Allauddin enters to see his carnal hopes go up in smoke.

Roussel uses a Western orchestra (here the Prague National Symphony), but the score is swirled with themes based on Indian scales and melodies reminiscent of “Scheherazade.” There are wordless choral passages evoking “Daphnis and Chloé,” and much of the music is inflected with Gallic sensuality. The long stretches of dance hark back to the Baroque operas of Lully and Rameau.

The director, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, came from Bollywood, and other Indians created the production: Tanusree Shankar (of the Ravi Shankar artistic clan) provided the choreography, Omung Kumar Bhandula the sets, Rajesh Pratap Singh the costumes. Ms. Shankar brought a team of two dozen dancers based in Calcutta; the Châtelet provided the chorus.

The show is rife with flower-petal flinging, the drawing of swords, smoky effects, colorful gold-trimmed costumes and red lighting to depict the flow of blood. Paeans to Padmavati’s beauty are lavish: “From her smiles, flowers are born,” one line runs. After their immolation, the couple reappear and ascend steps to a background of a heavenly sky.

Mr. Bhansali, 43, who grew up in Mumbai, has directed five Bollywood movies, but he said creating this production was a nerve-racking experience. He had never seen an opera before.

When he first saw the score, he said, “I didn’t understand a thing of it.”

“For me, the visual comes first,” he added. But he said he has always loved music and began as a choreographer.

The hardest part, he said, was adapting Indian art forms and sensibilities to what is essentially Western music. For example, the Indian dancers are used to strict percussive beats and not the undulating rhythms of “Padmavati.” And he had to convey an Indian style of emoting and gesturing to the “actors,” as he continually referred to the singers during an interview on Friday.

He also elaborated on some of Roussel’s direction, adding touches like replacing a white stone in a Shiva temple scene with a white bull, representing Nandi, Shiva’s general.

The production had to be reconfigured to fit in the much smaller Teatro Nuovo. Yet “the spirit of what we created remains the same,” he said, describing it as “that whole sense of dignity” that emanates from Padmavati’s decision to die rather than submit.

Mr. Villaume said he found the piece’s metaphysics convincing: “The notion of death as redemption is musically translated beautifully. You can compare that to some of past redemption scenes of Wagner, of course, but it’s totally in a French atmosphere. You can see he has studied his Wagner and Strauss very well.”

Roussel was born in 1869 and had an unusually tragic young life: by the age of 11 he had lost his parents, his paternal grandparents and his maternal grandmother, who was raising him. After a brief career in the navy, he turned to music full time and became a respected composer and teacher, counting Satie and Varèse among his pupils.

Mr. Villaume said the Orientalism of the “Padmavati” score was legitimized by the presence of the Indian artists. “You have the real visual flavors of India,” he said. Among those flavors were the extraordinarily vivid expressions on the faces of the dancers, whose movements combined Western, Indian classical and traditional Bengali styles.

Baby, the elephant, was another such touch, however brief. Allauddin makes his entrance atop her, and that’s the end of her scene.

But Raaghav Dar, an assistant director, said that backstage she appeared to be a full member of the cast, sometimes pulling off the turbans of the dancers or linking her trunk with their arms. “She likes to fool around with them,” he said. The elephant, a veteran of the Paris production who belongs to a French circus, is lodged at a sports stadium in Spoleto.

For all the elaborateness of the production, the only other performance is on Sunday.
842 2008-06-28 The Swiss architecture firm Herzog & de Meuron has been enlisted to design a new residential tower in TriBeCa that will incorporate a monumental public sculpture at ground level by the artist Anish Kapoor, the project’s developer said. The real estate company Alexico Group, which also developed the Mark Hotel, said a design would be released in the fall. The tower is to rise at the intersection of Leonard and Church Streets, and the sculpture will be fully integrated into the architecture. Mr. Kapoor, who was born in India and lives in London, is known for vast public sculptures like “Sky Mirror,” a convex stainless steel reflecting sculpture that was installed at Rockefeller Center two years ago. Herzog & de Meuron’s many projects include the new national stadium for the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, the Tate Modern museum complex in a former power station at Bankside in London, and an expansion of the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis.
843 2008-06-28 The movie version of “Frost/Nixon,” the acclaimed play by Peter Morgan, will open the London Film Festival in October, BBC News reported. The movie, directed by Ron Howard, reconstructs interviews between former President Richard Nixon, played by Frank Langella, and the British journalist David Frost, played by Michael Sheen, that were shown on television in 1977. Both actors are reprising their stage roles for the film. The annual film festival, now in its 52nd year, runs from Oct. 15 through Oct. 30. The movie also stars Kevin Bacon, Oliver Platt and Sam Rockwell. The play, which opened in London in 2006, later came to Broadway and earned three Tony nominations in 2007.
844 2008-06-28 This advertisement for Senator John McCain, the presumed Republican nominee, will be going on the air in key closely contested states and on national cable television. Titled “Purpose,” it runs for 30 seconds.

THE SCRIPT “American technology protected the world. We went to the moon, not because it was easy, but because it was hard. John McCain will call America to our next national purpose: energy security. A comprehensive bipartisan plan to lower prices at the pump. Reduce dependence on foreign oil through domestic drilling. And champion energy alternative for better choices and lower costs. Putting country first. McCain.”

ON THE SCREEN The opening seconds mix images of military might (warships and fighter planes) with space exploration (a rocket about to blast off from Cape Canaveral, astronauts walking on the moon). Mr. McCain then appears at a lectern, with three American flags behind him. That gives way to shots of a gas pump (from back in those wonderful days when gasoline was still $2.55 a gallon) and a man filling the tank of his car. As an announcer mentions energy alternatives, images associated with options that Mr. McCain favors appear on the screen, including solar panels and wind turbines. The commercial ends with an image of Mr. McCain, a serious and determined expression on his face, accompanied by the words “Country First” and his name.

ACCURACY This advertisement is meant to draw attention to Mr. McCain’s “Lexington Project,” a plan he announced this month to give the United States energy independence by 2025. The script encapsulates many elements of that proposal, but also describes it as “bipartisan,” which would seem to imply that Democrats do or would support it, or were consulted in its elaboration. But Democrats, following the lead of their presumed nominee, Senator Barack Obama, have already condemned Mr. McCain’s call for a summer gas tax holiday, the first step in his effort to lower prices at the pump; in addition, they say that he has in the past opposed incentives intended to encourage development of solar and wind energy. Mr. McCain also avoids using the word “offshore” in reference to drilling for oil and gas to increase domestic supplies, an essential element of his plan that has drawn criticism not only from Democrats but also from some Republicans, like Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California.

SCORECARD Energy costs are very much on the minds of Americans this summer, so the advertisement is certainly timely. It also sounds themes that are constants in Mr. McCain’s campaign: resolution and determination, with a hint of sacrifice for the common good. But voters under 50 may not recall John F. Kennedy’s promise to put a man on the moon in less than a decade, and the musical accompaniment, a mix of electronica, percussion and swelling strings, seems more somber than uplifting. LARRY ROHTER
845 2008-06-28 NEW HAVEN — A soft knocking seems like an appropriate beginning for a work titled “Doors.” And it comes, on a child-size door, at the start of the Apparatus Theater Group’s performance at the New Theater here, part of the International Festival of Arts and Ideas.

The knocks are the first of many. Sasha Pepelyaev, the director of this Russian troupe, essentially builds the piece upon the premise of the breathless moment after the rat-a-tat-tat, before the door opens. The pregnant pause when fate is suspended, the crossing of a threshold, the hidden lives behind the barrier — these ideas are all full of obvious symbolic portent. And Mr. Pepelyaev milks them for more than they are worth in “Doors,” which at 90 minutes feels about twice as long as it needs to be.

There’s nonetheless a lot to admire in Mr. Pepelyaev’s work, not least his visual imagination. When the piece, which opened on Wednesday night, begins, eight doors, some with glass panels, are placed at apparently arbitrary points around the stage. A large silver ball is balanced on top of the door placed center stage, but when a woman comes to stand before it, knocks and waits, the door begins to slide slowly to the side.

The effect is surreal and magical, as is that of the film that plays intermittently on a screen covering the back wall of the stage. Like the suspended world of a Magritte painting, the set in the film is upside down, the ball apparently hanging off the door’s bottom. Doors open and close as they do onstage, but without the seven dancers who are opening and closing them before us.

Mr. Pepelyaev (who is credited with the set design as well as with the concept and choreography) never overuses the film. It disappears soon after the start of the piece, and reappears just often enough to amplify its Dadaist celebration of the irrational and the illogical. (Late in the piece, a flying door set against a starry sky makes a brief and witty reference to a popular screensaver.)
846 2008-06-28 Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from June 20 through June 27:

1. Your Money: 8 Reasons You Should Not Expect an Inheritance

2. Fuel Prices Shift Math for Life in Far Suburbs

3. What’s Obscene? Google Could Have an Answer

6. Travelers Shift to Rail as Cost of Fuel Rises

8. The Food Chain: In Fertile India, Population Has Outstripped Agriculture
847 2008-06-28 Back in the early 1990s, Liz Phair was hanging out with indie-rockers in Chicago and quietly writing songs on her own. The ones she released on her 1993 debut album, “Exile in Guyville” (ATO), spoke so frankly that the album sold half a million copies and has just been re-released. Ms. Phair, 41, and her band have done four sold-out concerts, playing it from start to finish, including two New York shows at the Hiro Ballroom. “Fifteen years seems like a minute,” she said.

The “Exile” songs were amateurish in the best ways. The lyrics were blunt and unguarded: tales of a young woman veering from sexual bravado to wounded bewilderment at men’s behavior to keen observation of power struggles within couples. The song structures often strayed from verse-chorus-verse, and unconventional tunings led to odd guitar chords. Her voice was untrained, mingling tenacity and diffidence.

“Weave my disgust into fame,” Ms. Phair sang in “Help Me Mary,” and the songs did. Those semiprivate songs led her to a rock career that since then has not lived up to her least professional album.

“I was never born to be onstage,” Ms. Phair says in the documentary DVD that accompanies the reissued album, and she has always been a shaky performer. But on Thursday night she was smiling, chatty and confident in her youthful gems, buoyed by near-constant singalongs.

At one point she polled the audience members on how many had bought the original album (nearly all), how many used it to get over a breakup (a significant response), how many couples had met over it (few) and how many had played it during sex (enough to surprise her).

Wisely, she didn’t try to update the music. The band approximated the sparse arrangements of the original album: the exposed guitars and snare-drum sputters in “Soap Star Joe,” the hovering chords of “Shatter,” the Rolling Stones riffs of “Mesmerizing.” (Ms. Phair has described “Exile in Guyville” as a woman’s answer to the Stones’ “Exile on Main Street.”)

Ms. Phair’s voice was sinewy in the angrier songs and sustained in the quiet ones; she has taken singing lessons over the years. A guest singer, Blake Friedman, provided vocal counterpoint in “Flower,” leaving Ms. Phair to sound amused as she sang her younger self’s raunchy come-ons.
848 2008-06-28 WASHINGTON — The Federal Reserve scrambled to avert an “expected contagion” that risked infecting the nation’s financial system when its took unprecedented actions in mid-March to provide financial backing to Bear Stearns and provide emergency loans to Wall Street firms.

The Federal Reserve released documents Friday providing insights into its private deliberations of those controversial decisions.

The Fed’s actions came at a time when credit and financial problems were intensifying, threatening to paralyze the entire financial system and plunge the economy into a recession.

Given the fragile conditions of the financial markets at that time, the Fed said it had felt compelled to intervene because an “immediate failure” of Bear Stearns would bring about an “expected contagion.”

The Fed initially moved on March 14 to provide temporary emergency financing to Bear Stearns Companies through an arrangement with JPMorgan Chase.
849 2008-06-28 LONDON — Oil reached $142 a barrel, a record high, and world stock indexes declined as Wall Street braced for markets to open a day after a painful 300-point plunge in the Dow.

American markets bounced around at the open and were up slightly by 10:00 a.m. Investors are hoping the Dow Jones industrial average will recover some of its losses from Thursday, when downgrades on banks and auto makers dragged the blue-chip index toward bear market territory — and its lowest close since September 2006.

The financial world will be keeping a close eye on oil prices, which surged in overnight trading to $142 a barrel before falling back, and a government report due this morning on inflation. Oil gained more than $5 a barrel on Thursday alone, underscoring fears about the economic impact of higher commodity prices.

In Europe, stocks fell back following sharp declines in Asia, as investors worried that a prolonged economic slowdown could hurt earnings at companies ranging from carmakers and airlines to investment banks.

Europe’s Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index was down 1 percent on Friday and stocks in all major markets in the region dropped. Frankfurt’s DAX index lost 0.9 percent and the Paris CAC was down 0.9 percent in afternoon trading; London’s FTSE 100 was nearly unchanged.
850 2008-06-28 The group’s role in criminal justice bears similarity to the stance taken by evangelical leaders like Rick Warren, pastor of the Saddleback Church in Southern California, on global warming, AIDS prevention and Third World poverty.

“What’s distinct is that we’re in an ‘Aha!’ moment now,” Mr. Earley, 53, said in a phone conversation. “The crime issue used to be such a driving wedge between liberals and conservatives, Democrats and Republicans, and now it’s not. In the presidential campaign this year, when have you heard crime as a wedge issue? It’s a common-ground issue, and no one would have envisioned that in the ’70s and ’80s.”

Indeed, an earlier, opposite version of bipartisanship during the 1990s led to the proliferation of severe antidrug laws and a boom in prison construction. President Bill Clinton in 1994 introduced a $30 billion anticrime bill, a main element in his effort to move the Democratic Party toward the center, if not the right, on the law-and-order issue.

To whatever degree the pendulum has now swung toward second thoughts about drug laws, the efforts of a group like Prison Ministry Fellowship have been both a cause and an effect.

What is indisputable is that those efforts have made for an unexpected coalition. While heading into the Capitol one day last year, Mr. Nolan recalled, he was spontaneously embraced and called Baby by Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat, who had been his political antagonist when both served in the California Legislature.

“What the Prison Fellowship brings to the discussion is a different approach, a different perspective, that says this is not a liberal-versus-conservative debate,” said Marc Mauer, the executive director of the Sentencing Project, a group based in Washington, D.C. “This is about what is effective policy and compassionate policy.”

Last year the prison-reform movement won Congressional passage of the Second Chance Act, which supports job training, education and other services for prisoners being released. Also in 2007, the federal Sentencing Commission amended its guidelines to stop penalizing crimes involving crack more severely than those involving powder cocaine. The governor of Florida, Charlie Crist, a Republican, reversed the state’s lifetime ban on voting by felons.

What brought Mr. Earley and Mr. Nolan into the debate was a mix of factors. Before their arrival, Prison Fellowship Ministries — founded by Charles Colson after he served a prison sentence for his role in the Watergate scandal — had already staked out reformist positions on prison rape and prisoner rehabilitation. Mr. Earley referred to his political evolution as “an attitude-adjustment by God.” Mr. Nolan, 58, experienced his own road-to-Damascus moment while serving a two-year prison sentence in the mid-1990s on a corruption charge.

“I went into prison believing in God, and I came out knowing him,” he said. “I understood how much he loved us, even in a dark place.”

Practical reasoning coincided with revelation. Nationally, Mr. Earley had seen the population of state and federal prisons triple to 1.5 million over 20 years, and spending on corrections increase by 125 percent. The result, he came to believe, was that “the people we sent to jail were coming out without rehabilitation, without drug treatment, more bitter and more antisocial than they went in.”

Not every precinct of the religious right has been persuaded. Julie Stewart, president of the advocacy group Families Against Mandatory Minimums, said her organization had been repeatedly rebuffed by Focus on the Family, the influential and powerful group led by James Dobson. Still, the drug war’s dissidents now clearly exist on both sides of the partisan and ideological divide.

“In a way, that’s a religious experience, too,” Mr. Nolan said of the unlikely alliance. “Doesn’t the Bible tell us the lion and lamb should lie down together?”
851 2008-06-28 Senator John McCain said Friday that he thought it was ''unlikely'' that he would get the one-on-one, town-hall-style meetings he had been asking Senator Barack Obama to hold with him during the summer.      ''I still have hope, but so far it appe...
852 2008-06-29 Oh, dear. I have the same feeling one gets when grading final exams: the students have missed the point so badly it must be my fault. Tyler Cowen thinks I've made some institutional assumption that keeps markets from clearing. It's stock-flow equi...
853 2008-06-29 The Golden Eagles had 14 consecutive winning seasons under the former coach Jeff Bower? Will the new coach Larry Fedora be able to continue that streak?...
854 2008-06-29 Nothing about the score seems Minimalist, but Ms. Lomon’s haunting vision of tightly packed cattle cars bound for concentration camps is the disc’s most striking score, and it receives the most powerful performance. ALLAN KOZINN

THE English pianist Paul Lewis released the first volume of his complete survey of the 32 Beethoven piano sonatas in 2005. Over the next two years he toured Europe and America, performing cycles of the sonatas while continuing to record them for Harmonia Mundi France.

The fourth and final volume in the series has now been released, and Mr. Lewis’s work is as insightful and engrossing as ever. There are many prized recordings of the Beethoven sonatas from past masters and current artists. But if I had to recommend a single complete set, I would suggest Mr. Lewis’s distinguished recordings.

Though Mr. Lewis, 36, has a resourceful technique, he does not come across as a brilliant virtuoso. His playing is honest and beautifully detailed, with impressive clarity and no compromises. Yet it is his imagination that carries these performances. At times he is self-effacing and sensitive. But when prodded by something in the music, he can be volatile and fearsome.

Here his performances of three early works, the Sonatas No. 5 in C minor, No. 6 in F and No. 7 in D (published together as Opus 10), are particularly exciting. In the stormy first movement of the C minor, with its clipped, dotted-note rhythmic riff and stunning contrasts, Mr. Lewis plays with such boldness and fancy that it almost sounds as if he were improvising.

Similarly, in the otherworldly Sonata No. 32 in C minor, he charges through the fitful first movement with a wildness that never turns reckless. Yet in his haunting account of the finale, he conveys the music’s pensive mysticism while animating the outbursts of rhythmically jerky exuberance. (The other sonatas in this volume are Nos. 15, 19, 20, 26, 30 and 31.) ANTHONY TOMMASINI

THE Italian composer Luca Francesconi, 52, studied with Karlheinz Stockhausen and Luciano Berio and served as Berio’s assistant from 1981 to 1984. A stronger avant-garde pedigree would be hard to come by. Like his mentors Mr. Francesconi seems determined to extend the vitality of modernist traditions through absorbing and transforming vernacular input — in his case rock, jazz and ethnic folk styles — while using developments in interactive electronics.

For those unfamiliar with Mr. Francesconi’s work, a new disc from the German label Kairos provides an exhilarating introduction. In “Etymo,” at 25 minutes the most substantial work here, the skillful soprano Barbara Hannigan sings, chants and otherwise intones lines and verses by Baudelaire while a chamber ensemble ripples and surges around her. Ms. Hannigan’s voice is a siren call amid the music’s iridescent swirl; now and again Mr. Francesconi isolates her sound and distorts it through electronic means, adding immeasurably to the hallucinatory effect.

Three further works, all 14 to 15 minutes long, provide additional evidence of Mr. Francesconi’s knack for fashioning arresting sounds and a compelling sense of shape and momentum. “Da Capo,” for nine players, follows a clear arc from silence to frenetic activity and back, with shifting proportions along the way. In “A Fuoco” the guitarist Pablo Márquez treads lightly as if to avoid disturbing his colleagues. “Animus” is a wild, frequently uproarious tour de force for the trombonist Benny Sluchin, electronically enhanced.

The uniformly excellent performances are substantially abetted by a clear, detailed recording. A pity about the opaque program notes; happily, Mr. Francesconi’s music speaks volumes without assistance. STEVE SMITH
855 2008-06-29 “Well, I couldn’t ask for any better position,” said Creamer, who had birdies on four of the five par-5 holes. “If somebody said, ‘You want to be at eight under par going into Sunday?’ I would take it in a heartbeat. I’m there. I’ve done the work so far.

“And tomorrow I just have to go out and finish the deal.”

Creamer is playing with controlled aggression and confidence. With the tees pushed up to make the seventh hole a drivable par 4 at 248 yards, Creamer selected a utility club to hit her tee shot just short of the green. She then hit a soft wedge shot from 40 yards to a front hole position, dropping it like a marshmallow on a sofa, five feet from the hole. She made the putt to tie Alfredsson for the lead at seven under par.

Lewis, who could become the first modern professional to win a major championship in her first pro start, had a tremendous day on the difficult Interlachen greens, needing just 23 putts in her five-birdie, no-bogey round.

If Annika Sorenstam had putted anywhere near that well, she would be in contention rather than seven shots back in her final United States Open after a one-under 72 on Saturday.

“I’m about to cry,” said Sorenstam, who will retire from competition after this season. “When you do everything you can and then it just doesn’t happen. I cannot hit the ball any better, I cannot put myself in a better position and I really don’t know what to do. I think I’m rolling the ball really well today and doing everything I was told to do and it feels good and it just does not happen. It’s just ... ”

Her voice trailed off. She fought back tears and finished with a promise: “I’m not giving up. I’m going to tell you that.”

Stranger things have happened. There is electricity in the air here, and it goes beyond the occasional lightning strikes that have delayed play. Although nationalism rarely is an issue in golf at anything other than Solheim Cup and Ryder Cup competitions, it is true that American golf has been struggling on the international stage lately. Americans have won only 6 of the last 30 major championships played in women’s golf.

Creamer, who is wearing an American flag pin on her collar, would love nothing more than to make her first major championship the United States Open.

“I love representing my country,” she said. “I love playing for my country. Just being able to go out there and be representing America at the same time in the United States Women’s Open, it means a lot.”
856 2008-06-29 Along the D line in Brooklyn, home to large communities of immigrants, riders were eager to share their complaints last week. The stations are grimy, filthy and “gunky,” they said. At their worst, they added, the stations resemble slums.

Angela Mario, who takes the N train to work after transferring from a 62nd Street station in Brooklyn, said she had grown accustomed to walls that ooze with strange liquids and outdoor coverings that leak. She said she was dissatisfied with maintenance at the station and questioned whether taxpayer money was being spent effectively.

“We’re used to it,” said Ms. Mario, an administrative assistant. “I’m just angry. How can we trust them anymore?”

When trains pass through many of the stations on the D line, the stairways shake so much that commuters have to cling to the handrails for stability.

At Brooklyn’s Bay-50th Street station on Wednesday, Noel Marte, 3, shuffled down the wobbling stairs as his father’s hand tightly gripped his. His father, Danny Marte, 24, who was born and raised in Brooklyn, said he rode the local lines to pick up his son from school. He said he was disappointed with what he considered worsening inequities in the system. He said that whenever there were cuts, it seemed as if Brooklyn bore an unfair burden.

“It feels like we’re less appreciated,” said Mr. Marte, who works for a company that manufactures minibars. “I worry about my kid’s safety. I’ve never seen it this bad.”

Those concerns are echoed in the Bronx and resonate with Adolfo Carrión Jr., the borough president. When asked if he receives complaints about subway stations, he said, “I wish you could somehow print my laughter.”

Complaints about poor service, out-of-order elevators and broken lights are common, Mr. Carrión said. He worries that the stations could become public safety risks if left in their current condition, and he criticized the authority for poor fiscal planning.

“How do you announce plans and then retract them?” he said. “That’s the great mystery.”

Transportation officials have attributed the cuts to lower-than-expected revenues from real estate taxes and rising operating costs, including gas and overtime pay. The authority estimates that delaying subway station renovations and other major improvements that were originally in the 2005-9 capital spending program will save about $2.7 billion.

Charles Seaton, a spokesman for New York City Transit, says that even without the renovations, the stations are in good shape. “There are absolutely no safety issues involved with these stations,” he said.

Mr. Seaton said he did not have details on the repairs planned for the 19 stations, but he said typical renovations would include building a new platform, improving lighting and electricity and touching up the stations’ appearance, for example by repainting.

The Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, called the decision to delay the renovations “discriminatory.” He said all parts of the city should bear the brunt of the cutbacks.

“Indirectly, it’s saying to Brooklyn transit riders, ‘Hey, tough it out,’ ” Mr. Markowitz said. “If we have to tough it out, it should be balanced and fair across the city.”

Assemblyman Dov Hikind, a Brooklyn Democrat, said he was organizing an effort to photograph unsafe conditions at stations citywide.

Mr. Hikind said the stations expected to be renovated were just a few of many that were in need of attention. He said that in January, a 14-year-old boy fell onto the tracks at a Kings Highway station in Brooklyn after part of the platform beneath him collapsed.

And this month, Yoses Hershkop’s size 11 ½ foot was trapped between the platform and a subway car at the Avenue M station on the Q line in Brooklyn. He struggled and was able to free his foot. Then he called Assemblyman Hikind’s office to report the episode.

“Nothing happened to me, just a big scratch,” Yoses, 17, said in a telephone interview. “But if the same thing happened to a little kid or older person, they could be over with.”
857 2008-06-29 Mr. Orosz said he expected 25,000 people a day to use the new service at the start, with the number growing as more people become familiar with it.

“It looks cooler, it’s faster, it will run a little more frequently,” he said. “All those things should increase ridership.”

The new service, called Select Bus Service, will save time mostly by requiring riders to pay fares before they get on the bus, using coins or swiping their MetroCards at curbside machines at each stop.

The idea is to cut boarding times by eliminating the lines that often form at the front door of a bus while passengers wait to swipe or pay. That wait is a primary factor in slow travel times for buses.

There will be more than one machine at each stop, to keep lines from developing there. The machines will provide receipts, and when the bus arrives, passengers may board either in the front or the back, with no need to show the receipt to the driver or to swipe again.

To keep people honest, inspectors will ride the buses and ask passengers for their receipts. If a passenger does not have one, the inspectors may give them a $100 ticket for fare-beating. Officials said that during the first week, while passengers are adjusting to the system, the inspectors will hand out warnings instead.

The route will have other innovations as well.

The Fordham Road part of the route will have computerized traffic signals that communicate with the buses, helping them by holding a green light or shortening a red light by up to 15 seconds as a bus approaches.

And the stretch of the route along Fordham Road and 207th Street will have dedicated bus lanes painted in red with overhead signs telling other vehicles to stay out of the lane on weekdays from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.

What the route’s buses will not have are cameras mounted on the front to take pictures of cars and trucks encroaching on the bus lane. Legislation pushed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to allow for such cameras was blocked in committee in the State Assembly.

“It hurts bad,” said Mr. Orosz of the absence of the bus cameras. “That would have been a huge lift, a huge improvement in the bus lane.”

Instead, the police will patrol the route to keep other vehicles away.

The buses, all articulated models, with two carriages connected with accordianlike devices, will look a little different too, decorated on the outside with a wavy blue pattern covered with blue plus signs. Inside, the seats are covered in a blue polka dot fabric.

While the new service, which cost $10 million to set up, replaces the Bx12 Limited, local Bx12 service will remain unchanged. Fares and transfers will cost the same as on other city buses.

The upgraded route was designed with cooperation between the transit agency and the city’s Transportation Department. They plan to establish similar service on several more routes. The next will be a route along First and Second Avenue, which will get Select Bus Service late next year, Mr. Orosz said.

Jeannette Sadik-Khan, the city’s transportation commissioner, said that she envisioned, within 10 years, a citywide network of fast bus routes reaching areas of the city not served by the subway system.

The new service is a modified version of what elsewhere has become known as bus rapid transit — a system that has been used in cities like Bogotá, Colombia, and Mexico City to make bus travel speedier and more like train service. In many other cities, however, barriers separate the bus lanes from other traffic, ensuring a clear path for the buses.

David Woloch, the city’s deputy transportation commissioner, said several factors prevented that from being done here, including streets along the route that are too narrow.
858 2008-06-29 Pablo Larrazabal held off three of Europe’s most influential players on Saturday to lead the French Open for a third successive round. Larrazabal, a first-year player from Spain who is ranked 481st in the world and 128th on Europe’s money list, takes a three-stroke lead into Sunday’s final round at Versailles. Larrazabal is tied with Colin Montgomerie and Soren Hansen, and Lee Westwood is another stroke back.

Larrazabal showed cool determination after he bogeyed the 16th and Montgomerie edged to a stroke behind him. He made his final birdie on No. 17. “I hit the ball the best I have all week today,” Larrazabal said.
859 2008-06-29 The Straight Talk Express is a powerful political brand name. It is beloved by many Republicans as a sign of Mr. McCain’s bluntness and his willingness to buck convention. But it infuriates many Democrats, who see it as an Orwellian term that obscures the circumlocutions they say he uses to explain policy shifts.

The more deluxe accommodations of the plane, which will seat 95 and was paid for by the campaign, will be far different from the less grand Straight Talk bus with alternator problems that the campaign turned to after it nearly ran out of money about a year ago, and even from the Jet Blue charter that his campaign has used in this campaign.

There will be 10 first-class seats up front for Mr. McCain and his guests, as well as a telephone and a fax machine. The journalists who will sit in the back, behind the Secret Service agents, are promised electrical outlets.

And mindful of the lighting issues that have kept Mr. McCain from holding many news conferences on the old plane, the new area will be television-ready. It will be wired for microphones, have specialty lighting and have room for a television camera.

But will it recapture the feel of the old bus? And should it? In the politically heated, stressed-out, pressed-for-time atmosphere of a general election campaign, the weirder campaign bus moments of yore may be gone forever.

This campaign bus was, after all, a recreation of the 2000 model, which propelled his energetic but unsuccessful insurgency against George W. Bush.

This time around Mr. McCain started out as the presumed Republican front-runner, and he initially ran a more cautious, conventional campaign. But when his campaign nearly went broke last year, and he plummeted in the polls, he retooled and went back on the bus. It worked in part because it was an efficient way of campaigning in his must-win state, New Hampshire (and it was relatively cheap), and it allowed him to loosen up as a candidate.

There were glimmers of the old bus style during daylong bus rides when, after the newsier queries were exhausted, Mr. McCain would discuss with reporters the story of Ray Bradbury’s “Martian Chronicles” or the Korean War, or gossip about Senate colleagues or talk about his love of the group Abba.

These days the bus trips are usually short hops between airports and campaign events, and most of the seats are reserved for local reporters. Interactions on the bus are more likely to be focused on news, sometimes to Mr. McCain’s discomfort — as when he was pressed on a recent ride through Pennsylvania on how he thinks he can hope to pay for his tax cuts by eliminating pork barrel projects worth much less.

Most of his interactions with the national reporters these days come in the few formal news conferences held each week, at which the questioners and answerers alike speak into microphones and the relentless follow-ups of the bus are difficult.

Part of the reason the freewheeling bus sessions were scaled back was that Mr. McCain could be unpredictable, occasionally making news that overshadowed the campaign’s message of the day. Such as when his ruminations about choosing a running mate grabbed most of the headlines on a day he delivered a speech in Annapolis highlighting his years at the Naval Academy.

But some political analysts and observers are beginning to warn that muffling Mr. McCain up in first class could make him dull and take away an essential part of his brand.

“I used to think what Mr. McCain’s aides thought after he started winning: He has to change now, be more formal, more constrained,” Peggy Noonan wrote in The Wall Street Journal last week. “That was exactly wrong. Let McCain be McCain.”

But Mr. McCain’s ground-based Straight Talk Express has been upgraded, as well, with new lights, microphones and a sleeker look. It is even featured in a video on his campaign’s Web site in which his director of advance, Davis White, shows off its new gizmos, and the backdrop behind Mr. McCain that can be changed to reflect the message of the day.

As Mr. McCain rode through Ohio on Friday — during a nearly hourlong talk with reporters that ranged from Iraq to military procurement to the Catholic vote and Karl Rove — Mr. McCain said he did not miss the less predictable underdog days.
860 2008-06-29 “This is the grand finale here,” said Bob Foust, 57, who thought the water would reach two or three feet in his home. He dreaded breaking the news to his wife, still asleep at the friend’s home where they were staying.

Some residents looked stricken, others simply exhausted as they realized that their fears had been realized: an unknown amount of time outside of their homes and the foreboding task of cleaning up whatever the river left. But even as they looked out over their flooded homes, people here expressed deep thanks for what they described as heroic efforts by the soldiers.

“I think they’re more heartbroken than the actual victims,” Mr. Foust said. “They tried so hard.”

The Mississippi, now receding in Winfield, is expected to crest Monday in St. Louis and Wednesday in Cape Girardeau, in southeastern Missouri, The Associated Press reported.

The crest in Cape Girardeau, where the flood stage is 32 feet, is expected to be 42.5 feet, The A.P. reported. Some residents will have to leave, and 100,000 acres of farmland will be flooded, the National Weather Service said.

In Winfield on Saturday, most of the soldiers had been working for about 24 hours by the time the final barrier broke, officials said, refusing to take the three-hour naps their commander offered. For days before that, they had labored feverishly on the Pin Oak levee. When the river finally beat them, some broke down.

“I’ve seen more men cry in these last 9 or 11 days than I’ve ever seen cry in my lifetime,” Col. Michele Melton of the Missouri National Guard said of both devastated residents and soldiers.

The barricade failed, officials said, because they built part of it on earth instead of on asphalt in an effort to ring in a pocket of four homes. It was primarily made from 4-foot-tall wire mesh, lined baskets known as Hesco barriers, and four feet of sandbags were stacked on top.

“We’ll learn lessons from this, it’s the military way,” said Col. Wendul G. Hagler II, joint chief of staff with the Missouri National Guard.

“It was a fight worth fighting,” he said, “win or lose.”
861 2008-06-29 The prohibition has to do with farm subsidies. When Finland entered the European Union, the country was divided into several zones. While farmers in northern Finland are entitled to large subsidies because of the severe weather conditions there, those in the milder south, including the Alands, receive less. But the European Union contends that the southern Finland subsidies are still too much, and it has been seeking for years to justify eliminating them.

That is where Dr. Slotte entered the picture.

No one really knows how the European Commission, the European Union’s executive body, got wind of Dr. Slotte and his vineyard, although it could have been through an article about him three years ago in Alandstidningen, the local newspaper of the islands, which featured a photo of a smiling Dr. Slotte on its front page, happily clutching a bunch of grapes.

“Finland has always had agriculture, but with an Arctic climate, it’s limited,” said Niklas Lampi, the paper’s editor. “But a commissioner suddenly said: ‘You people are growing wine, just like in France. Why do you need subsidies?’ ”

Being entangled in the wrangling over subsidies has taken its toll on Dr. Slotte and his neighbors.

“It was a tough time,” said Michaela Slotte, whose husband, Niklas, is Dr. Slotte’s older brother and also grows grapes. Most of the neighbors around their family farmstead, called Mattas, receive subsidies. “This is a small village. They didn’t like Fredrik being used to get rid of their subsidies,” she said.

In the meantime, Helsinki, the Finnish capital, and Brussels, where the European Commission has its headquarters, have agreed on a formula to scale back the farm aid without changing Finland’s status as a nonwine-growing country, and the tempest around Dr. Slotte’s vineyard has subsided. “We used to be a fishing and farming people,” said Mr. Lampi, 33. “But no more.”

The Alands, with their sandy inlets and green fields dotted with pastel-colored wood houses and barn-red outbuildings, seem to be doing just fine as the old pursuits like farming and fishing wither away.

“We import fish from Norway nowadays,” said Daniel Dahlen, managing director of the Aland Chamber of Commerce.

Their economy is increasingly based on services linked to the ferry and shipping companies that use the Alands’ harbors to benefit from the islands’ tax-free status — a perquisite, based on the Alands’ autonomy, that was negotiated when Finland joined the European Union.

Dr. Slotte insists he is not in the wine business for the money. “It’s only a hobby,” he said.

But some say he is too modest. His sparkling wine, while no Veuve Clicquot, is tasty. “It’s a shame,” said Mr. Dahlen. “It would be something for the local restaurants.”

To protect his vines from the cold, Dr. Slotte employs other tricks besides spraying them with water, as orange growers do in Florida to beat the occasional freeze. He lays insulation boards over the plants in winter and prunes the vines so that in summer the grapes lie close to the ground, where they can absorb warmth from the soil. One of his varieties, a Latvian vine, can survive temperatures as low as 22 below.

Yet Dr. Slotte’s passion has been borne aloft in part by increasingly mild winters. After studying temperatures on the Alands over the last 20 years, he found “a curve pointing upward,” he said.

“It looks like it’s becoming a more suitable climate for wine-growing,” he said, “better certainly than in the 1980s.”

So is global warming on Dr. Slotte’s side? Ingmar Eriksson is not so sure. Mr. Eriksson, 70, makes apple wine, apple brandy and apple liqueur on his 25-acre farm with its 14,000 apple trees, a short drive from Dr. Slotte’s vineyard. Apple wine is permitted under European Union rules, and Mr. Eriksson sells about 7,900 gallons of it a year, much of it tax free on the ferries and boats that ply the waters around the Alands.

Winters have been more erratic lately. This year, he said, it was warmer in January than in March, when the temperature dropped to 7 degrees one night. “If you look at history, ice ages came and went,” he said. “It’s premature to say if it’s global warming.”

He will not grow grapes, he said, and when asked whether the islands had a future as a wine-growing region, he replied: “No. Perhaps if you grew the grapes indoors.”

He added, with a laugh, “It just shows how little they know about us in Brussels.”
862 2008-06-29 “If the Department of Defense finds a school is doing this, it notifies other federal agencies and funding gets cut off,” said Lt. Col. Les Melnyk, a department spokesman.

The law, the Solomon Amendment, was challenged by a consortium of law schools and professors.

Here in Vermont, the prospect of losing federal grants mattered to the small, independent law school, which has an endowment of $14 million.

The fact that the school is not affiliated with a university, however, made the decision to forgo the money easier, because other programs are not affected.

At most universities, federal grants help finance dozens of scientific and other research programs.

The William Mitchell College of Law in St. Paul also bars recruiters from its campus. The school is not losing any federal money, however, because its research is not financed out of four spending bills affected by the Solomon Amendment.

“It was a pretty simple application of our nondiscrimination policy,” said Eric S. Janus, president and dean of William Mitchell. “It really arises out of our desire to make sure that all of our students have equal access to all opportunities, including the opportunity to serve in the military.”

Paula C. Johnson, a professor at the Syracuse University College of Law and a co-president of the Society of American Law Teachers, one of the plaintiffs in the Supreme Court case, said the two institutions were keeping alive the issue of “don’t ask, don’t tell” and its impact on law schools.

“They are the only institutions that have taken as dramatic and as principled a stance as they have, so it’s certainly put in the category of profiles in courage,” Professor Johnson said. “They have done things that other schools have not done.”

On campus here, the policy is often a topic of conversation. The college also sends students to Washington each year for lobby day, when they protest “don’t ask, don’t tell.”

Richard Eckley, a former marine and a second-year student, does not agree with the school’s decision to bar military recruiters, saying it is not constructive.

But Kathy Stickel, a student who served in the Army and who is also a lesbian, does not think the school should change its policy.

“There’s great value in doing something right when there’s a cost attached to it,” Ms. Stickel said. “You shouldn’t change because someone is waving money in front of you.”

Alison Share, who graduated this year, said even though the school had not made a big splash with the decision, it had taught her a valuable lesson.

“It’s important to stand up, even when no one is watching,” Ms. Share said.
863 2008-06-29 These days, teenagers who do have licenses are not only driving less, but they are also having to come up with their own gasoline money. Any long trip involving a group of teenagers is likely to involve careful negotiation over who pays. And some teenagers are realizing that gasoline prices have put their dream of owning a car out of reach.

Tim Chou, 19, an engineering student at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, had to give up his gas-guzzling 1996 Nissan Quest.

“My parents decided to donate my car to charity because they didn’t want to pay for the insurance and gas anymore,” Mr. Chou said. “I guess I’ll be doing a lot of car-pooling this summer.”

He was hanging out on a recent Friday night at a Starbucks with a group of his friends, and all of them said the price of gasoline, made worse by difficulty in finding summer jobs, was cramping their style.

“I used to drive around and hang out here with my friends five nights a week last summer, but I just can’t afford to buy gas anymore,” said Elliot Lee, 19, another engineering student. Mr. Lee said that since arriving home in East Dundee, Ill., for the summer, he had withdrawn $100 from his savings account to pay for gasoline.

Perhaps the summer’s most visible change is occurring in the downtown strips of small towns where, for decades, cruising on Friday and Saturday nights has been a teenage rite of passage. It is a peculiarly American phenomenon — driving around in a big loop, listening to music, waving at one another and wasting gasoline.

“We’re not cruising around anymore, with gas costing $4.50 a gallon,” said Ewelina Smosna, a recent graduate of Taft High School in Chicago, as she hung out the other night at the Streets of Woodfield, an outdoor mall in Schaumburg. “We just park the car and walk around.”

According to police officers in towns like Elkhart, Ind.; Grand Haven, Mich.; and Mount Pleasant, S.C., traffic has dropped markedly on cruise nights.

“Teen cruising is way down from 2005, when it used to be bumper to bumper downtown,” said David Scott, a senior officer in Grand Haven, a popular resort town hugging the Lake Michigan shoreline. “Traffic downtown used to be so bad in the summer, you couldn’t drive faster than 10 miles an hour. Last Friday night, I didn’t even have to wait in line to get through a light.”

Summer cruising appears to be ailing even in Modesto, Calif., a town immortalized in the film “American Graffiti.”

“I think it’s a pretty good observation that there is much less cruising in town this summer, and it has a lot to do with the gas prices,” said Sgt. Tom Blake of the Modesto police. “The kids are parking their cars near McHenry Avenue and congregating at the Sonic drive-in, the McDonald’s and the Starbucks.”

Around the nation’s dinner tables, meanwhile, parents — many of them struggling to pay for their own gasoline — are having heart-to-heart talks with their teenagers.

Lorraine Demuccio, an administrative assistant from Mount Pleasant, said gas prices prompted her to urge her 18-year-old daughter, Annalisa, to turn down a summer job as a nanny.

The job “would have meant driving at least 20 minutes a day, each way, and then she’d be driving the kids to the pool and the beach,” Ms. Demuccio said. “She ended up taking a job at a day care center that she can walk to.”

Margie Passias, a single mother from Palatine, Ill., said she was scrambling to find extra cash to hand over with the car keys when her two teenage daughters, Athina, 18, and Paulina, 16, clamor to drive her Chevy Tracker.

“I sat the girls down on the living room couch one night and told them, ‘the only solution this summer is car-pooling,’ ” Ms. Passias recalled. “I told them not to drive on a regular basis, but I’m still giving them money for gas here and there. And with my financial situation, it is really hard.”

Randy Ballschmiede, an airline mechanic from West Dundee, Ill., said that while he could empathize with the passion of his son, Kevin, for cruising with friends, he was not sure the teenager had fully come to grips with today’s financial realities.

“We live a very cautious life financially, but Kevin seems to think there is no end to the money,” Mr. Ballschmiede said. “He tells me about his buddy, whose parents gave him a gas credit card, and I told him, ‘That is not going to happen at our house.’ ”
864 2008-06-29 AMERICANS may think of Europeans as accustomed to high gas prices — with our relatively high sales and excise taxes, the cost of gas in Europe has long been double or triple what Americans pay. But the price has increased so much lately that even we are feeling it.

In Vienna these days, all we talk about, it seems, is the cost of gas, which has risen 15 percent in a year to 1.3 euros a liter (about $7.75 a gallon).

Thus we have utterly boring conversations in which we discuss discount gas stations, motor scooters and the logic of public transport.

And we do a lot of math. Is it worth the cost in time to save a few euros by seeking out the cheaper gas across the border, in the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Slovenia? Is it worth an investment of 95 euros to take those half-day Austrian automobile association courses that promise to teach us to change our driving habits and decrease fuel consumption 15 percent?

Interestingly enough, car sharing never comes up as an option in these conversations; public transport does. Even I, with a passionate dislike of public transport, find myself in a new mind-set and in the subway more often than I normally would choose to be.

For some Austrians, higher gas prices are forcing them to consider even more agonizing decisions. My friend Sigrid, a family therapist who lives outside Vienna, says she can’t afford to drive to her patients, and they in turn are reluctant to pay for the gas to visit her. She is contemplating selling her house and moving into the city, or giving up her work and trying to survive on social security. You know things are bad when, in the birthplace of psychoanalysis, therapists can no longer make house calls.
865 2008-06-29 The stock market took a beating last week, as troubles in the energy and credit markets hammered equities.

Energy prices continued their long move upward. The futures price of a barrel of crude oil in New York closed at $140.21, up from $134.62 the previous week. That helped drive down the price of General Motors to its lowest level in more than 50 years. G.M. lost 16.24 percent for the week, the worst in the Dow Jones industrial average.

After the Federal Reserve held its benchmark short-term rate at 2 percent on Wednesday, a series of negative reports on financial service companies helped drive down that sector. MBIA, the bond insurance firm, lost 25.4 percent for the week, worst in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

For the week, the Dow lost 496.18 points, or 4.2 percent, to close at 11,346.51. The S.& P. 500 dropped 39.55 points, or 3 percent, to close at 1,278.38. The Nasdaq composite index fell 90.46 points, or 3.8 percent, to close at 2,315.63. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.97 percent, from 4.16 percent the previous week.
866 2008-06-29 Re “What Happens if We’re Wrong?” (Economic View, June 22), in which Peter L. Bernstein discussed the problems of risk management, whether in the housing mess or anywhere else:

Reading the column took me back to 1975, when my wife and I were considering moving from our $1,000-a-month rent-stabilized apartment to a $70,000 co-op across the street in Manhattan.

New York was at its financial nadir then, and the prospect of appreciation for the co-op seemed virtually nonexistent. What clinched the deal for us was the “business case” I put together, assuming annual depreciation of 1.5 percent.

Even ignoring the unquestionable improvement in our living arrangements, the arithmetic showed that we would be O.K. It’s a shame that many recent home buyers appear to have skipped this step. Of course, the gods of risk actually worked in my favor, and my investment appreciated greatly. But we would have had no regrets had my worst-case risk assessment been closer to the truth. Robert Myers
867 2008-06-29 In his ruling, Judge Breiant cited an eloquent 1943 Supreme Court decision that gave Jehovah’s Witnesses the right to knock on people’s doors to distribute their pamphlets. “The authors of the First Amendment knew that novel and unconventional ideas might disturb the complacent, but they chose to encourage a freedom which they believed essential if vigorous enlightenment was ever to triumph over slothful ignorance,” that decision said.

Yonkers officials do not seem chastened. David Simpson, the mayor’s director of communications, insists that Mr. Zherka wantonly violated ordinances and adds, “The mayor has thicker skin than to be bothered by what the publisher of a second-rate propaganda newspaper has to say about him.”

Nevertheless, the judge seemed to say that even second-rate propaganda has a right to be published and that it is not up to Mr. Simpson to determine what qualifies as news.

Then in April, Mr. Zherka took on the county’s district attorney, Janet DiFiore, filing a lawsuit claiming that she tried to intimidate him in a phone call about a year ago because she was unhappy with one of his articles. That article accused her husband, Dennis E. Glazer, a lawyer with the prestigious firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell, of bribing the chairman of the small Independence Party to endorse Ms. DiFiore in her 2005 election bid. The lawsuit includes the word-for-word content of what it says is a telephone conversation with Ms. DiFiore in which she demands a retraction in tough, salty language.

“Look, what you did is personal,” she said, according to the lawsuit. “You don’t go after family. That is a no-no.”

The suit says that later, in a tone that Mr. Zherka considered menacing, Ms. DiFiore asked, “How would you like it if someone came after your family?”

In an interview, Ms. DiFiore said she could not discuss his accusations “because it’s a pending lawsuit.”

Mr. Zherka, a muscular six-footer, said he felt so frightened by such language from the county’s chief prosecutor that he said he almost fired his editor and barely published a word about Ms. DiFiore for 10 months. He said that his experience with the Westchester political officials reminded him of the Communist dictatorship in Albania that his father had escaped.

About 10 days ago, Mr. Zherka upped the stakes with a grandstand gesture. In a press conference that scarcely had any press, he offered a $100,000 reward for any information about Ms. DiFiore that would lead to her conviction of any crime. At the press conference, he accused Ms. DiFiore of being seen in the company of a former police officer who Mr. Zherka said was a nephew of a dead mob boss. He offered no photographs, genealogies or other proof, and Ms. DiFiore describes the former police officer as a longtime family friend. Some might say that even if he did offer proof, Mr. Zherka’s accusation would be an example of guilt by association.

That is not how he sees it. “The only crime I committed is free speech,” he said, “and that’s a crime in Westchester County.”
868 2008-06-29 Holly Joanne Bemiss and Erin Elizabeth Bried affirmed their partnership on Saturday evening in Brooklyn. The Rev. Dr. Donna Schaper, a minister of the United Church of Christ, led the commitment ceremony in the Boathouse in Prospect Park.

Ms. Bemiss, 36, and Ms. Bried, 33, met at Pennsylvania State University, from which they both graduated.

Ms. Bemiss (above, left) is an agent at the Susan Rabiner Literary Agency in Manhattan. She is a daughter of Shirley and Norman Bemiss of North East, Pa. Her father is an owner of the M. K. Bemiss Agency, an insurance and real estate brokerage there. Her mother retired as an events manager at Peek’n Peak, a resort and spa in Clymer, N.Y.

Ms. Bried is a senior writer at Self and a contributing writer at Golf for Women, both Condé Nast magazines in Manhattan. She is a daughter of Claire and William Bried of Orefield, Pa. Her father is a partner in the law firm Ritter & Bried in Allentown, Pa. Her mother is a kindergarten teacher at Kernsville Elementary School in Orefield.
869 2008-06-29 The rift between the city and dog owners dates to April 2007, when New Rochelle started requiring dogs in Ward Acres to have paid permits issued by the city and limiting off-leash hours to before 10 a.m. and after 5 p.m. Ward Acres is open from dawn to dusk.

At that time, dog owners said they were riled for a number of reasons. Not only did they object to losing off-leash access during most of the day but also to the annual permitting fees, which varied but at their highest were $50 per dog for residents and $250 per dog for non-residents. Mr. Wiegand called requiring the permits the equivalent of charging illegal admission to a public park.

In the year-plus since, the rules have changed, city officials said. The city now charges annual fees of $50 per dog for residents and $100 per dog for nonresidents to take dogs to Ward Acres. Dogs are now allowed off-leash during park hours inside the newly opened dog run and must remain on-leash at all times in the rest of the preserve.

David Steinmetz, the special counsel to the city on land use issues, said the case had little merit. Though a dog-walking community had grown at Ward Acres, dogs were technically not allowed in the preserve (dogs are barred from all city parks) before the new regulations, he said.

In addition, the permitting process is not illegal, Mr. Steinmetz said. Not unlike fees charged by municipal beaches to maintain them, money raised through the dog permits will be used to make sure dogs and people can coexist safely at Ward Acres, he said.

“The city spent a lot of time and a lot of effort making sure this would be a wonderful amenity open to the public,” he said.

Louis Trangucci, a New Rochelle councilman who also owns a pet supply store in Larchmont, said he would like the city and pet owners to compromise, primarily by restoring some off-leash hours outside the dog run.

“We could maybe get a happy medium,” Mr. Trangucci said.

Unless things change, individuals like Mr. Wiegand — who used to take his six children and dog, Lulu, to Ward Acres three times a week — say they will simply stay away.

“I am not going to pay to walk my dog on-leash,” he said.
870 2008-06-29 But because only residents and their guests could use the three municipal ferries, the two island beaches were essentially the last bastions of exclusive beaches for Greenwich residents, and some town officials thought it was only a matter of time before someone challenged that practice as well. “That might have made us vulnerable to a lawsuit,” Peter Crumbine, a Greenwich selectman, said in a phone interview.

So very quietly last fall, Jim Lash, who was then the first selectman, made an administrative decision to reverse the ferry policy, opening the rides to out-of-towners.

With little fanfare, word has spread that the state has a new coastal attraction for the public to enjoy. The ferries to Island Beach run frequently every day during the summer months from the Arch Street dock. They glide past waterfront estates with lush lawns and private docks, sailboats at anchor and a smattering of private islands.

When visitors arrive on Island Beach, they have access to a beach staffed by lifeguards, a concession stand, rest rooms, lockers, showers, the picnic area and a playground. The ferries also travel to the 17-acre Great Captain Island, which has a lifeguard beach but no snack bar. Both islands allow camping by residents with permits.

The ferry fee is $2 for children 5 to 15, $3 for those 16 to 64. Seniors ride for free but must get a pass in advance at Town Hall or the Civic Center.

Ferry riders must also buy a beach card, or show a season pass, which is available only to residents. The price of the beach passes has changed several times since the Supreme Court ruling, partially because of another legal challenge on the high cost of using Greenwich’s beaches.

Just after the ruling that allowed nonresidents to use the beaches, out-of-towners had to pay $10 each to use the beach, and $20 to park at Tod’s Point and Byram Beach, putting the total cost for a family of four at $60. And beach passes were only available several miles away, at Town Hall and the Eastern Greenwich Civic Center. Many who were turned away at the beach for not having passes never bothered to go back and make the trip for them.

Town officials recently decided to reduce the daily beach fee to $5. Residents can purchase a season pass for $27.

At the reduced fee, the islands are now the best beach deal in town, because parking is free in the lot across from the Arch Street dock, and tickets and beach cards are sold right at the dock.

Now officials are wondering if they’ve made things too easy.

“I’m not sure we did it right about the fees we charge and how we control ticket sales,” said Mr. Crumbine, noting that passes for the other beaches still are sold only at Town Hall or the civic center.

As for the ferry price, town officials have said the ferries operate at a loss, and some want a fare increase.

“The fee should be commensurate with the cost of running the ferry,” said Mr. Crumbine, adding that he wants to see more figures as the summer progresses. Because residents already pay for the ferry through taxes, any price increase should be borne by nonresidents, he said.

The decision to open the ferries upset some residents. Noting that Island Beach was a gift to the town in the early 1900s from the George Lauder family, whose money came from steel fortunes, Elizabeth Magnusson, 20, of Greenwich, said, “It wasn’t given to everyone, and it shouldn’t be open to the public.”

But others riding to and from Island Beach recently on the ferry — with picnic lunches, crabbing nets, and beach chairs in tow — had different opinions.

Attracting more people to town could be just the economic boost that mom and pop stores need, said Elizabeth James, 23, a Greenwich native and recent University of Connecticut graduate who lamented the proliferation of chain stores and chic boutiques in town.

Deena Cohen of Greenwich said that the beach was underused and that seats on the ferry that Thursday were plentiful.

Valerie Oliveri, 38, of Greenwich had invited friends from New Jersey, and said she was thrilled with the new policy. “I don’t have to stress about getting them a guest pass,” she said.

Christina Bertolf-Ronnlund, 33, of Stamford, a former Island Beach lifeguard, said she liked that she could now use the beach. But she said she knew from experience that when too many people show up “the island gets littered and the bathrooms get gross.”

Fred Walters, Greenwich’s superintendent of marine and facility operations, said his staff would assess use. “If more people come, we’ll have to see if we need changes regarding additional maintenance,” he said.

Ridership so far has been lower than usual, Mr. Walters said. Last weekend, 840 passengers rode to the islands on Saturday, he said, and 369 went out on Sunday, when poorer weather was predicted.

A total of 248 daily beach cards were bought for the weekend, which suggests that many of those beachgoers were out-of-towners lacking season cards, Mr. Walters said. But no precise method exists to distinguish residents from nonresidents on the ferries now, he said.

Mr. Walters said he did not expect a fare increase. “This is one of the most popular and expensive programs we run per person,” he said. “People love it.”

To break even, the town would have to charge riders $20, Mr. Walters said. “Who would pay that?” he asked.

Carolyn Hoefer of Greenwich, who was heading back to the mainland on the Indian Harbor ferry, agreed. “It’s so beautiful we should share it with everyone,” she said.

Her father, Harold Hutton, who was visiting her from Florida, said, “It’s almost as good as Fort Lauderdale.”

Ron Berlingo of Port Chester, N.Y., who was escorting a group from a Greenwich senior citizens home and enjoying the sunshine and the breeze from the ferry’s upper deck, said he wanted to return with his wife and daughter. “She’d really like it,” he said of his 1-year-old.
871 2008-06-29 Supporters of the minimum wage increase needed 101 votes in the House to achieve the two-thirds majority required for an override. They ended up with 102, but without Mr. Dyson’s help.

Mr. Dyson, 67, has decided not to run for re-election to the seat he has held for 32 years. He was one of the 106 House members who originally voted for the minimum wage increase when it passed the legislature in April. But when it came to the override vote — most likely his last as a state lawmaker — this longtime social activist switched sides.

Some Democratic lawmakers have suggested in conversations and even on political blogs that Mr. Dyson’s opposition to the override was a product of longstanding bitterness over his failed attempt to win the top leadership post in the House. In 2004, he lost a heated contest for House speaker to State Representative James A. Amann, a Democrat from Milford. Mr. Dyson was later replaced as co-chairman of the legislature’s powerful Appropriations Committee, a position he had held for 16 years.

Mr. Dyson, however, said his vote was driven only by concern that raising the wage base might force employers to cut jobs.

“This could very well result in people being laid off,” Mr. Dyson said. “We are in difficult economic times. In good economic times, I might vote differently,” he said.

Mr. Dyson said his switch was a result of the worsening economic climate since the original vote in April.

He wasn’t the only House member to switch sides on the issue. State Representatives George M. Wilber, a Democrat from Winsted, and Penny Bacchiochi, a Republican from Somers, opposed the increase, then voted this week in favor of it.

In the Senate, where 24 votes were needed for an override, backers of the minimum wage increase received the support of two Republicans, State Senators Sam S.F. Caligiuri of Waterbury and Anthony Guglielmo of Stafford. The final Senate vote was 25 to 9.

“I looked at the data,” Mr. Caligiuri said after the voting. “I could not conclude that previous minimum wage increases in Connecticut resulted in any significant job losses. The second question was, would it help people? I concluded it would, particularly people in my district.”

Waterbury is the state’s fourth-largest city and one of its poorest. “I’ve got constituents in the part of Waterbury I represent who would be helped by this,” Mr. Caligiuri said.

The second veto override came later on Monday, in votes by more than two-thirds majorities in the House and Senate in favor of a measure designed to help restaurants and bars deal with the increased minimum wage.

Under the bill, bars and restaurants could pay members of their waiting staffs 31 percent less than the new minimum wage rate, and bartenders 11 percent less. The “tip credit” system is based on the supposition that most waiters earn tips that push their hourly pay well above the minimum wage. Currently, people waiting tables are paid 29.3 percent less than minimum wage and bartenders 8.2 percent less.
872 2008-06-29 “Customers love it because they’re buying our locally grown products already prepared,” Mrs. Blyn said.

In Rose’s Berry Farm’s display at the Westport farmers’ market, the farm’s plump strawberries sat beside the farm-produced shortbreads, berry pies ($10 to $12), berry syrups and jams, all made in Rose’s commercial kitchen. At the same market, Sankow’s Beaver Brook Farm stand offered ready-to-heat lamb shepherd’s pie, lamb sausage and lamb stew along with six or more of Sankow’s great cheeses and pestos. Not only are the dishes made by a professional chef, Stuart London, but the cheeses are also from Sankow’s own Jersey cows and sheep in Lyme (they also contribute to the sausages and stews).

The only exceptions to the “commercial kitchen” rule are jams, jellies and maple syrup, which may be made at a farm’s regular kitchen. But their labels, said Mr. Macsuga, must read “not from a government-inspected kitchen.” He says when you see a display like Roxbury’s Ox Hollow Farm’s beef and pork products (“no hormones, no steroids, no antibiotics”), you can be sure that the animals are Connecticut herds and that the meat is processed in a slaughterhouse inspected by the United States Department of Agriculture.

While all Connecticut Grown farmers’ markets are state-approved, each one is autonomous, organized and run locally, usually by a small committee, which decides which vendors to admit. Most avoid too much product repetition; some allow craftsmen to participate. The one at Coventry, which has as many potters, weavers and other artisans as farmers, had 5,000 people show up opening day, Mr. Macsuga said.

Ridgefield farmers’ market, which opened for the first time June 13, was just as successful. “It was a slam-dunk,” said Pamela Rybarcyk, one of the market’s three organizers. “We sold 220 loaves of bread in 40 minutes.” (The lucky bakers were the local Ross’s Breads and Wave Hill Breads, based in Wilton.)

All the markets seem to be thriving, but certain Fairfield County ones — notably Greenwich, Westport, Darien and New Canaan — are especially popular with the farmers themselves, who do their own market-hopping.

Some vendors sell at six or more markets a week. Judi Sedor of Newgate Farms in East Granby sells her produce, tea cakes, muffins and jams at nine. “I can cover a lot of markets because I have five children,” she said. “We all go to different towns on market days.”

Westport Aquaculture, on the other hand, sells its fresh-caught oysters, clams and lobster, which Capt. Jeff Northrop cultivates on 600 acres of beds in Westport and Norwalk waters, only at the Westport farmers’ market.

Every vendor seems to have a story; most are willing to share it. Woozie Wikfors of WalkingWood in Woodbridge said she began raising chickens 10 years ago when a friend gave her two adolescent emus. She had such fun with them, selling their gigantic black eggs ($40 an egg, $15 for a shell alone), that the next step was chickens. She now has 30 different Heritage breeds of hens (including unusual Polish and Cochin hens) and lets them run free on her five-and a-half acres, which back on to 300 acres. “I bring my girls inside at night, but their freedom to roam makes all the difference in the taste and quality of the eggs they produce” (which she sells for $8 a dozen).

Ms. Wikfors is an enthusiastic promoter of organic and free-range farming. “I want everybody to have a backyard flock,” she said. “With mine, I’ve never worked harder and never been happier.”

Another happy producer is Paul Trubey of Beltane Farms in Lebanon, who displays his goat cheese at the Westport farmers’ market, among several others. A former social worker, he has been making cheese full time since March with his 70 La Mancha and Oberhasli goats. (“It’s a lot of work, but keeps me focused,” he said.) Mr. Trubey sells his sharp-edged and creamy cheeses (fresh chevre, $8, and Danse de la Lune, $10), goat’s milk yogurt with honey ($5) and raw goat’s milk ($5 a quart) at farmers’ markets as well as at stores and shops statewide.

At the New Canaan farmers’ market the biggest crowds cluster around the double-long stand of Beldotti Bakeries. Visitors reach for samples of Beldotti’s crusty country bread, topped with freshly made mozzarella, drizzled with pesto. Beldotti’s retail outlet is in Stamford, but New Canaan is the only farmers’ market where their products are sold. Their fresh mozzarella is actually made in East Haven at Calabro Cheese. It sells for $8 a pound, as does each small plastic container of pesto. The 10 or 12 bread types go for $5 to $6.50.

Across the way is the table featuring the baked creations of Whistle Stop Muffin Company, whose retail outlet has been at the Branchville railroad station for 26 years. The pies (including a new chicken pot pie), cakes, muffins, scones, and cookies made by the owner, Lolly Dunworth Turner, are out of this world. “I love working the farmers’ markets,” said Ms. Turner, who sells at four. “Each one is a bit different. I like meeting people and working outdoors for a change.”

Across the parking lot from Whistle Stop, there is a small stand called Red Bee Honey. Marina Marchese produces all kinds of wonders with her honey bees: healing creams, beeswax candles, Honeybee Rescue Balm, lip balm, handmade honey-and-olive-oil-based soap bars ($6), Honey Squirt (literally a shot of honey for quick energy), body oil, Honey Bee Butter Balm ($15) and, yes, honey ($10 to $15).

Some vendors piggy-back other vendors’ wares, which is fine with the Department of Agriculture, as long as they abide by the Connecticut-Grown rules. In the Darien market, Mary Kanakri, a chef at Plasko’s Farm, was showing cheeses from Meadow Stone Farm in Brooklyn (the Connecticut one), organic coffee roasted by Ashlawn Farm in Old Lyme and hormone-free milk from the Farmer’s Cow in Lebanon. That was in addition to fresh produce from Plasko’s 12-acre farm in Trumbull, the farm kitchen’s pestos, soups, tea breads, scones, pies and 15 different kinds of organic breads.

Value-added for sure. And, as Woozie Wikfors put it, “It’s a trend that’s only going up.”

Plentiful, and Not Just Produce

Here are a few of the most popular farmers’ markets:

NEW CANAAN Saturday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Center School parking lot, South Avenue and Maple Street.

NEW HAVEN (Wooster Square), Saturday, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.; Russo Park, DePalma Court between Chapel and Wooster Streets.

RIDGEFIELD Friday, 3 to 6 p.m.; 88 Danbury Road, on green between Cellar XV and Baskin-Robbins.

WESTPORT Thursday, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; The Westport Playhouse parking lot, Powers Court.
873 2008-06-29 Michael Chabon’s first collection of nonfiction commences as an argument for inclusion, promoting horror stories, comic art, fantasy and science fiction. Devotees of the comic book innovator Will Eisner and the fantasist Philip Pullman will find sustenance here. The uninitiated will be introduced to M. R. James, the writer of “one of the finest short stories ever written” and, like the far more famous author whose surname he shares, a master of the psychologically rigorous ghost story.

As Chabon combs through his obsessions and affinities in what he sometimes calls the borderlands, “the boundary lines, the margins, the secret shelves between the sections in the bookstore” where literature rubs up against genre, he takes a swipe or two at the shibboleths of high culture. An appreciation of Arthur Conan Doyle leads Chabon to alter Harold Bloom’s notion of the “anxiety of influence” into the slogan “influence is bliss.” The critic’s darling Walter Benjamin is shunted aside for Lewis Hyde, whose “Trickster Makes This World” occupies a central place in Chabon’s critical pantheon. Chabon’s sharp, expansive reading of Cormac McCarthy’s novel “The Road” places the work squarely in the post-apocalyptic science fiction tradition. This essay opens with an evocation of Charlton Heston happening upon the Statue of Liberty in the movie “Planet of the Apes,” underscoring with fond humor Chabon’s point that pop culture and literature are not mutually exclusive.

Chabon is a careful guide to his favored artistic outposts, maintaining reassuring ties to more proximate lands. Howard Chaykin, the influential author of the comic book “American Flagg!,” draws comparison to Paul Simon and Orson Welles. Ben Katchor’s comic serial “Julius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer” receives the kind of explication typically reserved for conventional literature: “His polished, terse and versatile prose, capable, in a single sentence strung expertly from a rhythmic frame of captions, of running from graceful elegy to police-blotter declarative to Catskill belly rumble, lays down the bare-bones elements, the newspaper-lead essentials of his story.” Even “D’Aulaires’ Book of Norse Myths,” a Chabon childhood favorite, receives a brief, loving tribute. Its fanciful illustrations put Chabon in mind of “Pre-Raphaelite friezes as cartooned by Popeye’s creator.” As readers of Chabon’s fiction might expect, the essays come complete with well-turned, pithy phrases. Pullman has “a deep, pulpy fondness for plot.” Pop perfection is defined as “heartbreaking beauty that moves units.”

The autobiographical essays that close the collection bring the author’s curious and disparate tastes to bear on his own works. Taking us in more or less chronological order through the geneses of his novels, these essays illuminate the mental and physical landscapes out of which Chabon’s increasingly impressive fictions emerge. Thus in “My Back Pages” we learn that he began writing his first novel, “The Mysteries of Pittsburgh,” at a desk he could reach only by balancing a folding chair on top of a steamer trunk. “The Recipe for Life” pays tribute to the Jewish scholar Gershom Scholem, whose essay “The Idea of the Golem” helped with Chabon’s conception of “The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay.” And the wide-ranging “Imaginary Homelands,” turning on a controversy surrounding a magazine article Chabon wrote about the phrase book “Say It in Yiddish,” unearths the root materials out of which his immensely entertaining recent novel “The Yiddish Policemen’s Union” sprang. And entertainment, as Chabon argues in this collection’s opening essay, is what literary art all boils down to. As in all his books, there’s plenty of it to be had in “Maps and Legends.”
874 2008-06-29 “I realized I’ll lose some miles, but I had to make a decision: Is something better than nothing?” he said. “My answer is yes.”

Another site that is letting travelers set their own trading terms is , which started in February. It’s the brainchild of Brad Ball, a technology executive who had accumulated piles of miles after several years of heavy . Like so many other fliers in the same situation, Mr. Ball was having trouble using them for something he really wanted. Though he had enough miles for a number of award tickets, he said, “As you spend more time on planes, the last thing you want to do when you have some down time is get back on.”

LoyaltyMatch, based in Waterloo, , offers an alternative, he said, by letting travelers convert those unused points and miles into merchandise that they can then sell online for cash or swap for other items, services and activities.

Sellers register and enter their loyalty programs and account totals, which LoyaltyMatch uses to automatically list the items those miles and points can buy. For example, my test account (with a measly 16,309 miles and 15,000 points) immediately triggered four Exchange Alerts from other users willing to pay cash or trade miles or points for the merchandise that LoyaltyMatch said my miles and points could buy.

One user, “big_tall” from , was willing to pay $35 for a Cuisinart popcorn maker that would cost me 10,000 AmEx points. Another, “airmileguy,” also from Canada, proposed a trade for a Wired magazine subscription that 400 of my American Airlines miles would buy. (I could click on “make an offer” to suggest a suitable swap.) Similarly, “dangerfield” from wanted to trade for some Callaway balls.

Buyers simply browse the site for items they want and submit a cash or trade offer. The site then matches you up with potential sellers, who can choose to accept your offer and use their points or miles to buy that popcorn maker for you and have it mailed to your door. You in turn, pay the seller through PayPal or order the item you agreed to trade from your loyalty program. For its services, LoyaltyMatch charges $1.99 a transaction.

It takes a calculator and a certain amount of patience to figure out how good an offer really is — and whether it makes sense to unload miles that might otherwise have languished. And while LoyaltyMatch.com and Points.com seem to hold a lot of promise, they still have a long way to go. As is common with any test site, technological glitches are still being worked out. And while each strives to offer travelers more options, they are bound by the various rules and regulations of the loyalty programs themselves.

AT Points.com, along with a $6.95 transaction charge, you still have to pay the airlines’ traditional mileage-transfer fees. Delta, for instance, charges a $30 transfer fee and 1 cent per mile. American charges $80 for up to 5,000 miles, $130 for 6,000 to 10,000 miles and $180 for 11,000 to 15,000 miles. Points.com also has very limited trading options. Alaska, American, Delta, , IcelandAir and Aeroplan, the frequent flier program spun off by , are the only participants. The company says it expects participants to grow as the site develops. In partnership with the online agency Travelocity, Points.com has also branched out with a service that lets travelers book hotel rooms with miles. So far, though, only a few airlines — including Frontier, Midwest and — are participating.

A big drawback of LoyaltyMatch is that not many of the major domestic airlines have merchandise programs that allow travelers to redeem miles for retail items. So a traveler looking to unload American miles, for example, can really only sell magazines — a small-ticket item — for cash. “In my opinion, it is only a matter of time until most of the frequent flier programs add merchandise to their members rewards offerings,” said Mr. Ball of LoyaltyMatch.

If all you’re really interested in is scoring that “free” ticket, there’s help on that front as well. , a subscription site that charges $4.99 a month for basic service, lets frequent fliers see how many award tickets or upgrades are available for a given flight by listing airline fare codes. The site, once favored only by hard-core frequent fliers, is now easier to navigate, with codes translated into lay terms. Travelers searching for tickets can also set up an alert to receive e-mail when award seats are released for a specific flight.

“The main draw of loyalty programs “is that allure of being able to earn and use miles and sit at the front of the bus,” said Chris Lopinto, a founding member of ExpertFlyer.com. “We’re trying to take the pain out of the process, to try to make it easy again.”
875 2008-06-29 SURPRISED BY BEAUTY: MINIMALISM IN CHORAL MUSIC     Boston Secession, conducted by Jane Ring Frank. Brave Records BRAV0720; CD....
876 2008-06-29 LUCA FRANCESCONI: 'ETYMO,' 'DA CAPO,' 'A FUOCO,' 'ANIMUS'     Barbara Hannigan, soprano; Pablo Márquez, guitarist; Benny Sluchin, trombonist; Ensemble Intercontemporain, conducted by Susanna Malkki. Kairos 0012712KAI; CD....
877 2008-06-29 I have a round-trip ticket to Sydney and plan to spend a couple of days there before going to the Australian Open. I'd  like to know what flights there are between Sydney and Melbourne and how soon I should make the reservations. I'd also like to ...
878 2008-06-29 Because the archetypal women in Daphne Guinness's short film, ''The Phenomenology of Body,'' revolve on turntables, it is somehow easier to think of her as a D.J. than as a director. Because the chic images she assembled appear in some sense rando...
879 2008-06-29 BEETHOVEN: PIANO SONATAS, VOL. 4     Paul Lewis, pianist. Harmonia Mundi France HMC 901909.11; three CDs....
880 2008-06-30 One of Intel's chief advantages is that Microsoft's MS-DOS operating system will be booting on the teraflop Intel microprocessor in every personal computer of the future. Intel beleives that because it has always believed in backward compatibility...
881 2008-06-30 Follow your favorite teams as they pursue some of the biggest names in hockey -- and some lesser names as well....
882 2008-06-30 Netflix is not going to do away with viewers' profiles....
883 2008-06-30 A former underdog swimmer is taking on another monumental task, trying to break Speedo's stronghold in the market....
884 2008-06-30 The GT-R's stated power - 480 horsepower - is a long way from reality. But in the case of the Nissan, the truth is that the car seems to have more power than they're letting on. The question is, how much more?...
885 2008-06-30 The contract covering 120,000 members of the Screen Actors Guild expires on Monday night at midnight....
886 2008-06-30 Yahoo once again makes the case to shareholders that its existing directors are better equipped to lead the company forward than an alternate slate proposed by Carl Icahn....
887 2008-06-30 The Republican candidate blasts the retired general for saying Mr. McCain's getting shot down as a fighter pilot in Vietnam didn't qualify him to be president....
888 2008-06-30 Many analysts expect the skyrocketing price of oil to unleash a long-awaited rush to renewable sources of energy like solar and wind. But the oil price is triggering fears among some climate experts that the opposite might be the case. According t...
889 2008-06-30 UBS, responding to a Reuters report that it might consider putting its Paine Webber business on the block, said "no major business is for sale." The statement, from a spokesman for the Swiss financial firm, came after Reuters said UBS is consideri...
890 2008-06-30 A young man convicted of running a hedge fund scam in Connecticut has filed a federal lawsuit against New York University, claiming the school owes him a diploma, The Associated Press reported. N.Y.U. undergraduate Hakan Yalincak was sentenced las...
891 2008-06-30 Expected further write-downs by Merrill Lynch and worry that it may have limited options for raising capital have renewed speculation that it may sell its stake in financial information provider Bloomberg LP, MarketWatch reported. Analysts at Sanf...
892 2008-06-30 Citigroup will restructure its distressed debt unit following the departure of top traders Jeff Jacob and John Humphrey to start a hedge fund, MarketWatch reported. "We have decided to restructure our Global Special Situations Group in order to ma...
893 2008-06-30 OpenTable.com, which sat 3 million diners a month for the first time in May, is introducing new restaurant rankings and a mobile Web site....
894 2008-06-30 During a panel presented recently at the National Performing Arts Convention in Denver, the American Music Center and the American Composers Forum reported preliminary findings from “Taking Note,” a survey of American composers. The study was undertaken to help those organizations better serve their constituencies. According to its findings, the average American composer is a highly educated 45-year-old white male.

That revelation might not seem especially surprising: the history of classical music has long been portrayed as a chronology of great men, mostly white and European. But women have written music since antiquity, and they steadily grew in prominence during the 20th century. Anyone who regularly attends new-music concerts can attest that female composers are increasingly well represented. At conservatories, by some reports, perhaps half the composition students are women.

Plenty remains to be done before parity is achieved. But in a concert by the NeoLit Ensemble at Bargemusic on Friday night, it was refreshing to encounter a slate of works by seven female composers, presented without any hint of corrective polemic. The ensemble — Amelia Lukas, flutist; Victoria Bass, cellist; and Katya Mihailova, pianist — was making its debut. The event was part of Bargemusic’s admirable Here and Now series, which celebrates contemporary American music, no further qualifiers attached.

The worthiness of these composers, in other words, was a given. Two of them, Chen Yi and Shulamit Ran, are among America’s most widely recognized creators. The concert began with Ms. Chen’s “Night Thoughts,” a spare evocation of a Tang dynasty poem.

Ms. Lukas played tones that bent, swirled and fluttered, accompanied by plucked glissandos on cello and icy piano figures. Midway through, the flute offered a nostalgic melody, which gradually dissolved back into general murmurings. The writhing aggression of Ms. Ran’s “East Wind,” for solo flute, similarly surrounded a poignant theme.

In these works, and many others on the program, sex seemed less important than ethnicity: Ms. Chen is originally from China, Ms. Ran from Israel, and each called on musical aspects of her heritage. Hilary Tann, born in Wales, evoked that country’s hymns in “Llef,” for flute and cello. (The flute part, originally for Japanese shakuhachi, had many of that instrument’s trademark gestures.) Two sections from “Cuatro Bosquejos Pre-Incaicos” by Gabriela Lena Frank, whose roots are Lithuanian, Chinese and Peruvian, vividly imagined the throbbing flute and gusty panpipes of Peru’s pre-Incan cultures.

In "Cover," by Belinda Reynolds, vaporous tendrils of melody slowly curled over constantly shifting rhythms. Composers in their mid-20s were responsible for the evening’s most conventional sounds. Katerina Kramarchuk’s “Epilogue” paid homage to Shostakovich with melancholy cello melodies, brusque piano fanfares and a recurrent four-note theme that seemed to say, “SHOS-ta-KO-vich.”
895 2008-06-30 Kenny Perry shot a six-under-par 66 on Sunday to finish at 19-under 269, one shot better than Woody Austin and Bubba Watson, to join a short list of multiple champions at the Buick Open in Grand Blanc, Mich. Perry, who won this event in 2001 at Warwick Hills, has 11 victories on the PGA Tour, including the Memorial earlier this month.

Vijay Singh has three victories at Warwick Hills. Tiger Woods, Julius Boros, Tony Lema and Perry have each won twice.

Austin bogeyed the last two holes and shot a 69. Watson missed a 12-footer on 18.
896 2008-06-30 Franklin Graham, chief executive of the evangelistic association his father founded in 1950, and Mr. McCain recalled a story Billy Graham had told about meeting the senator’s father, a Navy admiral, and mother in Hawaii when Mr. McCain was a prisoner of war in Vietnam. “He visited my parents in Hawaii twice,” Mr. McCain said, “and he and my mother and father prayed together for me.”

“We had an opportunity to pray for the senator and his family, and for God’s will to be done in this upcoming election,” Franklin Graham said. Though he was not endorsing anyone, he said he was urging “men and women of faith everywhere” to “vote for the candidate at every level who best represents their values and convictions.”

Christian conservatives, who supported President Bush by huge margins in 2000 and 2004, have been slow to embrace Mr. McCain, who seems uncomfortable talking about religion and recently upset many of his supporters by denouncing the Rev. John Hagee and the Rev. Rod Parsley, prominent evangelical leaders, after controversial statements they made became public.

Mr. McCain, needing to regain ground with the religious right and reassure skeptical conservatives, had gone to some lengths to meet with the Grahams. He flew from Louisville, Ky., to Asheville, N.C., and drove an hour to the Graham retreat near Montreat, N.C., on a Sunday, when he often takes a break from the campaign trail.

Mr. Obama spent the day in Chicago, with his family.

The large brown-shingled cabin, up a long winding road, looked modest from the outside, with its tall, rough-hewn chimney, a screen door and an old iron wheel at the front door, according to an account from a pool reporter perched outside. But its living room commands a sweeping view of the Blue Ridge Mountains.

The country singer Ricky Skaggs — grizzled, gray-haired — was scheduled to have lunch with the Grahams and arrived about a half-hour after Mr. McCain, who noted later that he had met Billy Graham before but that this had been his “first sit-down meeting” with the evangelist.

After insisting he had not sought their backing, Mr. McCain was asked why he had requested the meeting. “As I say,” he said, “they’ve known my family, they’ve known me for many years. They’re great leaders in this nation, and I appreciate the opportunity to visit with them and I am very grateful for the time they spent with me.”
897 2008-06-30 No man has won at Roland Garros and Wimbledon in the same year since Borg in 1980. Nadal, at 22, appears to be physically and mentally powerful enough to manage it, although it is not certain how much rest he will have gotten after shouting himself hoarse in front of the television during Spain’s victory in the European final Sunday. Nadal also has two tricky rounds ahead of him. Next up is Mikhail Youzhny, who has crushed him this year and nearly beat him in the fourth round at last year’s Wimbledon. Survive that and he would face Andy Murray or Richard Gasquet — both looking resurgent — in the quarterfinals.

TAKING TO THE GRASS Marat Safin once hated grass, and it returned the favor, as he lost in the first round here in 2004. But untrue to his word, he has kept coming back, even with a world ranking of 75 this year. And after knocking off Novak Djokovic in resolute fashion in the second round and avoiding a letdown against Andreas Seppi, he has the attention of all those left in the top half of the draw. The higher-bouncing conditions here now play to his strengths, and he is fit enough — after a long buildup with his latest coach, Hernan Gumy — to not have to go for broke too early in a rally. The bad news is that his next opponent is a Swiss who has not dropped a set here yet. The good news? It’s 13th-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka, not we-all-know-who.

STAYING FOCUSED Not many 12th seeds who have yet to reach a Grand Slam quarterfinal have to deal with questions like, “Are you ready to win it all?” Such are the punishments and rewards of being a British tennis hopeful in a Wimbledon-based tennis economy. Luckily for Andy Murray, who is technically a Scottish tennis hopeful, he has no shortage of talent or pluck or, until now, profanity. But he kept the self-loathing tightly under wraps in the first three rounds, channeling his perfectionist streak into some flashy, focused tennis. Now, let’s see what happens when he actually gets to play some top players, but Roger Federer wasn’t kidding when he said that grass was Murray’s best surface.

As for the women:

WINNING ONE FOR CHINA When the All England Club, with a dire shortage of true British women’s tennis hopefuls to favor, decided to honor Zheng Jie’s request for a wild card, it might not have realized what it was getting into. The world is China obsessed at the moment, and after becoming the first Chinese player to beat a reigning No. 1 by defeating Ana Ivanovic, Zheng is on a flat-hitting roll. Too bad it is too late to switch the Olympic surface in Beijing from hardcourt to grass. Going all the way in China’s big summer against bigger, taller opposition at the 2012 Olympic tennis site (Wimbledon) remains highly unlikely. But Zheng is punching and serving above her weight, and the semifinals are well within reason. Her fourth-round opponent, 15th-seeded Agnes Szavay of Hungary, is inexperienced at 19 and was treated for a lower back problem during a doubles match Saturday.

A HEFTY TASK After reducing Dinara Safina to tears in the latter stages of an edgy, error-strewn melodrama in the third round, who is to say that Shahar Peer cannot keep using the same tactic for four rounds more? Andy Ram became the first Israeli to win a Grand Slam doubles title, when he won the mixed title with Vera Zvonareva at Wimbledon in 2006. But no Israeli has yet won a singles title in the tournaments that matter most. Too bad the 24th-seeded Peer, no longer on active duty in the Israeli army, won’t be the favorite against yet another Russian, fifth-seeded Elena Dementieva, on Monday. Then again, Dementieva has been known to lose her nerve (and her serve) under Grand Slam pressure, too.

WILLIAMS SISTERS REMATCH? With Venus and Serena Williams in opposite halves of the draw, and Ana Ivanovic and Maria Sharapova already out of contention, thinking ahead is allowed. It has been five years since the Williams sisters played each other in a Grand Slam final. It was at Wimbledon in 2003, and at that saturation point, the tennis world was weary of seeing their awkward, understandably subdued summit meetings, which produced more questions than answers; more errors than sparks. But the sisters have not just grown more vulnerable on court since then. They have grown up, and a tennis match might just be a tennis match at this stage in their lives. The score and tone of the semifinal they played this year in Bangalore, India, was promising. Serena won in a third-set tie breaker.
898 2008-06-30 Emerging market indexes have fared even worse. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong has plunged nearly 21 percent, the Shanghai Composite has lost nearly half its value this year. The Bombay 500 in India lost about 38 percent.

The declines at major stock markets worldwide suggest that the same economic concerns are in play: rising inflation, which has been caused for the most part by record oil prices. Oil hit a new high of $140.21 a barrel on Friday.

And central banks around the world, including the United States, are indeed moving to head off resurgent inflation by raising interest rates. While such a move can contain inflation, it can also squelch growth. Indeed, the likelihood of higher interest rates has already been fueling the market sell-offs as investors around the world try to digest all manner of bad economic news.

In Australia, inflation is running near its highest level in 16 years, and in March the central bank raised the benchmark lending rate to a 12-year high. The People’s Bank, China’s central bank, tightened credit again this month by raising banks’ reserve requirements for a second time. China is struggling to control inflation without hurting its fast-growing economy; the same story is playing out in Indonesia and India.

On Sunday, the world’s top central bankers began a two-day meeting in Basel, Switzerland, where they were considering approaches to calm nerves about inflation while avoiding a shock to economic growth. The United States is near or in recession, while growth is fading in Europe.

On Thursday, the European Central Bank may take matters into its own hands. In all likelihood it will raise its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point, to 4.25 percent, hoping to curb inflation of both food and energy prices. Prices in the 15-nation euro area rose by 3.7 percent in the year through May, nearly double the bank’s informal goal of just below 2 percent.

The Federal Reserve appears poised to follow suit. Last week the central bank voted to hold the short-term federal funds rate steady at 2 percent, ending a series of rate cuts. But it also hinted strongly that worries about inflation might compel it to raise the rate later this year. The rate affects what consumers pay for mortgages, car loans and other credit.

“Europe tends to paint this in black and white,” said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers in New York. “In the U.S., the balancing act is going on.”

The absence of a unified global strategy for calming inflation has not been lost on investors who are searching for an anchor of stability, and coming up short.

“When you have central banks around the world doing different things — following a different road map — that can be problematic,” said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at The Hartford, a financial services firm.

Then there is the politics.

The European Central Bank’s decision to get out in front is being debated in Europe, where growth is cooling under the pressure of oil prices, the strong euro, and fading demand in the United States. The bank’s primary mandate is to keep inflation low, but that does not stop European politicians from worrying about growth.

Oil prices, while an enormous factor in the decision-making that will go on this week in Europe, are only part of the calculation. A more generalized inflation, feeding through to consumer prices and influencing demands for higher paychecks, also deprives businesses of the confidence that they had until recently about how to make decisions on building factories, hiring employees or developing products.

“The longer inflation remains high, the more damaging it will be for longer-term economic growth prospects,” Morgan Stanley wrote in a report about inflation creeping upwards worldwide. “High inflation rates usually go hand-in-hand with a higher variability of inflation, which raises uncertainty and can thus reduce investment spending.”

Stock market volatility caused by inflation worries has also complicated the pressing task of recapitalizing banking systems, above all in the United States but also in Europe.

As equity markets crumble, much-needed recapitalizations “become more and more difficult” because investor appetite for new sales of shares declines, Mario Draghi, the Italian central bank chief, who heads global efforts to reform financial regulation, said last week. Efforts to overcome the credit squeeze, in other words, have become hostage to the economic slowdown that the squeeze helped create.
899 2008-06-30 Mr. Touré, who mentioned the idea recently by telephone, is not the first person to think of such an exchange. Enron, the energy and trading company, briefly ran an electronic bandwidth exchange before the company was brought down by financial scandal in 2001.

Perhaps the notoriety of Enron explains why Mr. Touré and his aides quickly cautioned that the idea was nothing more than a dream for now and might never be created. Instead, Mr. Touré said, he was focusing on a more modest plan, one that could be a step toward an exchange: the creation of a real-time database detailing the flow of traffic on the world’s major communications networks.

Mr. Touré said the database could play an essential role in helping networks manage capacity and plan new investments at a time when telecommunications traffic is surging, and when some experts are warning that the growth of voice, data and particularly video traffic threatens to create traffic jams.

Nemertes Research, based in a suburb of Chicago, has predicted that over the next three to five years, Internet users in North America could experience “brownouts” unless telecommunications operators significantly step up their infrastructure investments.

“There are a lot of megabytes sitting in a lot of places that are underutilized,” Mr. Touré said. “It would be good to have a better knowledge of this.”

Mr. Touré said he had discussed this idea recently with telecommunications companies at an annual meeting organized by Intelsat, which operates communications satellites for use by media and telecommunications companies and governments.

At these gatherings, network operators already trade capacity: for instance, a European operator might agree to help with an anticipated spike in traffic to China or India. But for now, this happens without the structure of an exchange.

It was not clear whether network operators would want to participate in such a system. “It’s a little bit preliminary to talk about something like this at this point,” said Nicholas Mitsis, a spokesman for Intelsat.

Analysts said some telecommunications carriers might be reluctant to take part for fear of revealing sensitive information to competitors. Some might prefer to continue operating the way they do now, trading capacity as needed, usually with one counterparty, rather than making details about their networks available to all.

“The more granular they try to make this, the more difficult it would be to do it,” said John Delaney, an analyst at IDC, a research firm.

Mr. Touré said operators’ identities would be withheld to help prevent such problems.

If telecommunications providers can be persuaded, Mr. Delaney said, the database could play a useful role, helping network operators avoid the boom-bust investment cycles that have bedeviled them in the past. One of these contributed to the demise of Enron’s trading system, which suffered from a collapse in demand for trading after a multiyear investment spree by telecommunications companies left billions of dollars worth of fiber-optic networks unused.

“There is a mutual interest in getting capex to follow rather than lead demand,” Mr. Delaney said, referring to capital expenditures by operators.

The International Telecommunication Union, with the help of two software companies, Microsoft and IDV Solutions, has already created a more limited database called Global View, which tracks the spread of information and communications technologies in Africa, showing how different regions stack up in terms of mobile network coverage, broadband access and other communications benchmarks.

The telecommunications union wants to expand Global View to other continents, including Asia, Mr. Touré said. With better access to information, he said, companies will be more likely to invest in regions like Africa, where growth in mobile phone penetration has been rapid but where access to other communications technologies remains patchy.

“We’re making sure the industry is aware of the opportunities,” Mr. Touré said.

Global View could serve as a model for more ambitious plans, like the live database, he said.

“The world will benefit in knowing what traffic is going where and when,” he said. “The capacity problems are like the global food problem. It’s not because of a lack of food; it’s a lack of distribution of food.”
900 2008-06-30 What’s worse: that the new Mike Myers movie, “The Love Guru,” satirizes Indians and mocks Hinduism, or that it is just not funny?

That is the question in India, where the film is expected to be released in coming weeks by Paramount Pictures. The film stars Mr. Myers as an American who grew up in India and became a Hindu wise man, albeit one with a fondness for women and a potty mouth.

The movie has appalled some Hindus in the United States and other countries where it has been screened. Religious groups have accused it of “blatant ridiculing” of Hinduism and called for a boycott.

In India, a religious group called the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti is calling for a boycott before the film has even arrived. The Hindustan Times noted in a recent article that Mr. Myers had expressed a desire to be in a Bollywood film, but the newspaper added that it “may take some doing” because of the uproar over “The Love Guru.”

News outlets in India are avidly tracking complaints and protests related to the movie’s release in the United States, as well as the film’s poor performance and scathing reviews.

“Unseemly controversies invariably help new movie releases at the box office, but comedian Mike Myers’s latest offering, ‘The Love Guru,’ has fallen flat in its opening weekend collections in the United States,” The Pioneer, an Indian daily, said on June 24. “More than the protests by the Hindu groups, the film appears to have been done in by critics.”
901 2008-06-30 The July 12, 2006, raid by Hezbollah into Israel that captured the two soldiers was aimed at seizing bargaining chips for the group’s effort to free Mr. Kuntar and several other Lebanese.

Mr. Kuntar was part of a cell that in 1979 raided the northern Israeli town of Nahariya, fatally shooting a civilian, Danny Haran, while his daughter Einat, 4, watched, then smashing the girl’s head, killing her as well. Mr. Haran’s wife, Smadar, hid with their 2-year-old daughter, accidentally suffocating her in an effort to stop her from crying out.

Mr. Kuntar has said he regrets nothing, and he will receive a hero’s welcome when he returns, part of the cause for hesitation in Israel’s security establishment, with many of its members recommending the deal’s rejection. But the Goldwasser and Regev families mounted an effective campaign supported by vast numbers of Israelis who wanted to know that if their children fell in battle, the state would spare nothing to gain their return.

Indeed, Israel has a tradition of doing all it can to get back its captured soldiers. But as the conviction grew here that the two men were dead, opposition to the deal grew, especially since it involved the release of Mr. Kuntar.

In an interview as he sat outside the prime minister’s office waiting for the decision, Shlomo Goldwasser, father of the captured soldier, said that he had fought to push the deal through because, without proof, he could not be sure if his son was dead; Mr. Olmert’s assertion, he said, was based on supposition. “We want to finish this for good or for bad,” he said. “When children ask their parents what will happen if they are taken prisoner in a war, we need to be able to answer clearly. This value is more important than Kuntar.”

The deal announced on Sunday had several elements. It will give back to Lebanon dozens of infiltrators’ bodies, including those of eight members of Hezbollah. Israel will also give to the United Nations secretary general information on four Iranian diplomats who disappeared in Lebanon. Israel is also due to receive a report on Ron Arad, an airman missing in Lebanon for two decades. Once the deal has gone through, the cabinet statement said, Israel will also release Palestinian prisoners at its discretion.

This last point was clearly a delicate one, since Israel sought to avoid Hezbollah’s taking credit for the release of any Palestinian prisoners. Hezbollah seized the two Israeli soldiers shortly after the Palestinian group Hamas captured an Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, in southern Israel, and it was the one-two punch of such actions that partly pushed Mr. Olmert to order such a fierce response against Hezbollah in 2006.

Both Hezbollah and Hamas are armed and supported by Iran, which has repeatedly urged that Israel be forced out of existence.

Nevertheless, apart from the prisoner deal with Hezbollah, negotiated through a German mediator, Israel also agreed with Hamas on a six-month truce that started June 19. The deal, mediated by Egypt, has been violated by dissident Palestinian groups that have fired rockets or mortar shells at Israel.

But so far, both sides seem committed to the truce, which involves Israel opening border crossings and reducing its siege of Gaza. On Sunday, about a third more goods were let through than had previously been, according to Hamas officials in Gaza. The goods included animal feed, diesel fuel, fruit, vegetables and frozen meat.

The acting Hamas interior minister, Said Siam, said in an interview that he had formed an emergency group to monitor truce violations by various factions. Clerics associated with Hamas spoke at Friday Prayer in favor of the truce, saying it was in the interest of the people that it not be violated.

Sami Abu Zuhri, a Hamas spokesman, said there had not been progress on the release of Corporal Shalit, who is known to be alive and whom Israel wants desperately to bring home. Mr. Abu Zuhri said Hamas was demanding 1,000 prisoners in return for Corporal Shalit, 450 of them serving life sentences in Israeli prisons. Israel has apparently objected to releasing some of them, and the negotiations continue.
902 2008-06-30 Qualcomm and Nvidia share a chip design licensed from a relatively tiny British chip firm, ARM Holdings. ARM has had a big impact on the communications world. Its processors sell for substantially less than Intel’s more powerful X86 chips and are far more numerous: they are standard for the cellphone industry. Cellphones outsell PCs by about five to one.

“This battle is being fought in ARM’s backyard, not Intel’s,” said Michael Rayfield, general manager of Nvidia’s mobile group.

In addition to Qualcomm and Nvidia, there are more than 200 licensees of the ARM processor design, including major chip makers like Marvell and Texas Instruments. Together, they supply the more than 1.1 billion cellphones, many of which use multiple ARM chips. The chips are also used in a growing array of special purpose consumer electronics like G.P.S. navigators and set-top TV boxes.

Dominating the large and growing cellphone market is only half the battle. Both the X86 and ARM camps are eagerly eyeing a new market known within the consumer electronics industry as M.I.D.’s, or mobile Internet devices. They are betting that this year represents the beginning of a boom in a new class of computing device — things like shrunken laptops called netbooks, personal G.P.S. navigators and handheld game systems, as well as an expanding array of idiosyncratic gadgets that connect wirelessly to the Internet for every conceivable purpose. For example, at Computex, one company displayed a handheld device intended solely for people looking to car-pool.

Outside the United States, the less expensive M.I.D. computers are expected to expand penetration of computers into new markets. In the United States and Europe, however, there is a debate about whether the new machine will remain a niche category.

Anand Chandrasekhar, a vice president and manager of Intel’s mobile platforms group, said he expects portable computers to be much like bicycles. Not only will people use different ones for different applications — like road bikes and mountain bikes — but they will also outgrow them.

“As a child, I had a bike for my size, and as I grew, my bike changed,” he said.

Intel, the world’s largest chip maker, is now well aware of the threat from ARM. It is focusing vast resources on the low-power microprocessor market and says it is catching up quickly in power efficiency with its ARM competitors. This month, the first netbooks using a new Intel chip, the Atom, began to be shipped. Intel says more than 30 products will use the Atom.

Even though Intel’s chip uses more power than those of its ARM competitors, its Atom represents a 90 percent reduction in the power consumption of the X86 chip family that was used in several generations of desktop PCs. Intel’s engineers achieved the power savings in part by entirely rethinking the chip’s circuit design, as well as the way individual transistors work.

One addition to the new Atom chip is the so-called drowsy transistor, a circuit that can throttle the amount of power it consumes between each tick of the processor’s clock. When the chip is not computing, entire areas of the processor can go into a sleep state, using just enough power to remember the ones and zeros for the current process.

Intel executives said the company’s advantage in the looming war with its ARM competitors is the quality of the Web experience provided by its chips. “By definition, these devices have to run the Internet as it has been developed,” said Mr. Chandrasekhar of Intel. “That happens today on X86,” he said, adding that seamless access to the Internet “won’t happen on ARM.”

Intel’s executives say that the ARM makers are also hampered by the lack of a single standard, forcing computer software developers to make changes for each product they design.

ARM manufacturers respond that Intel is overstating the importance of X86 compatibility and that their chips will provide a Web experience that rivals Intel’s but allows significantly longer battery life. Indeed, Intel’s case that only X86 chips will offer a satisfying mobile Web experience was potentially undermined earlier this month when one of its closest allies, Apple, appeared to indicate that it had chosen to design its own version of the ARM microprocessor for future handheld consumer products.

Apple’s chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, said during an interview that the consumer electronics company had acquired a small Silicon Valley chip design company, PA Semi, to help design its next generation iPods and iPhones. Apple’s current iPhone is based on the ARM chip, and industry consensus is that the iPhone currently offers the best Web surfing experience in a handheld device.

Analysts and industry executives are divided on how much of a threat ARM will be to Intel. Allies like Dell are unlikely to desert the chip maker. “We’re impressed with their road map,” Michael Dell, chief executive of Dell, wrote in an e-mail message. He said it “gets interesting for smaller devices with Moorestown,” referring to the next generation of Intel’s low-power chips, planned for 2010. Dell, like Hewlett-Packard and other major PC makers, is bringing out its own mobile Internet device.

Other analysts see Moorestown as an indication of the challenge Intel faces, for the company will not be directly competitive with the ARM processors on power efficiency until then — and the ARM-allied companies insist they are not standing still.

“You’re still going to have a higher-power solution with Intel’s Atom that doesn’t have the same small footprint of the ARM chip,” said Jim McGregor, a research director at In-Stat, a semiconductor market research firm. “It won’t be a great solution for mobile devices, and ARM will.”
903 2008-06-30 A BEAR MARKET As the United States markets edge toward bear territory, a place they have not been since 2002, many of the major markets in Europe and around the world have already entered it, losing more than 20 percent of their value this year.  ...
904 2008-06-30 Opening Radio To More Hosts     The pirates of radio are losing their eye patches and going legit....
905 2008-06-30 Intel Snubbing Microsoft's Vista     Intel, the giant chip maker and longtime partner of Microsoft, has decided against upgrading the computers of its own 80,000 employees to Microsoft's Vista operating system, a person with direct knowledge of th...