1 2011-05-01 Rankings are based on April figures....
2 2011-05-01 Rankings are based on April figures....
3 2011-05-01 The former Atlanta Braves pitcher John Smoltz struggled in his Nationwide Tour debut, shooting a 15-over 87 and missing the cut by 27 strokes at the South Georgia Classic in Valdosta. Smoltz, 43, opened with an 84 after two weather delays forced him to play the first round over two days. He was even worse in the second round, and his 27-over total of 171 was nine strokes worse than any of the other 147 golfers who completed both rounds.
4 2011-05-01 The United States cruised to a 5-1 victory over Austria in its opening game at the world ice hockey championship in Slovakia. Chris Kreider scored the first goal 14 minutes 42 seconds into the game, and Blake Wheeler soon added another.
5 2011-05-01 I HAVE one word of advice for Larry Fishman, owner of the Rail House 1449: textiles.

To be fair, I didn’t feel a need for them on my first visit, when the food was almost uniformly excellent, the service was spot on, and the atmosphere was warm and cozy and quiet.

Then came the second visit. The restaurant was cold. The bread basket was late in arriving. The server was trailing a server-in-training.

And there was noise. The restaurant is in an 18th-century Rahway, N.J., house with high ceilings, fireplaces — and creaky floors. There was a private party upstairs, and much clomping and stomping on the uncarpeted stairs. After 45 minutes, the din reached a crescendo; then it faded to the constant creaking of the floor around the headwaiter’s station, which was near us but separated by a screen. A runner on the stairs, and perhaps a thick draping of fabric between us and the headwaiter’s station, could have softened the cacophony — and smoothed the rough edges that kept us from enjoying food that bordered on very good.

The creative kitchen is under the direction of Mike Ross, the executive chef, who was hired when Mr. Fishman opened the restaurant in December on the premises of the former Restaurant David Drake. Mr. Ross, in a telephone conversation after my visits, said he had come up through the ranks in country club restaurants and studied at the Culinary Institute of America. That education shows in both basics and flourishes. The New American menu is fresh and inventive, especially in its vegetarian alternatives and in its handling of foods in supporting roles.

Among the appetizers, for instance, chimichurri sauce accompanies two skewers of exceedingly tender, succulent grilled chicken. Grilled octopus salad, a special, was a finely wrought mix of tender seafood with grape tomatoes, red onions and baby arugula. A mélange of seared seafood — squid, shrimp and scallop — was served on a hot bed of soft polenta with a spicy tomato sauce and parmesan as foils.
6 2011-05-01 Re “Fast Train to Nowhere,” by Richard White (Op-Ed, April 24), which argues against subsidies for high-speed rail and the development of “lines in places where there is no demonstrated demand”:

All forms of transportation are subsidized. Air travel and car travel require a large army in the Middle East to assure a source of fuel. The next generation of air-traffic control will rely on GPS satellites, as do many automobile travelers, and these satellites are paid for by the Defense Department. And who knows what other tax breaks and financial assistance are given to the various companies that support automotive and air transportation.

We should remember that every person who travels by high-speed rail is not flying in an airplane or driving a car. While this may make the auto companies and airlines unhappy, it makes life easier on all the people who do choose to drive or fly. Preventing traffic jams and delays at airports and reducing the cost of fuel (through reduction in demand) fully justify subsidies.

The fact that investors don’t want to invest in high-speed rail, or anything else that will not see returns on investment, is meaningless. The government — that is, the people of this country — have to look further into the future than investors enamored of the potential high profits from social networking.

With air and ground transportation approaching gridlock, high-speed rail is the only way to ensure that people will be able to go where they want to in a reasonable amount of time.

The writer is president of Princeton Satellite Systems.
7 2011-05-01 Dr. Felmont Eaves III, a plastic surgeon in Charlotte, N.C., and president of the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, said the study was “very well done,” and the results were surprising. He said he would mention it to his patients in the context of other information on liposuction.

The finding raises questions about plastic surgery. Liposuction has been around since 1974 and is heavily advertised. Why did it take so long for anyone to do this study?

Maybe it’s because such a study is very difficult, said Dr. Samuel Klein, director of the Center for Human Nutrition at the Washington University School of Medicine. It takes a team of researchers, and money. Fat must be measured precisely, with scans.

And surgery, said Jonathan Moreno, an ethicist at the University of Pennsylvania who has studied the field, is not like other areas of medicine.

“A lot of it has to do with the culture of surgery, which is literally hands-on,” he said. Surgeons, he added, often feel a deep connection to their patients that makes it difficult for them to agree to clinical trials that involve randomizing patients.

Another problem, Dr. Moreno said, is that different surgeons have different skills and different techniques. Surgery is not like taking a drug, where one pill is just like every other.

So instead of doing rigorous studies, surgeons tend to innovate, inventing their own procedures and publishing anecdotes about patients, a practice that can be misleading.

But in this case, the outcome did not depend on the surgeon. It depended on the biology of fat. And obesity researchers say they are not surprised that the women’s fat came back. The body, they say “defends” its fat. If you lose weight, even by dieting, it comes back. And, the study showed, if you suck out the fat with liposuction, even if it’s only a few pounds — it was about 5.8 pounds for subjects in the study — it still comes back.

“It’s another chapter in the ‘You can’t fool Mother Nature’ story,’ ” said Dr. Rudolph Leibel, an obesity researcher at Columbia University.

Some researchers have their own anecdotes. Dr. George Bray, a professor of medicine at Louisiana State University, once saw a young woman who was so distraught by her protruding abdomen that she had an operation to slice off some of her abdominal fat.

“Her lower abdomen was considerably thinner,” Dr. Bray said. “But the areas above it picked up the extra fat.”

Then there are the studies with laboratory rodents that had fat surgically removed. The fat always came back. And, like the women in the new study, the rodents got their fat back in places other than the place where it was removed, Dr. Klein reported. They grow new fat cells to replace the ones that were lost.

The same thing happened to the women who had liposuction. It turns out, Dr. Leibel said, that the body controls the number of its fat cells as carefully as it controls the amount of its fat. Fat cells die and new ones are born throughout life. Scientists have found that fat cells live for only about seven years and that every time a fat cell dies, another is formed to take its place.

But why wouldn’t the women grow new fat cells in their thighs? The answer, Dr. Klein said, may be that liposuction violently destroys the fishnet structure under the skin where fat cells live.

Nonetheless, the women in the study who had liposuction were happy, Dr. Eckel said. They had hated their hips and thighs and just wanted that fat gone.

As for the women in the control group, when the study ended and they knew the results, more than half still chose to have liposuction.
8 2011-05-01 “It almost becomes an article of faith, and as with any theological belief, you can’t confront it with facts,” said Kenneth D. Kitts, a professor of political science at the University of North Carolina at Pembroke who has written extensively about presidential commissions that looked into events that have generated some of the biggest conspiracy theories of the last century — the attack on Pearl Harbor and the assassination of John F. Kennedy, among others.

The fact that many Americans — and many Republicans in particular — have told pollsters that they doubt the president’s citizenship is less surprising when you consider the sizable percentages of Americans who subscribe to other conspiracy theories, said Robert Alan Goldberg, a history professor at the University of Utah and the author of “Enemies Within: The Culture of Conspiracy in Modern America.”

Eighty percent of Americans, he said, believe that President Kennedy was killed by a conspiracy, rather than a lone gunman, as a government commission affirmed. Thirty percent believe that the government covered up aliens’ landing in Roswell, N.M., and a third of American blacks believe that government scientists created AIDS as a weapon of black genocide. Sept. 11, of course, has inspired conspiracy theories — it was plotted, variously, by “the Jews,” the Bush administration or Saddam Hussein.

By definition, Professor Goldberg said, a conspiracy theory is a belief that cunning forces are seeking to bend history to their will, provoking terror attacks or economic calamity to move the world in the direction they wish.

“I look at this birther conspiracy as a typical example,” he said. “This is far beyond the issue of whether this is a legitimate president. The real issue for them is this belief that this is a ploy by this hidden group to get power, to move Americans toward socialism or globalism or multiculturalism using Barack Obama as a pawn.”

Evidence that disproves a conspiracy is then scrubbed to provide new evidence — as with the Obama doubters who quickly claimed that the administration had used computer manipulation to create a false birth certificate. Of course the government says the conspiracy doesn’t exist, the doubters argue, because the government is complicit in the conspiracy.

The Dreyfus affair is a concise example of the damned-if-you-do, damned-if-you-don’t nature of conspiracy theories. Alfred Dreyfus, a young Jewish artilleryman, was wrongly imprisoned in France in 1894 on accusations of treason.

Military officers argued that his handwriting appeared on incriminating documents, writes Louis Begley in a book on the subject. When one expert doubted the handwritings’ similarity, the government produced another to argue that dissimilarity was proof of his guilt — Dreyfus had altered his writing to throw people off his trail.

In a way, it is human nature to want to construct a narrative to resolve anxieties, to be drawn to mystery or the perception of it.

But the strong embrace of conspiracy theories is also embedded in the American experience. A fear of enemies — real and imagined, internal and external — defined those who forged this country. A place created as God’s country was bound to see the subversions of Satan behind every uncertain turn.

As Professor Goldberg writes in an encyclopedia, “Conspiracy Theories in American History”: “Conspiracy theory draws power by merging with and reinforcing traditional American values and beliefs: a sense of mission, Protestant supremacy, concerns about encroachments on liberty, anti-elitism, maintenance of the racial order, and the sanctity of private property.”

In this analysis, it’s not surprising that the first black president, educated in the Ivy League, would become the subject of a conspiracy theory. Many conspiracy theorists believe not only that the president lied about his birthplace and his religious faith (in their rendition, he is a Muslim, another theory that has survived despite all evidence). They will also argue as blindly that the president is going to take away Americans’ guns and put them in re-education camps.

What Richard Hofstadter called “the paranoid style in American politics” is encouraged by popular culture, in movies like “Birth of a Nation” and “The Da Vinci Code,” and by those whom Professor Goldberg terms the “conspiracy entrepreneurs” — whether Glenn Beck or Jerome Corsi, who went from self-styled expert on John Kerry’s military record to self-styled expert on Barack Obama’s heritage. The Internet, where you never have to confront an idea you don’t like, allows these theories to grow deeper and wider.

Other historians argue that past government lies, particularly in the past half-century, have helped fuel conspiracy theories, by giving Americans reasons to suspect their leaders. (“See, I’m not paranoid, I’m right.”)

So on InfoWars, the Web site of the hypervigilant radio host Alex Jones, a list of “33 Conspiracy Theories That Turned Out to Be True” leads from the deceptions of the Gulf of Tonkin and Iran-contra and then moves to accusations of plots by the Trilateral Commission and the Federal Reserve.

Still, even those who study conspiracy theories are surprised by the intensity of the one surrounding the Obama birth certificate.

Kathryn Olmsted, a history professor at the University of California, Davis, notes that the John Birch Society claimed that President Dwight Eisenhower, a Republican and a staunch cold warrior, was actually a secret communist. But the attacks on Mr. Obama, she argued, are at essence about race. And because these theorists are fueled by partisan hatred, many won’t be satisfied. “They’ll always question the authenticity of the documents they’re given,” she said, “because they’re not driven by a quest for truth.”
9 2011-05-01 “A huge liability,” was how a Syrian analyst described him.

“On the economic side, he really symbolizes what the people hate about the regime,” said the analyst, who asked not to be named. “They hate the security services and they hate Rami Makhlouf. On the economic side, Rami symbolizes the very worst about the way the country is run.”

An e-mail sent to Mr. Makhlouf’s company on Saturday, asking for comment, went unanswered. Calls to the headquarters seeking comment were not answered Saturday.

The origins of Mr. Makhlouf’s wealth mirror the consolidation of the Assad family’s rule over Syria. Mr. Assad’s father, Hafez, a former air force commander who took power in 1970 and soon forged an alliance between officers like him from the Alawite minority and Sunni Muslim businessmen in Damascus, the capital, offered privileges to his wife’s family, the Makhloufs. Mr. Makhlouf inherited the mantle, while his brother, Hafez, went into the other family business — state security — taking over as intelligence chief in Damascus.

“Together they make quite a duo,” an Obama administration official said.

Though prominent even before Mr. Assad’s ascent in 2000, Mr. Makhlouf grew even wealthier as he and Egyptian partners won one of two mobile phone contracts. (The partners were eventually forced to sell.) Syriatel has about 55 percent of the market, Syrian economists say. As the reforms moved Syria away from a state-led economy, he penetrated the economy’s most lucrative sectors — real estate, transport, banking, insurance, construction and tourism — and his interests run from a five-star hotel in Damascus to duty-free shops at airports and the border. He is the vice chairman and, Syrian analysts say, the real power in Cham Holding, which was set up in 2007 with 73 investors and $360 million, in what seemed an attempt to tether wealthy Sunni businessmen to the government. It has effectively been charged with renovating Syria’s aging infrastructure, attracting Arab capital in another network of support for Mr. Assad’s rule.

Some praise him for the work, especially employees in Syriatel, whose sleek offices and good salaries make it the first choice of many young graduates for jobs.

“No one can say he spends his money in nightclubs with girls,” said a manager at Syriatel who only gave his first name, Muhammad. “He spends his time thinking how to build a new Syria. He is the ideal for Syrian youths as a successful businessmen.”

But many contend his success came by way of no-bid contracts and leverage with the force of the state behind it, where the government and his interests are merged. A former government adviser recalled Mr. Makhlouf’s father insisting on amendments to a banking law, even after it was passed by Parliament. (It was revised, he said.) The American government, which imposed sanctions on him in 2008, accused Mr. Makhlouf of manipulating the judicial system and using Syrian intelligence to intimidate his rivals.

“Everybody knows that you can’t do anything without him,” said Amr Al Azm, a Syria expert and professor at Shawnee State University in Ohio. “He has his fingers in so many pies. Anything you want to do you partner with him, or you give him a share.”

In a country where criticism of Mr. Assad himself was long taboo, Syriatel became an early proxy for protest under his rule, much of which centered on the government’s failure to profit from the sale of its license.

Riad Seif, an opposition member of Parliament, criticized what he called irregularities in the phone licenses and was soon arrested and imprisoned. So was Aref Dalila, another dissident. Rami Nakhle, an activist who fled Syria for Lebanon in January, began an Internet campaign to boycott Syriatel in 2008 over its high fees. They urged people to switch off their phones for four hours on the first day of the month. An online petition that he and other young activists circulated received 5,000 signatures.

“We were touching Rami Makhlouf but not naming him,” Mr. Nakhle said. “We were doing something political but in a way that we thought was safe.”

His efforts were humbled when the mother of one of his friends figured out what they were doing. She smashed her son’s laptop, Mr. Nakhle recalled, and barred him from the Internet for a month. “Do you want to disappear?” he recalled her asking her son.

Like Mr. Ezz’s place in Egypt, Mr. Makhlouf’s profile illustrates deeper changes in Syria that have made the uprisings more than simply calls for individual rights.

Mr. Assad’s father was famous for his ability to hold together disparate elements of the country, most remarkably in 1982, when merchants in Damascus sided with the government in its brutal suppression of an Islamist revolt that culminated with the killing of at least 10,000 people in the central city of Hama.

Since then, the tacit understanding that underlined his rule — Alawite officers and Sunni merchants — has weakened, as the sons and grandsons of those Alawite officers enter business. Administration officials and economists say there are growing indications that support of the traditional Sunni commercial elite has begun to falter, too.

Joshua Landis, a professor of Middle East studies at the University of Oklahoma, called Mr. Makhlouf “the tendons that reach out to the new capitalist class that was empowered.”

But others see him as more divisive, emblematic of a state that once brought electricity to every town but, as in Egypt, can no longer afford the social contract of taking care of its people’s needs. As that falters, figures like Mr. Makhlouf grow richer, alienating the traditional elite and people who view him as a symbol of injustice.

“Ideologically the regime doesn’t stand for much anymore beyond the interests of certain individuals,” said Nadim Houry, a researcher with Human Rights Watch in Beirut. “ He’s a symbol of what is perceived as private interests controlling large chunks of Syria’s economy.”

Even some sympathetic to the government have speculated whether Mr. Makhlouf might be sacrificed in an attempt to preserve the government, as Mr. Ezz was early on. But, others note, Mr. Ezz never had the ties of blood and clan that matter so much in Mr. Assad’s Syria.

“Right now, they will do anything to hang on to power,” the Obama administration official said. “That might lead them to do something, kick Rami aside, but I don’t see it going there quite yet.”

The official added: “At the end of the day, they’re family.”
10 2011-05-01 Frank McCourt, the Los Angeles Dodgers’ owner, was seething Wednesday as he argued that Commissioner Bud Selig had improperly seized his team. He had just come from meeting Major League Baseball officials and was aggrieved that he would not be going home with his team back in his hands. As he spoke, Steve Soboroff, the Dodgers’ vice chairman, patted his boss on the back for moral support.

McCourt compared Selig’s treatment of him with his handling of the Mets, another financially distressed team. He never mentioned the Mets, but in one phrase — “We have never asked for a single penny of emergency financing from Major League Baseball” — he was saying: we did not ask for a loan, but Selig took us over as if by eminent domain; he gave the Mets a loan but did not grab them.

Selig approved a $25 million loan to the Mets last November when they faced a cash crunch yet left the principal owner Fred Wilpon alone to fix his financial woes. With the Dodgers, Selig invoked his “best interests of baseball” powers, installed a monitor, Tom Schieffer, to run the team, and refused to approve a local cable-television deal with Fox that McCourt said would guarantee long-term stability.

Selig’s approaches to the Mets and the Dodgers reflect the breadth of his powers — he can do what he deems necessary to enforce baseball’s “best interests” as he sees them — and his ties to the owners. He and Wilpon have been friends for 30 years. McCourt arrived in baseball in 2004 but has never pierced the inner sanctum around Selig. McCourt said last week that Selig was ignoring him.

Selig appears to regard Wilpon as a trustworthy, solid citizen, but McCourt as a problem child in need of adult supervision. Wilpon and Saul Katz, the Mets’ other owner, are fighting a $1 billion lawsuit against them by the trustee for victims of Bernard L. Madoff’s fraud. The trustee accuses them of using illicit profits from their Madoff accounts to fuel their sports and real estate empire. Selig is pleased that Wilpon and Katz — who say they are victims of evidence fabricated or misrepresented by the trustee — are trying to sell nearly half the team to raise up to $200 million and feels it unnecessary to step in to force them to do any more.
11 2011-05-01 “It is a matter of a few hours only, and everything will be finished in Dara’a,” a pro-government politician said from Damascus. “It is impossible for the Syrian regime to let some people announce a Salafi emirate in Dara’a. This is not Afghanistan.”

Heavy gunfire could be heard through the day, Abdallah Abazid, a resident, said. Amid reports of shortages of food, medicine and baby formula, residents remained inside their homes for another day, fearful that they might be killed by snipers if they went outside, he said.

“The security forces are hunting us down,” he said. “We are unarmed and protecting our town with our bare chests, and they are shooting at us.”

The military reinforcements in Dara’a came a day after the United States announced sanctions against three top officials in Mr. Assad’s government, including his brother Maher al-Assad, who is leading the military operations in Dara’a. The United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva also adopted a resolution on Friday condemning the violence and authorizing an investigation.

Activists warned of a humanitarian crisis in the town.

“The situation in Dara’a is worse today than it was before,” said Wissam Tarif, the executive director of Insan, a Syrian human rights group.

On Friday, 34 people were killed there when thousands of protesters from nearby villages, in a show of solidarity, descended on the town, which is in a largely agricultural region known as the Houran that is knit by extended clan loyalties. Some organizers said the protesters, carrying olive branches and white sheets to signal their peacefulness, were trying to break the siege and deliver food and water. Security forces fired at them anyway, in some of the worst carnage since the uprising began.

Mr. Tarif said that security forces refused to return the bodies of the dead to their families in hopes of stopping funeral processions, which have often turned into demonstrations in themselves. The only bodies given back, he said, were those of children, and their parents were told to bury them early Saturday in the presence of Syrian officials.

The death toll of protests across the country on Friday rose to 73, the highest since a week earlier, when at least 112 people were killed. Organizers said the breadth of protests on Friday was similar to previous weeks, with large demonstrations in the central cities of Homs and Hama, in towns on the Mediterranean like Baniyas and Latakia, and in Kurdish towns in the east. Hundreds of people protested in Damascus; the demonstration was bigger than in past weeks, but still relatively small by the standards set elsewhere in Syria.

Human rights groups say 535 people have been killed since the uprising began.
12 2011-05-01 S. E. Cupp (she dumped the “Sarah Elizabeth” 10 years ago for a gender-free byline) is a conservative commentator, columnist and author whose second book, “Losing Our Religion: The Liberal Media’s Attack on Christianity,” was released last month in paperback. Ms. Cupp, a professed atheist with a master’s degree with a concentration in religious studies from the Gallatin School of Individualized Study at New York University, writes an online column for The Daily News and hosts a program on Glenn Beck’s Mercury Radio Arts. She is 32 and lives in the financial district. Her three Sunday essentials are Nascar, Buffalo wings and Bravo.

D.I.Y. DAY Sunday is the only day where I can kind of do my own thing and not have it dictated by the news cycle. I wake up around 8:30, later than normal. I usually sleep in an old Mets T-shirt; I save my Tony Stewart Nascar regalia for later when I’m watching the races.

PRAYER SUBSTITUTE I never thought about it, but as an atheist, maybe Nascar is my church?

COFFEE, CHILLED I stumble over to Leo’s Bagels, kind of the only place you can get bagels and a vat of coffee on a Sunday morning in my neighborhood. Even in the winter I order iced coffee, because I can drink it faster. If I could inject it, I probably would. I get a multigrain bagel with scallion cream cheese, untoasted. Toasting takes too long.

THE PUNDITS I head back to my apartment to catch the Sunday talk shows. I scribble down some notes, yell at a couple of pundits from the comfort of my couch, marvel at David Gregory’s phenomenal coif, and send out a perfunctory tweet or two. I read through the Sunday papers, skim the Web headlines and sketch out some ideas for next week’s columns. By this time it’s noon, my workday is over, and I’m tempted to go back to sleep.

TONY AND THE RACE But if it’s a Sunday between February and November, I zip into my bedroom and throw on something from my vast collection of Tony Stewart paraphernalia. When I decided to see what Nascar was all about in 2005, it was an intellectual project, the same reason I went to the shooting range on West 20th Street and tried shooting a rifle at paper targets. I was addicted to both things instantly. I picked a driver to watch at random that first year, and Tony ended up winning the championship.

SPORTS BAR OPTION I usually watch the race at home, but sometimes I meet up with my friend Andy Levy from the “Red Eye” show on Fox. I never mind cultivating the rumor that we’re dating, but the truth is, we’re just good friends. We’ll find a sports bar and bribe the bartender to put the race on. There’s the Gym in Chelsea, there’s Flight 151.
13 2011-05-01 Image control and self-correction have been central to Goldman’s ability to weather catastrophe. During the Great Depression, the firm lost much of its capital in a swindle of its own invention. In the late 1940s, it was one of 17 Wall Street banks accused of illegal collusion by the federal government. More recently, Cohan notes, it has survived “rogue traders, suicidal clients and charges of insider trading.” Goldman, he adds, “has come far closer — repeatedly — to financial collapse than its reputation would attest.”

In the run-up to the crisis of 2008, Goldman underwrote billions of dollars of toxic mortgage securities — the sort of irresponsible financial engineering that helped destroy Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. But a small group of Goldman traders realized sooner than most others on Wall Street that the industry had gone overboard wagering that real estate ­prices would rise indefinitely. In December 2006, this trading team began betting that the market would crater. Their billions in winnings allowed Goldman to more than offset its mortgage losses and emerge in 2009 stronger than ever.

Goldman’s willingness in 2007 to mark down the value of its mortgage-related inventory gave it a sober sense of its financial position while rivals were clinging to delusions. As word spread that Goldman was taking write-offs, investors lost faith in the accounting of other financial institutions, hastening the demise of several of Goldman’s key competitors.

The author acknowledges Goldman’s undeniable talent for self-preservation without idealizing the firm. He explains that by underwriting those ill-advised mortgage securities, Goldman played a deplorable role in stoking the nationwide real estate insanity. He shows how far removed this activity was from raising money to build legitimate businesses and advising the executives of those companies — once, but no longer, the bedrock of Goldman’s franchise.

While Goldman corrected course earlier than others, it still barely avoided what Cohan calls “the tsunami-like repercussions of the crisis.” With its entire industry trembling in the fall of 2008, the firm increasingly had trouble borrowing the money it needed to finance its daily operations. Goldman and Morgan Stanley transformed themselves from securities firms into bank holding companies. The move subjected them to more regulation but made available short-term loans from the Federal Reserve. “Goldman and Morgan Stanley,” Cohan writes, “made the move as a last-ditch, Hail Mary pass to restore the market’s confidence in their firms and stave off their own — once unthinkable — bankruptcy filings.” In other words, taxpayers essentially rescued the investment bankers in the name of warding off a second Great Depression.

The final episode in “Money and Power” concerns the fraud lawsuit that the Securities and Exchange Commission filed last year, accusing Goldman of deceiving clients to whom it had sold “synthetic” mortgage securities (don’t ask). While the ostensible victims, a pair of large European banks, were betting that mort­gages would pay off, Goldman was assisting yet another client, an American hedge fund operator who had bet that the same mortgages would default. One client put its chips on red; another, on black. Only one could win.

The S.E.C. alleged that Goldman, the casino proprietor, failed to disclose to the banks that the hedge fund operator had actually helped select the flimsy mort­gages, which did, in fact, default. Goldman’s main defense was that this is merely business as usual on Wall Street. The European banks, it added, were sophisticated investors capable of looking out for themselves. Without admitting guilt, Goldman settled the case, coughing up its $15 million fee and paying a record civil penalty of $535 million — pocket change for a firm that handed out $15.4 billion in bonuses in 2010.

Cohan dispassionately gives readers the information they need to ponder whether investment banking has moved in a constructive direction since the days when Goldman helped Sears and Continental Can grow. He falters on just one peripheral point, when he suggests that perhaps the crisis of 2008 will leave Goldman’s reputation tarnished. But, as he says, in January of this year, after all the Wall Street mayhem and recrimination, Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman’s chairman and chief executive, was invited to the White House for a state dinner in honor of President Hu Jintao of China. Goldman, it seems, still casts its spell on America.
14 2011-05-01 ANOTHER test of the Steve McQueen Effect is coming up.

The actor’s 1971 Husqvarna 400 Cross, an off-road motorcycle he rode all over the Mojave Desert of Southern California — and onto the cover of Sports Illustrated — will be offered by the Bonhams auction house at the Quail Motorcycle Gathering in Carmel, Calif., on May 14.

As with all things McQueen, its value has little to do with the physical object and much to do with the provenance.

For example, a pair of his sunglasses worn from the film “The Thomas Crown Affair” sold at auction in 2006 for $70,200. In 2009, McQueen’s 1963 Triumph Bonneville also brought an outsized price. The desert-racing bike, built by Bud Ekins, the stunt rider who did the famous jump in the film “The Great Escape,” sold for $84,240.

A nicely restored ’70s-era Husky might bring as much as $8,000 on the vintage-motocross collectors’ circuit. A presale estimate from the auctioneers for the McQueen Husqvarna — the ownership is well documented, but it’s not known whether this was the magazine cover bike — ranges from $50,000 to $70,000.

The bike was bought from McQueen’s estate in 1984 by the Harrah’s Auto Collection. A collection of the actor’s trophies will also be offered at the auction. DEXTER FORD
15 2011-05-01 “Never in modern French history has the far right challenged like this,” Frédéric Micheau, adjunct director of the French polling agency IFOP, told me. “This is something totally new.” This jump in support for so polarizing a figure raises a question that has ramifications not only in France but also in other places where the far right is resurgent: is Le Pen fille a different person from her father, or has racism simply become mainstream?

When I asked Le Pen to identify something from her childhood that formed her, she said, “20 kilos of dynamite.” In 1976, when she was 8, a bomb tore off the front of the family’s apartment building in Paris while they were asleep. “I realized politics could cost you your life,” she said flatly. As the daughters of a greatly reviled politician, she and her two sisters grew up in an atmosphere of fear and intimidation — taunted by other children and shunned by teachers. “Our childhood was marked by a sense of injustice concerning our father,” her sister Yann Marechal wrote me in an e-mail. “We were the victims of many forms of attack,” Le Pen told me, “of virulent press campaigns and a lot of reprobation from the elites. That forged my character, and it also strengthened me.”

The family has a closeness, and a dedication to an iconic ideal of the French state, that seems almost cultish. All three girls became party stalwarts; all married within the party. (One sister, however, Marie-Caroline, followed her husband after he broke with the National Front.) Marine’s first two husbands were party officials, as is her current partner, Louis Aliot. Her 12-year-old daughter, Jehanne, is named after Joan of Arc (down to the medieval spelling); her son, Louis, who is 11 (and has a twin, Mathilde), is named after “the whole series of great kings of France named Louis,” Le Pen said. Yann Marechal told me that despite the four-year age difference between her and Marine, the two of them “have always lived like twins” and that she and her children live together with Marine and her children “on the property of my father, so that we see each other and our children regularly.” Le Pen said they all vacation together at their father’s birthplace in Brittany.

Conspicuously absent from this family portrait is the mother. The other great scar on Le Pen’s childhood besides the bomb, she said, was created by her mother’s leaving the family — in the arms of her father’s biographer, no less — and her parents’ ugly divorce when she was 15. That period reached its culmination when her mother posed nearly nude in French Playboy and told interviewers that her ex-husband had a rabid hatred of Jews and privately referred to Adolf Hitler as Uncle Dolfie. Marine did not speak to her mother for the next 15 years.

About a decade ago, Marine began to emerge as the daughter with the guts and political skills to take over the family business. She became a lawyer and worked behind the scenes in the party, with her father’s help, to become its vice president, edging past older male figures in the hard-nosed battle to succeed him. Jean-Marie Le Pen built the National Front out of a collection of fringe parties with overlapping but often conflicting agendas. The original core included avowed fascists, former members of the Vichy government that had been loyal to Hitler, anti-Jewish zealots, anti-immigrant nationalists and staunchly conservative Catholics. Jean-Marie held them together in part by using rhetoric that spoke to their fears and goals; that the same rhetoric kept the party isolated from the mainstream didn’t matter, because governing was never his objective.

Marine Le Pen has bigger ambitions, as the pollster Frédéric Micheau puts it, “to refresh the image of the far right.” Indeed, she insists she is not a figure of the far right at all and has belittled its racism as something for “people with small brains.” She has gambled that it is time for the party to leave the baggage of World War II behind. Or, as she said, “I have damage to repair, damage between the French people and the National Front.”

There are some obvious differences between Le Pen and her father, which partly account for her success and which she spelled out for me: “I’m a different person, a woman, a mother, in my 40s, of another generation.” There is also her political astuteness. The day before I met Le Pen, Claude Guéant, Sarkozy’s interior minister, caused a stir by saying in a radio interview that “French people, in the face of uncontrolled immigration, sometimes feel they are no longer in their own home.” The words went against the careful line Sarkozy had been taking and echoed sentiments that Le Pen expressed. That same evening, she appeared at a press conference brandishing a laminated National Front membership card printed with the name Claude Guéant and invited him to join the party. The ploy made headlines across the country.

“Whose idea was the membership card?” I asked as we sat down. Le Pen shot up her hand with the sharp eagerness of a schoolgirl and smiled slyly. Then, clearly proud of her craft, she produced the card and laid it in front of me.

Le Pen works assiduously at the fine political balancing act of remaining loyal to her father — and maintaining the support of the party’s base — while distancing herself from the elder Le Pen’s outrageousness. She has jettisoned her father’s frank anti-Semitism, but she keeps the anti-immigrant policy plank as a central feature of the platform and will occasionally use headline-grabbing rhetoric, as when in December she likened the French having to endure Muslims praying on their streets to living under Nazi occupation.

She insists that her message on immigration is not xenophobic but rather commonsensical. She pointed repeatedly to the United States as a model: “In France, we often say the U.S. is a multicultural society, but it’s not. It’s multiethnic but one single culture. I don’t say that nobody should enter our country. On the contrary, in the old days immigrants entered France and blended in. They adopted the French language and traditions. Whereas now entire communities set themselves up within France, governed by their own codes and traditions.”

The economic crisis in the European Union has worked to her advantage as well. As a French nationalist and an anti-E.U. voice, she has called for France to drop the euro and return to the franc.

The real secret to her success, however, may be in her adroit scrambling of traditional leftist and rightist positions. Signaling a clear break from her father and the right in general, she has come out with a detailed critique of capitalism and a position promoting the state as the protector of ordinary people. “For a long time, the National Front upheld the idea that the state always does things more expensively and less well than the private sector,” she told me. “But I’m convinced that’s not true. The reason is the inevitable quest for profitability, which is inherent in the private sector. There are certain domains which are so vital to the well-being of citizens that they must at all costs be kept out of the private sector and the law of supply and demand.” The government, therefore, should be entrusted with health care, education, transportation, banking and energy.

When I pointed out that in the U.S. she would sound like a left-wing politician, she shot back, “Yes, but Obama is way to the right of us,” and opined that proper government oversight would have averted the American financial crisis.

Le Pen’s mix of far-right nationalism and frankly leftist economics is related to the platforms of other fringe parties in Europe that have surged recently, and some critics see the combination as darkly reminiscent. “This appeared in the 1920s and 1930s,” says Patrick Lozès, president of the Council Representing the Associations of the Black People of France (CRAN), who has recently engaged in a public spat with Le Pen. “Those who a few decades ago saw the Jews as the enemy now use Muslims, saying, ‘They are among us, but they will never be like us, will never share our values.’ ”

Some French intellectuals on the left have been watching Le Pen with a combination of awe and trepidation. “She has totally reoriented the party toward low-skilled, low-income people,” says Laurent Bouvet, a professor of political science at the University of Nice who studies France’s far right. Traditionally, he noted, blue-collar workers in public-sector jobs voted for the socialists, while blue-collar workers in industries might vote for the right, often the National Front. “But all of these people fear the change that comes with opening up the economy. And she is providing an answer to their fear.”

In other words, Le Pen’s economic stance is drawing interest from the left as well as the right. And she is doing something similar on immigration. Where the far right formerly adopted a clash-of-civilizations approach — Christianity versus Islam — Le Pen has donned the cloak of secularism as a value system that is under threat. “She is saying that the problem is not that they are Muslims but that they want to impose their values on our country,” Bouvet says. “That is a big innovation. She pretends to defend gays, Jews, women. The National Front never defended Jews before. They were anti-Semitic — how could they? Now she says to Jews, ‘You have to be careful about Muslims, and I am here to defend you.’ And she says she is here to defend women and gays, in the name of freedom, secularism and the republic. This is really, really new. It’s not a shift to the left but to a third dimension for French politics.”

Le Pen took over the reins of the party just as mass upheavals destabilized the Middle East. “It’s kind of an Orwellian scenario,” says Jean-Pierre Lehmann, professor of international political economy at the IMD business school in Lausanne, Switzerland. “You have the youngest population in the world on one side of the Mediterranean and the oldest population on the other side. And now you have mayhem in the Muslim countries, which will continue, so that there will be more pressure on people who want to escape. And Europeans will see their lifestyle in danger. Le Pen’s party plays on fear, and this situation is easily exploitable.”

Sarkozy’s recent and highly visible use of the French military has given Le Pen another opening to exploit. She is opposed to his involvements in Libya and Ivory Coast and to globalist enterprises in general; she sees the uprisings in the Middle East to be partly a result of “policies put into place by the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization toward an impoverishment of the North African countries.” Sarkozy’s aligning France with NATO might win support in the White House and 10 Downing Street, but it has done little for his popularity at home. For the country’s disaffected, it only reinforces views of him as an elitist and a globalist. Where in the United States many of the disaffected might look to a return to Christian and free-market values, their counterparts in Europe find comfort in a turn toward nationalism, which includes state protection, and away from the institutions of globalization. Le Pen is locked into that mind-set.

After my interview with Le Pen, I wandered around Belleville, the Parisian neighborhood long associated with North African immigrants, and stopped in a Tunisian restaurant for lunch. Not surprisingly, mentioning the name Marine Le Pen got everyone in the restaurant wound up. Much of what was said is unprintable, but a customer named Mourad Bouznif gave me his critique of Le Pen’s immigration ideas. “I’m very lucky,” he said. “My wife is an attorney, and I am a teacher. We are welcome in Paris. But the unskilled Tunisians, the sort of people who historically built France, Le Pen wants to leave them behind.” When I asked if he was Tunisian, he corrected me — “I am Franco-Tunisian” — a rebuke to the National Front’s oft-voiced suspicions about the Frenchness of immigrants.

Few commentators think Le Pen has much chance of winning the presidency next year: for one thing, Sarkozy’s party and the socialists have each indicated that, were she to win a spot in the final round of voting, they would band together to block her, as they have impeded the National Front in the past. Meanwhile, Sarkozy’s perceived vulnerability has made the race for the French presidency extremely fluid. There are several other high-profile potential candidates, including Jean-Louis Borloo, Sarkozy’s former environmental minister, who threatens to fracture the center-right vote, and Nicolas Hulot, a TV naturalist who is one of the most popular personalities in France.

Le Pen may not become president, but some would argue that she has already succeeded. “Even if she never wins an election, when you release this kind of thinking into society, modernizing the packaging of racism, the consequences go on and on,” Patrick Lozès says.

The advances made by the National Front and other parties in Europe today — the Swiss People’s Party, the Northern League in Italy, Geert Wilders’ Freedom Party in the Netherlands — are all based on the combination of anti-immigrant stances plus economic populism and national patriotism. Mainstream parties across Europe have not found answers to this movement, for which the term “far right” seems increasingly inadequate. “We could be looking at a great realignment of the political positions in Europe,” Laurent Bouvet says. “It’s a new populism. Marine Le Pen could lead it.” Le Pen insists, however, that her interest is not Europe-wide but limited to her own country.

Le Pen told me she sees a new French revolution building against the mainline parties, and she intends that she and her party will be on the front lines of the battle. Then she hastened to add, “But of course, I mean a peaceful and democratic revolution.”
16 2011-05-01 At a recent rehearsal at the Rattlestick, Ms. Vega seemed confident singing into an old-fashioned boxy microphone, but was still finding her feet with the spoken sections and admitted that memorizing the script was the hardest part. She collapsed into giggles when wrestling to pull a robe over her shoulders while speaking, and improvised a subtle way to call the pianist, Joe Iconis, over to help her put it on.

“It’s exhausting,” she said of venturing onto the theatrical stage after 25 years of doing concerts. “It takes a lot more energy than I had expected. I sort of think of it as a bipolar thing. There’s moments where Carson is manically up and others where she’s super-depressed, so it’s a roller coaster to play and I’m so tired by the end of the day.”

During a break in rehearsal Ms. Vega said she felt now was the right time to tell McCullers’s story. “I think people understand her more than they might have 30 years ago because of the alternative sensibility, people who tattoo or pierce themselves,” she explained over lunch a few blocks from the Rattlestick in the West Village. McCullers “was sort of an alternative personality before that phrase was coined,” she said. “She had this global vision of human rights for all kinds of people, and we have more of that global consciousness now.

“In one part of ‘Heart Is a Lonely Hunter’ she imagines a tiny radio that could sit in your ear, and I thought, ‘She’s describing an MP3 player!’ So a lot of this world that she kind of intuited has come to pass.”

Ms. Vega had presented excerpts from the play over the years, but the idea was brought back to life when she met the theater director Kay Matschullat in 2008. “Suzanne mentioned this piece about Carson McCullers,” Ms. Matschullat wrote in an e-mail. “I had recently reread ‘The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter,’ so my ears perked up immediately. And from the picture of Carson on the cover, I also knew they had an uncanny resemblance.”

By the time they met to discuss the project, Ms. Matschullat, who has directed premieres for playwrights including Derek Walcott and Vaclav Havel, had already contacted the McCullers estate and received approval to proceed. As Ms. Vega looked at the script, she said she grew increasingly dissatisfied; she felt she was portraying McCullers as “cute and eccentric,” and was now more sympathetic to her pain and her humanism.

“We decided to shred it and start over again from scratch, keeping the songs,” Ms. Vega said. “We have slashed and burned this script over and over again.”

Though the songs Ms. Vega is best known for are razor sharp, character-based narratives — like her two Top 10 hits from the 1980s, “Luka” and “Tom’s Diner” — she struggled to create a cohesive, full-length work. From the play’s earliest days at Barnard she was determined that, as much as possible, the song lyrics would be taken verbatim from McCullers’s writings.

As she added new songs, Ms. Vega said, she also decided to bring in “a more musical writer than I am myself,” and turned to Duncan Sheik, who made the transition from singer-songwriter to theatrical composer with “Spring Awakening.”

“I think she felt a little at sea in terms of writing new songs in a theatrical context,” Mr. Sheik said in a telephone interview. “I’m pretty prolific writing music. Lyrics are the hard thing for me, and with her it might be a little bit the opposite.”

At various out-of-town workshops the shape of “Carson McCullers Talks About Love” continued to evolve. “At first I was approaching this play like a revue,” Ms. Vega said. “Comedy and stories and songs, and if you make the audience laugh, great. But after one workshop my husband said, ‘If I’d known there were going to be attempted suicides and remarriages and stuff, I would have paid more attention.’ So I thought, maybe I need to structure this into more of a real story.” She turned to “The Belle of Amherst,” a one-woman play written by William Luce based on the life of Emily Dickinson, as a template.

Ms. Matschullat noted that working with a musician was very different from directing a professional actor. “The process is free from a lot of the psychological issues that might come up with actors,” she said. “Suzanne is willing to take very specific directions about timing and placement. Sometimes actors chafe at specificity in fear it will inhibit the organic or truthful quality they strive for.”

True validation for Ms. Vega came in February, when she presented a reading of the show at a Carson McCullers symposium in Columbus, Ga., McCullers’s birthplace. “There were all these hard-core fanatics there, and I was terrified, and we got a standing ovation.” she said. “I thought, ‘If we can win this crowd over, then nobody in New York can say anything to me.’ ”

Ms. Vega said the shift to a new medium was welcome. Since being dropped by her last record label, she has been releasing, on her own, a series of rerecordings of her catalog organized by theme. (The third volume, “States of Being,” is due out in July.)

She laughed while recounting a story of a father pointing her out to his daughter and saying “She’s from the ’80s,” and said that if “Carson McCullers Talks About Love” succeeds, she has several other theater pieces based on “the ideology of women” (she mentions Jane Jacobs and Rachel Carson as examples) that she hopes to explore.

“I’ve been sort of decompressing since 1987,” Ms. Vega said. “I had that big moment. And then as each decade has gone by, it wasn’t exactly a crash back to earth, but it has been adjusting and readjusting. And that’s fine.

“It’s great to feel at this moment in time that I’m beginning something. It’s kind of a miracle at the age of 52 to start over, in some other realm.”
17 2011-05-01 The Designers     Carole Baijings and Stefan Scholten are the real-life couple behind the Amsterdam studio Scholten & Baijings....
18 2011-05-02 Sony said Monday that it had discovered credit card information and customer profiles had been compromised during an attack on the Sony Online Entertainment servers....
19 2011-05-02 Nevada's Secretary of State rules that a special election to replace Representative Dean Heller, about to be appointed to the Senate, should be open to all candidates....
20 2011-05-02 The winners of the Lucille Lortel Awards are announced....
21 2011-05-02 Dell is making a big push beyond its PC business into services and data center technology.The big potential new market is in offering services to midsize businesses....
22 2011-05-02 A troubling new study shows that when liposuction is used to remove fat from one part of the body, the fat comes back somewhere else....
23 2011-05-02 Congress is expected to focus on the debt limit fight as well as efforts by House Republicans and Senate Democrats to try to score quick political victories on rising gas prices....
24 2011-05-02 Nasdaq OMX and IntercontinentalExchange said they would take their $11 billion offer for NYSE Euronext directly to shareholders after twice being rebuffed....
25 2011-05-02 Based on the Intrade odds on whether Osama bin Laden would be caught by September 2011, it appears someone made a lot of money yesterday....
26 2011-05-02 International Coal, which has agreed to be bought by Arch Coal for $3.4 billion, was cobbled together by Wilbur Ross, known for finding value in distressed industries....
27 2011-05-02 The intelligent, creative and eco-friendly Beracasa describes her beauty regimen....
28 2011-05-02 When President Obama last week chided critics for the "silliness" over his birth certificate, he was two days away from ordering the raid on Bin Laden's compound....
29 2011-05-02 Researchers ask for reader input in the development of an online tool intended to provide realistic medical prognoses....
30 2011-05-02 Plus, do you think yelling is ever justified in the office?...
31 2011-05-02 A timeline of the events and intelligence work that led to President Obama's late-night announcement on Sunday of the killing of Osama bin Laden....
32 2011-05-02 “It clearly indicates that no matter how you slice it, that a shark is worth more in the water than the sum of its parts when it’s cut up and sold,” said Matt Rand, director of global shark conservation at the Pew Environment Group, which financed the study.

The Australian researchers were not the first to reach this conclusion, but they found individual sharks to have a much higher value than previous studies did. A study conducted in the Maldives had found the sharks to be worth $33,500 each to the government of that country. The Bahamas, cognizant of the tourism draw, bills itself as the “Shark Diving Capital of The World.”

Millions of sharks are killed each year for their fins or as bycatch, but there has been halting political progress toward reducing the pressure, like the creation of Palau’s shark sanctuary, the world’s first. Just a few years earlier, Palau had been considering opening a shark fishery with the aim of exporting fins.

Local residents now gain an estimated $1.2 million annually from the shark-diving trade, the researchers found, while the government reaps about $1.5 million.

With warm clear seas and World War II wrecks, Palau is a special place, of course. Mark Meekan, principal research scientist at the Australian Institute of Marine Science and the lead researcher for the study, acknowledged in an interview that the same economics might not apply to sharks in, say, the cold waters of the North Atlantic.

Still, there is a strong argument that sharks are an economically valuable part of the ecosystem, he said, noting that the Chesapeake Bay scallop industry was devastated in recent years by a proliferation of cownose rays caused partly by the overfishing of the rays’ main predators, which include hammerheads and other sharks.

Mr. Rand of the Pew Environment Group argues that even if a direct dollar figure cannot be attached to each shark, they are worth protecting.

“People understand that when you take all the wolves out of Yellowstone or the lions out of the Serengeti, that there’s going to be quite an effect on the ecosystem,” he said. “It’s the same with the oceans, where sharks are the top-order predators.”

Sharks grow slowly and give birth to few young, Mr. Rand noted. “Once they lose these species, they won’t recover like other fish,” he said, adding that quick action was therefore needed by governments.

The United States, the European Union and many other countries have banned the most widely condemned type of shark fishing, which involves cutting the fins from live sharks and dumping their bleeding carcasses back into the sea. Some countries have banned the shark fin trade altogether, but Japan, China and many Southeast Asian nations continue to allow, if not encourage, finning.

“Fishermen see sharks as a commodity,” Mr. Meekan said. “We see them as an important part of the ecosystem. That’s a very hard argument to make to them. But make an economic argument, that it’s worth more letting people look at it than it is taking it, that’s something they can understand.”

The idea is catching on. The Maldives has declared itself a shark sanctuary, and tourism operators and conservationists in Fiji, the Bahamas and other dive destinations are now calling for shark protections.

Mr. Meekan said he hoped that Palau’s example would help encourage ecotourism in other places as well, like diving with whale sharks off Indonesia. “You can involve the people who would otherwise be involved in illegal fishing, showing them that the fish have far more value as a tourist draw,” he said.
33 2011-05-02 But even as the legal fight played out, General Walsh was directing the two barges stationed at a nearby staging area to prepare to move into the final position from which crews could begin injecting the levees with 265 tons of explosives to blast the earthen structure.

“It will be a heaving of soil — the levee will be excavated very rapidly,” said Nick Boone, a mechanical engineer who leads the corps’ blasting team. “On this upper end, it’s going to look like a waterfall. It’s an instant removal, and that’s the whole point — instant relief of the entire system.”

Blowing the levee will serve as a fiery coda to an agonizing round of deliberations that has played out here over the past several days, as General Walsh has weighed the interests of about 200 people living in the floodway against the safety of Cairo, Ill., a struggling town of around 3,000 people that lies on a winnowed slip of land between the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. The move is expected to drop water levels upstream by roughly four feet.

General Walsh has toured the affected region over the past several days, meeting with residents and studying data provided by his team of experts. All the while, the surging rivers have continued to rise.

“ ‘Project Flood’ is upon us,” he said in a statement on Sunday. “It is testing the system like never before.”

The problem is essentially one of drainage. With both rivers running high, they have backed up above the confluence, raising water levels upstream and causing major underseepage in Cairo, weakening the town’s defenses and prompting city officials there to call for a mandatory evacuation.

“It’s a no-brainer, the ground’s softening,” said Mayor Judson Childs of Cairo, who on Monday leaves office to be replaced by a new mayor. “This could change from minute to minute.”

On Sunday, Illinois state troopers went door to door rousting residents and patrolling the empty streets. A crew of inmates from the Tamms Correctional Center continued to fill sandbags at the north end of town, and emergency vehicles raced along Washington Avenue. Otherwise, the streets were largely empty as residents appeared to heed the evacuation order, fleeing town in a diminishing stream of cars.

Pulling his truck onto Washington Avenue, Harry Williams said he had evacuated last night but returned to get some medicine for his father-in-law and check on his property.

“I was worried about looters,” said Mr. Williams, who is staying with family north of town. “But it looks like they’re patrolling the town a lot better now.”

A few blocks down the road, Sebastian Thomas, lounging in a plastic lawn chair outside a self-service car wash, said the only thing that would make him evacuate was “about six feet of water.”

“I’m going to stay here to help these women and children,” said Mr. Thomas, who said that many of the people squatting in the city’s abandoned buildings might not be aware of the situation. “A lot of these people are drug addicts and don’t know they’ve got options to get out of town, so I’m going to stay here and help.”

The rising water has cast a harsh light on relations in the region, where the interests of Missouri farmers have come into direct conflict with residents of this brutalized town of crumbling buildings, feral dogs and poverty. Once home to 15,000 people, Cairo was a cultural hub, home to a thriving river trade. In recent years, however, the city has struggled with major population loss, poverty and a deteriorating infrastructure.

But while attention in recent days has focused on the conflict between Cairo and its agricultural neighbors to the south, corps members have repeatedly emphasized that they are concerned about the entire levee system.

“What we’re looking at is what are the effects on the overall system,” said Col. Vernie L. Reichling, the corps’ commander for the Memphis District, adding, “The floodway was designed not just to protect Cairo but the entire region.”

First conceived after the Great Flood of 1927, the Mississippi River and Tributaries Project is a system of levees, dams and floodways that protects a 35,000-square-mile stretch of land from Cairo in the north to the river’s Louisiana delta.

The levee at Birds Point has been breached only once before, during the flood of 1937, when waters at Cairo reached 59.5 feet. That record was passed Sunday, as waters neared 60 feet, half a foot from their projected crest of 60.5 feet. To complicate matters, the National Weather Service is forecasting continued rains in the region, and corps analysts predict that the record crest could continue for more than five days, placing untold stress on the earthen levee and floodwall defenses that ring Cairo.

During the 1937 flood, engineers used dynamite to blast the earthen retaining wall, lowering the water level at Cairo by roughly three feet.

That figure gave little comfort to Bobby Byrne, who has grown corn, wheat and soy on his 550-acre spread in the flood zone all his life. “I don’t figure it’s going to do what they think it’s going to do,” said Mr. Byrne, 59, whose family has owned the farmland since the 1800s. “When they blew it in ’37, the river was back up in a day. It didn’t take pressure off anything.”
34 2011-05-02 My wife and I went different ways during a quick stop at a Midtown grocery store. Being from Washington State, we are used to grocery aisles wide enough to drive a full-size S.U.V. down.

I quickly lost track of my spouse in the labyrinth of skinny aisles. Just then a helpful store worker appeared and called out, “Does anyone need help tonight?”

I thought I was being clever and said in response, “I’m looking for my wife!”

Without skipping a beat, she responded, “Wives are in Aisle 9!”

No one beats New Yorkers at quick wit.

Who’s been scanning the streets in vain:

Making use of the bicycle lane.

With all the hand-wringing about the Broadway musical in general, and a certain catastrophe-prone, opening-someday production in particular, here’s a ray of sunshine:

I was walking along upper Broadway with a friend when a mutual acquaintance named Cindy popped up in the conversation.
35 2011-05-02 The disagreements came to the forefront on Friday, when a government adviser on radiation safety quit, calling on Japan to lower the permissible radiation dose of 20 millisieverts per year that the Education Ministry has set for schools for younger children, including elementary and junior high, in affected areas.

Other Japanese critics point out that the figure comes from the International Commission on Radiological Protection, which sets it as the upper limit of radiation exposure in inhabited areas after a nuclear accident, and thus too high for schools because children are more vulnerable. Government officials and some experts retort that the level was still low enough not to pose a health risk. They also said that radiation levels would fall over the next two months with the disappearance of short-lived iodine 131, which accounts for about half of the radioactive material emitted by the plant. Other measures are being taken to clean up the remaining radioactive matter, mainly cesium 137, which can last for generations.

Acting on its own, the city of Koriyama, about 35 miles west of the plant, will change the topsoil at 15 elementary schools where the city detected radiation doses above 20 millisieverts per year, and at 13 kindergartens where it found slightly lower radiation levels.

The Education Ministry has also found similarly high levels At 13 elementary schools, kindergartens and preschools in Fukushima Prefecture. In the city of Fukushima, 35 miles northwest of the plant, some schools have barred students from playing outside while at school. At least one school also requires children to wear hats and surgical masks, and to avoid contact with playground equipment.

The Education Ministry’s guidelines take into account the child’s exposure to radiation during the entire day, both at home and school, and experts say clean-up will have to happen all over towns, not just on school grounds. The radiation levels at schools is just one of the many decisions that Japan must make, whether on farm produce or the safety of entire towns. In Fukushima Prefecture, where the nuclear plant is located, the authorities conduct 50 tests a day on vegetables and milk, as much to reassure consumers as to find contaminated products.

Even so, Mr. Sewa, the farmer in Tenei, said that he had to destroy this spring’s crop of 880 pounds of cucumbers because he could find no buyers.

“Fukushima products are seen as tainted,” he said.

Experts say the fact that the Japanese government has not evacuated more areas reflects the balance it has struggled to strike between public safety and a desire to limit the size of affected areas in a cramped nation with little space to spare. “Fleeing is simply not an option,” said Gen Suzuki, an expert on radioactivity at the International University of Health and Welfare in Otawara, Japan. “The debate now should not be whether 10 millisieverts is safer than 20, but what steps we should be taking to decrease radiation levels.”

Mr. Suzuki and others say the risks are not as high as some people fear. But they admit that there is a lack of hard data about the health effects of lower radiation doses delivered over extended periods. Most knowledge about radiation’s health effects comes from Japan and studies on the survivors of the atomic bombs in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Researchers calculated the exposure levels of survivors and then waited for decades to see what they died from.

They then compared the data with death rates and causes of death in other, unexposed parts of Japan.

The results showed elevated cancer rates from high levels of radiation released during atomic blasts, said Mr. Nagataki, who did such studies. But researchers are left to rely on educated guesses in trying to extrapolate those results down to lower doses, he said.

Mr. Nagataki and other experts agreed that whatever additional cancer stemmed from the radiation levels seen in many of the evacuation zones around the Fukushima plant would probably be very low, even if residents remained in them. They said that a dose of 20 millisieverts per year would likely raise the rate of cancer deaths by far less than one percent, though the radiation levels in some of the evacuated areas are much higher than that, especially near the plant.

With health risks so low, Mr. Nagataki said that evacuation was not only unnecessary, but potentially more dangerous than the radiation. He said they could face the same risks as survivors of Japan’s tsunami, who have been put into crowded school gymnasiums and other makeshift shelters where he said they are vulnerable to contagious diseases and emotional problems like depression.

The Japanese authorities moved early to evacuate about 78,000 people within 12 miles of the Daiichi nuclear plant, and told another 62,000 people between 12 and 19 miles away to stay indoors. But Tokyo proved reluctant to expand evacuation areas, despite the urgings of the International Atomic Energy Agency and recommendations by the United States that its citizens stay 50 miles from the plant.

Late last month, the authorities finally ordered the evacuation of another 7,000 people from the village of Iitate, 25 miles northwest of the plant, and a few nearby areas that showed readings in excess of 20 millisieverts per year.

“The fact is that no one knows for sure what the risks are,” said Mr. Nagataki, “but that doesn’t stop many people from saying ‘Scary! Scary!’ ”
36 2011-05-02 ¶Intel expanded its relationship with Tribal DDB Worldwide, part of the DDB Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, by naming the agency’s San Francisco office as the lead agency for what Intel calls its master brand advertising account, which includes the worldwide image ads that carry the theme “Sponsors of tomorrow.” The most recent such ads had been created by Venables Bell & Partners, San Francisco, which continues to work for Intel on product assignments that include ads for a new processor. Intel also works with agencies like MRM and Razorfish. Tribal DDB created a campaign for Intel last year that appeared in Pennsylvania Station in New York.

¶John Cate, executive vice president and general manager of Mediasmith, San Francisco, was promoted to executive vice president and chief operating officer. As chief operating officer, a new post, he assumes some duties that had been handled by David L. Smith, who remains chief executive.

¶Tim Nelson, managing partner of Trisect, Chicago, was promoted to president, a new post.

¶David Moranville, partner and executive creative director of Davis Elen Advertising, Los Angeles, was named partner and chief creative officer.

¶Vincent Létang joined MagnaGlobal, New York, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as executive vice president and director for global forecasting. He succeeds Brian Wieser, who left to join Simulmedia as chief marketing officer as part of what was described as “a new strategic alliance” with MagnaGlobal, where Mr. Wieser had worked since 2003. Mr. Létang had been senior analyst and head of advertising research at Screen Digest, London.

¶Ben Winkler joined OMD United States, New York, part of the OMD unit of the Omnicom Group, as chief digital officer, succeeding Erin Matts, who left to become global director for digital communications at Anheuser-Busch InBev. Mr. Winkler had been senior vice president and director for digital at Initiative, New York, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Also, Colin Sutton joined OMD in a new post, United States director for OMD Word, which specializes in social media; he had been managing director of M80, part of the GroupM unit of WPP.

¶Modernista, Boston, an agency that had worked for brands like Cadillac, Gap, Hummer and Palm, is being closed after 11 years. The agency, at its peak, had about 150 employees at offices in Amsterdam and Detroit as well as the Boston headquarters. At the closing, there were about 10 employees in Boston. Modernista’s closing came after it lost many large clients like General Motors as well as Lance Jensen, who founded the agency with Gary Koepke; Mr. Jensen left for another Boston agency, Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
37 2011-05-02 Credit: Loren Holmes for The New York Times
38 2011-05-02 “That’s socialism!” an angry character shouts in “One-Third of a Nation,” a play written during the Depression and now revived by the Metropolitan Playhouse. “It’s unconstitutional!” yells another, the president of a mortgage company.

Those accusations, in response to suggestions that the government intervene in the free market, garner extra laughs from the audience, given the current political climate. Yet they also stir lots of emotions in a production that’s full of passion, at least until it turns preachy.

“One-Third of a Nation,” written by Arthur Arent for the Living Newspaper unit of the Federal Theater Project, was first staged in 1938. Part history lesson, part protest, the play uses a series of sketches to dramatize ghastly housing conditions and to condemn corruption, speculators and slumlords. Much of the script remains fresh, with a wry, invisible narrator and characters who step out of scenes to comment on the action, which traverses more than 200 years.

But after a highly effective hour and a half the story slows to focus on, among other things, legislation to finance public housing. What had been a depiction of humans in appalling situations turns didactic, and the final 45 minutes sometimes drag.

Still, the cast of 11, directed by Alex Roe, is always a pleasure to watch. Playing more than 100 characters, the actors deftly handle both comedy and tragedy, and change accents and roles with ease. Teresa Kelsey and Howard Thoresen are particularly skilled in their many parts.

Despite its dated segments “One-Third of a Nation” is a compelling look at the past as well as a tale with parallels to modern struggles. Time may have tarnished some of its scenes. But its cry for simple decency hasn’t grown old.
39 2011-05-02 WEISSER--Philip, of East Williston, NY, died May 1st. He shall be missed by his wife Marcia (Silfen), his daughters Elizabeth and Amy, son-in-law Adam Yarinsky, and adored grandchildren William and Anna. Funeral services, 11am at Temple Sinai of R...
40 2011-05-02 Fans of Delicious, an online bookmarking service, raised a ruckus after word leaked four months ago that its owner, Yahoo, might shutter it as part of a streamlining plan.     To deflect criticism, Yahoo quickly reassured users that it was trying ...
41 2011-05-03 Thousands of acres of Missouri farmland were flooded when the Army Corps of Engineers blew a hole in a levee at the confluence of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers to help save the town of Cairo, Ill....
42 2011-05-03 The water level near Cairo, Ill., fell after federal officials destroyed a part of the levee near the town on Monday.
43 2011-05-03 Three days after resigning as ambassador to China, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. takes the first steps toward joining the Republican presidential race....
44 2011-05-03 It appears that hedge funds prefer to battle takeover titans than fight for corporate governance issues, the Deal Professor says....
45 2011-05-03 Duncan Niederauer said he wasn’t worried by Nasdaq and ICE taking their rejected takeover bid directly to his shareholders....
46 2011-05-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
47 2011-05-03 Commodity prices matter less than you think....
48 2011-05-03 New York City's new taxicab will be a bulky, traditional Nissan van, the NV200. The first of the new cars were expected to be rolled out by the fall of 2014....
49 2011-05-03 The Nissan NV200 van has won New York City's Taxi of Tomorrow competition....
50 2011-05-03 In Palau, the Maldives, the Bahamas and some other scuba-diving destinations, tourism operators have gotten across the message to governments that there are economically rational reasons to protect the fish....
51 2011-05-03 A reporter for Al Jazeera’s English-language channel disappeared in Syria on Friday, the network announced Monday, saying it was demanding immediate information from the Syrian government about her whereabouts.

The network said in a brief statement that it had not had contact with the journalist, Dorothy Parvaz, since she arrived in Damascus on a Qatar Airways flight.

Ms. Parvaz, who holds American, Canadian and Iranian citizenship, has been based in Doha, Qatar, for Al Jazeera since August 2010 and was sent to Syria to report on antigovernment demonstrations there. Her fiancé, Todd Barker, said the American, Canadian and Iranian Embassies in Damascus had all requested information about her whereabouts from the Syrian government.

“I spoke to her on Thursday night,” Mr. Barker, a lawyer who lives in Luxembourg, said in a phone interview. “And she informed me that she was going to Syria the next day at noon.”

Ms. Parvaz, he said, had not had time to get a Syrian visa and so had probably been traveling on her Iranian passport.

The Syrian government has not said if Ms. Parvaz was arrested, but Mohamed Abdel Dayem of the Committee to Protect Journalists said there was “strong evidence that she is almost certainly in the Syrian government’s hands.” He said the Syrian government did not typically acknowledge that it had journalists in custody until they were released.
52 2011-05-03 Rihanna looked half naked in a black lace Stella McCartney gown with a sheer panel on one side. Beyoncé wore a form-fitting Pucci the shape of a pepper mill. Renée Zellweger’s gold lace dress, by Carolina Herrera, seemed demure by comparison, until she turned around to reveal the back, which plunged all the way into plumber territory.

“It’s a bit of a mystery how it is even staying on,” Ms. Zellweger said, as Paul McCartney, in a tartan blazer, tapped her on the shoulder to say hello.

If the fashion seemed especially exuberant at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s annual Costume Institute gala on Monday night, and it certainly did, that was because its organizers had urged guests to take risks with their dresses in honor of the late designer Alexander McQueen, who is the subject of the museum’s spring exhibition. Mr. McQueen, who committed suicide last year, was known for his provocative collections and daring tailoring, and so there were women in full feathered panniers (the socialite Daphne Guinness) and a laser cut neoprene gown with a full train (the model Aimee Mullins), and a guest with a sculpture of a large egg on her head (the Italian editor Anna Dello Russo). Ms. Zellweger’s rear exposure, it turns out, was a nod to the designer’s notorious “bumster” trousers, which set an extreme low for waistlines.

“I remember there was a lot of blush, and a lot of red,” said Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue and the driving force behind the ball, just after she had personally received some 790 guests, as is her tradition. “And I remember Marc Jacobs was wearing a red kilt.”

Actually, Mr. Jacobs, who was tracked down just before a Scottish-themed dinner was served in the Temple of Dendur, was wearing a quasi-kilt by Comme des Garçons that comprised a pair of shorts fronted with a kilt flap. His business partner, Robert Duffy, was wearing a real one. “And he’s not wearing any underwear,” Mr. Jacobs said.

This year’s guest list was typically elite, but also unusual in its mix, as Donald Trump was telling guests that he really was amused by President Obama’s jokes during the White House Correspondents’ Dinner: “You’ll get me in trouble,” he told one guest who teased him. He was followed into the party by Gwyneth Paltrow (in backless Stella McCartney) and Jennifer Lopez (in raspberry Gucci, with a cutout in the front).

Ms. Mullins arrived with the designer Olivier Theyskens, who had custom made her dress using yards of neoprene that had been burned to give it a charred edge. It reeked of smoke. “It’s a burn smell,” Ms. Mullins said. “Let’s hope the fire alarm doesn’t go off.” Mr. McQueen, who once designed a bustier of live worms layered between clear plastic, probably would have adored it.
53 2011-05-03 A special election to replace Representative Dean Heller, a Republican about to be appointed to the United States Senate, should be open to all candidates, not just those selected by the two major political parties, Nevada’s secretary of state ruled on Monday. The decision improves the prospects of Sharron Angle, the Tea Party-backed Republican who ran for Senate last year and whom state Republicans had signaled that they did not want to run for this seat. The secretary of state, Ross J. Miller, a Democrat, ruled against an interpretation of the law that would limit the ballot to just candidates chosen by the major parties. “Pleased to announce an open-ballot-access election,” Mr. Miller posted on his Twitter account. “Freedom for all to run; let the people decide rather than politically elite power brokers.” Mr. Heller’s Second Congressional District is, normally, solidly Republican; the decision appears to put the Sept. 13 election in flux. Mr. Heller would replace John Ensign, a Republican, whose resignation is effective today.

Correction: May 4, 2011 

 A headline on Tuesday with a report in the National Briefing column about a ruling by Nevada’s secretary of state to open a special election there to all candidates, not just those selected by the two major political parties, misidentified the race. As the report correctly noted, it is a for the United States House, not the Senate.
54 2011-05-03 Over the last year, as newspapers continue to grapple with how to protect their online content, Righthaven has filed more than 200 similar federal lawsuits in Colorado and Nevada over material posted without permission from The Denver Post or The Las Vegas Review-Journal.

The company has business relationships with both newspapers. Like much of the industry, the papers see the appropriation of their work without permission as akin to theft and harmful to their business, and are frustrated by unsuccessful efforts to stem the common practice, whether it’s by a one-man operation like Mr. Hill’s, or an established one like Matt Drudge’s.

Sara Glines, a vice president for the MediaNews Group, which owns The Denver Post, wrote in an e-mail that the pat-down photo had been used on more than 300 Web sites with no credit to The Post or the photographer.

“We have invested heavily in creating quality content in our markets,” Ms. Glines wrote. “To allow others who have not shared in that investment to reap the benefit ultimately hurts our ability to continue to fund that investment at the same level.”

Mark Hinueber, general counsel for Stephens Media, owner of The Review-Journal, echoed Ms. Glines’s concerns, saying that cutting and pasting articles “steals the potential audience for our editorial material and traffic to our Web sites.”

Some critics, however, contend that Righthaven’s tactics are draconian, and that the company hopes to extract swift settlements before it is clear that there is a violation of federal copyright law. Typically, the suits have been filed without warning. Righthaven rarely sends out notices telling Web sites to take down material that does not belong to them before seeking damages and demanding forfeiture of the Web domain name.

Defendants in these cases run the gamut. They have included the white supremacist David Duke, the Democratic Party of Nevada and Mr. Drudge. But little known Web sites, nonprofit groups and so-called mom-and-pop bloggers — people who blog as a hobby — are not exempt from Righthaven’s legal actions.

According to some Internet legal experts who have been watching the cases with growing interest, the way it works is simple: Righthaven finds newspaper material that has been republished on the Web — usually an article, excerpts or a photograph — and obtains the copyrights. Then, the company sues.

Whether the defendant credits the original author or removes the material after being sued matters little. None of the cases have gone to trial yet, and many have been settled out of court. In two instances, judges have ruled against Righthaven in pretrial motions. According to The Las Vegas Sun, which has tracked the cases, the only two publicly disclosed settlements were for $2,185 and $5,000.

In describing his company’s approach, Steve Gibson, Righthaven’s chief executive, said that there has been “voluminous, almost incalculable infringement” since the advent of the Internet and that years of warning people to take down copyrighted content had not worked. Newspapers, he said, needed a new way to address the problem of people appropriating their material without permission.

Eric Goldman, director of the high-tech law institute at the Santa Clara University School of Law, said reposting published material online could qualify as “fair use” if it didn’t diminish the market value of the original. Other critics of the suits contend that reposting material for the purposes of discussion does not constitute infringement.

“Many of the defendants are ill-informed about copyright law,” Mr. Goldman said. “They’re not trying to compete with a newspaper. They just don’t know the rules.” Mr. Goldman informally advised a company that was sued by Righthaven and settled out of court.

In an amicus brief filed on behalf of the Media Bloggers Association regarding a Righthaven suit in Nevada, Marc J. Randazza, a lawyer specializing in First Amendment issues, accused the company of acquiring copyrights for the sole purpose of going after defendants who could not afford legal help.

“Nobody can seriously believe that Righthaven, which publishes nothing anywhere, has acquired the full ownership of the articles it sues upon,” wrote Mr. Randazza, whose legal group recently filed motions to dismiss two other Righthaven cases, accusing the company of making fraudulent copyright claims.

Mr. Gibson denies that unwitting bloggers are a particular target and points to lawsuits like the one against Mr. Drudge. Righthaven accused Mr. Drudge of posting the airport pat-down photo on his Drudge Report Web site without permission. The suit was settled out of court, Mr. Gibson said.“The harm of viewer diversion has been achieved whether it is being shown on Momandpop.com or Chicagotribune.com,” he said. “If the accusation were true that we were just a purely greedy operation not advancing the interests of copyright law, then we wouldn’t be addressing viewer diversion.”

Ms. Glines said that MediaNews “reviewed every violation and only approved actions against sites that carried advertising and were not charities.”

Rachel Bjorklund wishes she had been sent a simple e-mail rather than slapped with a lawsuit. A stay-at-home mother in Oregon, Ms. Bjorklund was sued by Righthaven in March after she posted the airport pat-down photo on her blog, thoughtsfromaconservativemom.com.

“My reaction was, ‘Why didn’t you just contact me and ask me to take it down?’ That would have been no problem,” said Ms. Bjorklund, who plans to challenge the suit.

Mr. Hill, who suffers from autism and diabetes and lives on disability checks with his mother, said at that at one point Righthaven had offered to settle for $6,000, but he refused. A Colorado lawyer, David Kerr, has been defending him pro bono.

A federal judge presiding over the case criticized Righthaven last month for using the courts to settle with defendants scared of the potential cost of litigation. Shortly after, Righthaven moved to voluntarily drop the suit, saying it had not been aware of Mr. Hill’s health problems. But Righthaven also stated in court filings that a dismissal did not exonerate others it was suing and warned Mr. Hill against continuing to use copyrighted material.

Mr. Hill recently decided to revive his Web site, uswgo.com, where he posts links to various political articles and his own musings, which he had taken down after being sued. On the site, there is a notice explaining Mr. Hill’s belief that material posted there, even without permission, constitutes fair use. This time, though, Mr. Hill said he’s steering clear of any image or story that could cause him trouble with Righthaven.
55 2011-05-03 SAN JUAN, P.R. (AP) — Emilio Navarro, a former Negro leagues star thought to be the oldest living professional baseball player, died Saturday in Ponce, P.R. He was 105.

His death was announced by his family.

A 5-foot-5 infielder known for his base-running skill, Navarro, who was known as Millito, was the first Puerto Rican to play in the Negro leagues. He was elected to the Puerto Rico Baseball Hall of Fame in 1992 and the Puerto Rican Sports Hall of Fame in 2004.

As a shortstop and leadoff hitter for the New York-based Cuban Stars of the Eastern Colored League, Navarro batted .337 in 1929.

He played in the Dominican Republic with the Escogido Lions in the 1920s and in Venezuela with Magallanes and other teams in the 1930s. In Puerto Rico, he was the second baseman for the Ponce Lions for nearly 20 years.

Emilio Navarro was born on Sept. 26, 1905, in Patillas, P.R., and spent most of his life in nearby Ponce, where he lived by himself in a house he built for his family in the late 1950s. He is survived by 4 children, 11 grandchildren, 9 great-grandchildren and a great-great-grandchild.

In 2008, Navarro threw out the first pitch before a game at Yankee Stadium. He warmed up his arm, waved his hat and made a 30-foot toss on the fly to catcher Jorge Posada.
56 2011-05-03 A daily dose of a hormone gel reduced premature births by nearly half among women at particularly high risk, according to a recent study.

“This is a big advance,” said Dr. Mary D’Alton, the chairwoman of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Columbia University.

Premature birth is the leading cause of death and illness among newborns. An estimated 12.9 million babies worldwide, 500,000 of them in the United States, are born prematurely every year.

In the United States, about a third of early births result from decisions by doctors that the health of either the mother or child is threatened enough to end the pregnancy early, usually with a Caesarean section. But two-thirds of those early births are spontaneous, and any intervention that could reduce them could have significant public health consequences.

The hormone treatment, a progesterone gel inserted vaginally every day during the second half of a pregnancy, reduced the risk of premature birth in women with a short cervix, which can soften too early.

Dr. Roberto Romero, chief of the perinatology research branch at the National Institutes of Health, estimated that as many as 2 percent of the nation’s 500,000 annual preterm births could be prevented, leading 10,000 more babies a year to be born at full term. Screening all pregnant women and treating those found to have short cervixes would save the nation’s health system $12 million a year, Dr. Romero said.
57 2011-05-03 The United States is virtually alone in trying to tax its multinational corporations on their foreign earnings, but it allows companies to avoid those taxes indefinitely by keeping profits overseas. That encourages companies to use accounting maneuvers to shift profits to low-tax countries and to invest profits offshore, says David S. Miller, a partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York.

, the company that makes things as diverse as aerospace components and First Alert smoke detectors, reported in regulatory filings that in the last five years, it paid cash income taxes in the United States and abroad equal to 15 percent of its profits. On Friday, a Honeywell spokeswoman pointed out that the company had since made a large pension contribution, which effectively cut its profits and made its tax rate closer to 22 percent.

A major domestic competitor, , reported an average of 24 percent over that time. A German rival, Siemens, reported 29 percent of its total profit.

In addition to being complex and uneven, the United States corporate tax code is inefficient and has become a diminishing source of revenue. Corporate taxes accounted for about 9 percent of all federal revenue in 2010. At $191 billion, they were equal to 1.3 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product. Most industrial countries collect more from companies, about 2.5 percent of output. Only a portion of that disparity can be explained by the many types of businesses in the United States that elect to be taxed at an individual rate.

“Whether the test is fairness or efficiency, the U.S. system gets really low marks,” said Michelle Hanlon, an professor who says the country needs to completely revamp the way it taxes corporations.

Not all American companies are willing or able to reduce their taxes drastically. Taxes vary more by industry here than abroad, according to a study released in February by Kevin S. Markle of Dartmouth and Douglas A. Shackelford of the . At the high end, American retailers paid 31 percent in total income taxes, construction 30 percent and manufacturers 26 percent. Financial services companies paid an average of 20 percent, real estate 19 percent and mining 6 percent.

Because some companies are so effective at minimizing taxes, the average works out to far less than the official rate. United States companies pay about a quarter of their profits in federal income taxes, a few percentage points higher than the rate paid by companies in most other major industrial countries, according to a number of studies and tax experts.

Assorted proposals being discussed in Washington call for the rate to be lowered officially to about 25 percent and some tax breaks to be eliminated so that revenue remains unchanged.

But some prominent business leaders, including the chief executive of , are pushing for the rate to be reduced without reining in tax shelters. That would make the United States virtually the only country to change corporate taxes in recent years in a way that ended up adding to its deficit.

“One fact we know is that in all of the countries that have lowered their corporate rates in recent years, they still collected the same amount in revenues or more,” said Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, an international tax lawyer who teaches at the . “This means that they were broadening the base of the profits that corporations were actually taxed on.”

Procter & Gamble, whose products include Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste, paid an average of 24 percent of its profits in worldwide income taxes over the last three years, according to regulatory filings. That is nearly the same rate reported by two big European rivals, and Henkel.

Yet Robert A. McDonald, P.& G.’s top executive, testified before a Congressional committee this year about the need to cut the United States tax rate without ending tax breaks and shelters. “We need a tax system that addresses today’s hypercompetitive global marketplace,” Mr. McDonald said, arguing that the playing field was tilted away from American businesses.

Many liberal groups counter that ending the breaks, subsidies and shelters in the corporate tax code could provide enough money to lower the rate several percentage points and still increase revenue.

Furthermore, some business owners complain that the American system unfairly rewards disingenuous bookkeeping rather than innovation. It forces companies to compete “based not on product quality and services, but on accounting gymnastics,” said Paul Egerman, former chairman and chief executive of eScription, a medical transcription service in .

No one is certain how much creative accounting costs the federal government in lost revenue, but most estimates say it easily exceeds $50 billion a year. Targeted tax preferences, which Congress created to intentionally benefit specific companies or industries, cost an estimated $100 billion more a year.

Many tax analysts are skeptical that Congress, business leaders and the Obama administration will be able to reach a deal before the 2012 election.

“It’s human nature that people are going to fight harder to preserve a benefit they already have than to get some new benefit,” said Clint Stretch, a principal at Tax and a former counsel to the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. “The only way tax reform makes everyone happy is if everyone wins. And with the federal budget where it is today, that’s not possible.”
58 2011-05-03 WILMINGTON, Del. (Reuters) — The bankruptcy trustee for Thornburg Mortgage has sued Goldman Sachs, Barclays and other big banks for a combined $2.2 billion, blaming them for its bankruptcy.

The trustee filed four separate lawsuits, the most extensive of which blames a “collusive scheme” by units of JPMorgan Chase & Company, Citigroup, the Royal Bank of Scotland, Credit Suisse and UBS for driving the company into bankruptcy.

The trustee, Joel Sher, accused the five banks of acting together to use a series of unjustified margin calls to extend their control over Thornburg, which was once a leading provider of “jumbo” home loans.

The lawsuit seeks to recover $2 billon for fraudulent conveyances and transfers by the banks, which had financed Thornburg’s mortgage-backed securities.

The trustee said the banks eventually drove Thornburg into Chapter 11 in May 2009. It sought protection from creditors with $36.5 billion in assets, making it one of the largest bankruptcies during the financial crisis.
59 2011-05-03 As officials in nearby states — including New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts — have become conspicuous converts to the current antitax, antigovernment fever, Mr. Malloy and Connecticut Democrats are striking a more anomalous course, betting that residents will accept the short-term pain of tax increases if they see a long-term gain of stable government services and fiscal policy.

First, though, the state has to navigate what could be a tumultuous week, as lawmakers take up the budget before they know the outcome of high-stakes negotiations that have been going on for almost two months between the governor and the state’s public-employee unions over the $1 billion in annual cuts needed to make the plan work.

If Mr. Malloy and the unions come to an agreement by Friday, it would provide the cost savings needed to balance the budget and complete the process at a breakneck pace. If they do not, the result is likely to be widespread layoffs and a messy spate of spending cuts after the budget has already been passed.

The governor’s approach is “a very different path than most other states,” said Roy Occhiogrosso, senior adviser to Mr. Malloy. “It has not just the rhetoric of what the governor says are shared sacrifices, but the reality of it as well. The value of it is that it gets you quickly to a place where the state’s finances are stabilized, and it’s done in a responsible and humane fashion.”

Republicans proposed a budget that they said was balanced without any tax increases. Mr. Malloy, they said, is flying in the face of public sentiment in Connecticut and across the country in pushing through a major tax increase, and trying to do it so quickly.

“The haste is simply about trying to pass the largest tax increase in Connecticut history in the hopes that people either won’t notice it or will forget about it sooner rather than later,” said Christopher C. Healy, chairman of the state Republican Party. “And now you’ve got the perfect cover of the great news of the disappearance from this earth of Osama bin Laden. The Democrats have long relied on the public’s being either oblivious or resigned to their fate, so they figure the earlier they get a tax hike on the books, the better.”

Mr. Malloy is counting on an agreement with the unions and a restructuring that will cut the number of state agencies to 57 from 81. Although the cuts remain uncertain, the tax increases are quite clear.

They extend from human pleasures (a new 3 percent “cabaret tax” on establishments that offer live music, dancing or other entertainment while serving alcohol) to nonhuman ones (pet boarding and obedience classes) and even to life’s aftermath (the cremation certificate fee increases to $150 from $40). One viewed as particularly problematic is the so-called “Amazon tax,” requiring certain remote sellers with no physical presence in Connecticut to collect sales taxes. The state’s Department of Revenue Services said it was probably unenforceable.

The budget would increase marginal tax rates on incomes over $100,000 for joint filers, $50,000 for single filers and married people filing separately, and $80,000 for heads of households.

Still, as a product of hard times, the budget agreement could be complicated by the degree to which times at the moment are not quite as hard as they have been. Officials said last week that the surplus for the current year was growing by $300 million, and the revenue estimates for the next fiscal year are up by $282 million. That is good news for the state, but uncertain tidings for the budget. Republicans are already saying the surpluses are evidence that the tax increases are excessive, and unions are likely to argue that the $1 billion in proposed cuts is now more than what is needed.
60 2011-05-03 One exception is the Toyota Prius hybrid car, whose manufacture uses a kilogram of neodymium.

Toyota has been raising prices for the Prius, but has cited demand for the car and economic conditions. While acknowledging that rising prices for raw materials in general have affected the company’s overall financial results, Toyota has declined to provide a breakdown of the role of rare earths. (Production problems stemming from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami have also crimped supplies of Prius cars, which are made only in Japan.)

The high prices for rare earths reflect turmoil in the global industry that mines and refines them. China, which controls more than 95 percent of the market, has further restricted exports so as to conserve supplies for its own high-tech and green energy industries. That is despite the World Trade Organization’s ban on most export restrictions.

Meanwhile, an ambitious effort to open the world’s largest rare earth refinery in Malaysia, which had seemed certain to begin operating by this autumn, is tied up over regulatory reviews of the disposal plans for thousands of tons of low-level radioactive waste the plant would produce annually. Public opposition to the refinery is evident in the weekly protest demonstrations now being held.

At the same time, Japanese companies are finding it harder than originally hoped to recycle rare earths from electronics and to begin rare earth mining and refining in Vietnam.

Although rare earths are crucial to the supply chains of some of the world’s biggest manufacturers, the industry that mines and refines them has long been characterized by small, entrepreneurial companies. Lately, though, soaring prices have contributed to industry consolidation.

Last month, for example, Solvay, a big Belgian chemical-industrial corporation announced that it would pay $4.8 billion to acquire Rhodia of France, a technological leader in making complex chemicals based on rare earths.

That same day, April 4, Molycorp, the only American company currently producing rare earths, said it had paid $89 million for a more than 90 percent stake in Silmet of Estonia, a much smaller company that is Rhodia’s only European rival in rare earth processing.

In Malaysia, where the giant rare earth refinery is under construction near the eastern port of Kuantan, regulators are delaying approval for an operating permit amid public concern about naturally occurring low-level radioactive contamination of the rare earth ore, which will be mined in Australia.

Raja Dato Abdul Aziz bin Raja Adnan, the director general of the Malaysian Atomic Energy Licensing Board, said the board had asked the Lynas Corporation of Australia, which is building the refinery, to provide additional documentation before accepting its application for an initial operating permit. It will take up to six months to review the application, Raja Adnan said, and Lynas will not be allowed to bring any raw material to the plant until a permit is issued.

But Nicholas Curtis, Lynas’s executive chairman, said that he believed the company could obtain the necessary approvals before September and that his company was sticking to its plan to begin feeding Australian ore into the Malaysian refinery’s kilns by the end of that month.

The Malaysian government also announced last week that it would appoint a panel of international experts to review the safety of Lynas’s plans. The company said it welcomed the move.

But Fuziah Salleh, an opposition legislator who represents downtown Kuantan and has been leading weekly protests, is mistrustful.

“The people’s concerns are that the independent panel will be formed by the government to prove that they are right,” she wrote in an e-mail message.

Toyota Tsusho, a materials purchasing unit of the Toyota Group, has separately encountered complex local regulations as it seeks to open rare earth mining and processing operations in Vietnam. The project was announced last October during a Chinese embargo on rare earth shipments to Japan. Takeshi Mutsuura, a spokesman, said that Toyota Tsusho now hoped to reach a contract in Vietnam this summer and start production in early 2013.

As recently as last autumn, there were also ambitious hopes in Japan to recycle rare earths from electronics waste. Dowa Holdings tried then to come up with ways to separate rare earths at a recycling factory in northwest Japan but found the task significantly more difficult than recycling other, more widely available precious metals. The recycling factory is now recovering 19 other metals instead, including cobalt and lithium.

All of this has left the world even more dependent on China. The Chinese government last autumn showed a willingness to use that near monopoly as a trade weapon, halting shipments to Japan from late September to mid-November, during a territorial dispute over islands in the East China Sea.

Although Beijing has officially denied that it imposed a Japanese embargo last fall, China’s own trade data released since then show that its shipments to Japan suddenly fell to zero in October for rare earth metals, and to nearly zero for rare earth oxides — which are more processed chemical compounds. At the beginning of this year China reduced its rare earth export quotas to all countries, while raising export taxes on some rare earths to 25 percent, from 15 percent previously.

Since April 1, China has also raised taxes on rare earth mining companies to the equivalent of $8 for each kilogram of refined product; rare earths were previously taxed like many other nonferrous minerals in China, at less than 50 cents a kilogram.

One of the biggest questions hanging over the rare earths industry is whether the United States, the European Union and Japan will file a World Trade Organization case against China, challenging its export quotas and duties. James Bacchus, a former chairman of the W.T.O. appeals tribunal in Geneva, said that Chinese trade data shows a virtually complete halt in shipments to Japan last autumn could be cited to buttress any W.T.O. filing by rare earth-importing countries.

China denies violating the W.T.O. ban on export restrictions, saying that it qualified for an exception to the ban for environmental protection and conservation of natural resources. But China has done little to restrict its own industries’ consumption of rare earths, usually a prerequisite for invoking an environmental defense.
61 2011-05-03 Bin Laden had an inspirational personal story: he dedicated a fortune inherited from his father, a construction tycoon, to finance a global jihad. Mr. Zawahri, a surgeon, comes from an accomplished Egyptian family, but lacks a similar patina of sacrifice.

“Bin Laden represented a movement, he was almost mythic in his appearances and what he said — Zawahri cannot equal that,” said Richard Barrett, the coordinator for the Qaeda-Taliban monitoring team for the United Nations Security Council.

John O. Brennan, President Obama’s counterterrorism adviser, said at a news conference on Monday that Mr. Zawahri “has a lot of detractors within the organization, and I think you’re going to see them start eating themselves from within more and more.”

Others, however, believe that Mr. Zawahri’s organizational skills will be more necessary than charisma at a time when Al Qaeda’s core needs to be held together.

In a sense, Al Qaeda has already spread its franchise to local groups, and the question will be whether with Mr. Zawahri at its helm it can continue to inspire a new generation of jihadists.

“The transition that the Middle East is going through at the moment will be a testing ground whether these ideas will survive, will come back with a vengeance or will cease to be relevant,” said Nelly Lahoud, a senior associate at the Combating Terrorism Center at the United States Military Academy. “Will the new emerging regimes deliver something meaningful in the Muslim world?”

The Qaeda narrative will lose adherents if they do, but could return powerfully if they do not, she said.

But Mr. Zawahri’s recent attempts to graft Al Qaeda’s message onto the Mideast uprisings showed no signs of winning adherents.

He called for the establishment of an Islamic caliphate in Egypt based on Shariah or Islamic law. “Those who seek to alienate Shariah from governance so America can be content will spread amongst you usury, adultery, insobriety, moral dissolution, familial schisms and all kinds and forms of crimes,” he railed in his latest message, which was translated on Jihadology.net.

Yet the youths who organized the uprisings across the Arab world have emphasized the peaceful, democratic nature of the revolts, and have shown little interest in an Islamic caliphate.

Thus Mr. Zawahri takes the helm with the jihadi movement on the defensive. “The ideology is based on the argument that jihad is the only way to bring change,” said Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi journalist who has tracked extremist Islamic groups for decades. “But Facebook did a better job than jihad.”

Al Qaeda under Mr. Zawahri would very likely face other obstacles. Its Persian Gulf Arab supporters might be reluctant to finance a group not run by one of their own. And while Al Qaeda has some younger leaders from across the Muslim world, Islamist organizations tend to be hierarchical, making Mr. Zawahri the clear heir apparent.

Mr. Zawahri has a long history of unalloyed hatred of the West. He was first arrested for his activism in 1966 at age 15, for joining the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood, the Arab world’s oldest Islamic political organization.

In 1974, he graduated from Cairo University’s medical school and obtained a master’s degree in surgery four years later. His father, who died in 1995, was a pharmacology professor at the same university. His grandfather, Rabia’a al-Zawahri, was the grand imam of Al Azhar in Cairo, the center of mainstream Sunni Muslim teaching, and his great-uncle, Abdel Rahman Azzam, was the first secretary general of the Arab League.

Finding the Muslim Brotherhood too tame, he helped found Egyptian Islamic Jihad in the late 1970s. Jailed after President Anwar el-Sadat’s assassination in 1981, he was released in 1984.

Tarek al-Zomor, imprisoned until earlier this year for his role in the assassination, on Monday recalled Mr. Zawahri’s last jailhouse sermon. “He assured us that there would only be more clashes, more violence between the Middle East and the West,” Mr. Zomor said. “I have no doubt that he will continue, if not escalate Al Qaeda’s operations. Especially in light of American policies in the region, I do not expect al-Zawahri to be quiet.”

Fleeing Egypt for Saudi Arabia and eventually Afghanistan, he joined forces with Bin Laden around 1998, when both men signed a fatwa calling for worldwide attacks on American targets. Together they spread the technical know-how to carry out terrorist attacks across borders that has become the trademark of the group. Mr. Zawahri has been indicted for the bombings of the United States Embassies in Tanzania and Kenya the same year, and the United States has long offered a $25 million reward for his capture.

Mr. Zawahri is believed to be hiding in Pakistan — although the theory that both leaders were in remote mountainous reaches of the country is now open to question. The United States almost killed him, however, in 2006 with a drone strike in Damadola in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan near Afghanistan, Mr. Barrett noted.

Even with Mr. Zawahri on the run, experts stressed that killing proponents of jihad is far easier than killing the ideology itself and that Al Qaeda’s ideas will persist as long as the dire political and social circumstances that created them persist.

“The question for Zawahri will be: Can Al Qaeda transmit its message in the absence of Bin Laden to the next generation of fighters?” said Lt. Col. Reid Sawyer, the director of the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point.
62 2011-05-03 Many Republicans have publicly agreed that Congress must raise the ceiling, although they insist that the White House must first agree to some form of meaningful spending limits. A vocal minority of members, however, have said that they are reluctant to raise the limit, and that Mr. Geithner and others ringing alarm bells have overstated the possible consequences of leaving the limit in place.

The debates have become a standard feature of Washington politics in the last two decades, cropping up when federal borrowing nears the limit while power is divided between the two parties. In 2006 and 2007, it was Democrats who inveighed against Republican arguments that debt increases were necessary.

In the past, Congress has always resolved its differences in time to avoid a debt crisis.

Vice President Joe Biden plans to convene White House staff and Congressional leaders Thursday to pursue an agreement on the terms of an increase. There is a growing consensus among Democrats that some restrictions on spending are reasonable and necessary to secure an agreement with Republicans.

To clear as much time as possible for that political process, the Treasury said on Monday that it would take the first in a series of emergency steps authorized by law this Friday. It will suspend a program under which it borrows money from state and local governments to help those governments meet legal obligations to invest in tax-exempt bonds.

The issuance of the State and Local Government Treasury securities, known as “slugs,” are largely a convenience for the governments. A senior Treasury official said the program’s suspension might not cost those governments any significant amount of money, but it would require them to find alternative investments.

The program has been suspended six times in the last two decades as the federal government bumped against the debt ceiling, most recently in 2007.

The Treasury said it would begin to take additional steps on May 16, including suspending programs under which the government borrows money from pension funds for federal employees and then pays interest to those funds. By law, the Treasury must make up for the lost interest payments once Congress raises the debt ceiling.

The ceiling is now set at $14.29 trillion. The government must constantly borrow more money because its commitments vastly exceed its revenue. The Treasury projected that the government would need to borrow $299 billion between April and June, and that it would hit the debt limit in early July.

It now projects that the government will need to borrow $142 billion during that period, thanks to the increase in tax revenue. That leaves enough room for the government to keep borrowing until August.
63 2011-05-03 Omega-3 fatty acids have anti-inflammatory effects that may help protect against heart disease, studies have shown. But men with high blood levels of the omega-3 fat docosahexaenoic acid, or D.H.A., were at significantly greater risk for aggressive prostate cancer, a large study has found.

The finding was published online April 24 in The American Journal of Epidemiology.

Researchers at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle examined the association between fatty acids in the blood and prostate cancer prevalence among participants in the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial. Their analysis matched 1,658 participants ages 55 to 84 with 1,803 controls for comparison.

Men with the highest blood D.H.A. levels were 2.5 times more likely to develop high-grade, aggressive prostate cancer than those with the lowest D.H.A. levels, the researchers found.

Another surprising finding was that men with the highest blood levels of trans fatty acids, which are harmful to the heart, had half the risk of aggressive prostate cancer compared with those who had the lowest levels.

Both results confounded the scientists. “I can’t really explain it,” said Theodore M. Brasky, lead author of the paper, adding: “If anyone is wondering whether to change their diet, the answer is no. You have to weigh the risks, and a man’s risk of dying of heart disease is much greater than his risk for high-grade prostate cancer, which is very rare.”
64 2011-05-03 The move was a desperate effort to lower the river, which had climbed to about 61 feet in nearby Cairo, Ill., to head off calamity up- and downriver. In , the pressure on the levee created a geyser, forcing the evacuation of Cairo. In , there was concern about whether levees could survive a record flood.

And it raised a new risk in this part of , which had challenged the plan unsuccessfully in court, because any water filling the spillway would put pressure on an untested secondary levee that protects more populous communities.

Some of the 200 residents in the spillway have argued that the young shoots of corn and knee-high carpet of wheat offered evidence enough that the area was worth protecting. Their claims will be soon be forgotten as the attention shifts downriver. But for these people, some of whom watched the blast, the flooding represents the beginning of a long process they say will drastically change their lives.

Just days after a farmer and his wife celebrated their 40th wedding anniversary saying goodbye to their newly built home, they planned to return to the area Tuesday to see if there was anything left. Another farmer spent the evening worrying that the sudden onslaught of river water had stripped and scarred the prized soil that gave the land its reputation for bounty. And an old man, stubborn enough to try to stick out the flood, spent the evening just trying not to think about the only place he has ever called home.

These residents, each with lifelong ties to the area, were divided about the decision to blow up the levee. But what they shared — beyond that streak of stoic perseverance native to farm country — was a sense that the value of their work had been diminished.

“This is our industry, this is our factory, we grow food for the same folks trying to blow up our levee,” said Cathy Allred, sitting alongside her husband, Larry, at a friend’s guest house, where they are living.

After growing up in the spillway, Mr. Allred left, working many jobs before persuading his wife to return to the country to farm. Six years ago, they built a house with their savings — about $100,000 — but were unable to get a or because of the flood risks.

They enjoyed the change of pace: while Ms. Allred, 60, would stroll the property with the grandchildren looking for arrowheads, Mr. Allred, 59, would stalk for the dusty blackberry brambles that used the fences like growing stakes.

But on the anniversary of their marriage four decades ago, Ms. Allred sat alone on the floor of her empty home while her husband was on the porch, too emotional to come inside. He remained angry and distrustful at the way the federal government went about choosing which community to sacrifice. “I poured my whole life into that farm, and I’m 60 years old and I don’t want to start on anything else,” he said.

Down the road was the old brick home, hand-built 40 years ago by Milus and Wanda Wallace. This was what they were trying to save when Mr. Wallace, 60, who survived a few years back, traveled to federal court to testify in support of a lawsuit to prevent the Army Corps of Engineers from blowing up the levee.

But less than a week later, en route to sell his cows, because he had no place to put them, he says that he was wrong, that the river has left no choice but to sacrifice the area where he has lived since he was born. He is one of the fortunate ones whose house is insured, but they plan to relocate.

“It’s the ground that can never be replaced,” Mr. Wallace said. “They don’t make any more ground, and this ground in the spillway is the best in the world.”

The spillway was a different place when Mr. Bennett was a child. The land was covered in trees, until it was stripped by a lumber company and sold off in stump-covered lots at $17 an acre for farmland, like the 40 acres his parents cleared to feed their eight children.

The record-setting 1937 flood — the only other time the levee was intentionally breached — destroyed his family home.

Staying to raise a family of his own, he watched the area transform into thriving cropland, rich with corn, soy and wheat. He ran a grocery store and a tire repair businesses that made him the best-known man in the spillway. A decade ago, he closed the store, and his wife died. But he remained. So did the risk of flood.

Usually, when the river caused trouble every few years, he just carted his possessions to the second floor and prepared to muck out afterward. When he sneaked on to the levee to get a final look at the river this weekend, he saw that this flood was different.

“I’ve never seen him scared before in my life till they talked about blowing the levee,” said his son Barry Bennett, who runs a tire shop in East Prairie. “It got to him bad.”
65 2011-05-03 Chrysler reported operating profits in each quarter of 2010, but each time interest payments to the American and Canadian governments, which totaled $1.23 billion for the year, resulted in losses over all. Chrysler lost $652 million last year.

In its report, the company reiterated its previous forecast for net income this year of $200 million to $500 million and a modified operating profit of at least $2 billion. Mr. Marchionne said Chrysler already was on pace to exceed its targets but would not make any revisions to its guidance until later in the year.

“It’s good progress,” he said in a conference call with analysts. “I think the house is in good shape.”

Mr. Marchionne said the rollout of the tiny Fiat 500 car was behind schedule, however, with only about one-third of the 130 dealers selected to sell the Italian brand open so far.

The company plans to significantly reduce its interest payments by refinancing the $7.5 billion in government loans it received before and during its bankruptcy. On Monday, Chrysler said it would repay the loans by the end of June by selling $2.5 billion in bonds and borrowing from new secured credit facilities totaling $5 billion.

Interest payments in the first quarter totaled $348 million, up from $311 million in the period a year earlier. Mr. Marchionne declined last week to say how much Chrysler would save through its refinancing.

Chrysler introduced or revamped 16 models in 2010, and it said increased sales of many of them played a role in its first-quarter profit, as market share increased in the United States and Canada, its two largest markets.

Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends and insight at TrueCar.com, said Chrysler still needed to make its vehicle lineup more appealing, particularly in the small-car segments that have become more popular as gas prices rise.

“The outstanding issue for them is their continued reliance on S.U.V.’s and trucks,” Mr. Toprak said. “They’re on the road to recovery, but there’s much more to be done to really claim that Chrysler is back on their feet and healthy.”

Pickups and other light trucks accounted for 78 percent of Chrysler’s first-quarter sales in the United States compared with about 60 percent for General Motors and the Ford Motor Company.

The Fiat 500 is part of Chrysler’s effort to pursue consumers who want more fuel-efficient models, and it plans to bring out more small cars based on Fiat designs and technology within the next several years, but most of its focus since bankruptcy has been on redoing larger models like its Jeep Grand Cherokee and Dodge Durango sport-utility vehicles.

Chrysler remains far less profitable than its domestic competitors. Ford earned $6.6 billion last year and $2.55 billion in the first quarter of 2011. Ford’s sold 3.5 times as many cars and trucks as Chrysler last quarter, and its profit was 22 times as much as Chrysler’s.

G.M., which filed for and emerged from bankruptcy a month later than Chrysler, earned $4.7 billion in 2010. It is scheduled to reveal first-quarter results Thursday.

The United States and Canada own a combined 10.8 percent of Chrysler, which is expected to have an initial public offering later this year or in early 2012. Chrysler is 30 percent owned by Fiat, which plans to pay $1.27 billion for an additional 16 percent stake when the government loans are repaid.

Mr. Marchionne said he expected Fiat to own 51 percent of Chrysler — it will automatically gain 5 percent more when Chrysler begins selling a car rated at 40 miles a gallon — by the end of the year. By that point, he said Chrysler would be folded into Fiat’s balance sheet.

Since Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy in June 2009, its majority owner has been a trust fund set up to cover the cost of health care for hourly retirees.
66 2011-05-03 “Bin Laden was Al Qaeda’s only commander in its 22-year history and was largely responsible for the organization’s mystique, its attraction among violent jihadists and its focus on America as a terrorist target,” a senior administration official told reporters early Monday.

The official predicted that Bin Laden’s longtime Egyptian deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri, “is far less charismatic and not as well respected within the organization.” He will likely have difficulty maintaining the loyalty of Bin Laden’s followers, who are largely Arabs from the Persian Gulf and who are pivotal in supplying the organization with fighters, money and ideological support, the official said.

Indeed, the Al Qaeda of today is a much different organization than the one Bin Laden presided over on Sept. 11, 2001. It is much less hierarchical and more diffuse. And Al Qaeda’s main headquarters in Pakistan has come under withering attack from the Central Intelligence Agency ‘s armed drones.

Meantime, regional affiliates have blossomed in North Africa, Iraq, East Africa and Yemen. All have been personally blessed by Bin Laden, but each has developed its own strategy, fund-raising and recruiting methods.

That was Bin Laden’s vision from the start. Al Qaeda means “the base” in Arabic. His plan was to spin off terrorist subsidiaries that could request ideological guidance or material support from time to time, but were meant to be largely self-sustaining soon after they were launched.

Michael E. Leiter, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center, recently described the Qaeda affiliate in Yemen as posing the most immediate threat to the United States. It trained and deployed a young Nigerian man who tried to blow up a Northwest Airlines jet on Dec. 25, 2009. Last October, authorities thwarted a plot by the Yemen group to blow up Chicago-bound cargo planes using printer cartridges that were packed with explosives.

Terrorist training camps set up by Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups in the largely ungoverned wilds of Pakistan’s tribal border areas are likely to continue to turn out dozens of militants trained in explosives and automatic weapons, just like the young Moroccan man arrested last week in Germany and accused of plotting to attack the transportation system of a major German city.

Years before Bin Laden’s death — he has been heard from only rarely in recent years, in often-scratchy audio recordings — the mantle for the Qaeda brand has been taken up increasingly by Mr. Zawahri and, more significantly, by Anwar al-Awlaki, a leader of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula who was born in New Mexico and who has American and Yemeni citizenship.

Mr. Awlaki uses idiomatic American English in his online speeches to extremists and potential recruits in the West. His followers and other radicals can learn all they need about building a crude bomb through instructions on the Internet.

American and European law enforcement officials say they worry most about Mr. Awlaki’s kind of “lone wolf” threat, which is much harder to detect than, say, the team that planned for years to attack the World Trade Center’s twin towers and the Pentagon.

It is an inauspicious time for Al Qaeda, as it seeks to exploit the fervor that has been unleashed in the democratic protests in the Middle East and North Africa. The demonstrators, however, have largely ignored Al Qaeda’s call to use violence to overthrow dictators and despots.

“Al Qaeda has been struggling on the sidelines of the Arab revolution, its popularity in Arab and Muslim countries has been declining and there are internal divisions about the direction of the movement,” Mr. Zarate said.

A senior Obama administration official echoed that sentiment, putting it this way: “Although Al Qaeda may not fragment immediately, the loss of Bin Laden puts the group on a path of decline that will be difficult to reverse.”

But even as he offered that assessment, he and other American officials warned of a possible series of attacks against the United States and Americans abroad to prove that the movement still poses a deadly threat. “Al Qaeda operatives and sympathizers may try to respond violently to avenge Bin Laden’s death,” the official said, “and other terrorist leaders may try to accelerate their efforts to strike the United States.”
67 2011-05-03 7:24 p.m. | Updated The Nasdaq OMX Group and the IntercontinentalExchange announced on Monday that they would take their $11 billion takeover offer for NYSE Euronext directly to the company's shareholders.     The company has also argued that a br...
68 2011-05-03 WEISSER--Philip. The Officers, Trustees, and Staff of Jewish Child Care Association express their deep sympathy at the loss of Philip Weisser, an alumnus of one of JCCA's programs and a longtime dedicated trustee. He believed that every child dese...
69 2011-05-03 7:44 p.m. | Updated      The questions began bubbling up shortly after 9:30 on Monday morning as reporters and lawyers arrived at the Federal District Court in Manhattan for the second week of deliberations in the insider trading trial of Raj Raja...
70 2011-05-03 Will ''Catch Me If You Can'' be nominated for the best musical Tony Award, after being left out of that category by the Drama Desk and Outer Critics Circle award nominators last week? Which of these five Broadway plays - ''Bengal Tiger at the Bagh...
71 2011-05-04 American Express Travel is offering a new twist on trip planning that promises to inject some fun spontaneity into travel: it chooses destinations for you, and shares the details later....
72 2011-05-04 The films of Hayao Miyazaki are amazing, unlike anything else. And yet, the music....
73 2011-05-04 Apple offered an update to its iOS devices on Wednesday to fix issues involving the collection of location data....
74 2011-05-04 Scientists go deeper on climate change and risks from extreme weather....
75 2011-05-04 For those who think it's all about the falling dollar....
76 2011-05-04 In a coup for the Big Board, LinkedIn said on Wednesday that it would be listing its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol LNKD....
77 2011-05-04 Keishi Hotsuki succeeds Ken deRegt, who was recently named to run the firm’s fixed-income department....
78 2011-05-04 Rajiv Maragh, who is set to ride Mucho Macho Man in the Kentucky Derby, will be wearing the bold red 3M logo on his white breeches during the race. How that arrangement came about in a matter of hours last week is a true tale of you’ll never kno...
79 2011-05-04 Also in the news: a symposium on legal representation for immigrants, the cab of the future, the beginning of the year's standardized tests, and other developments in the region....
80 2011-05-04 After losing her husband to the Rwandan genocide, Languida Nyirababeruka started a funeral home. She came to the United States as part of a mentoring program....
81 2011-05-04 To combat consumers increasingly turning to supermarkets and their industrial products, Rome's farmer's markets are offering extended weekend hours and an opportunity to purchase local food directly from producers....
82 2011-05-04 The Keynesian assumption that if employers cut prices, demand will increase and jobs will thus be created does not hold up in the current landscape, an economist writes....
83 2011-05-04 The first batch of the vans — a customized version of the ones now sold in Asia and Europe — is expected to appear by the end of 2013. Cab owners will be required to buy the Nissan vans when their existing vehicles are due for replacement.

By the end of the decade, almost every yellow cab in the city — there are currently about 13,000 — is expected to be a Nissan, the first time a foreign manufacturer has dominated the taxi fleet since the original red French Darracq cabs arrived in 1907.

The city announced its Taxi of Tomorrow competition in 2007 as a way to create a taxi better suited to its passengers. The prize: an exclusive 10-year contract worth an estimated $1 billion in sales.

The Nissan model, which will be built in Mexico and eventually be capable of running on an electric-only engine, beat out contenders from Karsan, a Turkish company that submitted a stylish, high-concept design, and Ford, maker of the fleet’s current mainstay, the macho Crown Victoria, which Ford plans to discontinue this year.

There were grumblings about the city’s selection even before the official announcement. Advocates for the disabled lamented the Nissan’s lack of options for wheelchair users, while supporters of Karsan, which pledged to build its cabs in Brooklyn, said the city had ignored a chance to invest in the local economy.

A spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg said that the holders of medallions for cabs intended for the disabled would still be allowed to buy specially designed cabs fitted for wheelchairs.

In a letter, the public advocate, Bill de Blasio, asked the city comptroller, John C. Liu, to review the taxi competition for potential conflicts of interest. And Micah Z. Kellner, a state assemblyman who co-signed the letter, has filed a complaint with the Justice Department to see whether the city’s choice violated the Americans With Disabilities Act.

“Who knew that the Taxi of Tomorrow was the delivery van of yesterday?” Mr. Kellner wrote in a statement. “Just because you paint a van yellow doesn’t make it a taxi.”

But Mr. Bloomberg, at a news conference on Tuesday announcing the selection, called Nissan’s bid “far and away the best,” and said the city chose the manufacturer that could provide the most reliable vehicle “that meets our city’s very peculiar needs.”

The mayor added that he was skeptical about the feasibility of Karsan’s proposal for a Brooklyn taxi factory. “I don’t think between now and two years from now we could site a new school, much less a new industrial plant,” Mr. Bloomberg said.

The custom version of the Nissan van has not yet been built, but company representatives said they expected to present a prototype in the next few months. The van holds a maximum of four passengers — three in the back and one in the front.

Its seats are coated to resist stains and bacteria, and the floors are equipped with lights to ease the recovery of purses and briefcases on a late-night ride. The charging station includes a regular outlet and two USB ports. Sliding doors will prevent “dooring” of cyclists and passing cars.

The Nissan could be a throwback to the earlier days, when passenger-controlled radios came standard in spacious cabs like the DeSoto Skyview.

“Until the 1970s, cabs weren’t bad,” said Graham Hodges, a taxi historian and former cabby. “They were good and roomy cars; they would fit five people easily. People didn’t complain about them being nasty and unpleasant.”

The city appears to be aiming for that earlier era. “Cabs today do not inspire the same type of affection and customer loyalty that the Checker did,” David S. Yassky, the chairman of the city’s Taxi and Limousine Commission, said on Tuesday. “The goal in this process was to get us a taxi that people will talk about 20 years from now the way they talk about the Checker today.”

So can a Nissan van attract a similar cult? Mr. Bloomberg, asked about the romance of the taxicab at the news conference, turned to look at an image of the van projected on a large screen.

“Looks romantic to me,” the mayor said, with a “What can you do?” tone, as the room erupted in laughter.
84 2011-05-04 “It shows that in spite of whatever everyone says, there were people in the government who knew about Bin Laden prior to 9/11 and were prepared to do something about it,” said Daniel J. Coleman, who in 1996 was the first F.B.I. agent detailed to the Central Intelligence Agency in the investigation of Bin Laden.

“There was a lack of political will to do anything,” said Mr. Coleman, who is retired.

The indictment detailed Al Qaeda’s history and Bin Laden’s role as its leader. It charged that his operatives had trained and assisted Somali tribesmen in an ambush in 1993 that killed 18 American soldiers in Mogadishu.

Later indictments charged a broad conspiracy that also included the bombings on Aug. 7, 1998, of two American Embassies in East Africa that killed 224 people and the deadly attack on the destroyer Cole in 2000.

The original indictment, kept secret at first, came at a time when the C.I.A. was considering a plan to capture Bin Laden and turn him over for trial, either in the United States or in an Arab country, according to the 9/11 Commission Report. Those plans were not carried out, but the law enforcement investigation continued.

“There was no question from our perspective that at the time of the June 1998 indictment, the objective was to bring Bin Laden back for trial,” said Mary Jo White, the United States attorney in Manhattan at the time.

Ms. White said there was always a risk he would have been killed in an attempted capture. But if Bin Laden had been captured, she added, “our expectation was that he would be tried.”

Another former agent, Jack Cloonan, likened the case to that of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, the former Panamanian leader who was flown to Miami and tried after he was ousted in the invasion of Panama in 1989.

Mr. Cloonan said that there were even discussions about how Bin Laden would be read his rights, adding that agents had envisioned Bin Laden standing in court in shackles and “an orange jumpsuit.”

The string of indictments resulted in a series of trial convictions and guilty pleas. The evidence in the early investigations offered a primer on Bin Laden and his organization. “It was essential to understanding Al Qaeda,” said Ali H. Soufan, a retired F.B.I. agent who was the case agent on the Cole investigation.

Mr. Coleman said he had learned of Bin Laden’s death after his son, a former Army Ranger who had been part of the initial American operations in Afghanistan after 9/11, called Sunday night and said he had heard the president would be speaking.

“It seemed really fitting,” Mr. Coleman said, “that they dumped him in the same ocean” where the Cole was attacked. “The deaths of those young men and women were never avenged,” he added. “There was no military response for an act of war.”

Mr. Coleman and other F.B.I. agents and prosecutors involved in the early Bin Laden investigation hailed the operation that led to his death.

“We started the fight; the military ended it,” Michael Anticev, an F.B.I. agent, said. “Everybody’s proud.”

Mr. Coleman said he hoped other defendants in the Bin Laden case would be brought to Manhattan for trial. But, he added, Bin Laden’s actions dictated that he no longer deserved even treatment like a criminal. “It had gone too far,” he said.
85 2011-05-04 There is only one good thing about the fact that survived for nearly 10 years after the mass murder at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon that he organized. And that is that he lived long enough to see so many young Arabs repudiate his ideology. He lived long enough to see Arabs from to to to rise up peacefully to gain the dignity, justice and self-rule that Bin Laden claimed could be obtained only by murderous violence and a return to puritanical Islam.

We did our part. We killed Bin Laden with a bullet. Now the Arab and Muslim people have a chance to do their part — kill Bin Ladenism with a ballot — that is, with real elections, with real constitutions, real political parties and real progressive politics.

Yes, the bad guys have been dealt a blow across the Arab world in the last few months — not only , but the whole rogues’ gallery of dictators, whose soft bigotry of low expectations for their people had kept the Arab world behind. The question now, though, is: Can the forces of decency get organized, elected and start building a different Arab future? That is the most important question. Everything else is noise.

To understand that challenge, we need to recall, again, where Bin Ladenism came from. It emerged from a devil’s bargain between oil-consuming countries and Arab dictators. We all — , America, , — treated the Arab world as a collection of big gas stations, and all of us sent the same basic message to the petro-dictators: Keep the oil flowing, the prices low and don’t bother too much and you can treat your people however you like, out back, where we won’t look. Bin Laden and his followers were a product of all the pathologies that were allowed to grow in the dark out back — crippling deficits of freedom, women’s empowerment and education across the Arab world.

These deficits nurtured a profound sense of humiliation among Arabs at how far behind they had fallen, a profound hunger to control their own futures and a pervasive sense of injustice in their daily lives. That is what is most striking about the Arab uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia in particular. They were almost apolitical. They were not about any ideology. They were propelled by the most basic human longings for dignity, justice and to control one’s own life. Remember, one of the first things Egyptians did was attack their own police stations — the instruments of regime injustice. And since millions of Arabs share these longings for dignity, justice and freedom, these revolutions are not going to go away.
86 2011-05-04 “We just want to say thank you,” said David Howard, the Mets’ executive vice president and general counsel, referring obliquely to what he called “the events of Sunday night.”

In addition to the military presence, it was also Asian Heritage Night, with Chinese dancers performing in the outfield before the game and a few fans in Indian saris spotted in the parking lot — a perfect potpourri for the ethnic borough of Queens.

The Mets did not intend to whip anybody into a patriotic mood akin to the spontaneous rally of Sunday night after Bin Laden’s death was announced, when young people swarmed to Lafayette Park outside the White House, climbing trees, boosting friends on their shoulders, waving flags and chanting “U.S.A.!,” the ubiquitous response to gold medals at the Olympics.

In Philadelphia, in a tie game meandering past midnight, fans chanted “U.S.A.!” It mystified the players for a while, but they caught on.

The Mets have been in the middle of responses to the attacks of 9/11. In 2001, the Mets went back to work in a subdued Pittsburgh, and the first game back in New York was at funky old Shea Stadium. New Yorkers were starting to make noise again, particularly when Mike Piazza’s home run won the game.

Bravado was still needed for the first World Series game in the Bronx late that October, and President George W. Bush’s swagger to the mound and his hard strike for the ceremonial first ball was a perfect body-language moment.

Over the years, the legacy of 9/11 became a patriotic ritual before the home half of the seventh at Yankee Stadium — long enough to freeze relief pitchers who had already warmed up.

To their credit, the Mets played it low-key Tuesday, as five service members in uniform threw out the first ball. Greg and Valerie Jensen of Ridgefield, Conn., who had paid $10,000 in an auction to throw out the ball, graciously deferred to another night. And here and there, some military uniforms were seen.

Marine Sgt. Elizabeth Quiñones sang “God Bless America” during the traditional stretch, and the fans cheered.

It is a fact that the Mets have extra tickets. Attendance is down all over the majors, and even the Giants, the World Series champions, are not a big draw on the road. The Mets have a history with the military. Fred Wilpon helped found ’Welcome Back Veterans, which provides services for returning military members and their families. The tickets were available — and the Mets put the tickets in the hand of Castleton, who runs an Internet consulting company, in West Islip on Long Island.

“This is a wonderful country,” said Castleton, who never served in the military and is proud of his three family members who do. He was raving about the mission in Pakistan. “Kudos to the Seals for having the guts to do it, and kudos to President Obama for having the guts to order it,” he said. “And I’m a Republican,” he added.

Castleton said one of his favorite sights at U.S.O. functions is Iraq veterans looking up to Vietnam veterans. “They revere them,” he said. As Johnny Cash put it in his classic song “Drive On”:

“He said I think my country got a little off track

It took ’em twenty-five years to welcome me back.”

Castleton and the U.S.O. and the Mets found one way to welcome troops back.

But tickets are not everything. Families are under terrible stress without an adequate support system, and veterans often have to virtually beg for care when they come home damaged in body and mind.

Not long after the strike against Bin Laden, an editorial in The New York Times discussed a shortages of judges, a result of political squabbling over appointments and said, “The bureaucratic logjam for veterans pursuing benefit claims has gotten so huge that judges — in Dickensian fashion — are having to work nights and weekends as they decide more than 600 cases each annually.” The first lady, Michelle Obama, has spoken up for more support for the families of veterans.

A trip to the ballpark — and Olympic-style chants over the death of a murderer — are nice, as far as they go. They are not quite the same as a grateful nation remembering how to take care of its own.
87 2011-05-04 A bill similar to Arizona’s is moving forward in Alabama. Georgia passed a tough enforcement bill last month that is awaiting the signature of Gov. Nathan Deal.

The legislature in Utah, looking for a political formula that would satisfy immigration hardliners without antagonizing the state’s growing population of Latino workers, passed three bills in March, including one that created a guest-worker program providing legal work permits to illegal immigrants living in the state. A third bill set up a partnership with the state of Nuevo León in northern Mexico to bring in temporary farm workers under an existing federal program.

The lawsuit challenged only Utah’s enforcement bill. “Federal immigration law leaves no room for this kind of intrusive state legislation,” said Linton Joaquin, general counsel of the National Immigration Law Center.

Utah’s attorney general, Mark Shurtleff, said he would vigorously defend the law. He said he had closely studied the Arizona law as well as a ruling by a federal judge that suspended central provisions of it. Mr. Shurtleff said Utah’s law was written to avoid racial profiling and to codify police practices that were already routine.

Last week, Mr. Shurtleff met with Justice Department officials in Washington to try to persuade them not to bring a lawsuit against the state. Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has criticized the Obama administration for failing to sue Utah, as it did Arizona.

As Florida lawmakers debated, Latino and African-American civil rights leaders warned on Tuesday that they would consider a boycott or other measures against the state if a harsh immigration law passed.

“Make no mistake about that: it will bring a loss of revenues, and it will do nothing to solve the immigration problem,” said Janet Murguía, president of the National Council of La Raza. She estimated that a boycott led by the groups in Arizona cost that state $490 million in lost tourism and convention business.

States have wrestled with the issue given the unlikely prospects for an overhaul of immigration laws to move forward in a divided Congress. But President Obama, in a meeting late Tuesday with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said he remained committed to trying to pass some form of immigration legislation this year, perhaps a bill limited to giving legal status to illegal immigrant students. The meeting was the president’s third in as many weeks to try to revive some form of immigration legislation.

“The president is just absolutely dedicated to the proposition that some legislation has to move,” said Representative Charlie Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas and chairman of the Hispanic caucus.

In the meantime, Mr. Gonzalez said, the Hispanic lawmakers pressed Mr. Obama to set guidelines so that young students with no criminal records who are picked up by immigration agents would not be deported.
88 2011-05-04 All this is why the typical financial crisis has caused unemployment to rise for almost five years, according to historical work by the economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff. We are well ahead of that timetable, thanks to aggressive action by the Fed, the Obama administration and, in its final months, the Bush administration. But our working assumption should be that this recovery will remain at risk for a long time.

If it stalls out for a second year in a row, the consequences could be particularly bad. The specter of a “lost decade,” like Japan’s, would become commonplace. Pessimism would feed yet more hesitation from businesses and households. For Mr. Obama himself, of course, the raid in Abbottabad could become a version of President George H. W. Bush’s Gulf War: the foreign policy triumph that turned into an electoral footnote.

I suspect that Mr. Obama’s advisers have remained publicly optimistic over the last few months because they consider optimism to be one of the few economic tools they have left. The sensible step for Congress would be to pair long-term deficit reduction with a mix of short-term tax cuts and aid to states, whose budget cuts are leading to layoffs. But Congress hasn’t shown itself capable of separating the short term and long term. So the odds of new legislation to help the economy anytime soon are roughly nil.

Even so, there are still two steps the White House can take, and now is the time to start planning them. If policy makers wait to take action until the recovery has undeniably stalled — as they did last year — they will have waited too long.

The first step is to remember the economy’s vulnerability when negotiating a deal over the debt ceiling. Congress and the administration have until August to increase the federal government’s authority to borrow money, and Republican leaders say they will insist on spending cuts as part of any agreement.

There are still plenty of sensible cuts for the two parties to make. Tax breaks (which many economists consider a form of spending) for both businesses and individuals can be reduced. Military spending, which has risen more than 70 percent in inflation-adjusted terms over the past decade, can be cut, too. Many social programs, meanwhile, don’t focus enough on outcomes and waste money in the process.

But it would be folly to start making these cuts immediately and potentially put people out of work. Last month’s deal to avert a government shutdown did a good job of minimizing the number of cuts that would affect the economy this year. Policy makers would be wise to repeat the pattern in the debt ceiling talks, making more future cuts and fewer immediate ones.

The second step involves the only way in which I can imagine Congress taking action to help the economy.

At the end of this year, about $225 billion of temporary tax cuts and emergency jobless benefits are scheduled to expire. These provisions were part of the compromise bill in last year’s lame-duck Congressional session that also extended the Bush tax cuts. The Bush tax cuts were extended through 2012, however, while the other provisions — including a payroll tax cut for households and a tax cut for expanding businesses — expire at the end of 2011.

Given the legitimate concern about the deficit, many members of Congress will want to let these temporary tax cuts lapse. But if the economy remains weak, continuing them for one more year will make sense.

Their economic impact is not small. Moody’s Analytics estimated that the economy would have 1.1 million more jobs at the end of 2012 if the tax cuts and jobless benefits were extended. Yet their impact on the long-term debt is minimal. Tiny changes in Medicare could more than pay a one-time, $225 billion bill.

Somewhere — in the White House or in the halls of Congress — somebody should be coming up with a plan to sell an extension of these measures. Persuading a financially battered public that it deserves another short-term tax cut isn’t likely to be too difficult.

Above all, Washington should avoid the temptation to get giddy about any one piece of economic good news. Those bits of encouraging news will happen. We may even get one on Friday, when the Labor Department reports on job growth in April.

The big lesson of financial crises is that too much optimism exacts a steep cost. You can make a case that the long hunt for Osama bin Laden offers the same lesson. A tough job is not done until it is undeniably done.
89 2011-05-04 WASHINGTON — The United States and Romania announced an agreement on Tuesday on the location for basing American antimissile interceptors in Romania as part of a program designed to link Washington and its NATO allies against an Iranian threat. The agreement immediately drew complaints from Russian officials.

Officials said the site selected for a key component of the missile-defense system was Deveselu Air Base, near the city of Caracal in southern Romania. The deployment of the SM-3 missiles is expected by 2015, officials said. About 200 American personnel are expected to help operate the system.

Russia immediately complained that the interceptors in Romania could undermine its nuclear deterrent, and said the step ignored commitments made by the United States that Russia would have a role in decision-making.

“We regret to say that practical steps on building the European segment of the U.S. global defense system are being made regardless of Russian-U.S. dialogue on missile-defense problems, which was started under a decision by President Dmitri Medvedev and President Barack Obama,” said a statement from Russia’s Foreign Ministry, according to the Interfax news service.

The statement expressed a Russian desire for legal guarantees from the United States that the missile defense system would not target Russian missiles.
90 2011-05-04 Simonetta Nardin, a spokeswoman for the I.M.F., confirmed that officials representing the international creditors had reached agreement with the Portuguese government “on a comprehensive economic program that could be supported by the E.C., the E.C.B. and the I.M.F.” She added: “We have said from the beginning that it is important that any program should have broad cross-party support and we will continue our engagement with the opposition parties to establish that this is the case.”

The deal will still require approval by the European Union. The European Commission, the executive of the 27-nation union, is hoping to get the measures ready for Europe’s finance ministers to discuss at a meeting on May 16.

However, even if the deal is blessed by the Portuguese opposition, other obstacles remain, most notably in Finland, where a party critical of euro zone bailouts won 19 percent of the vote in an election last month. It has said that it cannot support a Portuguese bailout and it remains unclear when a new Finnish government will be in place.

On Tuesday evening, meanwhile, Mr. Sócrates said he would present the deal to opposition parties and called on them to show “a sense of responsibility and a superior sense of national interest” to ensure Portugal receives emergency financing swiftly.

Mr. Sócrates said that, under the three-year plan, the deficit would need to be lowered to 5.9 percent of gross domestic product this year, 4.5 percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013. Last year, his government vowed to stick to a tougher schedule to lower the gap to 4.6 percent this year, 3 percent in 2012 and 2 percent in 2013.

He suggested that creditors had recognized that Portugal faced a less critical situation than other ailing euro economies. “Knowing other external aid programs, Portugal can feel reassured,” he said. Last year, Greece secured a bailout package worth 110 billion euros and Ireland 85 billion euros.

As examples of the relatively lenient terms granted to Portugal, he said the three-year program did not involve more cuts in public sector wages or in the minimum wage, or additional layoffs of state employees.

When the government requested a bailout early last month, Pedro Passos Coelho, the leader of the main Social Democratic opposition party, said that he backed the decision to seek outside help. However, in the run-up to next month’s general election, center-right opposition parties, who are leading in opinion polls, are unlikely to want Mr. Sócrates to reap the political benefit for negotiating a bailout that they blame his government for in the first place.
91 2011-05-04 Pfizer reported flat first-quarter sales on Tuesday as generic competition ate away at crucial drugs and pressure built for the company to sell or spin off parts of its operations.

Net income rose 10 percent, to $2.22 billion, or 28 cents a share, compared with $2.03 billion, or 25 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Excluding one-time items, income was $4.81 billion, or 60 cents a share.

The company, which makes the cholesterol drug Lipitor and the impotence pill Viagra, said revenue was $16.5 billion, down from $16.58 billion.

Analysts surveyed by FactSet had expected earnings of 58 cents a share and revenue of $16.59 billion, excluding one-time items.

Pfizer maintained its January forecast for 2011 adjusted earnings of $2.16 to $2.26 a share.

“Our performance during the first quarter firmly positions us for achieving our 2011 plan and meeting our financial targets,” the chief executive, Ian Read, told analysts in a conference call.
92 2011-05-04 If one were to divide the country into equal parts based on population, Plato, Mo., would fall square in the middle, according to the United States Census Bureau.

While the village, 62 miles east-northeast of Springfield, is happily obscure, said its mayor, Bob Biram, it has had at least one other interesting occurrence: During the Civil War, according to local legend, a young man now known as Grandpa Hicks fought for the South, while another youngster, Grandpa Benson, chose the North. During a battle, Grandpa Benson was said to have captured Grandpa Hicks and proceeded to lock him in a root cellar. Grandpa Hicks was able to dig his way to freedom with a pocketknife. After the war, they met up again in Plato and became lifelong friends.

Q. What has been the response in Plato to the news that it is at the very center of America?

A. Well, it’s something that doesn’t happen very often. People are talking about it. They are planning big things. The school is planning some sort of program.

Q. Tell me more about the plans.

A. It will be May 9. The band will play. The color guard will be there. There will be barbecues. (In the background, the mayor’s wife, Susan Biram, can be heard prompting him). The choir will sing patriotic songs. We’ll have the celebration right in the middle of town, which is not very big — about half a mile either way. I think we can fit everybody in town, but I’m not sure. We haven’t tried it before.
93 2011-05-04 The next day, striking before dawn, Colonel Benavides and his men entered the Pastoral Center at the university, where Father Ellacuría and five other Jesuit teachers lived, along with a housekeeper and her 16-year-old daughter.

All were led into a back garden, ordered to lie face down and executed. Before leaving, the soldiers fired a machine gun at the facade of the residence and left a piece of cardboard with a message intended to implicate the rebels: “FMLN executed those who informed on it. Victory or death, FMLN.”

Almost immediately, suspicion fell on the Salvadoran military. Under intense pressure from church groups and human rights organizations, the United States government, although a staunch supporter of the government in its struggle against the rebels, demanded a full accounting.

Gen. Maxwell R. Thurman, the head of the United States Southern Command, was sent by the State Department to deliver a message to El Salvador’s top military leaders: “There is only one way out. If some of your people were involved in the Jesuit murders, cough them up.”

Colonel Ponce, who became a general and the minister of defense in 1990, managed to float above the fray, protected by President Alfredo Cristiani, even after Mr. Cristiani agreed to purge the armed forces as part of a peace settlement between the FMLN and the government.

In 1992, however, the United Nations commissioned an inquiry into human rights abuses during El Salvador’s civil war. Its report, “From Madness to Hope: The 12-Year War in El Salvador,” was released in March 1993 and identified General Ponce as the man who approved the assassination. It also concluded that he furnished the commando troops, destroyed evidence and pressured officers to remain mute about higher-level involvement.

Just days before the report’s release, General Ponce resigned as defense minister but denied responsibility for the killings. In a defiant television address, surrounded by fellow officers, he branded the United Nations report and proposals for overhauling the Salvadoran military “unjust, incomplete and illegal.”

Five days after the United Nations issued its report, amid rumors of an impending military coup, the Salvadoran Legislature passed a general amnesty law covering all crimes committed during the civil war. In 1999, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, part of the Organization of American States, declared the law a violation of international law.

General Ponce was never charged with any crimes, however, and the two men convicted in the killings, Colonel Benavides and one of his lieutenants, were released from prison.

René Emilio Ponce was born in 1947 in Sensuntepeque in central El Salvador. He trained at the Capitán General Gerardo Barrios military school, graduating at the top of the class of 1966, whose members became dominant in El Salvador’s military.

After serving as a military attaché in Mexico, he trained at the United States Army’s School of the Americas.

As the commander of the Treasury Police and the Third Brigade in San Miguel, he was linked to several atrocities carried out against civilians. In 1988 he became head of the joint chiefs of staff.

After being forced into retirement, General Ponce became president of the Association of Military Veterans.

In 2008, human rights lawyers, following the precedent established when Spain indicted Augusto Pinochet of Chile for human-rights violations in 1998, filed a lawsuit in Spain’s high court against Mr. Cristiani and 14 former members of the Salvadoran military for the 1989 killings and their cover-up.

General Ponce and his fellow officers were accused of crimes against humanity, murder and state-sponsored terrorism. In January 2009, Judge Eloy Velasco agreed to prosecute the 14 officers. An indictment has not yet been handed down.
94 2011-05-04 In April and May last year, hundreds of thousands of “red shirt” protesters occupied parts of Bangkok, demanding that the government of Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva step down. The protests were crushed in a military offensive on May 19.

“In plain view, government forces shot protesters and armed militants shot soldiers, but no one has been held responsible,” Mr. Adams said.

“Those who were killed and wounded deserve better than this,” he said. “The government should ensure that all those who committed violence and abuses, on both sides, are investigated and prosecuted.”

Mr. Abhisit is expected to dissolve Parliament soon, paving the way for an election in the coming weeks. The social and political divide between the country’s elite establishment and its poorer urban and rural population appears to be as deep as ever, and both the governing party and its opponents are likely to use their versions of the events of last year in their campaigns.

At the news conference, Mr. Adams questioned how much control Mr. Abhisit had over the armed forces, whose backing was crucial to his gaining and keeping office.

“For a long time, the question has been not whether he is willing but whether he is able to assert government control over the military,” Mr. Adams said. “The evidence has been increasingly pointing to the fact that the civilian government does not control the military.”

The 139-page report, “Descent Into Chaos: Thailand’s 2010 Red Shirt Protests and the Government Crackdown,” is based on 94 interviews with victims, witnesses, protesters, security forces, police officers and others, most of whom Mr. Adams said had not been interviewed by government investigators.

“Bangkok was not a theater of war,” Mr. Adams said, even if some protesters were armed. “It was an area of severe civil disobedience.”

The high toll of deaths and injuries was caused in part by the military’s using lethal force unnecessarily, including high-powered weapons and snipers, the report said.

It noted that soldiers were also among the dead and wounded, and that there was evidence that protest leaders had been aligned with mysterious “black shirt” gunmen who were apparently responsible for some of the violence.

Mr. Adams said 26 civilians and 4 soldiers were killed in the first and possibly most violent encounter of the protests, on April 10.

Human Rights Watch asserted that soldiers had shot and killed at least four people, including a volunteer medic who was treating the wounded, in or near the Pathum Wanaram temple, where thousands of protesters sought refuge after their leaders surrendered to the authorities.
95 2011-05-04 The Board of Medical Examiners in New Jersey, which is responsible for licensing doctors practicing in the state, said on Tuesday that it had disciplined three orthopedic surgeons because they did not disclose their personal financial interests in...
96 2011-05-04 Here are the Tony nominees in the major categories. A complete list is at nytimes.com/tonys.     Play...
97 2011-05-04 Proxy season is a bust.     Shareholder activism intended to spur change in the boardroom is down significantly so far this year. At the same time, activism by hedge funds to oppose takeover transactions is rising. It appears that hedge funds pref...
98 2011-05-05 Mike Pelfrey priases the work of Ronny Paulino amid Josh Thole’s struggles. Will the Mets let Thole be a part-time catcher in the majors?...
99 2011-05-05 With investors clamoring, corporate issuers are increasingly gaining the upper hand in pricing their initial public offerings. But not all the stocks are sure bets....
100 2011-05-05 The Coca-Cola Company will mark its quasquicentennial next week, reflecting that the first Coca-Cola was served on May 8, 1886 at a pharmacy in Atlanta....
101 2011-05-05 Heading into negotiations, both sides emphasize their broad agreement on the goals, but they remain far apart on specifics....
102 2011-05-05 Supporters press their case at a news conference in the Capitol....
103 2011-05-05 Ms. Taymor will speak during the annual conference of Theater Communications Group, a national organization of nearly 700 nonprofit theaters and affiliated groups, four days after the $70 million musical is scheduled to have its long-delayed openi...
104 2011-05-05 Nationwide, most drivers have not changed their habits much, which suggests that prices will advance again before long....
105 2011-05-05 LastPass, a service for managing passwords, said that out of concern about a possible hacking attack, it would force its more than 1 million users to change their master passwords....
106 2011-05-05 Like most veteran horse racing handicappers privileged to inside information, I have been loath to disclose the secrets of my selection process, honed over 20 years of betting on the Kentucky Derby and that could prove highly valuable to anyone pl...
107 2011-05-05 The MCAT is undergoing its first revision in 25 years....
108 2011-05-05 John Wolf, a spokesman for Marriott, said that consumer fickleness about technology trends is one reason the company hasn’t rushed out to buy 3-D HDTVs for guestrooms. Instead, Marriott is investing in upgrades to help manage Internet bandwidth at its hotels, overhauling breakfast buffets and literally rearranging the furniture in guestrooms.

“People want natural light — natural light is huge,” Mr. Wolf said. “At the Residence Inn, we’re putting the desk right in front of the window.”

Marriott has revamped the breakfast offerings at its Residence Inn and Fairfield Inn & Suites brands to include more hot items like a ham, egg and cheddar quiche and healthier options like oatmeal and fresh fruit, which Mr. Wolf said guests like to see as available, even if they choose a muffin or breakfast burrito instead. Last year, Hilton Hotels added waffle makers to the breakfast buffet at its Hampton hotels.

Giving business travelers food they can eat on the run is another growing trend. Hyatt Place offers a “Grab ‘N Go” case stocked with sandwiches and salads, and the Market in the renovated lobby of the Grand Hyatt New York offers food and snacks from local purveyors around the clock.

Mr. Weissenberg said hotels are also responding to travelers’ desire to maintain some type of exercise routine away from home.

To help those who wrestle with limited luggage space, Westin Hotels & Resorts has partnered with New Balance to lend guests workout gear, including shoes with new socks and disposable insoles. The complimentary program is available at 10 properties, but will be expanded to other hotels this year.

Sheraton Hotels teamed up with Core Performance to develop 30-minute workouts accessible through the hotel’s video-on-demand system. Sheraton also offers a workout mat, stretch band and other equipment for an in-room workout.

But for all the focus on food and fitness, Mark Johnson, founder of HotelChatter.com, said feedback from the site’s readers indicated that the No. 1 amenity travelers were clamoring for “is power strips and plugs.” “Guests are bringing more and more hardware to the hotel room, and they’re looking to juice it up.”

Although HotelChatter declared “plug panels” — strips of outlets on desktops — the must-have amenity of 2009, travelers’ electrical needs continue to increase.

More innovative amenities HotelChatter has spotted include in-mirror televisions in the bathrooms of every guest room at the Charles Hotel in Boston, “bed dials” that adjust the mattress pressure at Hilton Garden Inn hotels and Mac Mini computers at Joie de Vivre’s Citizen Hotel in Sacramento, which allow guests to download movies from sites like Netflix or Hulu.

But with travelers toting more of their own gadgets on trips, hotels are increasingly shifting their focus to help guests get the most out of the hardware they already have.

Many chains are scrambling to develop apps for mobile devices that will allow guests to order room service, request housekeeping, change their reservations or connect with a concierge. To make it easier for guests to print documents, Hilton Garden Inn offers a mobile printing service that sends files from a smartphone to a printer in the hotel business center for no charge.

Holiday Inn has been testing technology that will allow guests to use their phones in lieu of room keys, bypassing the front desk. After a customer makes a reservation, a text message is sent with a room number and a phone number to call upon arrival; once this call is made, the system validates the guest’s phone number and responds with a tone that unlocks the door. More tests are planned for later this year.
109 2011-05-05 Marriott’s extended-stay brand, Residence Inn, where Internet access, breakfast and evening cocktails are included in the rates, recently upgraded its room design and expanded its breakfast menus so that weekday guests would not have the same cereal or scrambled egg selections every day.

Many hotel trends start from the high end and trickle down. But in the culture of bargain hunting begat by higher unemployment and tighter budgets, brands like Residence Inn, where room rates generally run from $120 to $160, look smart, even to those up the rate ladder.

At the Renaissance Pittsburgh, where midweek rooms start at $289, the director of group sales, Kristina Bush, selects employees of one company each month and gives them coupons for a drink at the bar, any in-room movie or a discount at the restaurant. So far, the movie is the most popular giveaway.

“We already offer complimentary Wi-Fi,” she said. “It’s going beyond the basics at this point.”

High-end hotels are offering more specialized services. The Ritz-Carlton in Charlotte, N.C., furnishes fully equipped offices to guests at no charge.

At the Trump Soho New York, a new package aimed at business travelers costs about $100 over standard rates, but it bundles in $150 to $200 in amenities, including breakfast, Wi-Fi and a spa credit. “Business travel as a whole is back and strong,” said David Chase, general manager. “But people are still seeking value.”

Complaints about nickel-and-diming have helped start at least one high-end brand: Hyatt’s Andaz, established in 2007, covers minibar snacks and nonalcoholic beverages as well as Internet access, local phone calls and perks like a glass of wine at check-in and a bottle of water at checkout at its five locations. Rates vary but generally start above $255 in June at hotels in New York and West Hollywood, Calif.

Of course, there is a premium associated with more inclusive stays. In fact, analysts say the extras are all about raising room rates. After several years of discounting rooms to attract new business — which essentially shuffled demand in a relatively stagnant market — hotels hope to justify their rates by building in perks.

Including breakfast and the like “adds something of perceived value to guests,” said a hotel consultant, Scott Brush of Brush & Company in Miami. “It’s amenity creep.”

Room rates are creeping, too, up 3.1 percent in the first quarter of 2011 to an average of $99.37, according to Smith Travel Research. Revenue per available room surged 9 percent to $54.46, the fourth consecutive quarterly gain and the biggest since 2006. Occupancy increased 5.7 percent to nearly 55 percent.

But even after prices are raised, amenities tend to stay. One reason is that research on younger business travelers reveals their preferences for socializing and entertainment, said Bjorn Hanson, clinical professor at Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. Paying for Wi-Fi is particularly irksome to them, he noted. “It’s like charging for the elevator,” he said.

Even in jobs where lodging choices are dictated by corporate contracts, which often bundle Internet and the breakfast buffet in the deal, most travelers realize that their power in the market depends on their loyalty, making frequent-guest programs popular. Some, including Fairmont Hotels and Resorts, offer perks like free Internet access for joining. In most programs, benefits increase based on the number of stays.

These inclusions have saved Mike Wallenfels, chief executive of the San Francisco messenger bag company Timbuk2, from sticker shock at checkout. “With hotels starting to bundle amenities, at least they’re not ratcheting up the cost,” said Mr. Wallenfels, who tends to stay at Hilton, Sheraton and Kimpton hotels, where he has frequent-guest memberships. “It used to be you booked for $189 but left with a bill over $250. That’s something that’s starting to go away, but only for points or award program members.”

Or those willing to pay up front. At the new JW Marriott Chicago, members of the Marriott Rewards program with at least 50 nights per year are automatically upgraded to the executive-level floor, where rates include Internet access and entry to the lounge serving breakfast, midday snacks and evening hors d’oeuvres. Nonmembers can pay an extra $60 for the upgrade.

Whether they are sitting on fat loyalty accounts or not, most business travelers say it does not take a free suite to make them happy. Sometimes a cup of coffee is enough. Bert Rowland, a Los Angeles estate manager, stays in Las Vegas on business at the Element Hotel in nearby Summerlin, which provides Internet access, breakfast, evening cocktails, loaner bicycles and occasional poolside barbecues, as well as coffee and tea throughout the day.

“It’s a very small thing that makes a huge difference,” he said. “There’s nothing they nickel and dime you for. It’s nice not having to submit an expense report for something like that.”
110 2011-05-05 The first known whistle-blower lawsuit to assert that the taxpayers were defrauded when the federal government bailed out the American International Group was unsealed on Friday, joining a number of suits seeking to settle the score on losses related to the financial crisis of 2008.

The lawsuit, filed by a pair of veteran political activists from the La Jolla area of San Diego, asserts that A.I.G. and two large banks engaged in a variety of fraudulent and speculative transactions, running up losses well into the billions of dollars. Then the three institutions persuaded the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to bail them out by giving A.I.G. two rescue loans, which were used to unwind hundreds of failed trades.

The loans were improper, the lawsuit says, because the Fed made them without getting a pledge of high-quality collateral from A.I.G., as required by law.

“To cover losses of those engaged in fraudulent financial transactions is an authority not yet given to the Fed board,” said the plaintiffs, Derek and Nancy Casady, in their complaint, filed in Federal District Court for the Southern District of California.

The lawsuit names A.I.G., Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank as defendants, but not the Fed.

Senior Fed officials have stated repeatedly that they had to take unusual steps in 2008 because the global financial system was close to breaking down. The Casadys’ lawyer, Michael J. Aguirre, argued that even so, the Fed was required to comply with its own governing statutes. He said that when the Fed bailed out a nonbank, it was required to secure the loan with the same liquid, high-quality collateral it required when lending to a troubled bank.
111 2011-05-05 “These people in the cells know nobody else but this one person,” General Atta said. “They are told, ‘This is the time, place to do the killing,’ and given their photo.”

In this instance, he added, the supposed assassins were told where the targeted men would be at the time of the killing, meaning “there has been a security breach in part of our government.”

Whether the killers were members of Al Qaeda was a far murkier issue.

When the insurgency was at its strongest, from 2005 to 2007, the largest insurgent group went by the name Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, though its ranks were filled with homegrown militants, with a small foreign leadership. It was responsible for many of the major attacks of that era, like the bombing of the golden-domed mosque in Samarra.

Since then, Iraqi officials have taken to calling almost all insurgents Al Qaeda, without regard to their actual affiliation.

After declaring loudly that the men had admitted a tie to Al Qaeda, General Atta did not provide any evidence to verify the claim.

“The Iraqis like to pin everything on Al Qaeda because it’s much easier that way and a convenient scapegoat,” said Ken Pollack, a national security expert for the Brookings Institution.

“They can just blame it on Al Qaeda, and even then they use Al Qaeda as a blanket term for any Sunni extremist group, so they don’t have to explain who may really be behind the attacks,” he said. “Al Qaeda is out there and responsible for many of them, but they are not responsible for every attack.”

Whatever his intentions, General Atta was indisputably highlighting a growing danger for Baghdad residents. In recent months, insurgents seem to have shifted tactics, now preferring quiet assassinations to the car bombs that killed scores of civilians but incurred the wrath of all Iraqis.

There were 44 assassinations in Baghdad in April, compared with 31 in March and 12 in February. There were three more Wednesday.

Meanwhile, Mr. Maliki’s cabinet approved legislation that would dissolve the tribunal in which Saddam Hussein and many of his deputies were tried. The court, created in December 2003, was widely criticized for what some called the arbitrariness of its trials and sentences.
112 2011-05-05 Women have had to wait dangerously long times for mammograms at several of New York’s public hospitals, a city audit released on Wednesday found.

The audit examined waiting times at nine health care facilities in the 2009 fiscal year and found that the worst were at Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens, where women had to wait 148 calendar days for routine screening mammograms and 50 working days for diagnostic mammograms, when cancer is suspected.

John C. Liu, the city comptroller, said in a statement accompanying the audit that the long waiting times “placed women in jeopardy” and violated the city’s policies, which recommend waits of no more than two weeks for routine screening.

He said women who had to wait long times for appointments were more likely to miss them.

Ana Marengo, a spokeswoman for the city’s Health and Hospitals Corporation, which runs the public health system, said that the comptroller’s data was outdated and that high-risk patients at its hospitals received mammograms within 24 to 72 hours.

“If there is a lump, if there is a family history, if there is a high-risk individual that had cancer before, all those are considered urgent,” and the patient would be seen within 72 hours, Ms. Marengo said. She conceded that “two years ago, the wait time was longer,” and that even now, in cases in which the risk of cancer was considered lower, the wait could still be longer.
113 2011-05-05 Maurice Flanagan, executive vice chairman of Emirates, confirms that the airline’s investment in prestige accommodations has paid off because first-class passengers are “less impacted by fuel prices than price-sensitive passengers who tend to cut back on air travel when fuel costs rise.”

That calculus keeps some airlines offering both first- and business-class seats. “For the foreseeable future, we see a market for U.S. long-haul first-class cabins,” said Gus Whitcomb, communications manager for Cathay Pacific Americas.

Far more common than keeping two premium sections, however, is the decision by international carriers to scale back and concentrate on just one — business class. Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Air New Zealand and Air Canada have eliminated first class entirely, while Qantas, Air France and British Airways have removed many first-class seats from their airplanes, according to research by TripAdvisor Flights.

“To carry around a first-class product on a wide-body airplane for the few people who buy it is a huge cost,” said Mr. Alg. “Nobody buys those seats, but business-class seats are sold to businessmen.”

In the 1990s, Mr. Alg, then an engineer with Continental, helped the airline offer a more affordable alternative by eliminating first class and creating the ambiguously named Business First. “First class at a business-class fare” is how Mark Bergsrud described it. A vice president with United, which recently merged with Continental, Mr. Bergsrud remembers that those first business-class seats were wider than coach seats, reclined more and had personal screens in the armrests, but he says a lot has changed in seat technology since then.

“One thing that is very clear is that the product standard for international business class has improved dramatically,” Mr. Bergsrud said.

Airlines spend a lot of money on business-class seats — as much as $150,000 each. “Many of the business-class seats we see today are better than the first-class seats from 10 years ago,” Mr. Saltzburg said. They come equipped with a wide selection of entertainment channels, massage cushions and power outlets for electronics. Most significant, many of the seats turn into beds.

“When the lie-flat seats made their way from first class to business, that was the start of the change,” said Matt Daimler, founder of SeatGuru.com. Delta Air Lines says the seats eliminate the difference between first and business. Its premium section is called BusinessElite, and Chris Kelly, a spokeswoman for the airline, said, “It’s absolutely a first-class experience.”

Over the last year, Shane Chapman of the Ovation Travel Group, which specializes in travel for lawyers, said he had seen sales of first-class seats drop, though business-class ticket sales remained strong. His customers tell him, “It’s worth the extra two to three thousand dollars to arrive well rested,” he said.

According to the International Air Transport Association’s premium traffic monitor, the number of people traveling in premium seats in February increased by nearly 8 percent while economy ticket sales grew by just 3.3 percent. Strong sales of business-class tickets are attributed in large part to corporate expense policies that allow workers to buy business class but prohibit first-class travel.

Calin Rovinescu, chief executive at Air Canada, says the next transition will focus on a different customer — economy travelers who may be willing to pay something less than a business-class fare for extra legroom or a better meal.

“The marketplace is asking the question, ought there be something between business class and economy, such as premium economy?” Mr. Rovinescu said. A number of airlines are already offering it: Continental with economy plus, Delta and Icelandair with economy comfort and Virgin America with main cabin select.

“In a way, everything has shifted down a full rung,” said Mr. Daimler of Seatguru. “I’m excited about the death of first class, because it’s giving the rest of the passengers another choice. Comfort is more in reach of the common man.”
114 2011-05-05 Today’s travelers, for business or leisure, can carry far less electronic gear than they used to, thanks to combinations and innovations....
115 2011-05-05 In fact, sales of residential safes at Liberty, he said, have increased 40 percent since 2009, and spiked 25 percent in the first three months of this year. Other manufacturers and retailers of residential safes report similar trends: At Brown Safe Manufacturing, for instance, sales have risen 30 percent annually over the last three years, and sales of “luxury,” or very high-end safes, which make up 20 percent of the company’s business, have gone up 30 percent in the last year as well.

Indeed, customers have an expanding range of products from which to choose. Safes are no longer just gunmetal gray boxes with locks — they have a host of customizable features to satisfy owners’ aesthetic desires as well as their security needs. There are also more safes that look like ordinary household items but have secret compartments, (or diversion safes, as they are known in the trade): not just the standard hollowed-out book, but less expected items like a fake head of lettuce or a can of soda, with space to hide that gold watch or diamond bracelet.

FOR many, the primary appeal of home safes is easy access. Two years ago, a 38-year-old office manager in Columbus, N.J., bought a 175-pound safe not because she feared economic Armageddon, but because she wanted a convenient place to lock up her jewelry.

“I didn’t want to have to drive to the bank to get my jewelry out of a safety deposit box every time I dressed up to go somewhere,” she said.

Her burgundy-colored safe, which has a gray, carpetlike interior and a capacity of two cubic feet, is bolted to the floor of her closet. Although her home already had an alarm system, she said, having a safe “makes me feel more secure.”

“You can’t just pick up that thing and walk out with it,” she added.

Others are less concerned about burglars than the sticky fingers of those they know, including housekeepers and greedy relatives.

As Lynel Brown Berryhill, vice president of Brown Safe, in San Marcos, Calif., noted, “Customers increasingly have been telling us they want a safe to prevent petty theft of jewelry and cash by their help,” who may feel strapped these days because of the higher cost of gas and food.

Prices for residential safes start at about $20 for a basic fire-resistant lockbox about the size of a loaf of bread. But so-called luxury or estate safes might be as big as an armoire and cost as much as $100,000. Such a safe often has an upholstered interior, exotic hardwood shelving and a custom exterior finish.

“We just installed a safe in a guy’s living room who wanted it to exactly match the color of his MacBook Air,” Ms. Berryhill said.

Some of these safes also have biometric locks (which read fingerprints or irises), GPS antitheft systems (LoJack-like devices, in case someone manages to carry the safe away) and automatic watch winders (so expensive watches stored in the safe keep perfect time).

MOST people, however, are more concerned with basic security: how well does the safe protect their belongings from theft and fire?

Some manufacturers use standard industry ratings to communicate this to consumers. A safe can be rated B, C or E, for example, depending on how thick its doors and walls are; a safe with the lowest rating, B, has a door that is a half-inch thick and walls a quarter-inch thick. There is no third-party authority, however, that verifies these ratings.

But a safe can also bear a UL symbol, like a toaster or a coffee maker, meaning it was independently tested by Underwriters Laboratories. UL has dozens of ratings that indicate varying levels of theft and fire resistance. The designation RSC, or Residential Storage Container, for instance, signifies that the safe can withstand a five-minute attack with basic tools like crowbars and screwdrivers. A TXTL-60x6 safe, on the other hand, can withstand an hourlong attack with manual and power tools, blowtorches and eight ounces of nitroglycerin.

“Generally, the more letters and numbers in the rating, the more expensive the safe,” said Mark Brasfield, owner and president of the Safe House in Nashville, which sells safes and moves them for people who are relocating.

When it comes to fire resistance, there are three UL ratings: 350 (as in degrees), for safes that get no hotter than that inside, and will protect paper documents; 150, for those that will protect film and magnetic tape; and 125, for those that will protect computer hardware, drives and disks. A time rating, ranging from 30 minutes to four hours, indicates how long the inside of the safe can maintain the designated temperature while the exterior is engulfed in flames. So a Class 125/1 hour safe, for example, will keep most belongings in fine condition for an hour in a raging fire.

A 59-year-old project manager for Motorola in San Diego knows the importance of fire-resistance. Everything he owned was destroyed in a wildfire in 2007, except for the contents of his 25-cubic-foot safe, which was guaranteed to keep the interior at 350 degrees for 90 minutes.

When he returned to the charred rubble that was once his house and opened the safe, he said, “It was a very emotional moment,” because the safe held “personal items — the photos, diploma and so on. A little of our prefire history had survived.” All the important identification and financial papers he had stored inside were intact as well, as was his wife’s jewelry and a computer backup (although some of the disks had melted).

D IVERSION safes, of course, are not fire resistant and do not even have locks. Their strength is pretense. They cost $5 to $100, and are designed to look like various household objects: a head of iceberg lettuce, a can of soda and a can of shaving cream. Cans, jars and aerosol containers found in pantries and bathroom cabinets are typical. These stealth safes also come disguised as other kinds of things, like surge protectors and clocks.

“They are great for hiding stuff like money and jewelry,” said Annie Blanco, marketing coordinator for homesecuritystore.com, an online retailer of home security systems, based in Riverside, Calif.

But Paul Cromwell, a professor of criminology at the University of South Florida Polytechnic in Lakeland, who has interviewed scores of professional burglars in his research, said he is skeptical about their value. “Burglars are looking online at these kinds of safes, too,” he said. “So they know what to look for.”

Hiding valuables in coat pockets or shoeboxes, in the freezer or buried in the dirt of potted plants, he added, isn’t any better. “You may think you’re being clever, but these are the first places burglars look.”

Criminologists and law enforcement officials also advise against putting things inside toilet tanks and cereal boxes (where addicts tend to hide illegal drugs) and inside medicine cabinets (where thieves look for prescription drugs with resale value). So the last place you want to hide your diamond necklace or a roll of bills is inside an empty bottle of Oxycontin or Adderall.

Apart from a steel-clad safe, he said, the best place to store valuables is one that would take a thief considerable time and effort to find.

“Burglars want to spend as little time as possible in your home,” he said. “The average time a professional burglar will spend there is five minutes.”

Good options might include putting what you want to protect in a nondescript box surrounded by a pile of junk in the attic, or tucking it into the stuffing of one of a group of stuffed animals.

Or you could make your own diversion safe, by cutting pages of a book and stashing your treasures inside. Just make sure you put it on a shelf crowded with other books, and perhaps choose a title that wouldn’t appeal to a thief — say, “Crime and Punishment.”

SAFES disguised as books cost $15 to $45 ready-made, but you can make one yourself for less. And because the D.I.Y. variety is made out of a real book, it tends to look more authentic than a fake one. To hide your stash of emergency cash and jewelry, follow these steps:

Choose a hardcover book with a title that a thief (or anyone else) is unlikely to pull from your bookshelf. An outdated almanac, for example, is probably a safer bet than “The Joy of Sex.” And consider how many pages the book has. The thicker the book, the more work it is to hollow out, but the more you can hide in it.

Other supplies you’ll need include a box cutter, a ruler, a pencil, a sponge paintbrush and glue (pH-neutral is best).

Fold a piece of waxed paper over the front and back of the book (sort of like a dust jacket) to keep the covers clean. Then, with the sponge paintbrush, liberally apply glue around the edges of the book to make the pages stick. Leave a few pages in the front unglued to conceal the cavity. Put a heavy object on top of the book to compress the pages while the glue dries. Wait a couple of hours, or overnight.

Mark the area you wish to hollow out, using the pencil and ruler. Leave a border of at least a half-inch to an inch around the compartment.

Start cutting, but be patient: the box cutter will slice through only a few pages at a time, and pushing the blade through too many layers will leave you with messy, ragged edges. If you own a scroll saw or have a friend who does, the process will go more quickly.

Finally, brush glue on the interior edges of the cut pages and let the book dry for a couple of hours.
116 2011-05-05 “The second day of work I said I wanted a Tuskegee plane,” Mr. Bunch said.

The Smithsonian will give the Quys a replacement fee so they can they can acquire, and fix up, another Stearman with a less distinguished heritage.

The Quys had no idea of the plane’s importance when they bought it. But a month later, Captain Quy (rhymes with sky) had an Air Force archivist track its history using its serial number.

The archivist called back with surprising news: The plane had rolled off an assembly line on November 18, 1944, and had been delivered two days later to Moton Field in Tuskegee, Ala., where the airmen trained. It was decommissioned in 1946, after which it spent several decades as a crop duster before being acquired by a plane collector.

The Quys, who are white, decided to name the plane Spirit of Tuskegee and fly it to air shows where they could teach people about the airmen and inspire children toward careers in the military or aviation.

For three years the couple has been raising money through the sale of Spirit of Tuskegee T-shirts, which they use to pay the travel expenses of airmen who join them to speak about their wartime experiences.

This summer they will fly cross country, stopping in Tuskegee, before landing in Washington, where the plane will be transferred to the Smithsonian during the Tuskegee Airmen’s annual convention.

Last weekend the Quys were joined by one of the Tuskegee Armen at the base here where Captain Quy is stationed, a hour north of Sacramento.

The airman, retired Lt. Col. James C. Warren, is a grizzled 87-year-old former navigator, one of roughly 14,000 black men and women who served in some capacity at Tuskegee, some as pilots, others as mechanics and nurses and in other jobs. African-Americans had been generally barred from military aviation until 1941 when the government created the first black flying unit after lobbying by black leaders.

Over the next five years 996 black pilots were trained at Tuskegee. Many of them flew escort for bombing missions over North Africa and Italy where they earned a reputation for losing very few bombers to enemy fire.

Colonel Warren had just graduated from high school in Illinois in 1942 when he read a magazine article about one of the first Tuskegee pilots to graduate, Charles DeBow. “It brought tears to my eyes,” he said.

Though he had never even been close to a plane before, he knew he wanted to fly. The next summer he was in Tuskegee for training, though he did not make the cut to be a pilot. He ultimately joined the all-black 477th Bombardment Group, which was about to deploy to the Pacific when the war ended. He later served as a navigator on 173 combat missions in Korea and Vietnam, he said, before retiring in 1979.

Last weekend the Quys and Colonel Warren greeted each other like old friends and Captain Quy rushed around to make sure the retired airman had everything he needed: food, water, a place to sit out of the wind.

When Colonel Warren thanked him for his kindness, Captain Quy said, “Well, you took good care of us in World War II and Korea and Vietnam.”

Still, for Captain Quy and Colonel Warren, the story of the Tuskegee Airmen holds a different emotional resonance, which suggests the challenges the African-American history museum will face as it tries to relate America’s complex racial history to a variety of people.

Captain Quy speaks with reverence about the battles the airmen fought against segregation. He recounted, for example, the story of an airman, Alex Jefferson, of Detroit, whose family plotted his travel route to training in Tuskegee, aware that “if he stopped at the wrong gas station or restaurant, he could get beat up, or worse.”

“To go through that, and put your life on the line for your country is amazing,” Captain Quy said.

The captain, though, who joined the service after 9/11, speaks of discrimination in the military in the past tense. Today, “being in the military with lots of minorities, you just don’t see” race at all, he said. “All you care about is how good somebody is, especially if you’re going into combat with them.”

Racial tension does not seem as distant to Colonel Warren, who grew up picking cotton in Alabama before moving north in the eighth grade to be a houseboy for an Illinois family. He said he felt the sting of discrimination, in the military and elsewhere, for decades, and is still distressed to find when he speaks to school groups that the students often sit segregated by race.

In one particularly dramatic incident during World War II, he and more than 100 other black officers were arrested for entering an all-white officers’ club at an Indiana air base and were ordered to face court martial. Most of them were later released, but they received an official reprimand, which stayed on their military records.

It “killed my military career, basically,” Colonel Warren said. None of the men involved in the incident “ever got above lieutenant colonel,” he said.

After he published a book in 1995, “The Tuskegee Airmen Mutiny at Freeman Field,” and submitted some of the information he had gathered to the Air Force, his record was finally cleared.

His time at Tuskegee, however, did imbue him with a lifelong love of aviation. Last September, more than 50 years after he was eliminated from primary training, he finally got his pilot’s license. He now keeps a plane at an airport near his home in Vacaville, Calif., and flies regularly.

“I was very disappointed when I didn’t become a pilot at that time,” he said “and it always hung with me.”
117 2011-05-05 “I’m not missing; I never was,” said Mike Largin, a 66-year-old retired coal miner who lives in the Tuscaloosa suburb of Brookwood, and who found himself on a widely consulted missing persons list in The Tuscaloosa News. “But everyone thinks I am. I can’t get found.”

Mr. Largin was taken off the list on Tuesday.

The City of Tuscaloosa released an official list of the missing, with more than 300 names on it, on Monday. At the

 time, the mayor said he expected the list to be whittled down quickly, as people got in touch with relatives and the police. By Wednesday evening, the number of missing had dropped to 30.

Such confusion is understandable in a big college town like Tuscaloosa, where even before the turmoil brought by the storm, students came and went, people were always visiting and residents lived and worked in their own little fraction of the city.

But it should not be like that in Hackleburg.

“In a community this size,” said Lyn Littleton, a state emergency management official working in Marion County, where Hackleburg sits, “everybody knows everybody.”

Marion County’s death toll is now 23. A few days ago, it was 35. Such a degree of uncertainty, in a place like this, is a grim testament of what the storm did to Hackleburg.

“I heard someone say it’s like God came and stomped on it,” said Ed Howell, a writer for The Journal Record of Marion County.

The Wrangler distribution plant is mangled beyond recognition, as is the building that housed the Church of God of Prophecy. Thirty-one of the town’s 32 businesses, including the Piggly Wiggly supermarket, the Dollar General store and Grace’s Place restaurant, were destroyed, as were 179 homes.

Right after the winds died down, citizens fanned out among the town’s ghostly remains, looking for survivors, said Steve Lawrence, pastor of the First Baptist Church, which for now will have to serve as the town’s elementary school. With no power or phone service, many residents did not know about the devastation elsewhere in the South for days. But even finding people in this town’s 15 square miles proved difficult.

Many reunions did not occur until Sunday morning, the time of the week when a small town’s roll is truly called. Hundreds came to church services, some from the army of volunteers that had descended on Hackleburg. But many in the congregation that morning were longstanding church members. They were able to explain why some were not present, that they were in hospitals in Huntsville or Birmingham, in Alabama, or in Tupelo, Miss.

Others had moved in with relatives or friends in other towns — so many, in fact, that a week after the tornadoes, no one in Marion County is staying in a shelter.

Some residents, though, learned the fate of acquaintances during the traditional “In Memoriam” segment heard every morning on radio station WERH. The segment consists of a list of funeral services in several northwest Alabama counties being read twice, and normally lasts 15 minutes, said Bryan Williams, the station’s music director. These days, it is read only once, but it goes on for 20 minutes.

“People call us and they want to know ages,” Mr. Williams said. “They want to see if it’s a junior or a senior.”

City and county law enforcement officers, along with F.B.I. agents, have found bodies in ponds, in open fields, under the wreckage of their homes. Each find was added to the death toll, and the number kept rising until it was revised sharply downward on Sunday afternoon.

An investigator for the Sheriff’s Department in Marion County explained to The Journal Record that the inflated toll was the result of overlapping reports, a paperwork error stemming from communication difficulties. Still, it was a correction that brought good news: 12 fewer people had died in the county than had been previously thought.

But Kenny Hallmark, the town’s police chief and coach of the junior varsity basketball team, gave another, more unsettling, explanation.

“We were finding body parts, and we were logging them as people,” he said. As he called in residents, in many cases his close friends, to identify the remains, officials began to realize that each discovery was not a separate person. “Once we were able identify those parts, we were able to piece together a human,” Chief Hallmark said. And the list dropped.

There are still six listed as missing in Hackleburg, and the names have been making the rounds among families, officials and preachers. Chief Hallmark knows who they are, and he is confident that these people will turn up when the phones come back on.

He was able to remove three names from the list of the missing, he said, just because he ran into the family. That is how people find each other these days.

“One of our friends we thought was dead, we saw at a truck stop,” said Lisa Ray, 33, who had just left a Red Cross station in the First Baptist Church’s recreation room. “He thought we were dead, too.”

With her husband and two little boys, Ms. Ray loaded up the back of the car with bottles of water and other staples, gifts from the thousands of strangers now at work in Hackleburg.
118 2011-05-05 THOUGH she has rarely been described as a style icon, the suffragist Susan B. Anthony was readily identifiable on her travels by her red shawl and alligator handbag. To her, a bag was not a fashion statement but a symbol of independence at a time when women were not allowed to enter into a contract or even open a bank account.

And yet, Anthony is now the namesake of what appears to be an “it” bag.

Since December, the Susan B. Anthony House, a museum that operates in her former residence in Rochester, has been selling a $250 handbag made of fake alligator that was inspired by one of Anthony’s own club bags, similar to a doctor’s bag.

Deborah L. Hughes, the museum’s executive director, said it had sold 526 of the bags, and expected demand to increase in anticipation of Mother’s Day. The actor Alec Baldwin recently bought one at a local charity auction for $5,000. Senator Kay Hagan, Democrat of North Carolina, has also ordered one, according to Ms. Hughes, so you could even say the bag has a celebrity following.

Called Ms. Anthony, the 17-inch-long crescent-shaped bag was designed by Gail Riggs of the Abigail Riggs Collection to benefit the museum. It is inscribed with two of Anthony’s mottos: “Failure is impossible!” and “Every woman needs a purse of her own.”

In hers, Anthony kept copies of her speeches and the transcript of her trial after she was arrested in 1872 for voting in the presidential election. The new version, the museum notes, is large enough to accommodate a mini-laptop. What would Anthony have made of that?

Ms. Hughes said the museum was sensitive to the image it would project by selling the bags, and also the implications of having them made in China, but said she was assured that the standards of labor were high. And she noted that Anthony herself was a brilliant fund-raiser, selling her own portraits to raise money for the cause.

“To the extent we are continuing her work, she would be supportive of this,” Ms. Hughes said, then followed up with a quote from Anthony: “Any advertising is good. Get praise if possible, blame if you have to. But never stop being talked about.”
119 2011-05-05 Intel currently uses a photolithographic process to make a chip, in which the smallest feature on the chip is just 32 nanometers, a level of microscopic manufacture that was reached in 2009. (By comparison a human red blood cell is 7,500 nanometers in width and a strand of DNA is 2.5 nanometers.) “Intel is on track for 22-nanometer manufacturing later this year,” said Mark T. Bohr, an Intel senior fellow and the scientist who has overseen the effort to develop the next generation of smaller transistors.

The company’s engineers said that they now felt confident that they would be able to solve the challenges of making chips through at least the 10-nanometer generation, which is likely to happen in 2015.

The timing of the announcement Wednesday is significant, Dr. Bohr said, because it is evidence that the world’s largest chip maker is not slipping from the pace of doubling the number of transistors that can be etched onto a sliver of silicon every two years, a phenomenon known as Moore’s Law. Although not a law of physics, the 1965 observation by Intel’s co-founder, Gordon Moore, has defined the speed of innovation for much of the world’s economy. It has also set the computing industry apart from other types of manufacturing because it has continued to improve at an accelerating rate, offering greater computing power and lower cost at regular intervals.

However, despite its promise and the company’s bold claims, Intel’s 3-D transistor is still a controversial technology within the chip industry. Indeed, a number of the company’s competitors say they believe that Intel is taking a what could be a disastrous multibillion-dollar gamble on an unproved technology.

There has been industry speculation that Finfet technology will give Intel a clear speed advantage, but possibly less control over power consumption than alternative approaches.

By opting for a technology that emphasizes speed over low power, Intel faces the possibility that it could win the technology battle and yet lose the more important battle in the marketplace. The scope of Intel’s gamble is underscored by the fact that while the company dominates in the markets for data center computers, desktops and laptops, it has largely been locked out of the tablet and smartphone markets, which are growing far more quickly than the traditional PC industry.

Those devices use ultra-low-powered chips to conserve battery power and reduce overheating. , for example, uses Intel’s microprocessors for its desktops and laptops, but for the and it has chosen to use a rival low-power design, built by others, that Apple originally helped pioneer in the late 1980s.

Industry executives and analysts have said that Intel is likely to have a lead of a full generation over its rivals in the shift to 3-D transistors. For example, T.S.M.C., the -based chip maker, has said that it does not plan to deploy Finfet transistor technology for another two years.

Other companies, like ST Microelectronics, are wagering that an alternative technology based on placing a remarkably thin insulating layer below traditional transistors will chart a safer course toward the next generation of chip manufacturing. They believe that the insulation approach will excel in low-power applications, and that could be a crucial advantage in consumer-oriented markets where a vast majority of popular products are both hand-held and battery-powered.

“Silicon-on-insulator could be a win in terms of power efficiency,” said David Lammers, the editor in chief of Semiconductor Manufacturing and Design Community, a Web site. “From what I am hearing from the S.O.I. camp, there is a consensus and concession that Finfets are faster. That’s the way you want to go for leading-edge performance.”

In a factory tour here last week, Intel used a scanning electronic microscope to display a computer chip made using the new 22-nanometer manufacturing process. Viewed at a magnification of more than 100,000 times, the silicon fins are clearly visible as a series of walls projected above a flat surface.

It is possible to make transistors out of one or a number of the tiny fins to build switches that have different characteristics, such as faster switching speeds or extremely low power. Looking at the chip under less magnification, it is possible to see the wiring design, which appears much like a street map displaying millions of intersections.

Despite the impressive display, Intel’s executives acknowledge the challenge the company is facing in trying to catch up in the new consumer markets that so far have eluded it.

“The ecosystem right now is not aligned in our favor,” said Andy D. Bryant, Intel’s chief administrative officer, who now runs the company’s technology and manufacturing group. “It has to be good enough for the ecosystem to take notice and say, ‘We better pay attention to those guys.’ ”
120 2011-05-05 “We are working together” against terrorism, he said.

Mr. Gilani’s trip to France is supposed to encourage French investment in his country, despite the momentous events that culminated in Bin Laden’s killing.

“Today, through your forum, I want to convince the world that instead of giving negative messages for Pakistan, rather we should send positive messages to Pakistan,” Mr. Gilani told a French employers’ group, according to Reuters. “We should have positive messages because no one, no single nation, alone can fight terrorism. Pakistan is a part of the solution and not a part of the problem.”

In recent days both the British prime minister, David Cameron, and the French foreign minister, Alain Juppé, have raised questions about how Bin Laden could have lived undetected so close to the Pakistani capital while he was the most wanted man in the United States — supposedly Pakistan’s ally in combating terrorism.

But both European leaders concluded that, as Mr. Juppé put it, Pakistan is such an important player in the region, specifically in determining the outcome of the war in Afghanistan, that “we have every interest in keeping good relations with it.”

“There will be no solution in Afghanistan, no long-lasting political solution, if we do not manage to work in trust with Pakistan,” Mr. Juppé said.

As Mr. Gilani visited Paris, another senior Pakistani official, Salman Bashir, told the BBC that “Pakistan has played a pivotal role” in the hunt for Bin Laden and that it had even drawn the attention of American intelligence agencies in 2009 to suspicions about the compound where Bin Laden was killed.

But he stopped shorting of saying Pakistan’s own intelligence agents had known Bin Laden was living there, arguing that it took the superior resources of the Central Intelligence Agency to make that discovery.

In a statement on Tuesday, the Pakistani Foreign Ministry said the “intelligence flow indicating some foreigners in the surroundings of Abbottabad, continued till mid-April 2011.”

“It is important to highlight that taking advantage of much superior technological assets, the C.I.A. exploited the intelligence leads given by us to identify and reach Osama bin Laden,” the statement said.

Pakistani officials have been angered by a widely reported assertion by the C.I.A. director, Leon E. Panetta, that Washington did not share advance knowledge of the raid with Pakistan because it might have leaked, allowing Bin Laden to escape.
121 2011-05-05 In return for the aid, Portugal has committed to the sale of state-owned assets aimed at raising 5.5 billion euros. It intends to sell shares before the end of the year in EDP, the energy company, and TAP, the flagship airline.

The aid program also foresees Portugal raising sales taxes on goods like cars and cigarettes, while cutting corporate tax exemptions and public subsidies to private companies. As part of an overhaul of labor legislation, severance payments will be reduced, while unemployment benefits are expected to end at 18 months rather than three years.

Among measures to cut the public sector wage bill, the government will reduce staffing of its central administration by 1 percent a year between 2012 and 2014, and by 2 percent for regional and local administrations. The reductions will take place by natural attrition.

Marie Diron, a senior economic adviser to Ernst & Young, said the package was “surprisingly light on fiscal measures, probably reflecting the fact that Portugal already had significant plans in place and that further tightening measures would face decreasing returns.”

The draft agreement, however, did not specify the interest rate payable on the money lent to Portugal, making it difficult to assess a claim by Prime Minister José Sócrates late Tuesday that his government had negotiated “a good deal that defends Portugal,” as well as better terms for its bailout than those accepted last year by Greece and Ireland. The government is expected to confirm the terms Thursday.

The $115.5 billion rescue package, or 78 billion euros, was in line with estimates made last month by senior European officials of what Portugal would require. “The size of the package signals the determination of the E.U. authorities to ring-fence problems in the periphery, especially given the elevated market concerns about Greece and subsequent contagion risks that could arise from that,” analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in a research note Wednesday.

Mr. Sócrates resigned in March after Parliament refused to endorse his proposals for additional austerity measures. To break the political deadlock, Portugal is set to hold a general election June 5. Mr. Sócrates is leading a caretaker government in the meantime.

Some analysts, meanwhile, poured cold water on the favorable comparison drawn by Mr. Sócrates with bailout packages for other countries. With an election ahead, Mr. Sócrates is hoping to reap political benefit from negotiating a bailout, even as center-right opposition parties are blaming him for the problems that have forced Portugal to seek a rescue in the first place.

Mr. Sócrates “may have gone too fast in going public on the package, sidelining the opposition and spinning his role in the negotiations as a protector of his electoral base,” Gilles Moec, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a research note Wednesday.

The caretaker government officially asked for assistance last month after failing to meet its 2010 deficit target and after a series of credit rating downgrades pushed Portugal’s borrowing costs to record highs. Those developments heightened concerns about the country’s ability to meet refinancing obligations.

Officials from the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank went to Lisbon in April to discuss an aid package that would allow Portugal to receive rescue financing led by the European Union by June, when it will face its toughest refinancing hurdles this year.

Underlining Portugal’s economic difficulties, the I.M.F. forecast last month that the economy would contract 1.5 percent this year and 0.5 percent in 2012.

On Wednesday, Portugal sold three-month Treasury bills at an average yield of 4.65 percent, the country’s debt management agency said. That was higher than the 4.05 percent yield when Portugal last sold such bills April 20. The auction attracted bids for 1.9 times the amount offered, compared with a ratio of 2 a couple of weeks earlier.

Chiara Cremonesi, an analyst at the Italian bank UniCredit, said that the auction had gone well, given that the rise in the cost of financing was below the level on the secondary market. Still, she urged caution, adding, “Portugal will not be immune over the next months from market pressure, given it still has to convince markets that it has a credible growth strategy and given that the debate of a Greek debt restructuring will continue.”

Meanwhile, Finland moved closer Wednesday to potential support for Portugal’s rescue package, as the biggest party in the Finnish Parliament decided to separate euro rescue negotiations from its talks on forming a coalition government with the True Finns, a party critical of euro zone bailouts that won 19 percent of the vote in an election last month.

The arrangement could allow Finland to decide whether to endorse further euro zone aid before a meeting of European finance ministers May 16, as well as before the formation of a new Finnish coalition government.

On Tuesday, Mr. Sócrates highlighted creditors’ agreement to give Portugal more time to cut its deficit than his government had foreseen. That concession surprised some analysts, given that it might allow Portugal simply to roll over outstanding money-market securities to cover its financing needs next year.

The negotiations in Portugal, however, come as concerns grow that Greece will soon have to restructure its debt, despite having received emergency financing last year. Greece secured a bailout package worth 110 billion euros, and Ireland one worth 85 billion euros.

Ralph Solveen, a Commerzbank economist, said that “the relatively moderate conditions of the program indicate that the E.U. and the I.M.F. would also be prepared to show an accommodating stance toward Greece and Ireland with regard to the comparatively harsh terms of their financial aid programs if need be.”
122 2011-05-05 HILLSBORO, Ore. -- Intel announced on Wednesday that it had again found a way to make computer chips that could process information more quickly and with less power in less space.     The transistors on computer chips -- whether for PC's or smartp...
123 2011-05-05 WEINSTOCK--Barbara. Loving daughter of Naomi and the late Fred. Sister of Mitchell, wonderful cousin and great friend of many. We will miss her very much. The Weinstock's...
124 2011-05-05 In a previous post, I wrote about the Business Council for Peace, a nonprofit network of professionals who provide pro bono business services to mostly female entrepreneurs in countries affected by conflict, including Rwanda. Last month, three Rwa...
125 2011-05-06 Alina Tugend, in her Shortcuts column, tries to sort out her rights as a consumer and to figure out which agency is best to handle what complaints....
126 2011-05-06 Jon M. Huntsman Jr. visited South Carolina, an early primary state, on Friday, and said he detected a craving for new blood in the Republican campaign....
127 2011-05-06 Avon Products could easily spend $250 million on legal costs for an internal investigation of whether its employees violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act....
128 2011-05-06 The wedding of Sir Paul and Nancy Shevell was first reported in People magazine....
129 2011-05-06 A matchmaking event for singles in the finance and fashion industries was widely mocked as a showcase of shallow materialism. Now it is trying to reinvent itself as a party with a philanthropic edge.
130 2011-05-06 After a rough few years, the event that mixes Wall Street bachelors with New York’s fashionistas is back with a post-crisis sense of charity....
131 2011-05-06 A place to get quirky, responsibly sourced Chinese food, on Mission Street in San Francisco....
132 2011-05-06 A place to get quirky, responsibly sourced Chinese food, on Mission Street in San Francisco....
133 2011-05-06 As the endgame begins, both bidders -- Deutsche Börse, and Nasdaq and its partner, the IntercontinentalExchange -- are preparing for the NYSE Euronext shareholders meeting in July....
134 2011-05-06 Entering the best-seller list for paperback graphic books this week, at No. 4, is Vol. 1 of “Sensational She-Hulk,” by the writer and artist John Byrne....
135 2011-05-06 For most of the city’s eighth graders, the Department of Education’s dizzying system of matching students and high schools came to a happy conclusion on March 31, but 10 percent of the eighth graders, more than 8,000 children, were accepted by...
136 2011-05-06 OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network, announced Friday that the head of that channel, Christina Norman, had been dismissed....
137 2011-05-06 Top-down budget busters....
138 2011-05-06 The hybrid supercar will be limited to 250 units and will cost from $1.1 million to $1.5 million....
139 2011-05-06 Many energy experts and economists say that oil prices are bound to rebound again because the fundamentals of the global market have not changed very much....
140 2011-05-06 Michael Ignatieff, the Liberal Party leader who resigned Tuesday after the party’s poor performance in this week’s federal election, said Thursday he would take a position at the University of Toronto. Mr. Ignatieff, a journalist and academic before entering politics about five years ago, will become the senior resident at the university’s Massey College, a graduate school. He previously ran a human rights center at Harvard University was a senior research fellow in King’s College at the University of Cambridge. The Liberals have not yet named an interim leader.
141 2011-05-06 Unless NATO, including the United States, get more serious, Libya’s liberation war could turn into a prolonged, bloody stalemate. Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi is ruthless, and rebel forces are weak and disorganized. NATO still has the military means to help tip the balance if it can summon the unity and the will.

In their latest horror, Qaddafi forces rained shells this week on the rebel-held port area of Misurata, trying to keep international relief vessels from unloading humanitarian supplies. The civilian death toll from the war is already estimated in the thousands, while streams of desperate refugees keep pouring into Tunisia, Egypt and Europe. The alliance needs to get its act together.

President Obama was right to hand over this mission to Canadian and European command once the initial American strikes had shattered Libyan air defenses. But crucial momentum was lost in the transition. Coordination with rebel fighters was initially poor, leading to friendly fire disasters. The string of defections from the Qaddafi inner circle came to an end, as government forces dug in.

NATO allies, particularly Britain and France, have the high performance fighters that can carry the main burden of the air campaign. But the Pentagon needs to send America’s specialized low-flying attack planes, the A-10 and the AC-130, back into action against Libyan Army tanks. These are far more effective at destroying enemy vehicles and avoiding friendly ones.

Colonel Qaddafi has left no question about his willingness to murder civilians. Bombing strikes against military command centers, including Qaddafi compounds, are well within the United Nations Security Council’s mandate. They need to continue, though innocent Qaddafi family members should not be deliberately targeted.
142 2011-05-06 The explosion in computer-based trading has occurred over the past decade as the S.E.C. adopted rules that allowed dozens of new trading venues to compete for stock orders and accelerated the move toward high-frequency trading, which now accounts for 70 percent of daily stock-trading volume.

While competition has lowered trading costs and in some cases improved efficiency, the result has been a confusing amalgam of more than 50 electronic trading networks, some of which are designed to hide large block trades, and traditional exchanges, which are governed by outmoded regulations that do not require full transparency. High-frequency traders navigate this maze with ever more sophisticated technology — and armies of computer and math specialists — to find and exploit slight price variations.

Yes, both volume and volatility in the equity markets have been declining in recent months, but the centrality of high-frequency trading has not diminished. Moreover, high-frequency traders have gone beyond trading stocks to futures, options, bonds, currencies and other asset classes — and are making incursions in foreign markets. The next flash crash could be more pervasive than last year’s, as global asset markets become increasingly correlated through the convergence of computer-driven trading strategies.

Why hasn’t the S.E.C. acted?  Defenders would say that Congressionally imposed deadlines for instituting the Dodd-Frank overhaul of financial regulations have overwhelmed the commission and forced it to put changes to the equity markets on the back burner.

But the paralysis at the S.E.C. runs much deeper.  It’s been 20 years since Congress gave it the authority to require large-volume traders to make more detailed disclosures; 18 months since the commission’s chairman, Mary L. Schapiro, said it would use that authority; 13 months since the agency proposed a rule to do so; and three months since the advisory committee recommended proceeding with “urgency” on the audit trail.

Meanwhile, even Ms. Schapiro has publicly expressed worry that our markets no longer adequately perform their main functions: helping companies to raise capital to innovate and grow and helping long-term investors to contribute to the American economy while building a retirement nest egg. Mutual fund outflows continued unabated after the flash crash through the end of 2010, an indication that ordinary investors are fleeing the market.

In response, the S.E.C. should work with the C.F.T.C. to establish the audit trail, which would allow real-time monitoring of electronic trading; stop trading venues from catering unfairly to high-speed traders at the expense of regular investors; make high-frequency traders bear their fair share of the costs involved in heavy, instantaneous flow of electronic messages, which would discourage strategies to stuff the system with orders that are immediately canceled; and rethink rules that give too much priority to the rapid-fire orders that high-frequency traders rely upon.

More is at stake than the confidence of small investors. A survey by the consulting firm Grant Thornton shows that initial public offerings by small companies have declined over the past 15 years. The profits to be made in supporting small-cap stocks have dried up as Wall Street has focused obsessively on leverage and high-volume trading.

One promising idea being floated is an experimental market, with rules tailored to support the capitalization of the fastest-growing companies, many of them start-ups that are drivers of job creation.

America’s capital markets, once the envy of the world, have been transformed in the name of competition that was said to benefit investors. Instead, this has produced an almost lawless high-speed maze where prices can spiral out of control, spooking average investors and start-up entrepreneurs alike.

The flash crash should have sounded an alarm. Unfortunately, the regulators are still asleep.
143 2011-05-06 Kimberly Smith dropped out of McCallum High School in Austin during the first semester of her freshman year. She said she was experiencing anxiety attacks and depression. “I felt trapped inside,” she said, adding, “I was pretty much in bed just sleeping all day long, just basically crying.”

Now a sophomore at Austin Can!, Ms. Smith, 17, says the flexible schedule allows her to take fewer class hours so she can attend psychotherapy sessions.

A break from the regular eight-hour class day is essential for other students who have to work or watch children, or have behavioral problems, said Josie Duckett, vice president for public and government affairs at the Texas Charter Schools Association. Charter schools can provide more attention-intensive learning environments.

“A lot of times kids don’t have this support system at home, and this is the first time adults are caring for them and believing in them,” Ms. Duckett said.

Under Texas Education Agency accountability standards, alternative schools like dropout recovery charters have to meet two requirements in addition to financial and TAKS-based criteria: At least 60 percent of students must graduate or receive a G.E.D. in four years or continue to their fifth year; and they can have a dropout rate no higher than 20 percent, based on the number of students enrolled in one year who make it through the next September.

Those standards can wreck the accountability ratings of schools like Austin Can! because students often go to them after failing to graduate in four years from their previous schools, and the four-year clock does not reset once they enter a new school. Because the schools serve students who have already dropped out of traditional schools, they often get hit hard by the dropout measurement as well.

“Once a student comes to our schools, we can’t deny them — it doesn’t matter if they had horrific attendance, if they are 20 and have one credit,” said Toni Templeton, of the state charter association. “If we have them for one day, if they don’t stay with us and return the following fall, they are a dropout.”

A charter school that receives an “unacceptable” rating for two years or more can have its accreditation revoked. The state can also prohibit charter holders from opening new schools. Thirteen charter campuses are in danger of closing because of high dropout or low completion rates.

Senator Leticia Van de Putte, Democrat of San Antonio, has filed legislation that adjusts the way the state measures dropout and completion rates for charters that serve at-risk students. It would allow the schools to receive credit for students who graduate within six years and exempt students 17 and older from counting as dropouts. There is a similar proposal in the House.

Despite its limited scope, the six-year completion measure, if enacted, would make Texas a national leader in dropout recovery programs, according to Lili Allen, program director of the postsecondary division at Jobs for the Future, a Boston-based nonprofit that has researched dropout policies across the country.

“It would continue to hold them to a high standard but would make it an appropriate standard for those who support a majority population who are off track or who have dropped out all together,” Ms. Allen said.

By focusing on rules surrounding the revocation of charters, Ms. Van de Putte’s legislation avoids making changes to the state accountability system, which could be perceived as lowering standards, said Sarah Gomez, a spokeswoman for the senator. Such changes, she said, would most likely encounter opposition from the Texas Education Agency and other members of the Legislature who believe the current system already provides enough relief for schools who deal with high-risk students.

Still, some education experts argue that Ms. Van de Putte’s proposal gives special treatment to charter schools. Conclusions about dropout rates at charter schools and traditional districts are mixed — largely due to the difficulty of accessing student-level data that accurately identifies former dropouts who have re-enrolled in schools. But Julian Vasquez Heilig, a professor at the University of Texas College of Education who studies how incentive systems affect student achievement, said his research had found a higher dropout rate for all charters — not just those that focus on dropout recovery — when compared with their peer districts. He said he strongly opposes what he viewed as a weakening of accountability standards for those schools.

“The thing is that districts deal with dropouts too, and so you would think that charter schools would be able to stack up against traditional districts when it comes to dropout rates,” he said. “If they are going to compete against public schools for public dollars, then they should meet the same standards.”

He also worries that the measure could make it easier for dropout recovery charters to become “holding bins” for traditional school districts to dump their problem students. “You off-load the kids into these charters, and then they disappear into oblivion,” he said.

For Ms. Smith, at least, that hasn’t been the case. She wakes up at 4:45 every morning to take the train from her Georgetown home to classes at Austin Can!, which she said was the only school that would enroll her.

“I have no idea where I would be without this school,” she said. “It’s been a very big help to me.”
144 2011-05-06 Lots of painters emulate Renaissance old masters. Few do so to such riveting effect as Matthew Miller, a young, Brooklyn-based artist. Each of the five oil-on-panel works here, dating from 2008 to the present, is a self-portrait of the artist, with closely cropped or shaved hair, against a glossy, jet-black background. He is viewed straight on or in three-quarter profile, with bare neck and upper shoulders, his high forehead deeply furrowed, his eyes heavy-lidded. He could be a spiritually anguished Lutheran monk painted by Lucas Cranach.

Mr. Miller gives his head a striking sculptural solidity. With dark lines emphasizing his nose, full lips and deep eye sockets, his head looks as if it were carved from marble and smoothed to a satiny sheen. Mr. Miller is not a hair-by-hair, warts-and-all realist. He erases fine details while recording his epidermal topography with exquisite attentiveness. The paintings are nearly colorless, but pinkish-beige tones layered over cooler hues create an opalescent glow. They verge on the grotesque.

Mr. Miller comes from a non-mainstream background. Raised as a Mennonite and trained at the New York Academy of Art, which favors traditional figurative representation, he brings to his art a painstaking work ethic and an earnest humanism. His work exudes a feeling of religious devotion — not to any transcendent deity but to the process of painting itself. That’s what makes it modern. No prizes in heaven or on earth are guaranteed for this kind of faith, but he persists because it is, like prayer, its own reward.
145 2011-05-06 A missile believed to have been fired from an American drone struck a car in southern Yemen on Thursday, killing two brothers thought to be Qaeda militants, security and tribal officials said. The Defense Ministry confirmed the deaths of the brothers in Shabwa Province, but it would not provide further details. In September, Yemen said it was banning American drone strikes, but they were believed to have resumed after Al Qaeda smuggled explosives on cargo planes bound for the United States in October.
146 2011-05-06 Orpheus, though a Carnegie Hall regular, had to sneak in the back door to get into the festival, replacing the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra, which withdrew after its selection for financial reasons. (The festival rents the hall, handles production and marketing, and guarantees a share of the overall proceeds of at least $50,000, but the orchestras have to pay for travel and soloists.) Still, Orpheus can be counted on to use its home-field advantage to set the festival off on firm footing.

Even some of the repertory may be familiar to faithful Carnegiegoers, as Orpheus pulls together its “New Brandenburgs,” works commissioned by six composers to “unearth a variety of new perspectives,” in the orchestra’s words, on the “Brandenburg” Concertos. Each has already been given an individual premiere, but this is the first time all six works will be performed together, and Stephen Hartke’s “Brandenburg Autumn” will be fitted out with a new fourth movement. The other composers represented are Aaron Jay Kernis, Peter Maxwell Davies, Paul Moravec, Christopher Theofanidis, Melinda Wagner and — oh yes, in some form or fashion — Bach.

If Orpheus were not involved, the Toledo Symphony could almost qualify as the home team, though it is making its Carnegie debut. It is bringing 1,400 fans in tow (some in the orchestra’s chartered plane, some in three buses, maybe even a hitchhiker or two), enough to fill half of Carnegie Hall. There was a bump early on, when the ensemble asked the city to show its support to the tune of $10,000. The notion fell victim to political bickering, but none of that mattered in the end, as the orchestra raised some $250,000 for the trip.

Its program juxtaposes pieces that relate to the plight of the individual in an oppressive society in wildly contrasting ways: Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 6, written in 1939, after the composer had suffered the lash of Soviet officialdom for his opera “Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District”; and André Previn’s “Every Good Boy Deserves Favor,” a 1976 setting of the Tom Stoppard play about inmates in a Soviet mental hospital. The festival says that the Previn performance, directed by Cornel Gabara, is the New York premiere of the version for full orchestra.

Like Orpheus the Albany Symphony, in its Carnegie Hall debut, and its adventurous music director, David Alan Miller, offer the fruits of a commissioning venture, the Spirituals Project. Just a little late for the 150th anniversary of the start of the Civil War (April 12), the program of Americana centers on contemporary reinterpretations of spirituals, with works by Richard Adams, Kevin Beavers, Stephen Dankner, Donal Fox, John Harbison, Bun-Ching Lam, Tania León and Daniel Bernard Roumain. The concert opens with “Let the River Be Unbroken” by George Tsontakis, the orchestra’s composer in residence, and ends with Copland’s complete “Appalachian Spring” with pantomime.

Though the festival orchestra with the smallest budget, the Albany Symphony prides itself on groundbreaking programming. “We are doing stuff like this all the time,” said its executive director, Brian A. Ritter. “We think our artistic vision is in line with that of Spring for Music.”

Evidently the festival directors agree. The ensemble has already been selected by Spring for Music to return to Carnegie in 2013 — the best it could have hoped for, since appearances in consecutive years are not allowed.

It may be the rare individual work that can constitute a bold programming statement on its own as well as a proclamation of an orchestra’s sense of mission, but Steven Stucky’s “August 4, 1964” is surely one of them. Commissioned by the ensemble to commemorate the centenary of Lyndon B. Johnson in 2008, this 70-minute oratorio treats a complicated figure with the complexity he deserves.

Gene Scheer’s libretto ties together two epochal events from a single day in 1964: the discovery of the bodies of three missing civil rights workers in Philadelphia, Miss., and Johnson’s decision to bomb North Vietnam after reports of attacks on American ships in the Gulf of Tonkin, which would later prove erroneous. The text draws largely on the actual words of historical figures, who are represented by vocal soloists. Some 150 members of the volunteer Dallas Symphony Chorus will also make the trip.

Politicians as well as Johnson family members and intimates gave wide berth to the premiere of this unsparing work. Spring for Music reports that two brothers of the slain civil rights workers will experience the work here for the first time.

The oldest orchestra in this year’s festival, the Portland-based Oregon Symphony is making its Carnegie Hall debut. But it won’t have to wait another 115 years to return.

Like the Albany Symphony it is already scheduled to appear in Spring for Music in 2013. And like the Albany Symphony it has the Civil War on its mind at the moment.

The centerpiece of its program is John Adams’s “Wound-Dresser,” to poetry by Whitman, nestled amid war-haunted or anxiety-tinged works by Ives, Britten and Vaughan Williams. The baritone Sanford Sylvan, who gave the premiere of “The Wound-Dresser” with another festival participant, the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra, in 1989, will perform it again here.

To engage the community, Thomas Lauderdale, a pianist and the founder of the band Pink Martini and a symphony board member, commissioned a large neon sign for the lobby of the orchestra’s home, the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall, to count down the days, hours, minutes and seconds from last May until the Carnegie Hall concert. Only 450 Oregonians are expected to make the trip, but as Elaine Calder, the orchestra’s president, points out, it’s a longer haul from Portland than from Toledo.

The St. Paul Chamber Orchestra is no stranger to Carnegie Hall. It appeared there most recently in November, with the pianist Brad Mehldau and his band.

But here it gets to take over the hall on its own terms, working with the soprano Dawn Upshaw in one of the artistic partnerships it has cultivated in recent years, as it has worked to develop a new model of orchestral leadership for the 21st century. Ms. Upshaw performs the New York premiere of “Carlos Drummond de Andrade Stories,” a work by Maria Schneider based on writings by the Brazilian poet of the title, and Bartok’s Five Hungarian Folk Songs, in an arrangement by Richard Tognetti. Ms. Schneider will conduct her piece, and the orchestra will create a context of Classicism and Neo-Classicism to fill out the program, with Haydn’s Symphony No. 104 and Stravinsky’s Concerto in D, performed conductorless.

Is it possible to perform the ultimate war horse, Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, and couch it in a way that makes for adventuresome programming? Kent Nagano gives it a shot here with an evolutionary context extending from Gabrieli’s “Symphoniae Sacrae” to Webern’s Opus 21 Symphony and Stravinsky’s “Symphonies of Wind Instruments,” including (in a bit of a stretch) solo keyboard sinfonias by Bach, performed here by the Canadian pianist Angela Hewitt.

Mr. Nagano elaborates on the concept in a program note, “The Evolution of the Symphony,” with no mention of Bach. Marianne Perron, the orchestra’s director of music programming, allowed in an interview that the Bach works don’t fit entirely comfortably into this evolutionary scheme but are meant to serve as reference points, reminders of the foundation of tonal language. Still a bit of a stretch.

The Montreal Symphony, which has appeared at Carnegie Hall with some regularity, can be forgiven if it doesn’t see this concert as the climax of its musical year, since it moves into a new concert hall in September. But speaking of reference points, Carnegie should serve as a good one for that new auditorium.
147 2011-05-06 Re “How the Law Accepted Gays” (Op-Ed, April 29): Dale Carpenter says correctly that the American Civil Liberties Union failed to challenge sodomy laws in the 1950s. That was a regrettable mistake, but hardly tells the story.

The A.C.L.U. has stood shoulder to shoulder with Lambda Legal and others in the fight for equality, including in several cases Mr. Carpenter mentions.

We represented Franklin Kameny when the government fired him. We represented Michael Hardwick in his Supreme Court challenge to Georgia’s sodomy law. We were counsel with Lambda in the case striking down Colorado’s antigay amendment. And the Supreme Court relied on our brief in finally striking down sodomy laws in 2003.

The A.C.L.U. first tackled gay rights in 1936, defending Lillian Hellman’s “Children’s Hour.” In the 1950s and ’60s, we challenged police raids targeting gay establishments. In 1971, we brought the first case seeking marriage for gay couples. Today, we represent Edie Windsor, whose marriage to her partner of 44 years was unrecognized by the Internal Revenue Service, in challenging the Defense of Marriage Act.

The legal community did indeed take years to understand that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans are entitled to the freedom and equal treatment the Constitution promises. The A.C.L.U. — with a robust docket of L.G.B.T. cases and advocacy programs nationwide — will not rest until that promise is realized.
148 2011-05-06 Regulators must better understand threats to the financial system to be able to prevent another crisis, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Thursday.

“These are difficult challenges, but if we are to avoid a repeat of the crisis and its economic consequences, these challenges must be met,” Mr. Bernanke said in a speech to a banking conference in Chicago.

He said regulators were making progress in enacting the financial overhaul law passed last year. It directed the Federal Reserve and other regulators to improve oversight of banks and Wall Street firms.

Increased coordination among regulators should reduce duplicative or conflicting regulations, Mr. Bernanke said. But regulators face a delicate balancing act, he said, because they must improve oversight of financial companies while not stifling innovation that can support growth and job creation.

“No one’s interests are served by the imposition of ineffective or burdensome rules that lead to excessive increases in costs or unnecessary restrictions in the supply of credit,” Mr. Bernanke said.

Republicans, who opposed the financial overhaul legislation, have said the law goes too far and could make it harder for American banks to compete globally. Some are seeking to reduce funding for agencies set up under the law and limit the scope of new rules. The General Accounting Office says the law will cost nearly $1 billion to put in place this year.

Democrats say the law is needed to help ward off future economic crises.

Mr. Bernanke did not discuss the economy or economic aid efforts in his speech or in a brief question-and-answer session afterward.
149 2011-05-06 Two-thirds of the total package will come from the European Union and the rest from the International Monetary Fund.

The tentative bailout agreement, which came after three weeks of negotiations in Lisbon between the caretaker government of Prime Minister José Sócrates and officials from the European Union and the I.M.F., has so far not removed market worries about Portugal’s financial prospects, or those of other ailing euro zone economies.

On Thursday, Spain had to offer higher rates to sell 3.4 billion euros of five-year bonds, a day after Portugal’s financing costs also rose in selling 1.1 billion euros of short-term debt. The average yield in Spain’s bond sale rose to 4.55 percent, up from 4.39 percent when Spain last sold such bonds on March 3.

The yield on Portugal’s benchmark 10-year bonds continued to rise Thursday, to 10.20 percent, from 10.06 percent a day earlier.

As a way of addressing the recurring issue of interest rates, two-thirds of the rescue money for Portugal will be disbursed in the first of the three years of the program, Poul Thomsen, head of the I.M.F. negotiating team, said at the news conference in Lisbon. That should take Portugal out of the markets for medium- and long-term debt “for a little over two years,” he said, giving Portugal “breathing space” to restore credibility among investors in terms of adopting policies after failing to meet its deficit target in 2010.

Borrowing costs have also recently soared for Greece and Ireland, as many investors expect that the tough austerity measures included in their rescue packages will deepen the countries’ economic slumps and hamper their efforts to balance their budgets and repay their debts.

Concerns also remain about the level of support for such a bailout from other European countries, particularly Finland. The biggest party in Finland’s Parliament has been maneuvering this week to ensure that Finland will not block Portugal’s rescue even as it negotiates the formation of a new coalition government with the True Finns, a party critical of such euro zone bailouts, which won 19 percent of the vote in elections last month.

Underlining Portugal’s difficulties, Fernando Teixeira dos Santos, the Portuguese finance minister, forecast Thursday that the economy would contract 2 percent both this year and next — about twice what the government had predicted in March, and even worse than forecast by the I.M.F. last month.

In fact, some analysts are already warning that the bailout could worsen Portugal’s situation in the longer term.

“Lending money to Portugal that it cannot borrow from the markets at an affordable rate is not doing it any favors,” Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., wrote in a research note. “The loan package will only increase Portugal’s indebtedness. It will lead to an even bigger default when Portugal has to repay this new lending on top of its prior obligations.”

But Mr. Thomsen, of the I.M.F. negotiating team, insisted that the creditors had been careful to strike a balance between demanding more budgetary tightening and risking further stifling of the economy, notably by hurting consumer demand. After two more years of recession, he said, “a recovery will start taking hold in the first half of 2013.”

The creditors argued that it was not possible to compare directly the terms agreed by Portugal with the conditions imposed on Greece and Ireland last year. Still, they played down a claim made by Mr. Sócrates on Tuesday that his government had negotiated better terms.

“The program is by no means lighter, but is much different,” Mr. Kröger said. “In fiscal terms it is not really lighter and in structural terms it is much deeper.”

For its I.M.F. lending, Portugal will pay an interest rate of 3.25 percent for the first three years, after which it will rise to 4.25 percent, Mr. Thomsen said.

Greece’s loans, originally for three years, are now for seven years and have an average interest rate of 4.2 percent, according to Reuters. Ireland is seeking a lower interest rate on its seven-year loans, which carry an average rate of 5.8 percent.

The terms for Portugal also foresee a slower reduction in the budget deficit than originally planned by the government. Portugal now must cut its budget deficit to 5.9 percent of gross domestic product this year and 4.5 percent in 2012. It will have to meet the 3 percent target in 2013, one year later.

“Going from more than 9 percent to 3 percent in just two years would have entailed a recession much deeper than the minus 4 percent that is projected now,” Mr. Thomsen said. “Portugal has the fiscal space to go slower.”
150 2011-05-06 Stocks tumbled on Thursday, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock-index down for a fourth consecutive day, as shares of energy and raw-material companies slumped after the biggest decline in commodities in almost two years.

Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold and Exxon Mobil each slid more than 2.5 percent as metal prices sank and oil fell below $100 a barrel for the first time since March 17. General Motors fell 3.1 percent to $32.02 after saying that sales in China had declined. FedEx, the operator of the biggest cargo airline, added 2.9 percent to close at $95.29

The S.& P. 500 dropped 12.22 points, or 0.91 percent, to 1,335.10. The Dow Jones industrial average decreased 139.41 points, or 1.10 percent, to 12,584.17. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13.51 points, or 0.48 percent, to 2,814.72.

“It’s driven by fear,” said James Gaul, a money manager at Boston Advisors in Boston. “Fear of losing of money on positions for the short-term traders to long-term concerns that the economy is weakening and risky assets are not performing as well as they have done, which you can extrapolate into oil prices. Big price moves like these are most often sentiment-driven.”

Gauges of energy and metal producers fell at least 4.4 percent since April 29, leading the declines in the S.& P. 500.
151 2011-05-06 Beyond the buzz, Mr. Robinson had a difficult job: trying to figure out what Gap should sell. After pretty much defining American basics in the ’80s and ’90s , the chain had floundered. Competitors like Abercrombie & Fitch and J. Crew, and fast-fashion brands like H&M and Zara, were offering sharper takes on trends.

Introducing one of his first Gap collections, Mr. Robinson said he wanted to “take the classic, iconic heritage of the company and make it relevant.” His Gap designs produced some popular items, particularly skinny cargo pants and a revamp of denim. But tops never seemed to go with bottoms, and dresses and outerwear were puzzling, too. Gap’s merchandise today is an unlikely mix of pants in khaki and olive green, and floaty, ruffly tops in peach and beige.

“The fashion elements of the assortment were not speaking the same language as the basics,” Mr. Morris said. “You get a little bit lost in the store, and I think the consumer was a little bit confused, more so on the tops side.”

On Thursday, Gap Inc. reported stronger-than-expected sales at stores open at least a year. Increases at its Banana Republic and Old Navy divisions drove the 8 percent increase over last year (analysts had expected a 0.8 percent decline).

Still, starting in 2005, and continuing through Mr. Robinson’s tenure, Gap’s North America stores have had annual declines in same-store sales — sales at stores open at least a year, a crucial measure of retail health. In 2010, though Gap Inc.’s other units, including Banana Republic and Old Navy’s North American stores, posted positive same-store sales, the Gap unit had a 1 percent decline.

The trend continued in January, February and March of this year, when Gap North America’s same-store sales were flat, down 1 percent and then down 9 percent, as same-store sales for retailers tracked by Thomson Reuters were up a few points in each month.

Mr. Robinson is leaving as Gap overhauls its Gap North America division. In addition to dismissing the top business-side executive overseeing the Gap brand in the United States, the company has named a new global chief marketing officer for the Gap brand.

While news releases announcing executive changes tend to dance around a dismissal, the Gap release was fairly direct.

“I’ve made the decision to make a change within our Gap Adult design team,” Pam Wallack, chief of the Gap Global Creative Center, said in the statement. While Gap seeks a successor, the head of children’s design will oversee adult clothing.

“Our leaders of the new Gap Global Creative Center are taking the necessary steps to compete and win around the world,” Glenn Murphy, the chairman and chief executive of Gap Inc., said.
152 2011-05-06 Companies are lining up to go public. Market conditions are favorable. Investor appetite is strong.     But not all the stocks are sure bets....
153 2011-05-07 Welcome to our coverage of the 137th Kentucky Derby....
154 2011-05-07 So don’t use them for policy....
155 2011-05-07 The Fluor Corporation, an engineering company, recorded a small profit increase that beat analysts’ estimates, while reporting that its backlog of work expanded to a new high. The company said after the close of trading Thursday that its first-quarter profit rose to $139.7 million, or 78 cents a share, from $136.6 million, or 76 cents a share, in the same quarter a year earlier. The profit topped the 76 cents expected by analysts, and the company’s stock rose $5.18, or 8 percent, to $70.87 a share. The company, based in Irving, Tex., said its order backlog rose 7 percent, helped by a mining project in Australia.
156 2011-05-07 Mattingly said that experiences like those, and having to discuss them with members of the news media, had made it easier for him to shrug off the uncertainty swirling around the team.

“Anything that happens in life, you learn from those experiences,” said Mattingly, who returned to New York on Friday for a three-game series with the Mets. “I think playing here was good for me as far as this goes because there was a lot of stuff that went on, a lot of stuff that was talked about, but it always gets back to the field.

“For me as a player, and I try to relate this to our players, there’s only a little bit of this that we control, and that’s what we do out here on the field. The stuff that goes on about what people write, or what’s going on above us with what the owner says, or anything that’s said on talk radio, none of that really changes what we do.”

So when Schieffer told the players not to allow events to distract them from their jobs, he was echoing a theme that Mattingly had been preaching since spring training. The bitter divorce proceedings between McCourt and his wife, Jaime, and the team’s dire financial situation cannot be used as an excuse for poor play.

Mattingly said that at the beginning of spring training, he told the players there would be obstacles during the season. They could include inclement weather, injuries and late-night travel.

“None of those are acceptable excuses so this is really just another one of those,” he said. “You could sit here and answer questions, but it’s still not an excuse come game time not to be ready to play, not to be in the right spots, all the things we have to do as a team to win games. No matter what’s going on above you, it doesn’t change anything.”

At the same time, Mattingly could be forgiven if he were looking for excuses. His team is not playing as well as expected and came into Friday’s game with a 15-17 record. His closer, Jonathan Broxton, was placed on the disabled list with a bone bruise on his elbow and is expected to miss at least a month. Infielder Juan Uribe is playing with an injured right hand. Although the team’s No. 3 hitter, Andre Ethier, had a single in the first inning, extending his hitting streak to 30 games, he has been playing with a sore right elbow.

Meanwhile, the team is being operated by Major League Baseball and could be sold anytime. But Mattingly said he was having fun.

“I love what I’m doing,” Mattingly said. “It’s not working out quite as good as I’ve liked, two games under .500. But it doesn’t really change how much I enjoy it or love the challenge of it, that’s for sure.”

Angel Pagan came to New York on Friday to have a magnetic resonance imaging test on his sore oblique muscle. Pagan, the Mets’ center fielder at the start of the season, strained the muscle on April 21, the first game when Jason Bay returned from the disabled list with a similar injury. Pagan had been playing in Port St. Lucie for the Class A St. Lucie Mets and was said to be close to returning. But he felt discomfort, and a return date is uncertain.
157 2011-05-07 In his 2004 film, “The Other Side of Burqa,” Mr. Oskouei’s camera captures the hurried night burial of a young bride who hanged herself from a ceiling fan in a fishing village on the Persian Gulf island of Qeshm, an all-too-common occurrence in a traditionalist society where young women can feel trapped.

His knack, experts say, is to capture these deeply personal scenes almost as if neither he nor his cameras were in the room. “He gets what he wants without any disturbance in the process,” said Ahmad Alasti, a professor of film studies at the University of Tehran.

Mr. Oskouei even penetrates the pagan exorcism ritual of zaar, a dance that originated in East Africa but is practiced in the coastal regions and islands of southern Iran. It is a wildly expressive dance performed to the driving rhythms of drums and the chants of men, and provides a rare outlet for women to unleash their passions in a restrictive society. Many of the women in the film speak frankly of their struggles with patriarchy and economic hardship, which severely limit their development as individuals.

But perhaps his most remarkable accomplishment is to handle these subjects mostly without running afoul of the clerics, the censors or other artists, some of whom have accused him of being too accommodating.

“In the Western world it is enough just to be an artist, but not here,” said Ali Dehbashi, the editor of a cultural magazine, Bukhara. “Knowing the censors, knowing how things are monitored, is the most important thing.”

“Art is not having one film banned and running to Los Angeles or Paris,” Mr. Dehbashi added. “The point is to stay, to work and to continue.”

When asked about his ability to take on apparently taboo topics without retribution, Mr. Oskouei said in measured tones, “We live in a very particular social and political situation.” His own extensive footage of supporters of both President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the top opposition candidate, Mir Hussein Moussavi, during the 2009 election campaign remains unedited — perhaps for historians to examine in a later age.

“Should I make a film that means I get thrown out of this society?” he asked. “I don’t want that. Should I make a film and use it to seek asylum in another country? I don’t want that at all. In the end, people have to be flexible. I think about how far I can go.”

Many of the giants of Iranian cinema, like Abbas Kiarostami and Mohsen Makhmalbaf, as well as the Kurdish director Bahman Ghobadi, have avoided the issue by shifting their base of operations abroad. But for Mr. Oskouei, that would risk what a close friend, Nasser Fakouhi, described in an article as a “slow death,” far away from all the “little rascals and desperate women” who populate his films.

Not only does Mr. Oskouei tread a careful middle path, he encourages students at his many workshops to do the same. Recently, he chided five of Iran’s new generation of independent documentary filmmakers, who were reluctant to take government money to make films about famous figures of the Islamic Revolution and the Iran-Iraq War.

“This has nothing to do with politics or your beliefs,” he told the five. “There are funds for these films, and if we don’t make them, someone else will come along and make heroes out of them.”

In his latest film, “The Last Days of Winter,” Mr. Oskouei follows a group of juvenile offenders on a special holiday excursion to Iran’s northern coast on the Caspian Sea, not far from where he shot his first landmark documentary and where, as a child, he thought of drowning himself after his father was imprisoned, throwing the family into poverty.

That was in the 1970s, in the last years of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. His father, who was active in the anti-shah nationalist movement, was arrested, tortured and imprisoned for five years.

“MY father asked me if I wanted to get involved in politics,” Mr. Oskouei said. “I said, ‘No, not at all.’ So I began to think of what I was capable of doing.

“Did I want to be president or prime minister or an M.P.? I didn’t want that. Or did I want to delve into the spirit of my people and their everyday lives and understand what made them who they were and express this in art? This was what I wanted to do.”

Some of the most affecting scenes in “The Last Days of Winter” were shot on the windy Caspian coastline, where the boys —as young as 10 and driven to crime by poverty and drug addiction — confessed their deepest feelings to Mr. Oskouei’s camera.

Mr. Oskouei said he learned to close the gap between himself and his subjects during his years studying cinema at the University of Tehran, when he occasionally went to the bus station and bought a ticket to wherever the next bus was headed.

“When they asked me where I wanted to go, I told them it made no difference, and they thought I was making fun of them,” he said. He traveled to the far corners of Iran, to the rural spaces of a wide and unforgiving land, developing a deeper understanding of his country.

“That’s how I came to know my people. Their dreams, their despair, their hopes, their everyday lives,” Mr. Oskouei said.
158 2011-05-07 “My dad and I spent 20 games a year together,” he said. “Now you realize how special that was. The time I spent with my dad, the places we went, you can never replace that. I can still smell the hot dogs, and I’m 74 years old.”

With that and a few final pleasantries, Wilpon excused himself and headed toward the Mets’ clubhouse.

This warm, impromptu snapshot of the longtime owner of the Mets, a man determined to hold onto his team amid a significant amount of financial distress, stood in stark contrast to recent views of Frank McCourt, who has significant financial problems of his own. He may not own the Los Angeles Dodgers too much longer and finds himself in an increasingly public, and bitter, battle with Major League Baseball.

While Wilpon was reminiscing about the Dodgers of Brooklyn on Thursday, McCourt was in the midst of his war on Bud Selig over the Dodgers of Los Angeles, who, as luck would have it, turned up in Citi Field on Friday night for a weekend series with the Mets.

McCourt contends Selig’s move to take control of the team amounts to an un-American seizure of his property.

Earlier this week, McCourt sent two letters to a lawyer for Selig effectively accusing the commissioner of causing his team’s financial distress by not approving a new local cable television deal. He has also accused baseball of applying a double standard in its treatment of his Dodgers and Wilpon’s Mets.

There is no question that Selig has shown Wilpon, a longtime ally, as much consideration as possible while appearing to aggressively go after McCourt.

Selig maintains that the Mets and the Dodgers are not in the same boat despite their financial miseries. McCourt, after all, is mired in a nasty, public divorce that has proved embarrassing.

Selig also appreciates that Wilpon is actively attempting to sell a minority share of the team to resolve at least some of their financial problems. McCourt has not made a similar effort. But Wilpon and the Mets are closely linked to the Ponzi scheme of Bernard L. Madoff — although they contend they are Madoff victims and nothing more — and now face a $1 billion lawsuit.

McCourt and Wilpon: Their overall situations sure look pretty similar to me.

McCourt’s divorce and his willingness to use team funds to finance an extravagant lifestyle are certainly unappealing, to both Selig and Dodgers fans. But the Mets’ involvement with Madoff — whether they did or did not ignore warning signs that he was masterminding one of the great financial scams in American history — hardly does baseball’s image any favors, either.

In fact, the great difference is that Wilpon has a longstanding friendship with Selig, while McCourt, who only came on the scene in 2004, doesn’t.

The Dodgers have been competitive under McCourt. The Mets have sputtered in recent seasons and eroded their fan base. What Selig must now ask himself is whether Wilpon is capable of rewarding his faith by turning the Mets around fairly quickly. Maybe he can, but maybe he can’t, particularly with the Madoff lawsuit still looming.

Everyone’s legacy is in jeopardy here: two owners, on opposite coasts, desperately trying to keep their respective franchises and a commissioner who has already presided over baseball’s ugly steroid era.

What baseball needs from Selig is wisdom and evenhandedness. McCourt is a contentious owner and Wilpon a decent man. But in the end, Selig should probably let them both stay or kick them both out.

Because the differences between these foundering franchises may not be all that great.
159 2011-05-07 Re “City’s Next Taxi: A Nissan Van Short on Looks, Perhaps, but Full of Comforts” (news article, May 4):

With about 14 million Americans out of work and the American auto industry trying to regain its business legs, New York City selects a foreign car for its taxi fleets?

Shame on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. His team of decision makers should go back to the drawing board.

As a somewhat older New Yorker in good physical shape and hoping to continue to enjoy life in the city, I find it difficult to maneuver in and out of the current minivan taxis.

The design of the new cab, with its high step and slide door, clearly does not accommodate the needs of older New Yorkers. I wonder if one of the comforts offered will be the cabdriver opening the door and helping the passenger into the taxi. If only!

The ease of finding accessible taxis in London helps make a visit there a joy for wheelchair users like me. We can roll right into any of the city’s more than 20,000 black cabs.

By contrast, only about 240 of New York’s more than 13,000 yellow taxicabs take wheelchair passengers. Just try finding one. The current administration seems satisfied with that.

If it weren’t, it would have insisted that its “Taxi of Tomorrow” be accessible, but it didn’t.

Wheelchairs can’t enter the Nissan NV200, the minivan slated to be the city’s only cab. That’s shameful!
160 2011-05-07 Officials have already spent days fighting back the White River in Arkansas, where there have been two deaths and hundreds of homes have flooded. Hundreds of residents are being urged to evacuate certain areas in and around Memphis, where tributaries have swelled into parts of the city as well as suburbs and mobile home parks and inundated a small airport.

The river is still a couple of weeks away from cresting in the delta, but experts are predicting all-time records here. As it bulges past Natchez around May 22, it is projected to be several feet above the height it reached in 1927, when the river broke its banks, flooded 27,000 square miles, killed hundreds and displaced thousands.

The flood-control system that arose in the wake of that flood has never been put to such a test.

“It will be pressured, there’s no question,” said John M. Barry, the author of “Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 and How It Changed America.” “That’s about as close to the design capacity as I care to get.”

Unlike in the 1927 flood, the levees along the Mississippi are not causing the greatest concern, officials and river watchers say. The anxiety is in the backwater, the tributaries that are carrying water from the heavy rains down to the Mississippi. The river is not only too high to take any more water, but is also pushing its own water up into the tributaries — and wherever else it can go.

That is what has happened in Arkansas, where the White River, fattened from weeks of heavy rains, has forced the evacuation of towns along its course and the closing a stretch of busy Interstate 40 between Little Rock and Memphis.

On Saturday night, the White River’s crest will be passing the little town of Des Arc, Ark., where a man has already been found dead. While the river is not expected to spill over the levees, said Davis Bell, the spokesman for the Prairie County emergency management agency, “it will be absolutely at the very tip top.”

The engorged river is still several days away from cresting in Memphis but has already prompted the authorities to go door to door in areas that are likely to be affected, urging hundreds of residents to move to higher ground. Bob Nations, the director of the Shelby County Office of Preparedness, estimated that 3,000 homes and businesses would eventually be affected by the floodwaters.

Meanwhile, those in the lower Mississippi Delta have been watching uneasily, as, in the phrasing of Gov. Haley Barbour, the pig comes down the python.

All but one of the 18 casinos along the river in Mississippi will be closed by early next week. Evacuations have already begun in certain areas along the river and shelters have begun to open for the several thousand individuals the state expects will need a place to stay. Mr. Barbour himself spent last weekend taking the furniture out of his lake house, which he estimated would take in 10 feet of water.

The anxiety here in the delta is concentrated on the Yazoo River, which forms the eastern border of the delta before joining the Mississippi just north of Vicksburg.

As the crest creeps past Vicksburg around May 20, the Yazoo backwater will begin topping its levees by a foot or more in the flat farmland of the lower delta and pouring into an area just west of Yazoo City, where levees have not yet been built.  The overtopping of the backwater levee is by design, to relieve pressure. But there and father up the Yazoo River, the flooding will cover hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland, swallowing soybean and corn fields, submerging highways and pouring into homes.

Andy Prosser, the public relations director of the Mississippi Department of Agriculture and Commerce, said that he expected more than 500,000 acres of cropland to be flooded throughout the delta if current projections hold. As for the total number of acres inundated, including cropland, forest and even towns, “we’re looking at over a million,” Mr. Prosser said.

The nagging questions in the delta are whether heavy rains could come in and compound the flooding over the next month, and whether the backwater levee, sitting underwater, can keep from giving way. The corps is using plastic to protect the portion of the levee that will be overtopped, but a breach is “a definite possibility,” said Peter Nimrod, the chief engineer for the Mississippi Levee Board.

“If the levee fails,” Mr. Nimrod said, “then all of a sudden, you get towns underwater.”

On the evening before the Delta Council meeting, about 150 people sat quietly in the gymnasium at South Delta Elementary School in the little town of Rolling Fork.

This town, which bills itself as the birthplace of Muddy Waters as well as the teddy bear, sits snugly in the arrowhead formed by the Mississippi and Yazoo Rivers. When the backwater levees are exceeded, Rolling Fork will remain dry, though cut off from Vicksburg — if the levee holds, that is.

“The key word here,” said Katherine Tankson, the superintendent of education for the county, “is make sure that you’re all praying.”

Old-time religion was good enough for many at the meeting. They said they were praying, and therefore not panicking. God has long looked after the town, they said.

But this was not good enough, on its own, for everyone.

“You got to pray,” said Sylvia White, a 52-year-old homemaker. “But you got to have a little common sense, too. That water’s got to go somewhere.”
161 2011-05-07 Rafael Nadal will take on Roger Federer at the Madrid Open for the third straight year after both came through their quarterfinal matches in straight sets. Nadal scored a 6-2, 6-2 victory over Michael Llodra. Federer held off Robin Soderling, 7-6 (2), 6-4.

Nadal stretched his latest clay-court winning streak to 36 as he continued his bid for his second straight Madrid title in three seasons. He split the last two finals against Federer.

In women’s matches, Julia Goerges, Victoria Azarenka, Li Na and Petra Kvitova advanced to the semifinals.
162 2011-05-07 Those who are in the money avoidance camp share beliefs that make them distance themselves from money. Mr. Klontz said this group may be worried about abusing credit cards. They may believe that they do not deserve to have money and may sabotage their own financial well-being. People in this group tend to have low incomes and net worth. They also tend to be younger.

People who fall into the money worship camp would seem to be the opposite, but their behaviors are equally destructive. They believe that an increase in income or a windfall will make everything better and love the status derived from the things that money can buy. This belief also lands people in debt because they use whatever credit they have to buy things that will impress others.

“They believe money will solve all of your problems,” Mr. Klontz said. “This is the money belief pattern that afflicts the majority of Americans.”

Anxiety about money status occurs when people’s self-worth is linked to their net worth. These people often take bigger financial risks because they want to have the stories of big gains to impress their friends. (Don’t expect them to tell you when those big bets do not pay off.)

The only affliction that did not have an overwhelmingly negative impact on people’s financial future was money vigilance. People with this disorder do not like to share information about their income or wealth, but they also do not spend foolishly. Still, excessive wariness about spending can keep these people from enjoying the benefits of what money can buy. On the other hand, while they did not necessarily have higher incomes, they paid off their credit card bills each month.

“Maybe some anxiety and vigilance around money is good for your bottom line,” Mr. Klontz said.

Not surprisingly, the four money scripts illustrate problems that have less to do with money than with what money represents. But what may be surprising is that the study found few links between who held what belief and their family background, race, gender, education level or income.

The majority of the people rated their highest level of education as either a college or graduate degree. Their income was equally divided into four categories, from less than $30,000 a year to more than $100,000. And their childhood economic status was generally middle class, with only a few reporting that they grew up poor or wealthy. In fact, the only link to family background came from the group that fixated on money as a way to gain status: mostly, they grew up poor.

A more common thread was how people remembered a financially traumatic moment in their life. Mr. Klontz described a case in which a family was beset by debt and about to lose its house. In one case, the grandmother bails out the family. In the other, the family figures out a way to keep the house on its own. The outcome is the same, but the takeaway can be different.

“If grandma swoops in and saves they day, you could walk away from that thinking that you don’t need to worry about money,” he said. “Or where there was a lot of talk about losing the house, that could impact you so you live your life afraid of losing everything.”

So what is the solution? Mr. Klontz said people needed to be flexible about how they thought about money and to be open-minded in thinking about money’s role in their lives. “As human beings, we’re always evolving and we only have part of the picture at any stage,” he said. “We need to identify the set of beliefs that work and the ones that don’t and modify them or let go of them.”

One of the goals of the study was to use the results to create a test that therapists and financial advisers could use to quickly understand their clients’ beliefs about money. Mr. Klontz estimated that administering the test could save therapists hours of conversation and help them understand how a patient came to a particular belief about money. He said it could also be part of a risk assessment questionnaire for financial advisers.

This raises the question of how people’s beliefs about money have been altered by the recession. Will a generation become profoundly distrustful of banks and other financial institutions as some people did after the Great Depression?

Mr. Klontz said the answer depended on how honest people were with themselves, particularly those who lost a lot of money or their homes. He said people needed to ask themselves what role their behavior might or might not have played in the broader financial problems.

“The predatory lending and the greedy people on Wall Street, they’ve certainly played a role in this, but what led you to buy a house you couldn’t afford, even if someone let you do it?” he said. “If you’re willing to look at the answer to that, the likelihood of you making the same mistakes diminishes greatly.”

The thought of not blaming Wall Street for the financial crisis will send many people into fits of rage, but that is exactly Mr. Klontz’s point. Bubbles do not happen in isolation. They take many, many people to buy in, including those who are now angry about having been duped.

Realistically, he said, most people will treat financial change the same way they do lifestyle changes after heart surgery: only about 10 percent maintain healthier lives two years after the surgery. “That’s a little depressing,” he said. “But then, one in 10 people do change.”
163 2011-05-07 A top lieutenant overshadowed Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting, Ukraine pursued shale fields, Intel offered smaller computer chips and more....
164 2011-05-07 Other commodities were mixed after a sharp selloff on Thursday. Gold and cocoa were higher, while silver, wheat, cotton and copper were lower again on the day.

Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst of the Oil Price Information Service, predicted that the average price for a gallon of regular gasoline would fall to $3.75 by Memorial Day and to $3.50 later in the summer. Those are still historically high prices, taking consumers back to a level they were paying earlier this year.

President Obama, speaking to auto plant workers in Indiana on Friday, acknowledged the public frustration over high gas prices. “We’ve got high gas prices that have been eating away at your paychecks and that is a headwind that we’ve got to confront,” he said.

Meanwhile Attorney General Eric H. Holder directed a special task force to examine whether reductions in oil prices were being passed on to consumers. “Fraud or manipulation must not be allowed to prevent price decreases,” Mr. Holder said in a memo.

Corrections, even sharp ones, are not unusual as commodity prices follow longer trends up. A Barclays Capital research note on Friday observed that on several occasions last year, weak economic data pushed oil prices down to $70 a barrel. “Those periods were indeed short-lived,” Barclays noted, before oil prices continued their march upward.

While commodity traders move oil markets up and down from day to day, the fundamentals of supply and demand are the drivers from month to month and year to year. Though the fundamentals continue to point higher, oil prices are not expected, at least anytime soon, to return to the levels reached in 2008 when a barrel of crude neared $150 a barrel.

The Energy Department predicts moderately tightening world markets. The department last month estimated that world consumption would grow by an average of 1.5 million barrels a day in both 2011 and 2012. Despite more drilling in OPEC and non-OPEC countries, the department projected that supplies would increase to meet only roughly half the added demand this year and roughly 80 percent of the added demand in 2012.

International financial analysts and oil experts have been predicting a correction for some time in oil prices, since there are ample supplies at the moment. But many think oil prices are going higher in the second half of the year.

“Worldwide, the macro picture has not changed,” said Andy Lipow, a former Amoco trader who is president of his own Houston consulting firm. “Oil demand around the world continues to increase at the same time we are experiencing a supply disruption in Libya as well as a reduction of supplies from the Gulf of Mexico.”

He predicted that the price of oil would return to the $110 a barrel level by the end of the year. The Macquarie Group projected in a commodities research note this week that light sweet crude would average $110 a barrel this year, $115 in 2012 and $117 in 2013.

The military stalemate in Libya has taken over a million barrels a day of high-quality crude off the market, and oil fields and terminals have been damaged in the fighting. Meanwhile nearly half of Yemen’s 260,000 barrels of daily production is offline. That is a relatively small amount, but Yemeni crude is also a high-quality product that refiners find difficult to replace.

Saudi Arabia promised earlier in the year to increase its production capacity, but it actually cut production recently, claiming that the world markets were flush. Whether the kingdom steps up production remains to be seen, and energy experts are watching closely to see what if any decisions are made on OPEC production and prices at the organization’s next meeting in June.

Recent International Energy Agency and Energy Department reports predict that China, India, other developing nations and the Middle East itself will continue to consume more oil as they build factories and their middle classes add thousands of cars every week to the world fleet.

The Energy Department reported that crude inventories last week had risen by 3.4 million barrels, because American gasoline consumption has been slowing. Consumption may rebound somewhat as prices ease again, energy experts say. Meanwhile, after the earthquake in Japan, demand for oil was down by about 30,000 barrels a day. That reduction was less than expected, and Japan will almost certainly import more oil as its economy recovers and it replaces some nuclear generation with heating oil.
165 2011-05-07 BP’s deal with Rosneft initially lifted its shares because it promised to strengthen the British oil company’s position in the world’s biggest oil-producing country. It also guaranteed access to potential new oil reserves at a time of heightened competition and growing demand for oil. Handing the exploration deal to its joint venture would make it less profitable for BP.

The arrangement would cede some operational control over the venture in the Arctic Ocean to BP’s litigious Russian partners, even as BP contributed the technology to make it possible. The share-swap would still strengthen BP’s presence in Russia and could ease its participation in future oil deals.

It also highlights the significance of access to a site off Russia’s northern coast, given the lawsuits and environmental reviews stalling drilling on the other side of the Arctic Ocean in Alaska and Canada.

BP’s chief executive, Robert W. Dudley, came under pressure from some investors over the last month to find a solution to the standoff with the TNK-BP partners. The dispute had angered some investors, who had accused Mr. Dudley of misreading Russian politics and of failing to steer BP clear of difficulties so shortly after the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.

The company now has to seek approval from Rosneft to make the changes, which would include putting any shares that are part of the share swap in a trust. In that case, neither company would have any direct voting rights in the other. BP and Rosneft would also have no seats on each others’ boards.

Stan Polovets, chief executive of AAR, a firm that oversees the Russian partners’ holdings in TNK-BP, said his group welcomed Friday’s development. “We see the Arctic transaction with Rosneft as a great opportunity for TNK-BP and for Russia which we would like to succeed.”

He added that the “agreement provides a good way forward for achieving these priorities and opens the way to bring BP’s valuable expertise and technology to offshore exploration in Russia.”

BP’s Russian partners previously rejected cash offers from the company and said that its agreement with BP gave TNK-BP exclusive rights to pursue opportunities in Russia.

Despite the disagreements with its partners, TNK-BP remains a financial success for BP. After contributing about $6 billion in cash and assets to the founding of the TNK-BP venture in 2003, BP has since then made $14.3 billion in dividends from it, and it still retains 50 percent of the assets. The venture accounts for a quarter of BP’s production.
166 2011-05-07 BANGKOK — Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva said Friday that he would ask the king to dissolve Parliament, making way for an early election.

The step would be the next stage in a long political struggle in Thailand that has included a coup, violent demonstrations and a military assault in the heart of the commercial center here in Thailand’s capital. The election, which will take place 45 to 60 days after it is approved by King Bhumibol Adulyadej, has been a key demand of the political opposition since the mass demonstrations a year ago that ended in bloodshed, deepening the country’s political crisis.

“I am confident that this is the way to make the country move forward,” the prime minister said as he announced his call to dissolve Parliament seven months ahead of the end of his term. “While the process is under way, I’d like to insist that there’s no necessity to criticize this matter.”

Mr. Abhisit said he would hold a news conference when he returned on Monday from a meeting in Jakarta, Indonesia, of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.

Thailand has been unstable since a military coup in 2006, with protests and violence on both sides of a deep political and social divide. Political analysts said that a new election was unlikely to resolve the conflicts, warning that it could touch off more unrest.
167 2011-05-07 Dogs of every breed come to Prospect Park and bother the geese, but only Cleo, a black and white Border collie, is paid to do it. Her job is to save the geese by tormenting them.     Dogs of every breed come to Prospect Park and bother the geese, ...
168 2011-05-07 I have neither the background nor the inclination to hold forth on Tony Kushner's political views on the Middle East. But I was deeply saddened to read of the City University of New York's initial decision, now being reconsidered, to rescind an ho...
169 2011-05-08 Thanks to the president, wearing golf shoes when you’re not on the golf course might now imply that you’re on an important mission....
170 2011-05-08 The Morning Line for Feb 8, 2011....
171 2011-05-08 Alanis Morisette shares her Mother's Day wish list....
172 2011-05-08 For more than 20 years, the Rev. Bruce Wellems has been a cheerleader, a confidant, a voice of reason and, at times, the only advocate for troubled children in Back of the Yards.

“Our neighborhood needs to take care of these kids,” said Father Wellems, who has helped hundreds of young people avoid gangs and tried to improve their family lives as the priest of Holy Cross-Immaculate Heart of Mary Parish and executive director of Boys Town Chicago, a local outpost of the nearly century-old organization dedicated to youth services.

The neighborhood has one of Chicago’s largest Latino communities, rooted in traditional Mexican values of church and family. But it is also plagued by poverty, and the pull of gangs, which offer the safety and structure that some families lack, is overwhelming.

Now Father Wellems has another way to address the problem. After years of work, including winning the support of Mayor Richard M. Daley and persuading the city to issue $2 million in bonds, Father Wellems plans to develop a cluster of five group homes intended to serve at-risk children and their parents in Back of the Yards.

With a residential layout and two live-in social workers as “parents,” each home will strive to mimic a nurturing family environment while striking a balance between education, observation and privacy.

“It gives every child a sense of pause and a way to reboot,” said Tim McCormick, who heads SOS Children’s Villages Illinois, which has two other clusters of group homes in the state. In April, SOS Villages signed on as the developer for the group homes in Back of the Yards.
173 2011-05-08 The rain-swollen Mississippi River crested to an all-time high last week as it surged past Cairo, Ill., exceeding the 1937 record by 2 feet. Government engineers were left with two choices: Let Cairo flood or explode a levee to save the town. They blew up the levee. But while Cairo was saved, other communities may not be so lucky.

“We’re going to fight this river all the way down to the Gulf of Mexico,” said Col. Vernie L. Reichling Jr. of the Army Corps of Engineers. The battle against North America’s longest river is never-ending, as The Times’s Isabel Wilkerson found in 1993, another year of record flooding.

The excerpt below is from a collection of articles that won a Pulitzer Prize.

THERE HAVE BEEN FLOODS BEFORE. People in Hannibal, Mo., or Keokuk, Iowa, or Quincy, Ill., can tell you about watching their fathers and uncles pack sandbags to protect the year’s corn crop or the feed store. For generations, some farmers figured floods and droughts into the cost of doing business. But then the country’s big plumbing system of levees and dams, made better after every flood, was supposed to keep the rivers in their place and maintain the comfortable paradox of living on a floodplain.

Now the unimaginable has happened. Across the Midwestern cornbelt it has rained in biblical proportions — 49 straight days, often in torrents. The rivers, driven past their banks, have taken back land that long ago was theirs, invading 15 million acres of farmland in eight states, forcing 36,000 people from their homes, halting river traffic for 600 miles and causing billions of dollars in damage.

From the air, from Minnesota to Missouri, from Kansas to Illinois, it looks like someone has spilled gallons and gallons of coffee on a green patchwork quilt that happens to be farms and towns. In silt rivers now wide as lakes, treetops look like bushes in a swimming pool, bridges and highways and other brave monuments to engineering are reduced to thin, threatened slivers, and even their builders know the water could take them, too, if it wanted. The floods have made the broad, S-curved Mississippi and its otherwise perfectly ordered valley look more like the Florida Keys . ...
174 2011-05-08 The battle against North America’s longest river is never-ending. Photographs show some of the Mississippi’s worst floods....
175 2011-05-08 Loyalists regarded Colonel Bachmann as a fearless visionary. Others agreed with the intelligence agent who dismissed his former boss as “a glorified Boy Scout who saw evil everywhere and believed that he alone possessed the absolute truth about national defense.”

Colonel Bachmann came to grief after sending one of his operatives, a management consultant named Kurt Schilling, to spy on Austrian troops carrying out maneuvers near the town of St. Pölten in November 1979.

The need for cloak-and-dagger secrecy was unclear, since the Austrian government had invited observers from all over the Eastern bloc to watch the operations. Mr. Schilling, equipped with maps, binoculars and a notebook, nevertheless spent several days snooping around military barracks and command posts before the Austrian police pounced.

Called “the spy who came in from the Emmentaler,” a reference to Switzerland’s most famous cheese, Mr. Schilling was put on trial for espionage. His mission, he told the court, was to gauge the ability of the Austrian Army to resist a Soviet attack.

The affair proved deeply embarrassing to Switzerland, and Colonel Bachmann was suspended. Further investigation into his activities exposed Project 26 and related initiatives.

All were a complete surprise to the Swiss defense minister, Georges-André Chevallaz, who found them so outlandish that their architect was briefly suspected of being a double agent.

Colonel Bachmann was soon forced to resign, bringing down the curtain on one of the more intriguing chapters in the history of the cold war.

Project 26 lingered, under various names, until it was dissolved in 1990 after the Swiss government declared it to be a clandestine organization operating outside parliamentary or governmental control.

Albert Bachmann, known as Bert, was born on Nov. 26, 1929, in Albisrieden, now part of Zurich, where his father was a housepainter. He entered the printing trade and joined the Freie Jugend, the youth organization of the Swiss Labor Party, whose politics were communist.

After taking a sharp right turn politically, he performed his compulsory military service and found the army to his liking. He rose through the ranks of the intelligence service, despite his lack of formal education and polish. He was fond of saying that he was the only general staff officer with a mustache and a forearm tattoo.

In 1969 he created a stir as the principal author of “Civil Defense,” a primer on popular resistance in case of invasion; 2.6 million copies were printed and distributed throughout Switzerland. Its red cover, and its identification of leftists and intellectuals as internal enemies, earned it sneering comparisons to Mao’s Little Red Book.

Undeterred, he headed off on a secret mission of his own to Biafra, then struggling to secede from Nigeria. There, for obscure reasons, he operated under cover as an upper-class Englishman named Henry Peel, one of several colorful code names he favored in his spy work. To the German intelligence services, with whom the Swiss shared information, he was Black Hand.

After being promoted to colonel and named as chief of military intelligence, Colonel Bachmann assumed oversight of Bureau Ha, an unofficial intelligence service created during World War II, and Special Service D, a so-called stay-behind resistance force, similar to secret units created in many NATO countries, which was trained to harry an occupying army. It provided the inspiration for Project 26.

With energy and imagination — perhaps too much of the latter — Colonel Bachmann trained his special agents in the arts of bomb-making, sharpshooting, encryption, assassination and, in a nod to his onetime profession, the printing of pamphlets. Mountain guides were entrusted with the task of shepherding important officials across the Alps.

After being forced into retirement in 1980, Colonel Bachmann moved to Cork, where he dealt successfully in real estate.

“He was an amazing character with a great sense of humor — but a lot of people thought he was a retired banker and not an intelligence officer,” a local resident told The Irish Independent.
176 2011-05-08 David C. Wright, managing director of Sierra Investment Management, said he was particularly worried that high food and fuel costs were making it hard for consumers to spend much on anything else. He said he was also concerned that despite economic worries, stocks are more expensive than they’ve been in years, leaving little room for error. Based on 10-year average earnings, the stock market’s price-to-earnings ratio is currently more than 23, versus the long-term average of 16. The last time the ratio was this high was in late 2007, at the start of the last bear market.

By contrast, tech stocks are significantly less frothy than they’ve been in years. Historically, shares of technology companies have traded at about a 30 percent premium to the broad market, based on their P/E ratios. That’s because tech companies have traditionally enjoyed faster earnings growth than other types of businesses. Today, however, technology’s P/E is on par with that of the overall Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index.

Yet tech is still exhibiting solid earnings growth. I.B.M., Apple and Intel were among several tech giants that have recently reported better-than-expected first-quarter profits. Intel’s results — which included a 25 percent jump in revenue — were particularly embraced by Wall Street, as they were viewed as a sign that demand for hardware like PCs may be stronger than anticipated.

Over all, tech sector earnings are on track to climb 25 percent in the first quarter, while revenue is expected to jump 15 percent, according to Thomson Reuters. By comparison, profits for the S.& P. 500 are expected to grow 18 percent, while sales predicted to climb 9 percent.

Earnings aren’t the only area where some tech businesses are financially healthier than the typical S.& P. 500 company, said Robert E. Turner, chief investment officer at Turner Investment Partners, a money management firm in Berwyn, Pa. For one thing, big tech companies are sitting on billions of dollars in cash, which they are starting to use to raise dividends and make acquisitions. Recently, Texas Instruments announced plans to buy a rival, National Semiconductor, for $6.5 billion — representing more than a 70 percent premium to what the stock had been trading for.

Despite a surprising uptick in operating expenses recently reported by Google, tech companies in general are doing a better job of keeping their costs under control. In fact, according to Deutsche Bank, tech is one of only three market categories where expenses as a percentage of sales have been falling over the past five years. (The others are health care and consumer staples.)

Even if energy prices resume their rise, analysts note that technology companies aren’t likely to be hurt as much as other parts of the market because oil isn’t as large a component of expenses as it is in sectors like the industrials or transportation.

At the same time, tech spending could actually benefit if oil prices rise, because other companies and consumers are likely to look for ways to improve productivity and lower expenses. That may mean a jump in investment in technology.

Mr. Turner noted that the two biggest drivers of tech growth these days are mobile computing and — despite the recent outage at Amazon’s data centers — so-called cloud computing, where companies offload costly computer applications and data storage to servers run by third parties like Amazon and Microsoft.

Both mobile technology and cloud computing “are all about improving efficiency and cost savings,” Mr. Turner said.

Yet some of the companies that stand to benefit from this trend, like Microsoft, Intel and Cisco Systems, are trading at P/E ratios of 10 or less, based on projected earnings.

“I have a bit of trouble understanding why they’re so cheap,” he said.
177 2011-05-08 Even after the austerity and adjustment program, Greece will face loans of more than 150 percent of gross domestic product, a debt mountain that many think is unsustainable, even with better tax collection and economic growth.

Mr. Papandreou, European finance ministers and others on Saturday denied any thought of restructuring Greece’s debt, let alone having Greece exit the euro, which would allow it to devalue. And quitting the euro is considered enormously complicated and even self-defeating by numerous economists, since Greek debt is denominated in euros.

“I call on everyone, inside and outside Greece, in the E.U. in particular, to leave Greece in peace to do its job,” Mr. Papandreou said on Saturday. “Greece is doing its job.”

Officials of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund are in Greece assessing the state of the economy to report to finance ministers meeting in Brussels on May 16 and 17, said a spokesman for the economic affairs commissioner, Olli Rehn.

The spokesman, Amadeu Altafaj, denied that a meeting Friday evening of some key finance ministers in Luxembourg was any sort of “ ‘crisis meeting on Greece,’ as presented in some press reports,” in particular Spiegel Online. The meeting, he said, was “informal,” but Greece was clearly a major topic of discussion and Greece’s finance minister, George Papaconstantinou, was asked to attend. He repeated that “debt restructuring is not an option on the table,” given that “its effects could be extremely negative for the country and for the euro area as a whole.”

Afterward, Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, who leads the group of euro zone finance ministers, said the Greek program “does need a further adjustment” that would be discussed in mid-May.

What is likely is a kind of soft restructuring, in which Greece will be given more time to pay its loans. Major bondholders — which include French, German and Greek banks, as well as the European Central Bank — could agree to exchange their debt for securities with longer maturities and even a lower interest rate rather than face the possibility of getting back only a percentage of their loans. That would make it less likely that the countries involved have to go to their taxpayers and ask for more money to prop up national banks, which would be deeply unpopular, especially in Germany.

Greece was given a 110 billion euro bailout last year, whose terms were already eased by the European Union in the spring.
178 2011-05-08 Since September, advocates for same-sex marriage in New York have released 30-second videos of celebrities endorsing their cause. More than 30 have taken part, including the actors Julianne Moore and Sam Waterston, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the former first daughter Barbara Bush. On Thursday, former President Bill Clinton released a written statement of support, too.

Until now, supporters have come mostly from the worlds of politics, entertainment, theater and fashion. One type of New York celebrity was conspicuously absent: the athlete.

He recently recorded a video, becoming one of only a few active athletes in American team sports to voice support for gay rights, and is believed to be the first in New York to publicly advocate for same-sex marriage. No active male player in a major American team sport has declared his homosexuality, and homosexual slurs remain in use to insult opponents and officials.

Avery, a 31-year-old from Pickering, Ontario, has played nine seasons in the N.H.L. Known as a fashion-conscious, on-ice agitator, he has never been afraid of what others think of him.

“The places I’ve played and lived the longest have been in West Hollywood, Calif., when I played for the L.A. Kings, and when I moved to New York, I lived in Chelsea for the first four years,” Avery said in a phone interview. “I certainly have been surrounded by the gay community. And living in New York and when you live in L.A., you certainly have a lot of gay friends.”

Avery, who lives in the SoHo section of Manhattan and keeps a home in Los Angeles, said some of those friends had wanted to marry, and he saw no reason they should not.
179 2011-05-08 Soon after entering the town, security forces began making arrests, though there were no precise numbers, said Wissam Tarif, the executive director of Insan, a human rights group.

“Basically, we don’t know what’s happening in Baniyas,” he said, adding that he had been talking with someone by phone and “heard firing, bullets, shooting and screaming, and then we lost contact.”

For days, residents had braced for an attack on Baniyas, as the Syrian military deployed scores of tanks and armored vehicles to the city’s southern outskirts. Paramilitary groups were said to have massed at its northern edge, populated by members of the minority Alawite sect, from which Mr. Assad’s government draws much of its support.

“They are preparing a scenario to justify raiding the city,” a resident said by phone on Friday. “They don’t have one yet, and that is why they haven’t entered yet. When they do, they will make Baniyas a lesson to all the Syrians, and it is going to be ugly.”

On Friday, security forces fired on demonstrators in six towns and cities in a day of protests that activists declared a “Friday of Defiance,” killing at least 41 people. But a crackdown that has escalated over the past two weeks managed to subdue Dara’a and prevented many protesters from gathering in larger demonstrations, particularly on the outskirts of Damascus, activists and human rights groups said.

The worst violence was reported in Homs, where activists described a chaotic, bloody day, as tanks entered the town and areas around it. The government said 10 soldiers were killed there by what it described as “terrorists,” while activists said at least nine soldiers had defected to their side. Seventeen protesters were killed, they said.

Only in Baniyas and Jassem, a town near Dara’a, were demonstrators able to mass in larger protests. The resident in Baniyas said that protesters there had carried olive branches and red and white roses to hand to soldiers if the troops entered the city. They did, but only in the early hours of Saturday morning when many were sleeping.

The resident estimated that the crowd on Friday numbered at least 7,000, many of whom chanted for freedom, for the government’s fall and for the military to lift its siege of Dara’a.

The authorities have described Baniyas as a center of militant Islamists, and even some activists acknowledge that militants have a presence there, though by no means a majority. Civic leaders in Baniyas have insisted that the charge is a government ploy to stoke tensions between Sunni Muslims and Alawites, one of the fault lines in a country troubled by smoldering sectarian tensions between the Sunni Muslim majority and minorities of Christians and heterodox Muslim sects. Eastern Syria is populated by an ethnic minority, Kurds, who appeared to turn out in greater numbers in the streets on Friday.

Security forces, with the help of the military, also moved against the town of Zabadani, on the edge of Damascus. Mr. Tarif said that electricity and communications were cut to the town from Friday afternoon to Saturday afternoon, and checkpoints remained across the town. His group documented at least 80 arrests over that period, he said.

Mr. Tarif suggested that the assaults on Baniyas, Homs and Zabadani borrowed a page from the military’s attack on Dara’a and signaled the government’s intent to methodically move against centers of protest in the country with overwhelming force.

“They are doing it city by city,” he said. “The regime is willing to take it to the maximum, and they are willing to increase the brutality to the maximum.”

Mr. Assad, who inherited power from his father, Hafez, in 2000, initially claimed that Syria was immune to the tumult sweeping the Arab world. When the uprising erupted in Dara’a, he responded with a mix of crackdowns and concessions that proved largely cosmetic. For the past two weeks, the government has almost entirely relied on force, and there appears to be a sense in official circles that the government has the upper hand.

So far, hundreds have been killed, and Mr. Tarif’s group estimated that as many as 4,000 have been detained, often for a few days, since the crackdown escalated.

But administration officials have suggested that the government is worried about growing condemnation abroad; the European Union on Friday banned travel for and froze the assets of 14 Syrian officials, though not Mr. Assad.

The crackdown’s severity has also angered Turkey, Syria’s neighbor and one of its closest allies, though there appears to be disagreement in the Turkish government over whether Mr. Assad is unable or unwilling to carry out broader reform in a country that remains one of the region’s most authoritarian.
180 2011-05-08 Becky Frances Coviello, a daughter of Joanne Blaser Seim of Brooklyn and Anthony J. Coviello of Leesburg, Va., was married Friday evening to Staff Sgt. Chris Lee Price, a son of Tammy Saunders of Inwood, W.Va., and the late Michael Price. The Rev. Hope McNew, a nondenominational minister affiliated with the National Spiritual Science Center in Washington, officiated at Herrington on the Bay in Rose Haven, Md.

Mrs. Price, 25, is the human resources administrator at Stonehouse Staffing, a medical personnel agency in Falls Church, Va. She also teaches gymnastics part time at Ida Lee Park Recreation Center in Leesburg, Va. She graduated from George Mason University in Fairfax, Va. She is a stepdaughter of Cindy Coviello and of Frederick W. Seim IV.

Sergeant Price, 26, is assigned to the Air Force’s 167 AW Airlift Wing in Martinsburg, W. Va. He specializes in hazardous materials. He served three tours in Iraq and is to begin a tour in Afghanistan in September.
181 2011-05-08 Alissa Mary Gordon and Henry Charles Heinerscheid were married Saturday evening at St. James by-the-Sea Episcopal Church in La Jolla, Calif. The Rev. John H. Finley IV, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony, with the Rev. Eleanor Ellsworth, also an Episcopal priest, taking part.

The bride, 27, and the bridegroom, 28, met at Harvard, from which they both graduated cum laude. In August, they will each begin studying for an M.B.A. at the University of Pennsylvania.

Mrs. Heinerscheid was until March a consultant in Boston with Tapestry Networks, a consulting firm specializing in corporate governance for Fortune 500 companies.

She is the daughter of Lisa Long Gordon and Douglas Bruce Gordon of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. The bride’s father is a lawyer in San Diego.

Mr. Heinerscheid is an associate based in Boston at Weston Presidio, an investment firm with offices in Boston and San Francisco; he works with portfolio companies and analyzes new investments.

He is the son of Nancy Sinsabaugh of Cambridge, Mass., and Paul Heinerscheid of Luxembourg. The bridegroom’s mother works in Cambridge as an independent management consultant specializing in higher education student services. His father is the president and chief executive of Satlynx, a Luxembourg-based telecommunications company.
182 2011-05-08 Yet bum advice and lapses of vision are hardly the worst Allen has to say about Gates. The Silicon Valley way had always been to divide ownership in a new startup 50-50, but Gates, the son of a prominent lawyer, had his own ideas about what was fair. Allen had the original idea for Microsoft. The two worked the same breakneck schedule in those feverish weeks when the company was born. Yet Gates wrote the program that served as Microsoft’s first product, whereas Allen did the less glamorous work of creating the tools Gates needed to do his job.

Gates insisted on a 60-40 split; Allen passively agreed and then limply went along when Gates later proposed a 64-36 split because he had “done most of the work” and “gave up a lot to leave Harvard.” These and other similar anecdotes have been picked up by the business press, but Allen’s book is not nearly as bitter-sounding as those accounts suggested. He doesn’t seem mad so much as resigned to having been outfoxed by a junior titan who makes even Mark Zuckerberg look like a slacker.

Reading Allen’s book one almost feels sorry for him, though not because of an unfair partnership agreement that ended up costing him billions. Is it possible to be beside the point in your own memoir? Allen, nondescript and conventional, pales next to Gates, who comes across here as more peculiar than repellent. Allen’s Gates, awkward and gangly, walks around with chronically orange hands because he licks Tang from his palm whenever he needs a late-night sugar high. His Gates guzzles a dozen cans of Coke a day, eats chicken with a spoon and seems to enjoy nothing so much as singing Sinatra’s “My Way” in full throat. Even Allen tacitly admits he himself is not nearly as interesting as those populating his world: he devotes all of two sentences to the startup he created after he had ventured off on his own, yet gives us page after page of how much better Microsoft might have fared had people there listened to his advice.

And the author practically disappears in the last two-thirds of the book. He’s like Forrest Gump in his own autobiography. There’s Jagger chatting about gardens and Bono cajoling Mick to join in on a jam. But who’s that bland-looking bespectacled fellow in the picture? Oh, it’s his boat, his guitars. Allen is never so interesting as when he’s quoting others. He has only just met Paul McCartney but reports Sir Paul as saying, “Everyone wants to talk about John, John, John. You know, I wrote some songs, too.” That might have been a moment for the author to delve into his own psyche (“Bill, Bill, Bill, but I wrote some code, too, you know”). The book is supposedly a “memoir” — the word is right there on the cover — yet the author reveals almost nothing about himself. Peter Gabriel, he tells us, is the kind of person who will offer you a spot of afternoon tea. But after 350 pages, it’s not clear what kind Allen might be.

“Idea Man” describes Allen as a “billionaire technologist and philanthropist.” There’s precious little philanthropy in this book, though, beyond the Allen Institute for Brain Science, a research facility he bankrolled shortly after his mother began struggling with dementia.

On the philanthropy front his “partner in crime,” as he calls Gates, has bested him again. Allen mourns the old science fiction collection his mother sold for $75 so he creates the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame. He has adored Jimi Hendrix since childhood — so he spends $250 million building a Hendrix museum he names the Experience Music Project. Gates might have played his old high school chum at the birth of Microsoft, but at least he is trying to do good with all those extra billions that ended up in his pocket. Allen, in contrast, is the accidental billionaire who reveals himself to be little more than an overgrown kid playing with his money.
183 2011-05-08 Longtime residents have mixed reactions to the changes. “It was cool in the ’80s,” said Doreen Gallo, the executive director of the Dumbo Neighborhood Alliance, a residents’ group. “It was very cool in the ’90s.” Now, she said, “it’s different.”

Many of the artists who lent the neighborhood its character have been forced to move, she said, and historic buildings have been lost. On the other hand, the rezoning, which many preservationists opposed, has delivered residents, businesses and cultural institutions.

The contention of some critics that the 2007 historic district designation would stifle development has not been borne out. In one prime corner of the historic district, Two Trees Development, which was behind Dumbo’s earliest luxury buildings, has converted an office property at 25 Washington Street to 106 rental units. It opened this month.

Three blocks east, at 205 Water Street, is erecting a 65-unit condo, the first new building in the historic district. Across the street at 192 Water, Hamlin Ventures and Alloy Development are converting an 1887 tea warehouse into nine loft units. And a few yards away, GDC Properties is making a pair of century-old historic buildings into a 200,000-square-foot mixed-use project with a ground-floor restaurant and 146 rental units.

Finally, around the corner at 37 Bridge Street, and still in the historic district, Halstead Property Development Marketing is selling 45 condominium units called Kirkman Lofts. Carved out of a soap factory, the building has steel silos that were incorporated into the design.

These simultaneous projects have created a wide construction zone at Dumbo’s eastern border, Ms. Gallo said. Referring to the Water Street buildings, she added, “It’s very difficult for the community that it’s happening, but at the same time there’s something really great about these projects.”

In each case, she said, the developers were sensitive to historical concerns, and had worked closely with city preservation officials.

A renovated section of Brooklyn Bridge Park between the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges is to open this summer, and another new stretch is planned for the foot of Jay Street. Eventually, plans call for the park to link many isolated areas of Brooklyn’s waterfront.

David Von Spreckelsen, the division president of Toll Brothers City Living, said the company was hoping to develop more properties in Dumbo. He predicted that the growth of Brooklyn Bridge Park would be a “huge factor” in improving the quality of life in Dumbo. “The park will really change it,” he said. “When I moved to the neighborhood 12 years ago, people would still come down Main Street and dump garbage and drive off.”

It can seem that everyone who arrived in Dumbo in the postindustrial period has a tale of urban squalor. Aaron Shapiro, the chief executive of Huge, a digital marketing and design agency founded in the neighborhood in 1999, said that in the company’s early years, security guards escorted female employees to the subway at night.

Now, Huge employs 275 people spread across four floors at 45 Main Street, and Mr. Shapiro said the days when its location presented a challenge were a distant memory.

“Back then,” he said, “there was convincing people to come to the neighborhood. Now, there’s no convincing. People want to come here, and it’s tremendously attractive for employees.”

Many of those employees commute, often by , from nearby neighborhoods like Fort Greene and Williamsburg, which makes for a vivid and multidirectional rush hour. Others have made Dumbo their home.

“You have this wonderful flow in the morning, where you have the cultural creatives stomping in, and the residents on their way out to their jobs in Manhattan,” said Mitch Baranowski, a founder of BBMG, a branding firm that moved to Dumbo from Union Square about a year ago.

BBMG is one of several companies that set up shop in the neighborhood as it blossomed into one of Brooklyn’s leading office districts. Etsy moved its headquarters and about 50 employees to 55 Washington Street in 2009; since then it has grown to 175 employees. The clothing retailer Brooklyn Industries moved its headquarters to 20 Jay Street last summer. It opened a 2,200-square-foot store on Front Street, the neighborhood’s main retail strip, in March.

The companies join agencies including Carrot Creative, Big Spaceship and Brooklyn Digital Foundry in a loosely organized community of office tenants, many of whom take part in regular workshops and mixers organized by the site Digital Dumbo.

Part of the neighborhood’s allure for companies, Mr. Shapiro and Mr. Baranowski said, lies in amenities like the park, restaurants and bars like Superfine and reBar, and stores like Chocolates and Almondine bakery.

In turn planners hope that the neighborhood’s growing office and residential core will feed area businesses.

Recent condominium developments like Tower, a 79-unit building completed in 2006, and the J Condominium, with 267 units, finished the following year, brought an influx of residents. Managing even more growth was one of the Department of City Planning’s goals in rezoning roughly a dozen blocks at the neighborhood’s eastern end for residential development.

“I think that’s the place where there’s potential for new development,” said Mr. Von Spreckelsen of Toll Brothers. “Because if you look at the area between the bridges, most of it is built already and fully occupied.”

Mr. Von Spreckelsen said that units on the Vinegar Hill side of the neighborhood will sell and rent for slightly less than those in the Two Trees buildings at its center. Sale prices, the company has said, will be in the range of $800 per square foot.

At 37 Bridge Street, whose completion is expected at summer’s end, one-bedrooms and studios are on the market for $555,000 and up, and two-bedrooms start at $625,000. The building also includes three- and four-bedroom units with asking prices as high as $1.6 million.

In established Two Trees buildings near the area’s heart, like 1 Main Street and 70 Washington Street, asking prices for one-bedrooms are solidly above $1 million — closer to $2 million at 1 Main, which is nearer to the water, and occasionally below $1 million at 70 . A 2,139-square-foot two-bedroom apartment at 1 Main Street is on the market for $2.2 million, and a two-bedroom, 1,384-square-foot unit at 70 Washington is listed at $1.35 million.

At the J Condominium, 100 Jay Street, which went up just before the rezoning and landmark designation, prices are lower: A two-bedroom unit on a high floor is for sale for $1.149 million, a one-bedroom for $560,000. One-bedroom rentals in the building start at $2,500 a month.

At 25 Washington — known as Gair2, after an early Dumbo landowner — the smallest one-bedroom units, just under 500 square feet, will rent for around $2,400 a month, said Asher Abehsera, the head of sales and rentals at Two Trees. Larger one-bedrooms will start at $2,900, and 900-square-foot two-bedrooms will be $3,950 and up. The building has a 2,500-square-foot roof deck looking out over Brooklyn Bridge Park and the East River, and its most expensive unit, a two-bedroom with a private terrace, has already rented for $4,800 a month, Mr. Abehsera said.

Regardless of location, the neighborhood’s landmark status and its dearth of empty development sites complicate matters for builders. The two most prominent vacant plots are parking lots owned by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society. Also known as the Jehovah’s Witnesses, the society is headquartered just outside the neighborhood but has been moving many of its operations upstate in recent years. One of the lots, at 85 Jay Street, was rezoned for a large mixed-use development, but that project never materialized.

The preservation ethos remains strong in the area. A city plan to subsume the shell of a 19th-century tobacco warehouse and another neighboring building into Brooklyn Bridge Park, with the goal of redeveloping them, was derailed when a judge ruled against it in April. Another project that drew vocal opposition, a Two Trees building on Dock Street next to the , remains unbuilt, though the City Council approved it in 2009.

The struggle leading up to that vote was a bruising one, a fact that Ms. Gallo, of the neighborhood alliance, sees as illustrating the mixed results achieved through preservation efforts. On one hand, she called the landmark designation a “miracle.” On the other, she added, “by the time you become a historic district,” many of the buildings in the district have been demolished or altered.

Still, although the historic designation allows developers to add on to historic buildings like 25 Washington, and to request city permission for even greater changes, including demolition, it also requires them to get approval for construction and design plans.

Thomas Brennan of the Rinaldi Group, the general contractor on the 220 Water Street warehouse conversion project in the historic district, said work there had involved putting in wood-framed windows with real muntins, or separations between panes of glass. That touch, which was required by the historic district, was expensive, he said. But he acknowledged that those same details tended to draw more money from buyers and renters.

At the Toll Brothers site, the architect Navid Maqami, a principal at GreenbergFarrow, said that approval from the city’s Landmarks Preservation Commission came relatively quickly — and that historic district requirements, and the industrial surroundings, had served as an inspiration.

“We were interested in that whole unfinished rawness of the neighborhood, and reflecting that,” he said.

The neighborhood, of course, is far less raw than it used to be — and far more finished. The train tracks and Belgian blocks in the streets now have landmark protection, and merchants and residents say the area seems as busy as ever. And even though the shoreline may not be the commercial destination that it once was, Dumbo’s new creative businesses have found it to be a boon in a different, less tangible way.

“Just to be able to get to the water and think, walk and talk,” said Mr. Baranowski of BBMG; “how do you put a value on that?”
184 2011-05-08 In recent years, debates about the neighborhood’s future have led to the designation of a city historic district and a rezoning of the eastern end designed in part to encourage residential growth....
185 2011-05-08 “On the positive side,” said Keith Kernan, an agent in Ward Wight’s office in Sea Girt, “most sellers have become more realistic about prices, and the average home is now selling for 92 percent of its list price.”

This particular market is top-heavy with high-priced homes, said several Monmouth County brokers and agents. Fifteen houses are listed in the $2 million to $2.5 million range in the three towns, and 37 for more than $2.5 million.

“There are buyers out there for these exceptional homes, with some percentage of them being second-home buyers, since this is a resort area,” said Mr. Kernan, estimating that about 30 percent of buyers in the area pay cash, and do not take out a mortgage.

“This type of buyer is acutely aware of market conditions,” he said. “If a house is priced right, it will move right away, no matter what price range you are talking about.”

But the price range does make a difference.

Recently a house in Wall Township, just inland of Spring Lake, was sold in a single day; it had not found a buyer when priced in the mid-$500,000s, but as soon as the price fell below $500,000, it was snapped up — with multiple offers still pending should that deal fall through, according to Mr. Wight.

In Manasquan, meanwhile, the pricing history for a house at 422 Long Avenue — a four-bedroom four-bath colonial with water views on all sides — looks like this: originally listed in February 2008 for $2.895 million; reduced to $2.795 million a year later; reduced to $2.395 million in August 2009; and offered at $2.195 million as of three months ago.

“There are a lot of people out there looking right now, since prices have been adjusted and rates are still low,” said Denise Oliver of Better Homes and Garden-Mary Holder, the listing agent. “We are hopeful about May.”

Manasquan, the most southerly of the three towns, typically has a somewhat larger sale inventory than Spring Lake. At the beginning of April, according to the Otteau Valuation Group, a New Brunswick company that compiles monthly real estate reports, 118 properties in Manasquan had not sold after at least a month on the market.

Spring Lake had 96 houses sitting on the market. Sea Girt had 37. Most of the highest-price houses for sale are in these two towns.

In Sea Girt, a 1910 colonial steps from the beach is available for $4.75 million. The house, at 212 Crescent Parkway, has six bedrooms and four baths and was listed about six months ago. It is not the most expensive listing in Sea Girt, however.

That would be 501 Ocean Avenue, listed last fall for $5.65 million. Another house, at 647 Ocean Avenue, was listed in March for $4.989 million; and 147 Morven Terrace is available at $4.797 million.

The original 2008 price for the house on the Terrace, a street one block inland from the sand line, was not inordinately high for the area at the time, Mr. Wight said. “I think it just got caught by the downturn, and what followed.”
186 2011-05-08 Credit: Benjamin Norman for The New York Times
187 2011-05-08 SLIDING doors. Charging stations for mobile devices. Reading lights. Even passenger air bags.     The Nissan NV200 van, a light commercial vehicle already in use in Asia and Europe, has won New York City's Taxi of Tomorrow competition, Mayor Micha...
188 2011-05-09 An acquisition would be Microsoft’s largest ever and is an effort to gain a foothold in the world of voice and video communications....
189 2011-05-09 At a conference, some in the banking industry had little good to say about the Dodd-Frank legislation meant to keep banks from failing....
190 2011-05-09 An interview with the president draws the most viewers on Sunday night....
191 2011-05-09 Finding out the shortest path between two points, in the presence of obstacles....
192 2011-05-09 The committee introduced a revamped Web site and a blog entitled The Bottom Line, saying, "We hope this blog will make people think."...
193 2011-05-09 Our intrepid blogger reacts to not be picked among the players who will represent the United States at the Women's World Cup in Germany this summer....
194 2011-05-09 As a mother and small-business owner, I often find myself squeezed by the double whammy of guilt....
195 2011-05-09 Though Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo plans to embark on a statewide tour to promote the rights of gays to marry, he chose not to attend a rally on the issue in Albany....
196 2011-05-09 Speculation of a deal emerged last week when TechCrunch reported that Nuance, which makes voice recognition and other technologies, had been in discussions with Apple for months -- either for an acquisition or a partnership....
197 2011-05-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
198 2011-05-09 Plus, how do you tackle big problems?...
199 2011-05-09 Alkermes, an American biotechnology company, said on Monday that it would merge with Elan Drug Technologies in a cash-and-stock deal worth $960 million....
200 2011-05-09 Companies looking to do business in secret once had to travel to places like the Cayman Islands or Bermuda.

Today, all it takes is a trip to Vermont.

Vermont, and a handful of other states including Utah, South Carolina, Delaware and Hawaii, are aggressively remaking themselves as destinations of choice for the kind of complex private insurance transactions once done almost exclusively offshore. Roughly 30 states have passed some type of law to allow companies to set up special insurance subsidiaries called captives, which can conduct Bermuda-style financial wizardry right in a policyholder’s own backyard.

Captives provide insurance to their parent companies, and the term originally referred to subsidiaries set up by any large company to insure the company’s own risks. Oil companies, for example, used them for years to gird for environmental claims related to infrequent but potentially high-cost events. They did so in overseas locations that offered light regulation amid little concern since the parent company was the only one at risk.

Now some states make it just as easy. And they have broadened the definition of captives so that even insurance companies can create them. This has given rise to concern that a shadow insurance industry is emerging, with less regulation and more potential debt than policyholders know, raising the possibility that some companies will find themselves without enough money to pay future claims. Critics say this is much like the shadow banking system that contributed to the financial crisis.

Aetna recently used a subsidiary in Vermont to refinance a block of health insurance policies, reaping $150 million in savings, according to its chief financial officer, Joseph M. Zubretsky. The main reason is that the insurer did not need to maintain conventional reserves at the same level as would have been required by insurance regulators in Aetna’s home state of Connecticut.

In other big transactions, companies including MetLife, the Hartford Financial Services Group, Swiss Reinsurance, Genworth Financial and the American International Group, among others, have refinanced life, disability and long-term-care insurance policies, as well as annuities.

For the states, attracting these insurance deals promotes business travel and creates jobs for lawyers, actuaries and other white-collar workers, who pay taxes. States have also found that they can impose modest taxes on the premiums collected by captives.

For insurers, these subsidiaries offer ways to unlock some of the money tied up in reserves, making millions available for dividends, acquisitions, bonuses and other projects. Three weeks after Aetna’s deal closed, the company announced it was increasing its dividend fifteenfold.

And as changes to the nation’s health systems are phased in, such innovations might even help hold down the cost of insurance for consumers, much as selling pooled mortgages to investors has made buying a home less expensive.

The downside, though, is that the states are offering a refuge from other states’ insurance rules, especially the all-important ones requiring companies to have sufficient reserves. California, for one, has already chosen not to try to lure such businesses. “We are concerned about systems that usher in less robust financial security and oversight,” said Dave Jones, the California insurance commissioner.

While saying that he wanted to remain open to innovation, Mr. Jones added, “We need to ensure that innovative transactions are not a strategy to drain value away from policyholders only to provide short-term enrichment to shareholders and investment bankers.”

The cost of some of the deals has been considerable. In 2008, MetLife used a subsidiary in Vermont to handle a crucial $3.5 billion letter of credit, with help from Deutsche Bank, because the subsidiary was not subject to the same collateral requirements as in New York. The trade immediately bolstered MetLife’s balance sheet, helping the company to endure that year’s market turmoil without government assistance. But MetLife agreed to pay Deutsche Bank $3.5 million a year for 15 years, according to internal documents obtained by The New York Times — locking itself into high costs for years.

MetLife said its transaction was in keeping with industry rules and norms, and Deutsche Bank declined to comment.

Another issue is public oversight. State regulators normally require insurance companies to make available reams of detailed information. A policyholder can find every asset in an insurer’s investment portfolio, for instance, or the company the carrier turns to for reinsurance. But not if the insurer relies on a captive. The new state laws make the audited financial statements of the captives confidential.
201 2011-05-09 Here is a chilling and potentially lethal fact of life: A person on the F.B.I.’s terrorist watch list is barred from boarding an airplane yet is quite free to buy high-power firearms and ammunition at any American gun shop.

This bizarre “terror gap” is starkly underlined by the latest federal data showing that 272 individuals on the terrorist watch list attempted to buy firearms last year, and all but 25 were cleared to make purchases. Those rejected had records for criminal felonies, spousal violence and other threats stipulated in federal gun controls that still don’t use the terrorist watch list as a red-flag caution.

The administrations of George W. Bush and Barack Obama wanted to rectify the situation, proposing that the attorney general be given authority to block gun sales to those on the list, after they were investigated and deemed suspicious under careful guidelines. But successive Congresses rejected reform bills — cowering as usual before the gun lobby, which deemed it an “arbitrary” interference with its never-to-be-trumped right to bear arms.

The watch list is ever a work in progress and innocent citizens have too often complained of being barred from flying. But this shortcoming has nothing to do with the dangerous loophole that Senator Frank Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, and Representative Peter King, Republican of New York, are again trying to close.

The last Congress, in its 11th-hour rush, showed no qualms about approving a ridiculous proposal requiring 9/11 responders and victims to be checked against the terrorist watch list before receiving federal health care benefits. If first-responder heroes must be put to the test, how can Congress continue to guarantee the gun rights of individuals already on the terrorist watch list?
202 2011-05-09 The e-mails in the case, filed eight months ago, recalls another parallel with Microsoft. Big high-tech companies, in particular, are run and knit together with electronic communications, which can leave a minute-by-minute trail for lawyers and litigants to mine.

In the Massachusetts court, Skyhook Wireless has alleged that Google used its control over Android not to maintain the quality of its technology, but to squelch a competitor.

The Boston-based Skyhook, founded in 2003, has been a pioneer in location-based services for use in mobile phones, developing a technique for combining location data from Wi-Fi hot spots with other sensors to pinpoint a user’s location.

Last April, Motorola chose to use Skyhook’s service in its Android phones instead of the free location data service offered by Google. Motorola reversed that decision in July.

“After we announced our deal with Motorola, Google went crazy,” said Ted Morgan, Skyhook’s chief executive. “That’s when Google went looking for compatibility compliance issues.”

Skyhook had reached a similar agreement with Samsung in April, which was also reversed in July.

Google and its lawyers declined to discuss the case or the e-mails, released along with a ruling in Massachusetts Superior Court allowing discovery of evidence to continue and witnesses to be deposed.

But in a court filing in April, Google’s lawyers called the Skyhook suit “a baseless complaint” and its requests for Google documents and e-mail a “thinly veiled fishing expedition.” In the filing, Google notes that Motorola, in terminating its agreement with Skyhook, did not mention technical compliance issues, other than Skyhook interfering with Google’s “contractual rights to collect end-user data.”

In the past, Google has portrayed the Skyhook suit as the desperate tactic of a small company trying to sell location services in a market that has changed abruptly, especially since Google offers its location services free.

The Google e-mail messages released by the court, some heavily redacted, begin on April 26, 2010, when Skyhook announced that it had reached an agreement with Motorola.

Vic Gundotra, a senior vice president, forwarded a link to a news article on the Skyhook win, to Steve Lee, an Android product manager.

“First I’d heard of it,” Mr. Lee wrote, and then suggested two possible reasons for the deal.

“Skyhook,” he wrote, “is a hungry start-up” with sales and business people “actively engaging and selling. Google hasn’t prioritized ‘selling’ it so it is easy to be outsold.” The second possible explanation, Mr. Lee wrote, was that Skyhook’s location accuracy was superior to Google’s.

Charles Mendis, a software engineer, lamented, “This feels like a disaster” and added an emoticon of a frowning face.

But by the next day, it appears, Google’s penchant for data-based decision making had swung into action. A quick test of Google’s location services in the San Francisco Bay Area was compared with Skyhook’s, and it found Google to be at least equal in accuracy to Skyhook, and perhaps better.

The results of the field testing convinced Mr. Lee that Google had a good story to tell. The danger, he noted, was that companies might flock to Skyhook after the Motorola and Samsung deals.

“That would be awful for Google,” Mr. Lee wrote, “because it will cut off our ability to continue collecting data to maintain and improve our location database.”

Location data is becoming increasingly important for smartphone applications — like meeting up with friends nearby or finding restaurants and shops in a neighborhood. And advertisements focused by location bring premium rates. An estimated 40 percent of the smartphones sold this year will run Android, more than twice the share of either Apple or BlackBerry software, according to IDC, the research firm.

Skyhook did not clear its press release with Motorola beforehand. And Google’s business and communications staff wanted to have Motorola spin a loss of business more favorably for Google. “Are there any seeds we can plant with Motorola’s P.R. team to that effect?” wrote Andy Mathis, a Google manager. “Perhaps there is language we can plant with them for a blog post?”

Later that day, Anthony House, an Android communications manager, passed along some revised language from Motorola: “Motorola’s relationship with Skyhook demonstrates one of the many benefits of working with Google in an open partnership. We remain committed to the Android platform.”

Google’s concerns about the technical compatibility surfaced the next month, in May 2010, according to e-mail made public. Google was familiar with Skyhook and its technology, said Mr. Morgan, the chief executive. The two companies, he said, had done pilot projects, but never reached a commercial agreement. By contrast, Apple does license Skyhook’s technology, Mr. Morgan said. (Skyhook’s lawsuit also alleges that Google copied its technology.)

An issue for Google was data “contamination” — that is, Skyhook’s blending of Wi-Fi and other location data, from GPS satellite signals and cellphone towers.

In an e-mail on May 25, 2010, Stephen McDonnell, a Motorola manager, wrote to his counterparts at Google, “We feel the contamination concern you have is unfounded.”

Still, the technical issues were not resolved. In an e-mail dated June 2, 2010, Tim Vangoethem, a Motorola executive, wrote to Skyhook executives that Google had informed Motorola that Skyhook’s location service on the planned smartphone “renders the device no longer Android Compatible.”

The e-mail from the court case does suggest that Google, as the company says of itself, is a relentless learning organization. At least one lesson learned apparently comes from Microsoft’s lengthy legal battles of years back, when unrestrained comments in employee e-mail often proved so troublesome for the software giant.

The final entry in one much-redacted e-mail thread came in reply to a colleague’s pledge to get back with some detail about Skyhook.

“PLEASE DO NOT! Thread-kill and talk to me off-line with any questions,” Patrick Brady, a partner manager at Google, wrote on June 25, 2010.

That kind of care never really surfaced in the vast troves of Microsoft e-mail.
203 2011-05-09 He is the son of a Brazilian-bred stallion and a German-bred mare. He is owned by a syndicate of 20 partners led by a sometimes ebullient, often cranky former turf writer. He is trained by an Englishman who has never been cited for violating a medication rule and believes a horse should be allowed to be a horse as much as possible. No, Animal Kingdom is not your typical Kentucky Derby winner.

Still, Animal Kingdom, a son of Leroidesanimaux, proved he was the best horse in the field Saturday, rolling down the stretch here like a wave to score an emphatic two-and-three-quarter-length victory. Animal Kingdom did this on a dry track, earning respectable speed figures. None of his rivals can claim to have been compromised by a bad trip.

So this colt is on to the Preakness Stakes, where his trainer, Graham Motion, and Barry Irwin, the chief executive of Team Valor International, can continue to demonstrate how solid horsemanship rather than black bag veterinarian work can succeed at horse racing’s highest level. This is especially important now that Representative Edward Whitfield, Republican of Kentucky, and Senator Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, introduced legislation last week to regulate the use of performance-enhancing drugs and medications in horse racing.

Major industry stakeholders have acknowledged that medication rules in the United States are out of step with Europe, Hong Kong and Australia, where horse racing thrives, and that it is time for a significant overhaul of the sport.

How Animal Kingdom was bred by Irwin and how he was managed by Motion are nothing short of remarkable in this day and age. Leroidesanimaux is an inexpensive sire with a turf pedigree, and his dam, the German mare Dalicia, had never run on the dirt. In fact, Animal Kingdom had never raced on the dirt before the Derby.

“We have not done enough importing of horses and blood lines from other places where horses don’t run on drugs, and horses’ legs are not manipulated, and horses, basically, are bigger and tougher, stronger and sounder,” said Irwin, 68, who has bought and bred horses from Europe and South Africa. “In Germany, you are not allowed to breed a mare that has ever raced on drugs, Lasix, bute, nothing. So when you buy some stock from there, you know you’re getting something good.”
204 2011-05-09 Re “Unsafe at Any Dose” (Op-Ed, May 1):

Helen Caldicott writes, “Doctors need to confront the nuclear industry.” But she does not seem to want a debate but an acceptance of her negative conclusion about nuclear energy. Doctors have been involved for many years in evaluating the effects of radiation on people and have come to very different conclusions from hers.

There is a huge amount of data on the effects of radiation and comparisons of the health effects of all forms of electricity generation. The real question should be which sources of energy do the least harm.

Our National Academy of Sciences has a standing committee on the effects of radiation. Its most recent report, “Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiation VII,” concluded that a single dose of 100 millisieverts, 40 times the average annual exposure to natural background radiation, increases a person’s chances of cancer by about 2 percent.

Any loss of life is tragic, but how tragic is nuclear energy compared with other forms of electricity generation? A 1998 German study published in the journal Risk Analysis analyzed the effect of all emissions from a given source of electricity on life expectancy. For the same amount of electricity generated, the years of life lost from the different major fuel sources compared with nuclear power are coal-generated, about five times as much; oil, 14 times as much; and natural gas, about 1.7 times as much.

If Dr. Caldicott is really concerned about human health, she should join me and others in an effort to rid the world of coal generation, switching first to natural gas and nuclear, and when we do develop large-scale, cleaner generation systems, moving toward those.
205 2011-05-09 “The oldest story in history has occurred here: having received grandiose authorities, a young president, and to a greater extent his inner circle and his family,” are determined to keep them, Mr. Zatulin said in an interview in his ornate office. He said that Mr. Medvedev was backed by powerful industrialists, known as oligarchs, who hoped to reclaim the influence they lost under Mr. Putin.

“I think they are much more comfortable with a weak president than a strong one, and have found a person they can manipulate,” Mr. Zatulin said.

He said distrust between the teams was so high that the tandem was unlikely to continue after the elections, and that Mr. Medvedev might use the single advantage he has over his mentor. “I cannot exclude that some of Medvedev’s advisers consider that Medvedev, in order to win, should fire Putin from the position of prime minister,” Mr. Zatulin said. “I can’t confirm it, but it would be strange if they had not considered this possibility.”

Not long after Mr. Zatulin’s punishment was made public, an oddly symmetrical story appeared in the press. This time, it was Gleb O. Pavlovsky, a political consultant, who said that he had been rebuked for saying that Mr. Putin should not return to the presidency. He said that officials in the Kremlin had complained for many months about his comments, which violated the unspoken order to “say nothing about a candidate until everything is decided.” In mid-April they severed a 15-year relationship. “Putin and his team are very nervous about this kind of statement, probably more touchy than Medvedev’s team,” Mr. Pavlovsky said.

He said that there was no personal split between the two men — “I can confirm this,” he said — but that the tandem had been carefully constructed to maintain balance, and that neither man’s team was strong enough to end the standoff. He said that Mr. Putin began considering a return to the presidency because of “a virtual fear that some awful liberals will come to power” and weaken the strong state that Mr. Putin had built.

“Where are those liberals? They don’t exist,” Mr. Pavlovsky said. “This is the problem. I’ve been hearing about these liberals for 20 years.”

For now, his main complaint is that paralysis over the candidate makes it impossible to get to work on substantive issues, like what path Russia should take after the elections. “It’s absurd; debates are necessary today” about the next president’s platform and his team, Mr. Pavlovsky said. “It’s very difficult to make up a team without having a leader. It’s like learning how to swim in a dry pool.”

In these interviews, as in all of Russian politics, it is difficult to say what is real and what is artificial. Neither Mr. Zatulin nor Mr. Pavlovsky is a member of the leaders’ inner circles, and their motives are unclear. Mr. Zatulin lost a powerful ally in September when Yuri M. Luzhkov was driven from his post as Moscow’s mayor on the president’s orders. Mr. Pavlovsky, meanwhile, has a 15-year résumé of virtuosic political gamesmanship.

But it is clear that the public gap between Mr. Putin and Mr. Medvedev has widened. First, they staked out different positions on NATO’s operation in Libya, which Mr. Putin has passionately condemned. When Mr. Medvedev told Chinese television that the presidential candidate would be announced shortly, Mr. Putin contradicted him, making it clear he preferred to wait as long as possible.

History suggests that could be quite a long time. Boris Yeltsin announced his resignation on Dec. 31, 1999, a few days after parliamentary elections; in 2007, Mr. Putin identified Mr. Medvedev as his successor on Dec. 10, a few days after parliamentary elections. This year’s parliamentary elections are scheduled for Dec. 4.

In the meantime, Moscow’s political circles will be watching for bulldogs under the rug.

Mr. Putin stoked a new round of speculation on Friday when he announced the creation of a nationwide “popular front,” which some saw as laying the groundwork for a possible presidential run. Mr. Medvedev has called a rare news conference for May 18, to the same effect.

Prolonged tension risks setting off a major split within the elite, said Dmitri K. Simes, a veteran Russia watcher who heads the Center for the National Interest, a Washington-based think tank. He returned from a recent trip to Moscow struck by the shift in the political atmosphere, now rife with distrust. “Never forget the number of people who are playing double games,” he said. “People run around saying one thing in the morning and another thing in the afternoon.”
206 2011-05-09 Burt Bacharach’s new musical, “Some Lovers,” will have its debut at the Old Globe theater in San Diego this year, Playbill reported. Mr. Bacharach, whose “I Say a Little Prayer” and “Do You Know the Way to San Jose?” are among his most famous pop songs, wrote the music to the show, which is based on “The Gift of the Magi,” the O. Henry short story. The book and lyrics are by Steven Sater (“Spring Awakening”). “Some Lovers” is to run Nov. 26 to Dec. 31 as part of the Old Globe’s 2011-12 season, which also includes the premieres of works by Matthew Lopez (“The Whipping Man”), Gaby Alter and Itamar Moses, and Jonathan Caren, as well as the West Coast premiere of “The Scottsboro Boys.”
207 2011-05-09 The star attractions at Netflix keep winning over new, and sometimes unlikely, fans. But one feature of the movie streaming service’s business model is less well known: the unusual way it offers incentives to its staff. Rivals struggling to compete with the company, which is led by its founder, Reed Hastings, might want to take a peek.

Defying and converting skeptics with innovation has become standard operating practice for Netflix. An additional 3.3 million people subscribed last quarter, bringing the total to 23 million, while operating margins held strong at 14 percent.

A new adversary sounds intimidated. Charlie Ergen, whose Dish Network bought Blockbuster out of bankruptcy, says he does not plan to challenge Netflix on streaming because of its “insurmountable lead.” Even Time Warner’s boss, Jeffrey L. Bewkes, who once likened Netflix to the Albanian Army, changed his tone recently and expressed some admiration for what the $12 billion company had accomplished.

Part of the success may stem from the uncommon way Netflix rewards its people. Employees eligible for stock options can tailor the mix of salary and equity in their compensation packages. The amount of options used to be restricted, but the cap was lifted last year. Mr. Hastings took only about 9 percent of his $5.5 million pay in cash.

Equally unusual is how Netflix doles out options. They are granted monthly instead of annually, as is typical. Given how Netflix shares swing wildly, this makes sense. About a fifth of them are also on loan to short sellers, who think the company is overvalued or the business model is not sustainable.
208 2011-05-09 ¶Sasha Savic, chief commercial officer at Havas Media North America, was promoted to chief operating officer, a new post. The unit is part of the Havas Media division of Havas.

¶John Heenan joined Luckie & Company, Birmingham, Ala., as chief marketing officer, a new post. He had been chief marketing officer at RP3 Agency, Bethesda, Md.

¶Paul Jowdy joined Every Day With Rachael Ray magazine, New York, part of the Reader’s Digest Association, as publisher, succeeding Anne Balaban, who left. Eva Dillon, a former top executive at the Reader’s Digest Association, had been temporarily handling the duties of the post while a successor to Ms. Balaban was being sought. Mr. Jowdy had been vice president and publisher of Details magazine, New York, part of the Condé Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications, a post he was named to in January after serving as vice president and publisher of another Condé Nast magazine, Bon Appétit. A successor is being sought for Mr. Jowdy at Details.

¶Blue Barracuda, London, a digital agency, was acquired by DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Financial terms were not disclosed. Blue Barracuda and its 60 employees will be absorbed by the DraftFCB London office, which will be renamed DraftFCB London, Fueled by Blue Barracuda. Martin Talks, chief executive of Blue Barracuda, will become president for digital at DraftFCB London.

¶Heat, San Francisco, added a social media marketing practice, to be led by Cory O’Brien as social media strategist and the director of the division. Mr. O’Brien had been an account manager at Swirl, San Francisco. The division will have five employees and its initial client will be Bank of the West.

¶WPP, Dublin, and IMG Worldwide, New York, signed a multiyear agreement to form a joint team that will offer licensing and merchandising services for consumer products. The venture is separate from the existing IMG Licensing operations.

¶A decision by ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company, to withdraw from its prime-time schedule a new series, “Jamie Oliver’s Food Revolution,” affected a cross-promotion with Better Homes and Gardens magazine, published by the Meredith Corporation. The episode scheduled for Tuesday was to have featured Eric Liskey, deputy garden editor of the magazine, which included an article about his appearance in the April issue. But the episode, and others that ABC planned to show on Tuesday nights in May, were shifted to Friday nights in June. The decision came after the first two episodes of “Food Revolution” drew low ratings.

¶Addiction New York, part of Addiction Worldwide, was selected to create a new brand positioning and visual identity for A&E Television Networks, now known as A+E Networks. The work includes a new theme, “Life is entertaining,” and a new logo. A+E Networks, which includes cable channels like A&E, History and Lifetime, is owned by the Walt Disney Company, the Hearst Corporation and the NBCUniversal division of the Comcast Corporation.

¶Prospects for growth in worldwide advertising spending have improved, according to the Warc consensus forecast of leading predictions on the subject. The current consensus is for growth this year of 5.1 percent compared with 2010, an increase from the most recent consensus figure, published in November, that predicted an increase of 4.5 percent. The current consensus for 2012, Warc reported, is for growth in worldwide ad spending of 6.2 percent compared with 2011.
209 2011-05-09 JAKARTA, Indonesia — A meeting of Southeast Asian leaders ended here on Sunday with two significant issues unresolved, which led some analysts to question the leaders’ ability to confront entrenched problems.

The meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations failed to make progress in resolving the deadly border dispute between Thailand and Cambodia. In addition, the meeting ended with the question left open of whether Myanmar would assume the organization’s rotating chairmanship.

Myanmar, formerly Burma, had asked to take up the chairmanship in 2014, which would end an arrangement in which the nation has been skipped over because of concerns over its authoritarian government and poor human rights record.

Civic groups and some elected officials in the region have criticized the proposal. Human Rights Watch said last week that a chairmanship for Myanmar would reduce the regional bloc, known as Asean, to “the laughingstock of intergovernmental forums.”

Bantarto Bandoro, a professor of international relations at Indonesia Defense University, said the failure to move forward on either issue reflected a broader pattern in which Asean members had been unwilling to tackle contentious issues. This, he said, has blunted the organization’s ambitious plans to create a regional political and economic community that would include free trade by 2015.
210 2011-05-10 Major League Soccer’s players union has released player salary figures for 2011....
211 2011-05-10 Microsoft is betting that Skype can help change its fortunes. Skype is a leader in Internet voice and video communications, with 170 million users each month connected for more than 100 minutes on average. In the last year or two, video use has surged, now accounting for 40 percent of Skype’s traffic.

That large and active community of users represents a major asset, said Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive. “It’s an amazing customer footprint,” Mr. Ballmer said in an interview. “And Skype is a verb, as they say.”

Mr. Ballmer never mentioned Google, Microsoft’s archrival whose name is used as a verb for Internet search. In that market, Microsoft is spending heavily to try to catch Google, and making some progress with its Bing engine, but at great financial cost.

Google, like Skype, has a free Internet phone call and video messaging service. So Microsoft, analysts say, is taking a bold step to grab a leadership position instead of risking falling behind Google in a crucial market and then facing the difficult task of trying to catch up.

“Skype gives Microsoft instant size and scale in this emerging market,” said Howard Anderson, a senior lecturer at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The merger with Skype, if successful, could give Microsoft a leading consumer Internet service — something it has lacked — and help lift its other businesses, like smartphone software, Office productivity programs and Xbox video game consoles, analysts say.

In doing so, Microsoft aims to keep people seamlessly connected at work or at home. “We want to enable communications across people’s lives,” Mr. Ballmer said in a press conference in San Francisco.

Skype, founded in 2003, is a creation of the new technology that is transforming telecommunications. “For some time, it has been clear that telecommunications is going to move to all-digital Internet technology,” said Kevin Werbach, an associate professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a former official at the Federal Communications Commission. “Skype shows what can be done.”

Skype was founded by two entrepreneurs, one Swedish and one Danish, with software developed by a small team of programmers in Estonia. They deployed a version of peer-to-peer software, initially associated with illegal file-sharing of pirated music and movies. The voice and video travel over the Internet rather than dedicated phone landlines or cell tower networks.

Skype has had a bumpy ride as a business. EBay bought it for $2.6 billion in 2005, and then sold most of it to a private investors’ group in 2009, after eBay could not figure out how to make money on Skype.

Despite changes in ownership and management, Skype was a hit with users, offering mostly free calling between Skype users, while charging for some services to corporate users and for calls to traditional phone numbers. It also now sells advertisements.

Skype, based in Luxembourg, has recently made steady progress as a business. Its revenue rose 20 percent last year, to $860 million, and operating profit climbed to $264 million, though it had a net loss of $7 million after making its debt payments.

Skype also has built a formidable technical prowess. Most of its software programmers are in Tallinn, Estonia. “The secret sauce of Skype is its engineering team,” said Marc Andreessen, a founder of Netscape, which made the first commercial Internet browser, and one of the private investors in Skype. “These are world-class guys, every bit as good as anyone in Silicon Valley.”

Mr. Ballmer emphasized that Microsoft planned to expand Skype’s offerings and increase investment, and not cut back free offerings. Skype technology, he added, will help enhance Microsoft products. Mr. Ballmer said the Xbox Kinect, a game device with gesture-recognition features, could add Skype to become an at-home videoconferencing system. And Skype can also be linked to Microsoft’s business software including Office productivity programs and Lync, multimedia software for workers collaborating on projects.

Microsoft, whose growth has been lagging, could find a lucrative revenue stream in selling the service to companies. It might also benefit from placing advertisements on Skype. “There are a lot of great opportunities to optimize Skype services in Microsoft products,” Mr. Ballmer said.

Skype, analysts say, is evidence of the recent pattern of innovations coming first to the freewheeling consumer market — like instant messaging, social networks and video chat — and then cascading to businesses. “This deal is another sign of the consumerization of information technology,” said Ted Schadler, an analyst at Forrester Research.

The Microsoft-Skype deal, analysts suggest, also points to a rising wave of digital disruption in the telecommunications industry, as low-cost Internet-based communications put pressure on traditional carriers, especially their landline phone service. Says Mark R. Anderson, chief executive of the Strategic News Service, a technology newsletter, “The computer guys are going to teach the telecom carriers about the future of communications.”
212 2011-05-10 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
213 2011-05-10 Microsoft’s $8.5 billion purchase of Skype is a bonanza for investors who had acquired control of the fallen Internet darling from eBay in 2009 for $1.9 billion....
214 2011-05-10 Google said Tuesday that the Justice Department is investigating its advertising practices and that Google may have to pay $500 million, but did not disclose further details....
215 2011-05-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
216 2011-05-10 The financial journalist will write for the paper’s Saturday business section, taking the slot of Joe Nocera....
217 2011-05-10 Dodd-Frank's orderly liquidation authority includes several elements that are vital to dealing with a financial institution in distress, as well as some uncertainty....
218 2011-05-10 Dodd-Frank's orderly liquidation authority includes several elements that are vital to dealing with a financial institution in distress, as well as some uncertainty....
219 2011-05-10 With Microsoft’s $8.5 billion acquisition of Skype, the software company faces a challenge in integrating the communications service into its offerings. Andrew Ross Sorkin, DealBook’s editor, talks with Sam Grobart, The New York Times personal...
220 2011-05-10 Microsoft's $8.5 billion acquisition of Skype is the biggest technology deal so far this year, and the transaction would rank among the 12 biggest high-tech deals since 2000.
221 2011-05-10 The hearing on mobile privacy was the first for the newly formed Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law....
222 2011-05-10 The hearing, called by Senator Al Franken, follows a series of embarrassing reports about how much information is collected and stored by mobile phones....
223 2011-05-10 How will the wireless industry respond to the news that Microsoft is throwing its weight behind a service that allows people to make free calls over the Internet?...
224 2011-05-10 Accel Partners, a noted Silicon Valley investment firm, is preparing to open an office in New York....
225 2011-05-10 A government audit finds that nearly one in seven nursing home residents receives powerful antipsychotic drugs, though they are not approved for such use....
226 2011-05-10 Thomas Keller’s latest will be mainly for takeout....
227 2011-05-10 The horse is on the truck. That’s Kentucky Derby winner Animal Kingdom riding along in Keith Cooper’s tractor trailer headed north and east from from Kentucky to Maryland today. At last report he was zooming past Keeneland at about 6:40 Tuesda...
228 2011-05-10 Price tag turns a safety school into a top choice, more property owners appeal tax bills, LiveNation and Groupon to sell discounted concert tickets and other consumer focused news from The New York Times....
229 2011-05-10 As an employee of Walt Disney, Kermit now enjoys corporate perks like interviews with Johnny Depp, Penélope Cruz and Keith Richards....
230 2011-05-10 Seeking a boost in voice and video communications, Microsoft said on Tuesday that it would buy Skype in its largest acquisition ever....
231 2011-05-10 The book contradicts this assertion, pointing to a long history of collaboration by Mr. Chávez and his top confidants. Venezuela’s government viewed the FARC as “an ally that would keep U.S. and Colombian military strength in the region tied down in counterinsurgency, helping to reduce perceived threats against Venezuela,” the book said.

The archive describes a covert meeting in Venezuela in September 2000 between Mr. Chávez and Mr. Reyes, the FARC commander whose computers, hard drives and memory sticks were the source of the files. At the meeting, Mr. Chávez agreed to lend the FARC hard currency for weapons purchases.

A spokesman for Mr. Chávez did not respond to requests for comment.

Venezuela’s government has contended that the Reyes files were fabrications. In 2008, Interpol dismissed the possibility that the archive, which includes documents going back to the early 1980s, had been doctored.

Moreover, data from the archive has led to the recovery of caches of uranium in Colombia and American dollars in Costa Rica, and has been the basis of actions by governments including Canada, Spain and the United States. Such uses constitute “de facto recognition” that the archive is authentic, the institute said.

“We haven’t begun the dossier with the words ‘J’accuse,’ ” said Nigel Inkster, one of the book’s editors. “Instead we tried to produce a sober analysis of the FARC since the late 1990s, when Venezuela became a central element of their survival strategy.”

Recently, Venezuela seems to have cooled toward the FARC, conforming to a pattern described in the book of ups and downs between Mr. Chávez and the rebels. In April, his government took the unusual step of detaining Joaquín Pérez, a suspected senior operative for the FARC who had been living in Sweden, and deporting him to Colombia.

This move came amid a rapprochement between Mr. Chávez and Colombia’s president, Juan Manuel Santos, as a response by Mr. Chávez to Colombia’s claims that the FARC was operating from Venezuelan soil.

The archive, which opens a window into bouts of tension and even loathing between the FARC and Mr. Chávez’s emissaries, shows that Mr. Chávez has sided with the Colombian government on other occasions, especially when he stood to gain politically.

In November 2002, the book reports, before a meeting between Álvaro Uribe, then Colombia’s president, and Mr. Chávez, the FARC asked the Venezuelan Army for permission to transport uniforms on a mule train through Venezuelan territory. The Venezuelan Army granted permission, then ambushed the convoy, seized eight FARC operatives and delivered them to Colombia, allowing Mr. Chávez to inform Mr. Uribe of the operation in person.

Such betrayals, as well as unfulfilled promises of large sums of money, generated considerable tension among the rebels over their relationship with Mr. Chávez.

A member of the FARC’s secretariat, Víctor Suárez Rojas, who used the nom de guerre Mono Jojoy, once called Mr. Chávez a “deceitful and divisive president who lacked the resolve to organize himself politically and militarily.”

Still, periods of tension tended to be the exception in a relationship that has given the rebel group a broad degree of cross-border sanctuary.

In some of the most revealing descriptions of FARC activity in Venezuela, the book explains how Venezuela’s main intelligence agency, formerly known by the acronym Disip and now called the Bolivarian Intelligence Service, sought to enlist the FARC in training state security forces and conducting terrorist attacks, including bombings, in Caracas in 2002 and 2003.

A meeting described in the book shows that Mr. Chávez was almost certainly unaware of the Disip’s decision to involve the FARC in state terrorism, but that Venezuelan intelligence officials still carried out such contacts with a large amount of autonomy.

Drawing from the FARC’s archive, the book also describes how the group trained various pro-Chávez organizations in Venezuela, including the Bolivarian Liberation Forces, a shadowy paramilitary group operating along the border with Colombia.

FARC communications also discussed providing training in urban terrorism methods for representatives of the Venezuelan Communist Party and several radical cells from 23 de Enero, a Caracas slum that has long been a hive of pro-Chávez activity.

The book also cites requests by Mr. Chávez’s government for the guerrillas to assassinate at least two of his opponents.

The FARC discussed one such request in 2006 from a security adviser for Alí Rodríguez Araque, a top official here. According to the archive, the adviser, Julio Chirino, asked the FARC to kill Henry López Sisco, who led the Disip at the time of a 1986 massacre of unarmed members of a subversive group.

“They ask that if possible we give it to this guy in the head,” said Mr. Reyes, the former FARC commander.

The book says there was no evidence that the FARC acted on the request before Mr. López Sisco left Venezuela in November 2006.

Less is known about another assassination request cited in the book, including whom the target was or whether it took place.

But the book makes it clear that the Colombian rebels sometimes found their Venezuelan hosts unscrupulous and deceitful.

In one example, Mono Jojoy, who was killed in a bombing raid last year, had harsh words for Ramón Rodríguez Chacín, a former Venezuelan naval officer who has served as a top liaison between Mr. Chávez and the FARC, calling him “the worst kind of bandit.”
232 2011-05-10 Riddell’s Revolution Speed model earned a five-star rating on the Virginia Tech scale, followed by five four-star helmets made by Riddell, Schutt and Xenith. Only helmets designed for players of high school age and older were examined.

“For example, half our team is in the VSR-4 — and there is a significant reduction in concussion risk in newer helmets, so by fall ball we’re going to be in new ones,” Duma said of the Virginia Tech football team. A prominent college program having used outdated helmets would indicate how rural high schools might be affording players inferior protection.

Virginia Tech has for eight years had players at college programs nationwide wear helmets outfitted with accelerometers to track the number and severity of hits to the head, as well as documented concussions. That data indicates, for example, how a side impact that results in 100 g’s of force reaching the skull leads to a diagnosed concussion 1 percent of the time.

Helmet models were drop-tested from five heights to assess how much force they allow to reach the skull; the lower that force, the lower the risk of concussion, and the better the helmet scored. The methodology has been peer reviewed and accepted for publication by the Annals of Biomedical Engineering.

As an example of the use of his system, Duma said, “You can cut your risk of concussion 55 percent by switching from the VSR-4 to the Xenith X1.”

Critics have cited several limitations of Virginia Tech’s approach. It does not consider rotational forces believed to cause a substantial number of concussions. The data collection from players came through helmets designed by Riddell, perhaps skewing results. Additionally, only some concussions get reported, so the injury’s true prevalence remains too much of a mystery to justify such exact statements.

“I’m unmoved by this information, and I would say that no matter how our helmet was ranked,” said Xenith’s chief executive, Vin Ferrara, whose X1 model was ranked among the most protective available. “We find this type of ranking concept to be detrimental to consumer understanding and detrimental to the development of superior helmets.”

Schutt said in a statement: “We have not seen any relationship between testing results and the accurate prediction of what is happening on the field. There are many questions to be asked about this testing.”

Adams’s chief executive, David Wright, did not respond to requests for comment regarding the company’s A2000 helmet.

Riddell’s Dan Arment praised Virginia Tech for affirming performance differences between helmet models; as for the company’s low-performing VSR-4, he said users could trade in that helmet and receive $50 off a Revolution model.

Helmet companies have for years agreed among themselves not to disclose this type of testing data to the public because of how it can be misinterpreted. This has led to spurious advertising claims and other practices currently under government examination.

Duma said the public needed an independent compass to make more educated decisions on football head protection. He also emphasized how even the best head protection can still allow injuries like concussions and that individual athletes’ risks can vary because of genetic differences and prior injuries.
233 2011-05-10 Ugandan security forces fatally shot at least nine unarmed people — including three in the back as they fled — during protests against inflation, Human Rights Watch said Monday. “Uganda’s security forces met the recent protests with live fire that killed peaceful demonstrators and even bystanders,” Maria Burnett of Human Rights Watch said in a statement. The organization called for an independent investigation into the violence. A police spokeswoman said an investigation was under way.
234 2011-05-10 With the help of 16 Democrats, House Republicans passed a bill the other day with the narrow-seeming title of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act.

The measure, which came just weeks after the furor over failed Republican attempts to defund Planned Parenthood, is a slightly modified version of a terrible bill proposed last year by Representative Christopher Smith, a Republican of New Jersey. It is far more sweeping than its title suggests.

In fact, the bill is not really about federal financing for abortion or even preventing insurers from offering any abortion coverage on the insurance exchanges created as part of federal health care reform. The federal Hyde Amendment has long barred federal financing of abortion, and the burdensome rules for segregating an individual’s premium payments from government subsidies already seems destined to discourage insurers from offering abortion coverage on the exchanges.

The Smith bill imposes new limitations on abortion access by driving to end abortion insurance coverage in the private market using the nation’s tax system as a weapon. A provision would deny tax credits to small businesses that offer private health plans that cover abortion services, as some 87 percent of private plans now do. The bill imposes no such restrictions on large corporations.

The measure also eliminates the medical-expense deduction for most abortions and ends the availability of reimbursement for abortion costs from medical savings accounts — changes that could invite intrusive inquiries from I.R.S. auditors trying to confirm whether an abortion procedure fell within exceptions for rape, incest or when the life of the woman is endangered.

Over all, the bill treats tax benefits as the equivalent of public expenditures for abortion. This equivalency is at odds with a reality in which individuals can deduct donations to religious institutions without running afoul of the constitutional bar of government support of religion.

Beyond the insurance realm, the Smith bill would permanently extend the prohibition on the District of Columbia from using locally raised revenue to provide abortion care that was imposed through fiscal 2011 as part of the budget compromise struck last month. The bill also would eliminate the yearly renewal of the Hyde Amendment’s denial of abortion services for poor women and others who rely on the federal government for their health care.
235 2011-05-10 Part of the problem has to do with structural changes in the economy. Sectors like government, health care and leisure have been growing, generating jobs for college grads. Sectors like manufacturing, agriculture and energy have been getting more productive, but they have not been generating more jobs. Instead, companies are using machines or foreign workers.

The result is this: There are probably more idle men now than at any time since , and this time the problem is mostly structural, not cyclical. These men will find it hard to attract spouses. Many will pick up habits that have a corrosive cultural influence on those around them. The country will not benefit from their potential abilities.

This is a big problem. It can’t be addressed through the sort of short-term Keynesian stimulus some on the left are still fantasizing about. It can’t be solved by simply reducing the size of government, as some on the right imagine.

It will probably require a broad menu of policies attacking the problem all at once: expanding and online learning; changing the corporate code and labor market rules to stimulate ; adopting German-style labor market practices like apprenticeship programs, wage subsidies and programs that extend benefits to the unemployed for six months as they start small businesses.

Reinvigorating the missing fifth — bringing them back into the labor market and using their capabilities — will certainly require money. If this were a smart country, we’d be having a debate about how to shift money from programs that provide comfort and toward programs that spark reinvigoration.

But, of course, that’s not what is happening. Discretionary spending, which might be used to instigate dynamism, is declining. Health care spending, which mostly provides comfort to those beyond working years, is expanding. Attempts to take money from health care to open it up for other uses are being crushed.

There are basically two ways to cut back on the government health care spending. From the top, a body of experts can be empowered to make rationing decisions. This is the approach favored by and in use in many countries around the world. Alternatively, at the bottom, costs can be shifted to beneficiaries with premium supports to help them handle the burden. Different versions of this approach are embodied in the Dutch system, the prescription drug benefit and Representative Paul Ryan’s budget.

We’ll probably need a mixture of these approaches to figure out what works. Instead, Republicans decry the technocratic rationing model as “death panels.” Democrats have gone into demagogic overdrive calling premium support ideas “privatization” or “the end of .”

Let’s be clear about the effect of this mendacity: We’re locking in the nation’s wealth into the Medicare program and closing off any possibility that we might do something significant to reinvigorate the missing fifth. Next time you see a politician demagoguing Medicare, ask this: Should we be using our resources in the manner of a nation in decline or one still committed to stoking the energy of its people and continuing its rise?
236 2011-05-10 Re “Hormone Is Said to Cut a Risk of Premature Birth” (news article, May 3):

Reducing premature births is laudable, but is giving pregnant women progesterone safe? Fifty years ago women were prescribed DES, diethylstilbestrol, to prevent miscarriage only to learn the horrible truth years later. The synthetic hormone is linked to cancers, infertility and other reproductive problems in their children.

We expect the Food and Drug Administration to protect us, but languishing at the agency is a proposed rule drafted three years ago to mandate clearer warnings on drugs prescribed to pregnant women. Mothers-to-be are fierce protectors of their babies but cannot make informed decisions without all the facts.

With the F.D.A. dragging its feet on requiring better drug labeling, many pregnant women will use this hormone without knowing of possible risks. Could the next drug tragedy be brewing?
237 2011-05-10 You report that Osama bin Laden’s entourage of bodyguards “was down to one trusted Pakistani courier and the courier’s brother, who also had the job of buying goats, sheep and Coca-Cola for the household.”

Coca-Cola? After Old Glory itself, is there an image more emblematic of America than a can of Coke? Did they also play baseball out back?

I’ll wager that no other single detail yet to emerge from the cache of intelligence heroically swiped from the Abbottabad compound will do as much damage to Osama bin Laden’s anti-capitalist bona fides. Now we know that he was not only an evil mass murderer but also a craven hypocrite.
238 2011-05-10 The trumpeter Shane Endsley exudes a calm, steadying demeanor on the bandstand, and his tone, dry and matte, falls a long way from brassy effulgence. He’s an interior and economical soloist, averse not only to empty flash but also to wasted effort. And yet his music doesn’t come across as rigid, cold or self-effacing. Quite the opposite, actually.

At Cornelia Street Café on Wednesday night he led a quartet almost identical to the one on “Then the Other,” his appealing new album on the Low Electrical label. The pianist was Craig Taborn, and the bassist was Matt Brewer. The lone substitute was Nate Wood, the drummer. (On the album it’s Ted Poor.) Mr. Endsley calls this group the Music Band, as if to forestall any attempt to apply the rules of a specific style or genre.

If that’s an evasion, it’s a familiar one. Mr. Endsley and Mr. Wood are best known for their work in Kneebody, a groove-minded band that draws from myriad sources, ending up with a proprietary blend of electro-acoustic chamber jazz. With the Music Band, Mr. Endsley has embraced the built-in restrictions of an acoustic combo while still looking to transcend idiom.

In the middle of the first set the group played a tune called “Mahalia,” from the Kneebody repertory. With its light chop in waltz time and a prickly roving counterpoint improvised by Mr. Taborn, it sounded nothing like Kneebody, which may have been partly the point.

Mr. Endsley took an assertive but unforced approach to most of the songs, easing into gear. On “Big,” the opener here as on the album, his solo conveyed intelligence and control but never a sense of the contrived. He stayed within the warm midregister of his horn, moving around easily, unhurriedly.

His aplomb wasn’t a surprise — not on “Big,” and not on “Gallery Piece,” the set’s other rhythmically driving tune, which overlaid a trickily syncopated melody and a springy modal vamp. The surprise was that those tunes halfway evoked the recent small-group music of Wynton Marsalis, whose center-lane aesthetic profile would seem to set him squarely at odds with Mr. Endsley. The connection was in the harmony, with its American classical inflections; it was also present in the obsessive attention paid to the mechanics of the rhythm section.
239 2011-05-10 He said he still offered a paper program to attendees but it had been trimmed to around a dozen pages from 50, with the remainder of the material going onto the app. He says he now brings two fewer staff members to each event, since the burden of distributing hard copies has been eliminated.

And his delegates have told him they love the convenience. “For us, it’s a really huge customer service thing,” he said. It helps that the attendees tend to be early technology adopters — about 40 percent brought iPads to the group’s March conference. Participants can use the app content to help them decide which seminars to attend, and they can keep a virtual eye on what else is going on at the event even while sequestered in a classroom because of the app’s real-time updates. “It stimulates engagement,” Mr. Holcombe said.

Greg Lohrentz, the chief operations officer of the trade association Meeting Professionals International, agreed that content-rich apps give event participants better access to information. “The tablet allows for that educational experience outside the room,” he said. While participants are sitting in a classroom, they can scroll through updates and Twitter feeds to find out what else is going on in other sessions or on the trade show floor, he said.

He predicted that apps would become mainstream as tablet adoption grows.

Jennifer Wilhelm, editor of digital media for the American Society for Training & Development, said she planned to offer an app that includes an iPad version for a conference in May that is expected to attract 8,000 people. The app will free her from the trouble and expense of printing handouts for three keynote speeches and roughly 200 education sessions, she said. Attendees will be able to follow along with a speaker’s PowerPoint presentations, take notes and fill out worksheets all within the app. “Viewing the slides and seeing any materials where there might be a worksheet is going to be huge on a tablet,” she said. At a smaller conference this year, Mrs. Wilhelm said roughly half the participants downloaded the mobile app.

Apps can also work for medical conferences, where delegates are given large amounts of information. Catherine Foss, executive director of the International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, said she loaded the equivalent of 183 pages of medical paper abstracts and other research documents onto an app for her biannual conference last year. The society still spent roughly $27,000 to print hard copies because attendees are in the habit of taking the books back to the office for reference, but Ms. Foss said she expected members to gradually make the transition to a digital format.

Mr. Holcombe, Mrs. Wilhelm and Ms. Foss were all clients of Ativ Software, an app developer that specializes in events. The company’s chief executive and co-founder, Silke Fleischer, characterized demand for mobile event apps as “exploding” because of their convenience. Ms. Fleischer said Ativ’s medical clients have up to 5,000 presentations housed in a mobile app that can be accessed or searched at users’ convenience.

Other developers are also aiming at tablets as the next frontier, building functions that will support more content. Jay Tokosch, chief executive of Core-Apps, the developer behind apps for big exhibitions like the Consumer Electronics Show, said tablets were a major reason that apps have gotten so popular. He added that about a quarter of the Apple users who download the company’s apps choose the iPad versions.

This type of tool cannot become mainstream fast enough for business travelers like Azita Arvani, a mobile technology consultant who travels an average of twice a month and typically brings half a dozen devices with her. Often, she said, she takes photographs of graphics displayed on projection screens to capture the information immediately, rather than trying to rapidly sketch it or waiting for the presentation to be available for downloading after the event.

“Tablets would be a perfect opportunity to take advantage of that big display size,” she said. “That would really help a lot.”
240 2011-05-10 Now researchers at Oxford, in and other universities are conducting studies with thousands of teenagers to determine whether those with overgeneral memory are more likely to develop depression later on. If so, then a seemingly innocuous quirk of memory could help foretell whether someone will experience mental illness.

“Based on everything we know of memory specificity and depression, there’s a good chance we will find these effects,” said Dirk Hermans, a research psychologist at the University of Leuven in who collaborates with Dr. Williams.

There are already some clues in this direction. In lab experiments Dr. Williams has induced an overgeneral style in subjects by coaching them to recall types of events (“when I drive to work”) rather than specific occasions (“when I drove to work last Saturday”). He found they were suddenly less able to solve problems, suggesting that overgeneral memory is capable of producing one symptom of depression.

And an unusual paper suggests that overgeneral memory is a risk factor for . Scientists at the University of New South Wales in , , assessed 46 firefighters during their initial training and again four years later, when all had experienced traumatic events like seeing comrades injured or killed. Those who could not recall the past in specific detail during the first assessment were much likelier to have developed the disorder by the later one.

“People with P.T.S.D. tend to ruminate at a very categorical, general level about how unsafe life is, or how weak I am, or how guilty I am,” said the lead author, Richard Bryant. “If I do that habitually and then I walk into a trauma, probably I’m going to be resorting to that way of thinking and it’s going to set me up for developing P.T.S.D.”

Dr. Williams stumbled across overgeneral memory by chance in the 1980s. He had asked research subjects to write down the memories elicited by certain cues, and when they left the page blank he thought he had given unclear instructions. Soon he began to wonder about the significance of the omissions.

Usually people seeking a particular memory traverse a mental hierarchy, Dr. Williams said. They begin by focusing on a general description (“playing ball with my brother”) and then narrow the search to a specific event (“last Thanksgiving”). Some people stop searching at the level of generality, however and are probably not conscious of having done so.

This is sometimes a helpful response, which is perhaps why overgeneral memory exists in the first place — it can be a useful way to block particular traumatic or painful memories. Researchers at Leuven discovered that students who did poorly on exams and were more specific took longer to recover from the disappointment than those who were more general. The overgeneral students thought less about the details of what happened and so fared better, at least in the short term.

Similarly, overgenerality has been found to be prevalent in Bosnian and Serbian teenagers exposed to the traumas of war. “Some people will discover at a certain stage that being overgeneral is a way of dampening emotional effects,” Dr. Hermans said.

But these researchers say problems can arise when overgenerality becomes an inflexible, blanket style.

Without detailed memories to draw upon, dispelling a black mood can seem impossible. Patients may remember once having felt happy, but cannot recall specific things that contributed to their happiness, like visiting friends or a favorite restaurant.

“If you’re unhappy and you want to be happy, it’s helpful to have memories that you can navigate through to come up with specific solutions,” Dr. Williams said. “It’s like a safety net.”

Some experts think such insights could also be helpful in treating depression. For example, Spanish researchers have reported that aging patients showed fewer symptoms of depression and hopelessness after they practiced techniques for retrieving detailed memories.

“When we have a disorder like depression, which is so common and so disabling for so many people, we need to increase the tools in our tool kit,” said Susan Mineka, a clinical psychologist working on a study by Northwestern University and the , that is testing for depression and anxiety risk factors, including overgeneral memory. “If we could change their overgeneral memory, maybe that would help even more people stay better for longer.”

Dr. Williams has found that specificity can be increased with training in mindfulness, a form of meditation increasingly popular in combating some types of depression. Subjects are taught to focus on moment-to-moment experiences and to accept their negative thoughts rather than trying to avoid them. It may help by making people more tolerant of negative memories and short-circuit the impulse to escape them, which can lead to overgenerality.

Meditation means that for some, the past is no longer such a heavy burden.

“I always tried to forget the past, the very bad past that made me depressed when my husband died,” said Carol Cattley, 76, who attended a mindfulness course here taught by Dr. Williams. “I’m much more interested in it now.”
241 2011-05-10 But is a child’s fascination with the screen a cause or an effect of attention problems — or both? It’s a complicated question that researchers are still struggling to tease out.

The kind of concentration that children bring to video games and television is not the kind they need to thrive in school or elsewhere in real life, according to Dr. Christopher Lucas, associate professor of child psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine. “It’s not sustained attention in the absence of rewards,” he said. “It’s sustained attention with frequent intermittent rewards.”

The child may be playing for points accumulated, or levels achieved, but the brain’s reward may be the release of the neurotransmitter dopamine. Children with A.D.H.D. may find video games even more gratifying than other children do because their dopamine reward circuitry may be otherwise deficient.

Indeed, at least one study has found that when children with A.D.H.D. were treated with methylphenidate (Ritalin), which increases dopamine activity in the brain, they played video games less. The authors suggested that video games might serve as a kind of self-medication for these children.

So increased screen time may be a consequence of A.D.H.D., but some researchers fear it may be a cause, as well. Some studies have found that children who spend more time in front of the screen are more likely to develop attention problems later on.

In a 2010 study in the journal Pediatrics, viewing more television and playing more video games were associated with subsequent attention problems in both schoolchildren and college undergraduates.

The stimulation that video games provide “is really about the pacing, how fast the scene changes per minute,” said Dr. Dimitri Christakis , a pediatrician at the University of Washington School of Medicine who studies children and media. If a child’s brain gets habituated to that pace and to the extreme alertness needed to keep responding and winning, he said, the child ultimately may “find the realities of the world underwhelming, understimulating.”

But a 2007 study in the journal Media Psychology compared television watching in a group of children diagnosed with A.D.H.D. and a group without. The researchers concluded that most differences were accounted for by family factors and environment, including whether the children had televisions in their bedrooms. A.D.H.D. by itself didn’t seem to make the difference. The connections between A.D.H.D. and screens, the authors concluded, were complex.

Elizabeth Lorch, a professor of psychology at the University of Kentucky and one of the authors of that study, also studied children’s ability to comprehend televised stories. While children with A.D.H.D. were able to recall facts from the stories they watched just as well as other children, there was a difference in their ability to understand the narrative and to separate out what was important.

“Why did an event happen, why did a character do this — that’s where the comprehension and recall of children with A.D.H.D. tends to fall down,” she said.

Her co-author Richard Milich, also a professor of psychology at the University of Kentucky, suggested that besides the primary implications of this problem for academic performance, this finding may also shed light on social difficulties.

“This inability to see causal relations may affect this social problem we’ve known for 30 years,” he said. “These kids have dramatic social problems. They’re highly rejected by their peers.”

It may be a self-perpetuating loop, experts say: Children who have trouble with their social skills may be thrown back even more to the screen for electronic companionship.

Children whose brains need neurochemical rewards seek out an activity that provides it. Children with social problems spend more time alone, facing a screen. Children struggling in the classroom develop mastery in a virtual world. I talk to parents of children with A.D.H.D. about basic dos and don’ts: No screens in the child’s bedroom. Pay attention to the content of the games, especially to violence. Set limits on screen time, and look for other ways to manage family interactions.

If I can’t tell parents what they hope to hear, at least I can argue that these children’s fascination with the glowing screen may teach us something about their brains, the neurobiology, the rewards, and even the yearning and learning.
242 2011-05-10 A new study confirms what many corporate road warriors already know: Frequent business travel takes a toll on one’s health.

Catherine A. Richards, a doctoral student in epidemiology at Columbia University, and her colleagues analyzed medical records and travel data on 13,057 patients provided by a company that performs physical exams for corporations.

Adults who spent 20 or more nights away from home each month were 2.5 times as likely to rate their health as poor or fair, compared with travelers away from home just one to six nights a month, according to the analysis, which was published in April in The Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine.

The most frequent travelers were also twice as likely to be obese as those who went out of town infrequently, the researchers found.

People who did not travel at all rated themselves as less healthy than light travelers, and they were 33 percent more likely to be obese. But their poor health was probably the reason they didn’t travel, said the study’s authors.

Ms. Richards said she hoped the analysis would encourage companies to take steps toward making exercise facilities and healthy food more widely available to business travelers.
243 2011-05-10 BANGKOK — The prime minister of Thailand said Monday that he had received the king’s approval to dissolve Parliament seven months early. He set elections for July 3.

The dissolution, planned for Tuesday, opened the way for the next round in a sometimes violent political battle between Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva’s military-backed Democrat Party and parties supporting the fugitive former prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted in a coup in 2006.

In a televised address, Mr. Abhisit said the election would allow voters to decide the future direction of the nation and would prove that Thailand can be governed by law rather than by the protests and military action that have caused continuing instability since the coup.

“I believe a dissolution of Parliament provides a new beginning for the people and progress for Thailand and for effective problem-solving process for the people and their families within the democratic system,” he said.

Although an election will take the country’s divisions from the streets into the political arena, analysts cautioned that it could touch off further protests by supporters of the losing side.
244 2011-05-10 Using maps and modeling, county emergency officials estimated that roughly 3,000 properties were likely to be affected by the flooding. And 2,000 more could be affected if the river rises another few feet, city officials said.

The authorities in Memphis have been going door to door for days in flood-prone parts of Shelby County, urging hundreds of residents to move to higher ground. By Monday, about 400 people were staying in three shelters in the area, though others have also left their homes.

“I couldn’t see myself being rescued from a rooftop,” said Lanette Coleman, who left her home in north Memphis on Friday and was staying in a hotel.

Ms. Coleman did not believe her house would flood, but with water starting to pool in parts of her neighborhood, she did not want to be trapped. She was also wary of having to face down snakes, stray dogs and other uninvited guests that are already starting to show up with the floodwaters. “I’ve never seen so many cats,” she said.

Among the pets at emergency shelters, the Shelby County Office of Preparedness reported, are 65 dogs, 18 cats, 15 puppies and, curiously, two ducks.

As the crest of the river rolls into Memphis, it has begun to recede in other hard-hit areas. Upriver in Tiptonville, Tenn., officials are waiting for the water to come down a little further so they can check on the estimated 75 homes damaged by flooding.

In , where the crest of the White River is slowly moving south, 16 towns have been affected by flooding, said Renee Preslar, a spokeswoman for the state emergency management agency.

The recent flooding has been responsible for at least three deaths in Arkansas, bringing to 18 the toll of people who have died in the state since a wave of heavy rains and storms came through on April 23.

Downriver, anxiety and preparations continued to mount. As some state prisoners were filling sand bags in Mississippi and , about 200 inmates at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola, which is bordered on three sides by the Mississippi, have been evacuated and more will move soon.

On Monday morning, before a crowd of onlookers, the Corps of Engineers partly opened the Bonnet Carré spillway, allowing some of the river to flow into Lake Pontchartrain and thus relieving pressure as the Mississippi approaches .

But with that not likely to be enough, corps officials have requested permission from the Mississippi River Commission, a federal advisory agency, to open the Morganza spillway in Louisiana. That spillway has been opened only once, in 1973, and even a partial opening would result in widespread flooding that would affect thousands of people in parts of southern Louisiana.

“It’s not a light decision,” said Bob Anderson, a corps spokesman, adding that certain measurements on the river would determine if and when the opening should take place. But, he said, “it’s the way the system was designed.”

Parish officials have been going door to door in communities that would flood, urging residents to move to higher ground.

But on Monday, the crest was having its moment in Memphis, bringing out-of-town gawkers and businesspeople on their lunch breaks to the riverfront to watch the river as it made its lazy way through town.

Even some whose homes sit in uneasy proximity to the floodwaters insisted on a front-row seat.

Cornelius Holliday, 62, who still lives in the house on North Stonewall Street where he was born and raised, said he was not about to move out now. The Wolf River has settled into his backyard, where it has swallowed an old Chevy and the makeshift kennel for his hunting dogs.

Two beagles, a coon hound and two 8-month-old pups have been evacuated, Mr. Holliday said, and if the Wolf makes a move toward the house, he will box things up and wait it out with his wife in the attic.

“When that water started to come, I put spikes in the ground,” he said. “I did my own measurement.” It was, he discovered, as high as forecasters were saying.

“In 62 years,” he said, “I’ve never seen it that bad.”
245 2011-05-10 Commodity prices recovered some of last week’s losses Monday, helping to lift the stocks of energy and materials companies. The broader market also rose despite new worries about Greece’s debt problems.

Oil prices again exceeded $100 a barrel and pushed energy stocks higher. Marathon Oil rose 5.3 percent. Baker Hughes, which helps companies drill for oil and gas, gained 3.4 percent.

Energy companies within the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose nearly 2 percent, the most among the 10 industries in the index. The index added 6.09 points, or 0.45 percent, to close at 1,346.29. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 45.94 points, or 0.36 percent, to 12,684.68. The Nasdaq composite index rose 15.69 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2,843.25.

The increase in commodity prices helped other industries as well.

Producers of metals and other materials rose 1.5 percent, second best among the S.& P. 500 groups, aided by a 5 percent increase in silver prices and a 3 percent increase in corn.

Metals and other commodities had steep losses last week, when silver tumbled 27 percent and oil sank 15 percent because of fears of weaker global demand and higher margin requirements.
246 2011-05-10 12:20 a.m. | Updated      Microsoft is in advanced talks to acquire Skype, which revolutionized telephone calls over the Internet, for $8.5 billion, including the assumption of debt, according to people involved in the negotiations....
247 2011-05-10 LOS ANGELES -- The irony was thick.     Alan Schwartz, the former chief executive of Bear Stearns who oversaw its near-demise and subsequent government-aided rescue, was here at Michael Milken's annual conference - a West Coast version of Davos fo...
248 2011-05-10 4:36 p.m. | Updated      Barclays and other British banks said on Monday that they would not challenge a court decision requiring them to compensate customers who had received incorrect advice when buying some personal insurance....
249 2011-05-11 The government won its biggest victory yet in its widening investigation of insider trading when Raj Rajaratnam was found guilty of fraud and conspiracy....
250 2011-05-11 Gene Monahan, the head trainer since 1962 and the longest-tenured employee in the organization, will retire after this season....
251 2011-05-11 Manosha Karunatilaka, a former employee of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, admitted participating in an insider trading scheme tied to Primary Global Research, an expert network firm....
252 2011-05-11 Google today announced Music: Beta, the company’s new cloud-based music service. What does it mean for consumers?...
253 2011-05-11 A look at some of the stars and filmmakers at the opening night of the Cannes International Film Festival....
254 2011-05-11 A look at some of the stars and filmmakers at the opening night of the Cannes International Film Festival....
255 2011-05-11 Four months after the Federal Communications Commission approved the merger of Comcast and NBC Universal, one of the commissioners who approved the deal said she would join Comcast to oversee its government affairs office....
256 2011-05-11 The job market still isn’t good, but at least it’s on its way back....
257 2011-05-11 The Seahawks’ Raheem Brock and Chester Pitts have some fun in a Comedy Central video crank-calling N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell....
258 2011-05-11 As Raj Rajaratnam left the federal courthouse in Manhattan, DealBook’s Peter Lattman and Azam Ahmed were on the scene to discuss the impact of his conviction on 14 counts of securities fraud and conspiracy....
259 2011-05-11 Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire chief of the Galleon Group hedge fund,  is the most prominent figure convicted in the government crackdown on Wall Street insider trading....
260 2011-05-11 The billionaire chief of the Galleon Group hedge fund is the most prominent figure convicted in the government's crackdown on insider trading on Wall Street....
261 2011-05-11 A crowd of about 30 people gathered to welcome Animal Kingdom, winner of the Kentucky Derby, to Fair Hill on Tuesday. The group was a mix of Fair Hill horsemen, fans and local news media....
262 2011-05-11 Doing the math on how much growth is enough — and how much is too much....
263 2011-05-11 Visa is preparing a service that will allow its customers to pay for items with a single click across the Web. It is another step toward the digital wallet....
264 2011-05-11 Prices of goods imported into the United States rose 2.2 percent in April, more than forecast, as a slumping dollar and growing economies overseas pushed up the cost of fuel and food.

The increase in the import-price index came after a revised 2.6 percent gain in March, according to figures from the Labor Department on Tuesday. Other reports showed distributors raised inventories and small businesses lost confidence.

The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase in import prices last month. Projections ranged from increases of 1 percent to 2.5 percent.

Compared with a year earlier, import prices increased 11 percent, exceeding the 10 percent increase projected by economists surveyed and the biggest 12-month gain in a year.

The increase in prices from overseas may put pressure on companies to pass on higher costs. The report on small businesses showed the share of those surveyed who planned to raise prices held in April at the highest level in 30 months.
265 2011-05-11 Sure, Skype is growing quickly. Monthly users increased 38 percent last year to 145 million, with the number of paying customers up 19 percent. And the total climbed to 170 million last month. To turn that operating income into a 10 percent annual return on investment, however, even on a pretax basis, it must grow fortyfold.

Microsoft can easily afford Skype. It had $50 billion of cash and short-term investments at the end of March. But it’s hard to see how the outlay, even from cash held overseas, is going to break even for the company’s shareholders. Microsoft was the biggest American loser of market capitalization on Tuesday, shedding more than $1.3 billion in value. That suggests investors in the software giant have a different verb in mind than Skype.

Call it headline risk. Bad press, with stressed state finances, hammered the debt of local governments last year. But the $3 trillion market was never in as bad shape as the doomsayers made out. Still, an improving market — gains in 18 of the last 19 trading sessions through Monday, according to Janney Capital Markets — isn’t immune to stumbles as dysfunctional states tackle budget problems.

Meredith Whitney, a financial analyst, last year made a controversial call that “hundreds of billions of dollars” of municipal bonds would go bad. That helped drive down the market in munis. Yet nothing looks remotely on track for disaster on the scale that Ms. Whitney predicted.

There are less than $10 billion of defaulted bonds outstanding, with just $28 million of those coming from the safest instruments like bonds backed by a state, according to Municipal Market Advisors. Another $22 billion are admittedly showing signs of stress and bear watching, especially if the domestic economy sputters again.

In the meantime, prices have recovered some of their losses and yields on the average AAA-rated 10-year municipal bond have dropped about 13 percent to 2.7 percent this year. Low Treasury rates stemming from the Federal Reserve’s easy monetary policy have helped, but so has a dearth of supply. A surge of issuance could soften the market.

Then there’s demand. Outflows from muni bond mutual funds have slowed. They are running around $1 billion a week, according to Lipper, a firm that tracks fund flows. That’s less than half the pace earlier this year. But a few more of those bad headlines could have investors reaching for their wheelbarrows again.

Though the market seems stable for now, the finances of states like California and Illinois have an outsize influence on investors. The next fiscal year begins on July 1 for 46 of the 50 states, and budget negotiations will gather intensity in the coming weeks. Throw in concern over the federal debt ceiling, and a few jitters, deserved or not, could easily rattle munis.
266 2011-05-11 Microsoft is betting that Skype can help change its fortunes. Skype is a leader in Internet voice and video communications, with 170 million users each month connected for more than 100 minutes on average. In the last year or two, video use has surged, now accounting for 40 percent of Skype’s traffic.

That large and active community of users represents a major asset, said Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive. “It’s an amazing customer footprint,” Mr. Ballmer said in an interview. “And Skype is a verb, as they say.”

Mr. Ballmer never mentioned Google, Microsoft’s archrival whose name is used as a verb for Internet search. In that market, Microsoft is spending heavily to try to catch Google, and making some progress with its Bing engine, but at great financial cost.

Google, like Skype, has a free Internet phone call and video messaging service. So Microsoft, analysts say, is taking a bold step to grab a leadership position instead of risking falling behind Google in a crucial market and then facing the difficult task of trying to catch up.

“Skype gives Microsoft instant size and scale in this emerging market,” said Howard Anderson, a senior lecturer at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The merger with Skype, if successful, could give Microsoft a leading consumer Internet service — something it has lacked — and help lift its other businesses, like smartphone software, Office productivity programs and Xbox video game consoles, analysts say.

In doing so, Microsoft aims to keep people seamlessly connected at work or at home. “We want to enable communications across people’s lives,” Mr. Ballmer said in a press conference in San Francisco.

Skype, founded in 2003, is a creation of the new technology that is transforming telecommunications. “For some time, it has been clear that telecommunications is going to move to all-digital Internet technology,” said Kevin Werbach, an associate professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a former official at the Federal Communications Commission. “Skype shows what can be done.”

Skype was founded by two entrepreneurs, one Swedish and one Danish, with software developed by a small team of programmers in Estonia. They deployed a version of peer-to-peer software, initially associated with illegal file-sharing of pirated music and movies. The voice and video travel over the Internet rather than dedicated phone landlines or cell tower networks.

Skype has had a bumpy ride as a business. EBay bought it for $2.6 billion in 2005, and then sold most of it to a private investors’ group in 2009, after eBay could not figure out how to make money on Skype.

Despite changes in ownership and management, Skype was a hit with users, offering mostly free calling between Skype users, while charging for some services to corporate users and for calls to traditional phone numbers. It also now sells advertisements.

Skype, based in Luxembourg, has recently made steady progress as a business. Its revenue rose 20 percent last year, to $860 million, and operating profit climbed to $264 million, though it had a net loss of $7 million after making its debt payments.

Skype also has built a formidable technical prowess. Most of its software programmers are in Tallinn, Estonia. “The secret sauce of Skype is its engineering team,” said Marc Andreessen, a founder of Netscape, which made the first commercial Internet browser, and one of the private investors in Skype. “These are world-class guys, every bit as good as anyone in Silicon Valley.”

Mr. Ballmer emphasized that Microsoft planned to expand Skype’s offerings and increase investment, and not cut back free offerings. Skype technology, he added, will help enhance Microsoft products. Mr. Ballmer said the Xbox Kinect, a game device with gesture-recognition features, could add Skype to become an at-home videoconferencing system. And Skype can also be linked to Microsoft’s business software including Office productivity programs and Lync, multimedia software for workers collaborating on projects.

Microsoft, whose growth has been lagging, could find a lucrative revenue stream in selling the service to companies. It might also benefit from placing advertisements on Skype. “There are a lot of great opportunities to optimize Skype services in Microsoft products,” Mr. Ballmer said.

Skype, analysts say, is evidence of the recent pattern of innovations coming first to the freewheeling consumer market — like instant messaging, social networks and video chat — and then cascading to businesses. “This deal is another sign of the consumerization of information technology,” said Ted Schadler, an analyst at Forrester Research.

The Microsoft-Skype deal, analysts suggest, also points to a rising wave of digital disruption in the telecommunications industry, as low-cost Internet-based communications put pressure on traditional carriers, especially their landline phone service. Says Mark R. Anderson, chief executive of the Strategic News Service, a technology newsletter, “The computer guys are going to teach the telecom carriers about the future of communications.”
267 2011-05-11 “My own kind of ideology, my own commitment to have an impact in the world in some capacity, makes me more inclined to work hard to see my kids do well,” Ms. Sherwood said.

Teachers who come to the city through special programs like or the New York City Teaching Fellows are susceptible to layoffs like anyone else, but people speaking for the programs said most of them were safe because their jobs were the ones the city had most difficulty filling, and thus held high-needs licenses (Ms. Sherwood has a general-education elementary license). According to a model the city prepared in February, all but a few hundred of those slated for layoff will have taught fewer than five years; about 650 of them are in their first or second year.

In a memorandum sent to the schools on Tuesday, Chancellor ordered a freeze on all personnel transactions, including requests for license changes and changes to service history that might affect seniority.

If Ms. Sherwood is typical of these teachers, she could also be a symbol for those, including Mr. Bloomberg, who are lobbying to repeal the state law, known as last in, first out. Bright, motivated, capable — 72 percent of her school’s students have scored at the proficient level in state science exams since she was chosen to run its science department in 2009 — she said she had been hoping to get tenure at the end of June and make a career in the city schools, but now is unsure.

Most of all, she wants to be judged on performance, not time on the job.

“I’ve gotten nothing but satisfactory reviews, the school’s administrators want me to work for them, I’ve demonstrated I’m effective in the classroom,” Ms. Sherwood said. “The reality of it is,” she added of more experienced teachers, “there are people out there who just got settled in and aren’t doing their jobs.”

The school where Ms. Sherwood works, Mott Hall V, on East 172nd Street in the Soundview section, is typical of those that would be hit hardest by the cuts. It is relatively new (it opened in 2005), and its staff is made up primarily of junior teachers; the principal, Peter Oroszlany, said 60 percent of them had spent five or fewer years in the classroom.

Virtually all of Mott Hall V’s 378 students are black or Hispanic; 87 percent are poor enough to qualify for the free lunch program. Nearly 1 in 5 do not speak English at home, and about the same number require special education services. Still, the school ranks No. 1 in math scores among middle schools in its district, and it received an A on the city’s progress report this year.

On the first day of school each fall, Ms. Sherwood makes a pledge to her students: “I guarantee that if you let me guide you and if you work hard, you’ll leave this class knowing more about science than you did when you arrived.”

Her approach is a mix of drilled discipline and freedom to be creative. She works Saturday mornings to help students prepare for the state’s standardized tests, and next month, one-third of the school’s eighth graders will take the science Regents exam, a requirement only in the ninth grade.

“Any step up they can take, any leg up we can give them, it’s worth the extra effort,” she said. “Their peers in the public schools in Chappaqua are getting all of those opportunities, and there’s no reason my kids in the shouldn’t.”

Ms. Sherwood also led the charge to redo the school’s science curriculum, focusing instruction in each grade on one topic, like earth or life sciences. She is helping to start the school’s first newspaper. In class, she pushes the students to take ownership of the material, encouraging them to frame lessons as they like: last year, one group turned a presentation on how the planets influence the seasons into a newscast; another made it a video.

“We have to let children explore the beauty of what they’re learning,” she said, “not spoon-feed knowledge they’re supposed to memorize.”

Ms. Sherwood called layoffs “a Band-Aidfix” for the city’s budget problems, but said that if they were necessary, performance should decide who got to stay and who had to go. Last year, she joined Educators 4 Excellence, a group of teachers who advocate for merit-based pay, an evaluation system that takes into account students’ test scores, and the strengthening of tenure requirements.

As news of the impending layoffs began to sink in, Ms. Sherwood found herself thinking back to her college graduation, when some of her relatives told her she was too smart to become a teacher, as opposed to, say, a doctor or an engineer.

“Didn’t they all need teachers,” she noted, “to learn what they needed to do their jobs?”
268 2011-05-11 Then there are the two eighth-grade girls who did not survive on March 11, when the earthquake and tsunami left more than 1,600 people dead or missing in this town of 15,000. Tiny bouquets of small blue flowers were set on their empty desks.

“I feel they are here with us, somewhere,” said Mr. Ono, 55, the principal of Otsuchi Middle School, whose students are now being bused across a mountain to Kirikiri after the tsunami gutted their school. “They want us to persevere.”

Despite the sorrow and loss, Mr. Ono and the others seem determined to maintain an almost defiant cheerfulness. As busloads of Otsuchi Middle School’s students arrived at Kirikiri on a recent morning, Mr. Ono and a half-dozen teachers stood at the entrance, welcoming students with loud greetings of “Good morning!” The students bowed back, some smiling bashfully or trading quick jokes with teachers.

Throughout the day, teachers constantly urged students to smile and “persevere” — or “ganbaru,” a word frequently heard in Japan these days.

The teachers said that while the school was now far from an ideal learning environment, it was important to bring the children back. They said they wanted school to offer students an escape from the stresses of living in refugee shelters, and a chance to share with peers their experiences during the disaster.

“These are students who have lost homes and parents,” said Noriko Sasaki, 36, a seventh-grade English teacher, who greeted students. “School allows them to come back to something familiar and safe.”

“I usually don’t like school, but I wanted to come this time to talk about where we were during the tsunami,” said Kiyoshi Kimura, 14, an eighth grader who said his house had been destroyed and several relatives killed.

He shared his memories of the tsunami almost eagerly with classmates in a narrow hallway.

“It was more like an approaching cloud than a wall of water,” he exclaimed, referring to the dust the waves kicked up as they toppled buildings in their path.

Kota Iwai, 14, was a classmate of one of the girls who was killed. While he was sad about her death, he was happy to get away from the refugee shelter in an elementary school gymnasium where he and his family have slept since losing their home.

“I haven’t seen my friends since the tsunami,” he said. “We were all scattered.”

Many teachers said they hoped reopening the school would be therapeutic not only for the students, but also for the town. A kind of stunned silence seems to linger over Otsuchi, where the tsunami destroyed more than half of the town and killed the mayor.

“The sight of children going to school is one small step toward bringing the town back to normal,” said Gouei Kanno, 38, who teaches seventh-grade social studies.

Mr. Kanno and other teachers said one of the biggest challenges was watching for signs of emotional difficulties among students. Teachers said they received two hours of training on post-traumatic stress and identifying symptoms, including overly excited talking and angry outbursts.

“We have our antennae out,” said Mr. Kanno, whose own house survived because he lives inland.

Another concern was whether students from Otsuchi Middle School, which was in a more industrial part of the town, would get along with those at Kirikiri, a sleepy fishing neighborhood. To prevent fights or bullying, a constant problem at Japanese schools, the two schools will have separate classes.

Still, to break the ice and create an environment of mutual support for the traumatized children, the schools asked the students to organize their own opening ceremony. The Japanese-style cheerleading squads from the two schools greeted each other in the newly disinfected gym to the boom of taiko drums.

“Welcome, welcome, Otsuchi Middle School!” bellowed the boy who led the Kirikiri squad, as he punched the air in an elaborate, pantomimed fight.

“Our school was washed away! Let’s persevere together!” the leader of the Otsuchi squad yelled in reply.

Later, Mr. Ono, the Otsuchi Middle School principal, told his students to be on their good behavior because they were sharing a crowded school. All of Kirikiri’s extra space, including the art room and library, has been converted into classrooms.

The students were lined up to massage one another’s shoulders, in a show of group support. Later in gym class, students played a game of “warm-feeling dodgeball,” in which stronger students helped weaker ones.

“Many of us lost our homes and possessions in an instant,” Megumi Nakagawa, 45, an English teacher, told the Otsuchi students. “The important thing now is taking a first step toward something brighter.”
269 2011-05-11 “Lost in the School Choice Maze” (news article, May 8) accurately describes the dreadful, chaotic process that exists for entering public high school in New York City. The system is full of loopholes and inconsistencies, and clearly favors the well-educated, upper middle class.

Having gone through it twice with two children, I can attest that the proper name for the system should be “No Parent Left Standing.”
270 2011-05-11 The name alone conjures greasepaint and gaslights and the Ghosts of Theater Past. Dion Boucicault, the 19th-century Irish playwright and actor, was popular in Britain and America with melodramas like “The Colleen Bawn,” one of the most successful plays of the time; “The Octoroon”; and “The Shaughraun,” now at the Irish Repertory Theater in a lively, loving production.

“In the galleries the enthusiasm was unreserved; in the stalls and boxes, people smiled a little at the hackneyed sentiments and claptrap situations, and enjoyed the play as much as the galleries did.”

That’s Edith Wharton, writing in “The Age of Innocence” about “The Shaughraun,” and her assessment stands. Eager to entertain, “The Shaughraun” (1874) is one of those sturdy theatrical vehicles that’s hard to resist.

Set in County Sligo, Ireland, the play has healthy doses of comedy mixed in with the melodrama. There’s also action — fights! a jailbreak! — plenty of romance, a bit of singing and dancing, a dog, plots and counterplots, and characters pulled from the trunk of dramatic types: a dastardly villain, a strapping hero. (This more-is-more aesthetic persists in contemporary Bollywood, where Boucicault could easily find employ.)

The story revolves around a wrongly accused convict, Robert Ffolliott (Kevin O’Donnell), who has escaped from Australia and sneaked back into Ireland. While searching for Robert, the courtly English officer Molineux (Mark Shanahan, an excellent comic) falls for his sister, Claire (Allison Jean White), who is about to be evicted from Robert’s estate, along with Robert’s lady love, Arte (Katie Fabel). The agent of everyone’s distress is Kinchela (Sean Gormley, just right), who holds the lease to the estate and, of course, has designs on Arte.
271 2011-05-11 The effect that substitute players can have on an ensemble’s character probably varies according to the size of the group in question. Orchestras use subs on a regular basis, sometimes for extended periods, with no great impact on corporate identity. But for full-time chamber groups, consistent chemistry is a key attribute. It would be hard to imagine a prominent string quartet, for instance, soldiering on for more than a few outings with a pinch-hitter.

With that in mind, you could quibble over whether a concert by the string sextet Concertante at Merkin Concert Hall on Monday evening was billed accurately. One member left the group last season and has yet to be replaced. Two others had scheduling conflicts. A fourth, the violist Rachel Shapiro, withdrew from the concert following the death on April 6 of her mother, Linda Shapiro Chemtob, Concertante’s founding executive director.

Instead, performing alongside two ensemble members, the violinist Xiao-Dong Wang and the cellist Alexis Pia Gerlach, were four ringers: the violinist Lisa Shihoten, the violists Danielle Farina and Mark Holloway and the cellist Wendy Sutter.

As substitutes go, this was strong casting, a testament to the depth and breadth of New York’s teeming freelance pool. And any concerns about cohesion were dispelled by a rendition of Prokofiev’s Sonata for Two Violins that was not just polished and proficient but brimming with complementary nuance and brio. Prokofiev’s paradoxical balancing act — melancholy whimsy, distrustful jollity — is not mastered easily; Mr. Wang and Ms. Shihoten nailed it.

“Arcana,” by Kevin Puts, emerged during Concertante’s One Plus Five project in which, over three seasons, the sextet unveiled six commissioned works, each featuring one of its members. Inspired by a dreamy Hawaiian vista crowned by the volcano Haleakala, the concise, handsomely wrought piece was more evocative than picturesque; Ms. Gerlach, the star player, waxed effusive and contemplative, buoyed or buffeted by colleagues who sometimes snatched and mimicked her gestures.

The concert ended with a vibrant account of Tchaikovsky’s Sextet in D minor (“Souvenir de Florence”), a deceptively breezy work that improbably juggles all that we treasure about Tchaikovsky. The frolicsome initial Allegro merges bulk and bounce. The Allegretto smuggles presentiments of “Pathétique” gloom among vivacious dance moves: “Death in Florence,” let’s say. The finale’s lively fugue is leavened with slashing rhythms, then unseated by distant echoes of “1812”-style bombast.
272 2011-05-11 WASHINGTON — A conservative group formed with help from the Republican strategist Karl Rove has jumped into a special Congressional election in upstate New York that has become important to the two major parties.

The group, American Crossroads, is beginning a $350,000 advertising campaign to support Jane L. Corwin, the Republican running for the vacant House seat representing New York’s 26th Congressional District.

Ms. Corwin has lost ground in opinion polls in recent weeks as her Democratic opponent, Kathy Hochul, has sharply criticized a deficit-cutting plan adopted by House Republicans that calls for overhauling Medicare.

Even as Ms. Hochul, the Erie County clerk, argues that the Republican plan poses a risk to older residents, Ms. Corwin, a state assemblywoman, has defended it, saying the plan is a way to reduce the federal deficit.

American Crossroads’ involvement reflects the campaign’s growing national prominence, with top Democrats trying to turn it into a referendum on the policies Republicans are championing in Washington. On Monday, the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, campaigned in the district for Ms. Corwin.
273 2011-05-11 She said she would wait until officials from the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund completed their assessment of Greece’s progress, particularly concerning how it was carrying out its “bold reforms.” That report is due in June.

“First we need to hear what the status is,” Mrs. Merkel told reporters in Berlin. “Only then can I decide what, if anything, needs to be done. We don’t do Greece any favors by speculating about more aid.”

She said that Greece had made progress over the last year and that it was always known that “it would be a difficult path.” But she said efforts to improve competitiveness and reduce deficits must continue. “Every country should continue with them,” she said.

Mrs. Merkel faced enormous pressure at home last year not to grant a single euro in aid to Greece until Athens agreed to a tough austerity package and a radical savings program across the public sector.

While such public opposition has subsided, Mrs. Merkel now faces opposition within her own coalition. The Free Democrats, her junior partners, want to push through a motion at their party congress this weekend to prevent any more rescue packages for indebted euro states.

Mrs. Merkel brushed aside this opposition, saying she was convinced the Free Democrats would support the overall package.

Indeed, with Philipp Rösler expected to be elected the new leader of the Free Democrats this weekend — succeeding the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle — and also taking over the Economics Ministry, Mrs. Merkel can expect more unity inside the coalition, government officials said Tuesday.

A new plan may include pushing back Greece’s budget goals, giving it additional aid and mildly restructuring its sovereign debt, officials and analysts have said.

Irish officials insist that their country’s debt burden, expected by the I.M.F. to peak at 125 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, is manageable — for now.

A leading Irish economist wrote in The Irish Times on Saturday that the country’s debt would hit 250 billion euros by 2014, bringing Ireland’s debt-to-G.D.P. ratio closer to Greece’s. The economist, Morgan Kelly, who has been called Ireland’s Doctor Doom for his gloomy predictions, said the country faced bankruptcy because of the European Union and I.M.F. bailout.

Mr. Kelly accused Patrick Honohan, Ireland’s central bank governor, of putting the European Central Bank’s interests over those of Ireland, which Mr. Honohan denied.

“The heavy debt and the growth of that debt is a serious problem and needs to be managed in discussion and in negotiation with our European partners,” Mr. Honohan said in an interview with the state broadcaster RTE.

Pat Rabbitte, the Irish energy minister, told RTE that the interest rate of 5.8 percent that Ireland is paying on its European loans “must be reduced, and in my own view the debt must also be rescheduled.”

Prime Minister Enda Kenny said in Dublin on Tuesday that talks on reducing that rate were under way with Ireland’s European partners.

European finance ministers will take up the issue on Monday and Tuesday in Brussels. Irish officials are hoping for a reduction of one percentage point.

“After the meeting next week, we will know whether a conclusion can be reached,” Mr. Kenny said, according to Reuters.

German officials, however, backed by the French, have been seeking some concession from the Irish in return for a reduction like the one given earlier to Greece, particularly regarding Ireland’s relatively low corporate tax rate. The Germans want the Irish to come up with some initiative, like agreeing to work on realigning the corporate tax base.
274 2011-05-11 But the tributaries and creeks, deluged with backwater flowing from the Mississippi, are escaping their in suburbs and mobile home parks in and surrounding Shelby County.

Using maps and modeling, county emergency officials estimated that roughly 3,000 properties were likely to be affected by the flooding. And 2,000 more could be affected if the river rises another few feet, city officials said.

The authorities in Memphis have been going door to door for days in flood-prone parts of Shelby County, urging hundreds of residents to move to higher ground. By Monday, about 400 people were staying in three shelters in the area, though others have also left their homes.

“I couldn’t see myself being rescued from a rooftop,” said Lanette Coleman, who left her home in north Memphis on Friday and was staying in a hotel.

Ms. Coleman did not believe her house would flood, but with water starting to pool in parts of her neighborhood, she did not want to be trapped. She was also wary of having to face down snakes, stray dogs and other uninvited guests that are already starting to show up with the floodwaters. “I’ve never seen so many cats,” she said.

Among the pets at emergency shelters, the Shelby County Office of Preparedness reported, are 65 dogs, 18 cats, 15 puppies and, curiously, two ducks.

As the crest of the river rolled into Memphis, it began to recede in other hard-hit areas. Upriver in Tiptonville, Tenn., officials are waiting for the water to come down a little more so they can check on the estimated 75 homes damaged by flooding.

In , where the crest of the White River is slowly moving south, 16 towns have been affected by flooding, said Renee Preslar, a spokeswoman for the state emergency management agency.

The recent flooding has been responsible for at least three deaths in Arkansas, bringing to 18 the toll of people who have died in the state since a wave of heavy rains and storms came through on April 23.

Downriver, anxiety and preparations continued to mount. As some state prisoners were filling sand bags in Mississippi and , about 200 inmates at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola, which is bordered on three sides by the Mississippi, have been evacuated and more will move soon.

On Monday morning, before a crowd of onlookers, the Army Corps of Engineers partly opened the Bonnet Carré spillway, allowing some of the river to flow into Lake Pontchartrain and thus relieving pressure as the Mississippi approaches .

But that is not likely to be enough, and corps officials have requested permission from the Mississippi River Commission, a federal advisory agency, to open the Morganza spillway in Louisiana. That spillway has been opened only once, in 1973, and even a partial opening would result in widespread flooding that would affect thousands of people in parts of southern Louisiana.

“It’s not a light decision,” said Bob Anderson, a corps spokesman, adding that certain measurements on the river would determine if and when the opening should take place. But, he said, “it’s the way the system was designed.”

Parish officials have been going door to door in communities that would flood, urging residents to move to higher ground.

But on Monday, the crest was having its moment in Memphis, bringing out-of-town gawkers and businesspeople on their lunch breaks to the riverfront to watch the river as it made its lazy way through town.

Even some whose homes sit in uneasy proximity to the floodwaters insisted on a front-row seat.

Cornelius Holliday, 62, who still lives in the house on North Stonewall Street where he was born and raised, said he was not about to move out now. The Wolf River has settled into his backyard, where it has swallowed an old Chevy and the makeshift kennel for his hunting dogs.

Two beagles, a coon hound and two 8-month-old puppies have been evacuated, Mr. Holliday said, and if the Wolf makes a move toward the house, he will box things up and wait it out with his wife in the attic.

“When that water started to come, I put spikes in the ground,” he said. “I did my own measurement.” It was, he discovered, as high as forecasters were saying.

“In 62 years,” he said, “I’ve never seen it that bad.”
275 2011-05-11 Heavy gunfire was also heard Tuesday in at least four southern villages, including Inkhil, Dael, Jassem, Sanamein and Nawa. Activists reported casualties though the numbers were difficult to ascertain, given the difficulties in communication and the Syrian government’s suppression of independent news gathering. Phones have been cut in most besieged towns and cities.

The military operations came as activists called for daily protests across the country on the Facebook page of Syrian Revolution 2011, an Internet-based opposition group.

“The Tuesday of solidarity with prisoners of conscience in the jails of the Syrian criminal regime,” the page said. “The demonstration will continue every day.”

In the capital, Damascus, security forces reinforced their presence, setting up more checkpoints and sending out more patrols, residents there reported. The measures came after 250 people, including university students and professionals, staged a small demonstration on Monday night in Arnoua Square in the heart of the city. The protesters, holding banners that read, “Stop the siege on our cities,” and, “A national dialogue is the solution,” were quickly dispersed by plainclothes police officers. Thirty-two of them were detained, Mr. Tarif said.

Protesters in Homs said they are planning a demonstration, even as the city reels under heavy security measures.

“We are changing strategies,” said Abu Haydar, a resident in Homs reached by phone. “We don’t want to reveal the location of our gathering. We want to surprise the security forces.” At least two neighborhoods have been completely isolated, with phones, electricity and water cut and no one allowed to enter or leave, Mr. Haydar said.

The army was also conducting operations in cities along the Mediterranean coast, including Baniyas and Jabla, both under siege for several days. In Baniyas, 63 people have been arrested since Monday night, bringing the total number arrested since Saturday to 419, Mr. Tarif said.

Meanwhile, Dorothy Parvaz, a reporter who works for Al Jazeera English, the Qatar-based satellite channel, left Syria aboard a Ukrainian Airways flight headed to Iran on May 1, Bouthaina Shaaban, an adviser to Mr. Assad, said on Monday. She said Ms. Parvaz had entered the country on April 29 on her Iranian passport.

Al Jazeera has reported that she was detained by Syrian authorities and, in an e-mailed statement Tuesday, it said it had nothing new to add.
276 2011-05-11 When Joyce Carol Oates's memoir, ''A Widow's Story,'' came out in February, some reviewers took her to task for not mentioning that 13 months after the death of her husband, Raymond Smith, in February 2008, she remarried. Writing in The New York R...
277 2011-05-11 RIENDEAU--Emile C.,Died with a song in his heart on Saturday, May 7, 2011. Emile was born in Bristol, CT the son of the late Wilfred and Yvonne (Taillon). He enjoyed homes in New York City, Fire Island Pines, NY, Atlantic City, NJ and Sarasota, FL...
278 2011-05-11 James B. Stewart, a Pulitzer prize-winning reporter and author of several best-sellers on the business world, will become a columnist for the Business Day section of The New York Times, the paper announced on Tuesday.     Mr. Stewart will take the...
279 2011-05-11 For those of us who don't have the $625 (or the upper-body strength) to buy ''Modernist Cuisine,'' the six-volume, 40-pound high-tech food encyclopedia released with great fanfare last month, the 12 pages of corrections and clarifications that wen...
280 2011-05-12 Images from an exhibition at the Newark Museum....
281 2011-05-12 Jon M. Huntsman Jr.’s views on gay rights are very close to those of the typical Republican voter — closer than those of someone like Tim Pawlenty....
282 2011-05-12 The Senate majority leader says, “Divided government is the best time — and some would argue the only time — where you can do really big stuff.”...
283 2011-05-12 A new sign that detects drivers’ speeds, will flash a skeleton to those who are going faster than the limit — 30 m.p.h. Also, the city will experiment with a slower speed limit in some areas....
284 2011-05-12 “The Book of Mormon” will open its tour in Denver, in the home state of two of the show’s creators, Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the creators of “South Park.” Other Broadway hits that have announced tour itineraries recently include “Me...
285 2011-05-12 “A major thrust of the Dodd-Frank Act is addressing the too-big-to-fail problem and mitigating the threat to financial stability,” the Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told Congress....
286 2011-05-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
287 2011-05-12 The chairman of Oaktree Capital Management, in his newly minted 192-page book, weaves excerpts from two decades’ worth of the client memos into a single volume, dispensing gobs of investing insights obtained over a 42-year career....
288 2011-05-12 The Government Accountability Office says that neither technical nor safety issues led the Obama administration to terminate a plan to store nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain....
289 2011-05-12 Yale University is opening its digital image archive online to the public for free....
290 2011-05-12 The French have made no secret of their love for Woody Allen, and they flocked to the Palais des Festivals for the premiere of “Midnight in Paris” at this year’s typically surreal Cannes Film Festival....
291 2011-05-12 Treasury Department officials are planning a secondary offering of General Motors shares for late summer or early fall — later than many investors had expected....
292 2011-05-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
293 2011-05-12 Of course, it’s important for the long-term success of any entity — city or small business — to not buy into its own public relations....
294 2011-05-12 Several factors have depressed the company’s shares. In recent months, A.I.G.’s biggest remaining operating unit, renamed Chartis, has posted losses on earthquake claims from Japan and New Zealand. It has had to bolster its reserves too.

The company’s share price has also fallen sharply since the issuance in January of a warrant that allowed shareholders to buy stock for $45 a share. The warrant had been announced in October to encourage investors to hold the stock while the Treasury executed a series of restructuring transactions. Until January, the value of the warrant was included in A.I.G.’s stock price.

“You’re now selling this stock at one-half of what it was selling for just a few months ago,” Kenneth Steiner, the owner of 600 A.I.G. shares, told the board at the annual meeting. “What’s happened here is a real shame and a real tragedy, and it’s only being made worse now by this dilutive offering.”

From a 2011 high of $61.18 in January, A.I.G.’s stock closed at $30.65 on Wednesday in regular trading, up $1.03 for the day.

Treasury officials have said that taxpayers will break even as long is A.I.G. can sell its stake for at least $28.72 a share. The price on the first tranche will be determined in part by demand as the company and its bankers begin a road show to market the shares. The big banks underwriting the deal are said to want a lower price, in hopes of maximizing how much they will make on the sale.

Mr. Steiner, the investor, said he considered it unfair for the company to announce stock offering terms suddenly at an annual meeting, depriving investors of information that they could analyze to decide whether to support the current management.

He said that the stock would be offered at two-thirds of A.I.G.’s book value, about $47 a share, “way below what most insurers would have sold their stock at.”

A.I.G.’s chairman, Steve Miller, said the board had decided to go ahead because a broader shareholder base would be helpful. The stock would then be less vulnerable to the sharp price swings that plague thinly traded stocks. That, in turn, could encourage more investors to buy, and the stock would eventually rebound.

He added that the Treasury’s portion of the sale was not dilutive, because it would not increase the number of shares outstanding — it would simply shift a block of shares from the government to many owners.

Along with paying down the Treasury line of credit, the company said that $550 million of its proceeds would go to settle a lawsuit filed by three Ohio pension funds in 2004.

The current chief executive, Robert H. Benmosche, said the company could not begin paying dividends to shareholders until all the Treasury’s holdings were sold. He suggested shareholders might recover some value as soon as 2012 or 2013, when A.I.G. could begin to buy back some of the shares now being put on the market.
295 2011-05-12 Within the military, the breeds of choice are generally the German shepherd and a Belgian shepherd, or Malinois, but Marines in Afghanistan rely on pure-bred Labrador retrievers because of the dogs’ good noses and nonaggressive, eager-to-please temperaments. Labs now accompany many Marine foot patrols in Helmand Province in southern Afghanistan, wandering off-leash 100 yards or more in front as bomb detectors. It is the vital work of an expensively trained canine (the cost to the American military can be as high as $40,000 per dog), but at the end of a sweltering day, sometimes a Lab is still a Lab.

Last spring on a patrol in Helmand’s Garmsir District, a Lab, Tango, was leading a small group of Marines on a dirt road leading into a village when the dog suddenly went down on all fours, wagging his tail — a sign that he had detected explosives nearby. The patrol froze as a Marine explosives team investigated. No bomb was found and the patrol continued, but on the way back the dog, miserable in the 102-degree heat and like most Labrador retrievers a good swimmer, abandoned his duties and leaped into an irrigation canal to cool off. But then he could not climb back up the steep bank. One of the Marines, swearing lustily, finally jumped into the canal and carried the dog out in his arms.

The that grow in battle between the Labs and their Marine handlers are already the stuff of heart-tugging war stories. But few have had the emotional impact of that of Pfc. Colton W. Rusk, a 20-year-old Marine machine gunner and dog handler who was killed in December by sniper fire in Sangin, one of the most deadly areas in Helmand. During his deployment, Private Rusk sent his parents a steady flow of pictures and news about his beloved bomb dog, Eli, a black Lab. When Private Rusk was shot, Marine officers told his parents, Eli crawled on top of their son to try to protect him.

The 3-year-old Eli, the first name of the survivors listed in Private Rusk’s obituary, was retired early from the military and adopted in February by Private Rusk’s parents, Darrell and Kathy Rusk. “He’s a big comfort to us,” Kathy Rusk said in a telephone interview from her home in Orange Grove, Tex. After the dog’s ceremony in February at Lackland Air Force Base, an event that generated enormous news coverage in Texas, the Rusks brought Eli for the first time into their home. “The first place he went was Colton’s room,” Mrs. Rusk said. “He sniffed around and jumped up on his bed.”

So far, 20 Labrador retrievers out of the 350 have been killed in action since the Marine program began, most in explosions of homemade bombs, Marine officials said. Within the , the home of the dog that went on the Bin Laden mission, some 34 dogs were killed in the line of duty between 2006 and 2009, said Maj. Wes Ticer, a spokesman. Like their handlers, dogs that survive go on repeat deployments, sometimes as many as four. Dogs retire from the military at the age of 8 or 9.

To an American public weary of nearly 10 years of war, dogs are a way to relate, as the celebrity status of the still-unknown commando dog proved. ( is one of the few Americans to have met the dog, in a closed-door session with the Seal team last week.)

Few understand the appeal of dogs in battle better than Rebecca Frankel, the deputy managing editor of . Last week, she posted a “War Dog” photo essay, with her favorite pictures of dogs jumping out of helicopters, skydiving from 30,000 feet and relaxing with Marines. The photo essay went viral, with 6.5 million page views to date — a record for the site.

“I think people go weak at the knees for these dogs,” Ms. Frankel said in an interview. “I do, too. But their contribution is significant. These are serious dogs.”
296 2011-05-12 Their story is in some ways an antidote to a string of philandering male politicians. But it is a topic that Mr. Daniels does not relish delving into, several friends said. And it has been one of the factors as he weighs whether to run for president, a rare position where scrutiny begins and privacy ends whether or not one gets the job.

The marriages of many political figures break up after they leave office — the latest example coming this week with the announcement of and ’s separation — but the Daniels case provides a different look at the intersection of public and private lives.

The deliberations about whether Mr. Daniels will join the Republican presidential race have elevated from whispers to headlines in recent weeks as fund-raisers, activists and party leaders have openly lamented the party’s slate of candidates already in the race.

Even while acknowledging that her appearance at the party gathering on Thursday would lead to speculation about his political intentions, he sought to play down its significance.

“Cheri hasn’t even attended one of these, let alone appeared at one of them,” he said in a recent interview. He added, “Tea leaves started getting read — and I get it.”

Mr. Daniels has declined to say what his wife thinks about the idea of him running for president.

“I’m not going to speak either to that or for her, and it’s kind of between us,” he told reporters here the other day. “But I’ll just say, I love her and I love the family we’ve got, and you don’t lightly trifle with that.”

A group of top Republican contributors met with Mr. Daniels in this week. Even in a private session, one participant said, he did not disclose whether his family had signed off on the notion of a presidential campaign. He argued that he believes he could beat , but did not leave them with a strong sense that he is intent on running.

But the timing of the speech by Mrs. Daniels, and the fact that she agreed to make her debut before a crowd of more than 1,000 people and a live national cable television audience, has intensified the speculation about a presidential run.

A springtime of debate about whether he will jump in has developed into the talk of the town, with the front-page of The Indianapolis Star on Wednesday asking, “Is Cheri Daniels ready to take the plunge?”

“This is the most anticipated political address by a first lady in Indiana history,” said Brian Howey, editor of the influential newsletter Howey Politics Indiana. “I suspect it’s going to be more about love and life, food drives and elementary school literacy programs than 21st century presidential politics, but in the mystery of Mitch and his possible presidential aspirations, it will be another piece in a very intricate puzzle.”

Indeed, Republicans here do not expect Mrs. Daniels to talk directly about the presidential ambitions of her husband. (Except, one friend said, to poke a bit of fun at him.) She also has never publicly discussed their divorce and is not expected to suddenly do so in the not-so-intimate setting of a hotel ballroom filled with political activists.

In conversations here this week, several Republicans who are supportive of a presidential bid by Mr. Daniels said they hoped his wife saw the outpouring of enthusiasm for his candidacy at the dinner and that it became a factor in their decision. Family permission for Mr. Daniels does not pave the way to the White House — or even ensure that he would win the party’s nomination — but it is a first step that Republicans are watching for as a signal of his intentions.

As the first lady of Indiana, Mrs. Daniels, 61, has promoted literacy, health and fitness programs. She also won a third-place ribbon in a cow-milking contest last August at the Indiana State Fair and threw out the first pitch at the opening game of the Indianapolis in April. (A longtime baseball fan, she is the granddaughter of Billy Herman, a Hall of Fame second baseman who played for the and the .)

Mr. Daniels said he would decide whether to join the presidential race in the coming weeks.

If he does run, Republicans here believe, Mrs. Daniels will not dramatically change the distant role she has played in his previous campaigns or during his time at the White House as political director to President and budget director to President . She explained her reasoning in a 2005 interview with Indianapolis Woman magazine, saying, “They did not ask me to sit in on the job interview.”

“I saw the campaign the same way,” she said, “as an interview.”
297 2011-05-12 Two Tibetan monks from a restive monastery have been sentenced to three years in prison during a two-month crackdown in Sichuan Province, and about 300 monks taken away in April from the same monastery are still in detention, according to a report by the International Campaign for Tibet, an advocacy group based outside China. The two monks, both from the Kirti Monastery, are Losang Dargye, 31, and Konchok Tsultrim, 33; they were arrested separately in the last two months, the group said. Chinese security forces began surrounding Kirti Monastery in March, when a young monk, Phuntsog, died after setting himself on fire to protest Chinese policies. Local officers have declined to comment.
298 2011-05-12 Crews worked to shore up levees along the swelling Mississippi River on Wednesday as floodwaters threatened to swamp even more of the fertile Mississippi Delta. The crest rolled south after hitting the high mark on Tuesday in Memphis just inches short of the record set in 1937. Some low-lying neighborhoods were inundated, but high levees protected much of the rest of the city. In Rena Lara, Miss., an unincorporated town of about 500 where dump trucks have been hauling gravel from dawn to dusk to shore up the levee, people were uneasy on Wednesday. Public officials are trying to assure them that they expect the levee to hold and that they will give them plenty of notice if they need to leave. Gov. Haley Barbour urged holdouts to head for higher ground. “The biggest danger is that they choose not to evacuate, assuming there’ll be someone to rescue them,” Mr. Barbour said, noting that emergency teams could be endangered as well. Downstream in Louisiana, inmates filled sandbags to protect property in Cajun swamp communities that could be flooded if engineers open a spillway to protect the more densely populated Baton Rouge area.
299 2011-05-12 UNITED NATIONS — Kuwait replaced Syria on Wednesday on an uncontested slate of countries seeking seats on the United Nations’ main human rights body after an outcry over the violent crackdown on domestic dissent by the government of President Bashar al-Assad.

The Asian bloc, which reserves a seat for an Arab country, will present the nominees for the May 20 vote for new members of the 47-nation Human Rights Council. The Asian group had nominated Syria, India, Indonesia and the Philippines. But the bloc drew the ire of other countries, mostly Western nations, which contended that electing Syria to the council would be unacceptable given the mounting death toll and mass arrests of protesters in the country.
300 2011-05-12 “I think there are a number of issues that athletes or people in prominent sports roles just shouldn’t take a position on because opinions on those issues are so split down the middle,” said Jim Scherr, the former chief executive of the U.S.O.C. who now runs a sports marketing firm in Colorado. “You have to advise them that they should only take a position on certain things if they don’t care about the economic consequences. For example, if I were them, I wouldn’t touch the same-sex marriage issue. I wouldn’t touch abortion.”

Vidmar, 49, who declined to be interviewed, participated in a rally supporting Proposition 8, the California ballot measure that defined marriage as being between a man and a woman, and donated $2,000 to the cause.

He is a Mormon and said that he took that stance for religious reasons, but that his views would not influence his ability to serve as chef de mission. In earlier times, his opinions might not have made a difference because few would have known about them, Scherr said. But not now.

“With the proliferation of social media and blogs, opinions get out there so much earlier than they used to, so if people take a stand on an issue, it becomes known, lightning quick,” Scherr said. “So there’s a greater risk for athletes who take a stand on controversial issues.”

David Masci, a senior researcher at the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life, said opinion on same-sex marriage divided the public but was also evolving. The most recent poll conducted by Pew showed that more people oppose same-sex marriage than support it, 48 to 42 percent. Over the years, that gap has narrowed. Masci pointed out that, in 1996, there was a 38-point gap between those against same-sex marriage and those for it, 65 to 27. The debate over the issue has arisen in the sports world twice in the last week. Rangers forward Sean Avery recently recorded a video in support of same-sex marriage. Within days of the video being made public last weekend, a hockey agent, Todd Reynolds, said on his company’s Twitter page that he was “very sad to read Sean Avery’s misguided support of same-gender ‘marriage.’ ”

“Legal or not, it will always be wrong,” Reynolds said.

Some commenters called for a boycott of Reynolds’s agency. Others took Reynolds’s side.

Mendoza, an Olympic champion in 2004 and a former president of the Women’s Sports Foundation, said taking a stand on same-sex marriage could elicit both passionate support and intense criticism.

“Peter Vidmar is such a good person, but he and some others think being against same-sex marriage is not discrimination,” Mendoza said. “My feeling is that it is discrimination, hands down. It would be like speaking out against certain races or bashing women or bashing Asian-Americans. But I know a lot of people would disagree.”

Mendoza said that the chef de mission should represent all American Olympians and that Vidmar’s views had surely alienated some gay and lesbian athletes. But when she posted a link on her Facebook page to a column she wrote about the issue, several of her friends disagreed.

One said: “It is sad for the Olympic movement — and makes me sad too. Peter Vidmar should be leading. NOBODY holds the views of ALL the athletes, and marriage has NOTHING to do with competition.” Another said, “How unfortunate that a few are pushing their agenda on others through this and making it political.”

Naber, a swimmer who won four gold medals at the 1976 Olympics, told The Chicago Tribune that Vidmar would “never knowingly disrespect, offend or alienate anyone.”

Steve Penny, the president of USA Gymnastics, said Vidmar’s beliefs on same-sex marriage had never affected the way Vidmar served the organization. Vidmar has been chairman of the board since 2008.

“Peter has been an ideal chairman for USA Gymnastics and would have been an ideal chef de mission for the U.S. Olympic team,” Penny said. “It’s unfortunate that this issue clouded his selection because Peter is the most inclusive man I have ever met.”

Scott Blackmun, the chief executive of the U.S.O.C., said that Vidmar would have served the athletes well but that he respected Vidmar’s decision to step down. Now, Vidmar’s situation may be a lesson for others in the Olympic movement.

Donna de Varona, a two-time Olympic gold medalist in swimming, said future candidates for positions like chef de mission should realize that their pasts would be more scrutinized than ever. Candidates who express an opinion publicly about a hot-button issue are likely to pay the price for it, she said.

“I just think we live in a completely different era right now, and you have to be very careful about what you say if you have hopes of being a figurehead,” de Varona said. “You can’t be naïve.”
301 2011-05-12 The Bank of England warned Wednesday that inflation in Britain could hit 5 percent this year, raising the likelihood that the central bank would lift its main interest rate from the record low level at which it has stood since the depths of the financial crisis.

The bank also said the British economy was not growing as fast as it had expected, as “the continuing squeeze on households’ real incomes is likely to weigh on demand, especially over the next year or so.”

“Although inflation fell to 4 percent in March, it remains uncomfortably high and well above the 2 percent target,” Mervyn A. King , the central bank governor, said at a news conference in London. “And there is a good chance that if utility prices rise further later in the year, inflation will reach 5 percent before falling back through 2012 and into 2013.”

Mr. King said that inflation was being driven primarily by higher prices for commodities and imports, as well as an increase in Britain’s value-added tax. Considering the sensitivity of inflation to such factors and recent volatility in commodity prices, he said, “there is a great deal of uncertainty in the outlook for inflation.”

The FTSE 100 slipped and the pound rose against the dollar, jumping to $1.6476 from $1.6367, on expectations that the bank would raise its main interest rate target this year from the current level of 0.5 percent, a record low, where it has stood since March 2009.

Because of increasing energy prices, consumer price inflation “is likely to rise further this year and is more likely than not to remain above the target throughout 2012,” the central bank said.
302 2011-05-12 A reporter for Al Jazeera’s English-language news channel who disappeared while covering the uprising in Syria almost two weeks ago was sent to Iran within two days of being detained by Syrian authorities, the network confirmed Wednesday.

Al Jazeera has sought information from the Syrian government on the whereabouts and condition of the reporter, Dorothy Parvaz, since losing contact with her on April 29, shortly after she arrived in the Syrian capital, Damascus, from Qatar. Five days later, Syrian officials said she was being held in the capital. The network said the officials told it that she would be released.

But on Tuesday the Syrian Embassy in Washington told Al Jazeera that Ms. Parvaz was deported on a flight to Tehran on May 1, according to a spokesman for the network, Osama Saeed. She appears to have been in Iranian custody since that time. Mr. Saeed said the network had gotten no official confirmation from Iranian authorities.

“We have now received information that she is being held in Tehran,” Al Jazeera said in a statement on Wednesday, citing unnamed Syrian officials. “We are calling for information from the Iranian authorities, access to Dorothy, and for her immediate release.”

The Syrian government put out a statement on Tuesday saying that Ms. Parvaz had entered Syria on an expired Iranian passport and had therefore been deported to Iran “in accordance with international law” after being “escorted by the Iranian consul to Caspian Airlines Flight 7905 heading to Tehran.”

Ms. Parvaz holds American, Canadian and Iranian citizenship, and she has worked for Al Jazeera since August 2010.
303 2011-05-12 Tumbling demand for commodities and a drop in the euro put financial markets on edge on Wednesday, pulling the Dow Jones industrial average down 1 percent.

Demand for gasoline in the United States fell by the largest amount in seven weeks, the Energy Information Administration said, a signal that consumers are cutting back as gas prices near a national average of $4 a gallon. Gas futures fell almost 8 percent. Crude oil fell back below $100 a barrel, a loss of more than 5 percent.

Fewer fill-ups may result in a drop in consumer and business spending as customers forgo trips to malls and restaurants and companies ship fewer products. That, in turn, could lead to lower corporate earnings and halt a stock rally that has sent the stock market up 7 percent this year.

“People are becoming more conservative in their outlook and their spending as oil prices have risen, and that’s making the market become more concerned about growth,” said Quincy Krosby, the chief market strategist at Prudential Financial.

The fall in demand for gas means that traders will take a close look at Thursday’s weekly report on first-time applications for unemployment benefits to see if companies are cutting back in other areas as well, Ms. Krosby said.
304 2011-05-12 8:31 p.m. | Updated      Will the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the hedge fund firm Galleon Group, change anything on Wall Street?...
305 2011-05-12 8:31 p.m. | Updated      Will the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the hedge fund firm Galleon Group, change anything on Wall Street?...
306 2011-05-12 With the government securing a conviction against Raj Rajaratnam of the Galleon Group on Wednesday, federal prosecutors will shift their focus to expert networks - the intricate web of money managers, corporate executives and consultants at the ce...
307 2011-05-12 WEISSMAN--Vivian J. March 22, 1921 May 10, 2011. Lee Vivian Betty Jacobs grew up in Baltimore, Maryland, daughter of Gustav and Bertha Jacobs. In the 1940s, she moved to New York City to seek her fortune. She landed a job in high-tech, which at th...
308 2011-05-12 INDIANAPOLIS -- Cheri Daniels has made no secret of her distaste for politics. She did not campaign for her husband, Mitch Daniels, during two races for governor. She did not fully move into the governor's mansion after his election. She has never...
309 2011-05-12 Photo of city workers in Vicksburg, Miss, using a boat to transport a load of sandbags intended to help re-enforce a levee gate; the Mississippi River, swollen by weeks of heavy rain and snowmelt, is poised to crest in the town and shatter a flood...
310 2011-05-12 As Raj Rajaratnam and Anil Kumar, a McKinsey consultant, walked out of a fund-raiser in Manhattan, Mr. Rajaratnam pulled his old friend aside and made him an offer: would Mr. Kumar provide him with insights for $500,000 a year?     ''You have such...
311 2011-05-12 With the government securing a conviction against Raj Rajaratnam of the Galleon Group on Wednesday, federal prosecutors will shift their focus to expert networks - the intricate web of money managers, corporate executives and consultants at the ce...
312 2011-05-12 Updated, 6:33 p.m. |  Help is on the way for Violet the red-tailed hawk.     Around midday Thursday, a raptor specialist will try to capture Violet, who -- along with her mate, Bobby -- is tending a baby in a nest on a 12th-floor ledge at New York...
313 2011-05-12 Will the conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the hedge fund firm Galleon Group, change anything on Wall Street?     Federal prosecutors hailed Wednesday's verdict as a powerful deterrent to investors trying to gain an unlawful advantage i...
314 2011-05-13 A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen....
315 2011-05-13 The announcement of Benjamin Lawsky’s nomination to run the Department of Financial Regulation is expected to come Monday. And not in an outside group’s e-mail....
316 2011-05-13 After about seven years of collaborating with various retailers, the men behind Salvor Projects will open their first shop this Saturday....
317 2011-05-13 To help improve sales, the developers of the 60-story hotel and condominium, which went on the market in November, have cut prices on units by as much as 24 percent....
318 2011-05-13 CNBC looks at how investors are reacting to Citigroup after it resumed paying a dividend. The bank, which required a huge bailout during the financial crisis, cut the payout in 2009....
319 2011-05-13 The House of Representatives approved a 2011 intelligence authorization bill that increases spending for 16 intelligence agencies....
320 2011-05-13 A new book delves into the history of the voiture minimum, which was sketched but never built by the Swiss architect....
321 2011-05-13 Meredith Attwell Baker said she didn’t break any ethical laws by taking a job with the company whose merger she had recently voted to approve....
322 2011-05-13 Morning Line for Friday, May 13...
323 2011-05-13 Netflix’s streaming app is now available for some Android devices, but the fact that only some Android phones get the latest features and others do not is a continuing problem for Google....
324 2011-05-13 MILAN—Wall Street's charging-bull statue is the very epitome of financial strength. Outside the stock exchange in Italy's financial capital is an equally unambiguous symbol: a giant marble middle finger.

The 36-foot white sculpture is a hand without fingers except that vulgar one, pointing away from Milan's stock market. It was made by Italy's most famous contemporary artist, Maurizio Cattelan, who donated it to the city last year on the condition that it grace Piazza Affari, or Business Square, where the bourse has its headquarters.

Milan's mayor agreed to it. Now, however, the statue is raising hackles among the city's business and financial establishment. Consob, Italy's stock-exchange regulator, threatened to move its annual meeting, usually held in the stock exchange, elsewhere, lest the fickle finger offend the organization's members. Assogestioni, an Italian asset-managers group, recently moved its conference to a business school.

Stock market Chief Executive Raffaele Jerusalmi says the view from his third-floor office onto Piazza Affari was ruined last year when the statue arrived. In March, he moved to an adjacent wing. "I don't suffer from the finger anymore," he says.

The city's politicians, however, are sticking to their guns, even making the statue part of their electoral platforms ahead of this weekend's local elections.

For conservative Mayor Letizia Moratti, the finger is raising Milan's cultural profile, a goal that is part of her electoral platform. "Milan must be a capital for contemporary art," says city councilman for culture Massimiliano Finazzer Flory, who commissioned the finger and works with Ms. Moratti. The mayor declined to comment.

The city's center-left candidate, Giuliano Pisapia, who is running against Ms. Moratti, also supports the statue as "a free expression of artistic creativity…that shouldn't be censored," he said through a spokeswoman. "It's an open criticism of the international financial management that led to the great crisis of 2008."

It isn't the only obscene gesture among expressive Italians—it has less shock value for Italians than some gestures—and it isn't the first time the European art scene has ruffled feathers. Last month, Catholic protesters destroyed a photograph by artist Andres Serrano of a small crucifix immersed in the artist's urine on exhibition in Avignon, France. Bulgaria has been represented by a toilet, and Germany by a network of highways in the shape of a swastika. Mr. Cattelan has titled the finger sculpture "L.O.V.E.," an acronym for love, hate, vendetta, eternity in Italian. The Milanese refer to it simply as "il dito," or "the finger."

"Some people have a sense of irony, and some do not," Mr. Cattelan said in an interview.

Among those who enjoy a good chuckle, Mr. Cattelan says, are his patrons, who are some of European capitalism's biggest figures. Luxury-goods magnate Bernard Arnault paid $2.1 million for a stuffed horse suspended from the ceiling, which he keeps in his Parisian mansion. The Guggenheim Museum is planning a retrospective of Mr. Cattelan's works in November, including a smaller version of the finger.

Early last year, Mr. Finazzer Flory, the city official, approached Mr. Cattelan about staging an exhibition of his work in Milan, part of the mayor's program to spotlight contemporary art. But there was one major condition: The city councilman wanted a sculpture displayed outside to complement the museum show.

Mr. Cattelan had an idea: He would create a statue that would play on—but transform—Italy's Fascist hand salute from the 1930s. By cutting off the fingers and mutilating the hand, he says he was criticizing the totalitarianism that ravaged Europe in the last century.

Mr. Finazzer Flory considered putting the statue in an exhibition space near Milan's cathedral, the Duomo, smack in the center of town, or in a large park. Then he thought of Piazza Affari, a very central square usually cluttered with illegally parked cars, and its grandest building, the 1932 Palazzo Mezzanotte, the stock exchange headquarters, which is a hallmark of Fascist architecture.

"When he proposed Piazza Affari, the whole project just made sense," says Mr. Cattelan. The city council approved the finger's placement in Piazza Affari for a month starting last September, coinciding with the museum exhibition.

Milan's business community was immediately up in arms. When they saw a draft picture of the statue, Mr. Jerusalmi consulted with the chairmen of Consob and Telecom Italia, who all opposed the digit being erected in front of their offices. Mr. Jerusalmi wrote a letter to Ms. Moratti expressing his opinion. The mayor and Mr. Finazzer Flory met with Mr. Jerusalmi to explain the project, but did not alter their plans.

The finger encountered further opposition in January from within Ms. Moratti's inner circle. Mr. Finazzer Flory wanted to extend the hand's stay to a year from its initial month-long run. Yet five of the 15 city councilmen boycotted the vote.

"Between the bourse and Cattelan, I choose the bourse," one of the dissenters, city councilman for urban development Carlo Masseroli said at the time. "It's undeniable that Cattelan's work ridicules the bourse, otherwise the insistence on the location wouldn't make sense." Mr. Masseroli declined to comment, but his spokesman confirmed his opposition to the statue.

The measure squeaked through and the finger is now in place until September. It has public support: an online petition that has been circulating across the country has so far gathered 1,800 signatures to keep the sculpture put. If Ms. Moratti is re-elected, Mr. Finazzer Flory said he will suggest it remain in Piazza Affari until 2013, when it could move to a new contemporary art museum.

On a recent spring day, office workers took their lunch break on the finger's pedestal. Anna Garegnani, a consultant whose office is on the opposite side of the piazza from the bourse, is a fan of the finger. "It makes Piazza Affari look like a De Chirico painting," she said, referring to the surrealist artist, citing a particular attraction for the hand's "beautiful" veins.

In fact, the middle finger is directed at Ms. Garegnani's side of the square; the palm of the hand faces the stock exchange. "It's actually more the stock exchange giving the middle finger to the world," quips Mr. Cattelan.
325 2011-05-13 The third-largest American exchange filed on Friday to go public, amid a wave of industry consolidation that raised speculation that the company could be a takeover target....
326 2011-05-13 A Firefox extension lets you organize all your downloads in a separate tab in your browser....
327 2011-05-13 The White House also appointed an acting director for the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The agency has operated without a permanent head since August 2009. And since August, 2010, an acting director also has run the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversees most of the nation’s largest banks.

A new position on the Federal Reserve Board, vice chairman for supervision, has remained vacant since it was created last summer. So has a seat on the council of regulators designated for someone with insurance expertise.

Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman, said that President Obama would announce nominees for the positions “as soon as possible.”

“The president is looking for strong, well-qualified candidates who can lead these institutions to protect American consumers and taxpayers, while ensuring the stability of an American economy emerging from the worst recession since the Great Depression,” she said.

The White House soon plans to nominate a replacement for Ms. Bair at the F.D.I.C., according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because no plans had been publicly announced. The front-runner is Martin J. Gruenberg, currently the agency’s vice chairman, who worked for years as a Democratic staff member on the Senate Banking Committee.

A decision also is close on a nominee for comptroller of the currency, those people said.

The lack of permanent leadership is a significant handicap, according to current and former regulators. It is fairly easy to keep doing the same things, but much harder to navigate unexpected difficulties or to consider new ideas.

And agencies are being asked to do both of those things as perhaps never before.

The sweeping overhaul of financial regulations passed into law last year requires agencies to write hundreds of rules, an unprecedented task, even as they grapple with the unfamiliar financial landscape left by the crisis.

John Walsh, the acting comptroller of the currency, said that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner had encouraged him to do the job as if it were, indeed, his job.

“But the fact is that I have said to him and have said repeatedly that I do think it’s very important for independent supervisory agencies to have nominated and confirmed heads in place,” Mr. Walsh said Thursday at the same Senate hearing. “It’s important for independence and for the perception of independence.”

Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said Thursday that the absence of leadership was complicating the work of identifying “systemically important” financial firms that could pose a threat to the broader economy.

“We need strong nominees who will not be afraid to take bold steps to prevent a new financial crisis,” Mr. Brown said. Senators from both parties urged regulators at a hearing Thursday to offer more detailed criteria for designating such firms, which will be subject to stricter regulation.

Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets automatically fall under the designation, according to the Dodd-Frank law approved last year. But there is no clear standard for selecting other kinds of financial firms like insurance companies, hedge funds and investment managers.

Proposals issued by regulators in January “lacked the necessary specificity that we need to understand how this process is going to unfold,” Senator Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, said at the hearing. Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, agreed. “We’ve got to give some more clarity here, the sooner the better.”

Regulators, racing against a January 2012 deadline to complete the work, told the committee that they agreed more details were necessary, and that they hoped to release a package of proposed rules this summer.

But Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said regulators still would need to make subjective decisions in some cases.

“I don’t think we can provide an exact formula that will apply mechanically without any application of judgment,” said Mr. Bernanke who played a leading role along with Mr. Geithner in the government’s bailout of certain banks and financial institutions in 2008.

The difficulty of appointing regulators to make those decisions was underscored in December, when Senate Republicans blocked the nomination of Joseph A. Smith Jr., the commissioner of banking in North Carolina, to lead the housing finance agency.

“We need a watchdog, not a lapdog,” Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the banking committee, said in voting against the committee’s decision to send Mr. Smith’s nomination to the Senate floor.

After losing that vote 10 to 6, Republicans refused to allow a vote on the nomination, and Mr. Smith, bowing to the inevitable, withdrew.

Last week, Senate Republicans went one step further, announcing in a letter to Mr. Obama that they would not consider any nominee to lead the new consumer protection agency until Democrats agreed to reduce the agency’s powers by rewriting the Dodd-Frank law that created the agency last year.

“We are simply asking the president to support common-sense reforms that provide the accountability absent in the current structure,” Mr. Shelby said in a statement last week.

Tim Johnson, the chairman of the banking committee, a Democrat from South Dakota, said Thursday that he was “increasingly concerned” by the Republican position.

“Not having strong individuals in place at the agencies as we continue to implement Dodd-Frank,” he said, “seems to me to be detrimental to our fragile economic recovery and financial stability.”
328 2011-05-13 HONG KONG — At least 39 people were injured, six of them seriously, in a gasoline bomb explosion at a rural bank branch in a heavily Tibetan area of northwest China’s Gansu Province, a person at the local police station said by telephone, but there were no immediate signs that the attack was politically motivated.

The bomb was detonated during a bank meeting on the fourth floor of the building in Wuwei City, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.

Xinhua reported the people were killed in the explosion, but it did not say how many. But the person answering the phones at the police station said that he was not aware of any fatalities; he declined to give his name.

Improvised explosives are sometimes used in commercial and private disputes in China, which bans private gun ownership.

Tibetan areas of China have been the sites of periodic protests for decades, and a young monk commit suicide on March 16 by setting himself on fire, but Tibetan protesters have steered clear of bomb attacks.
329 2011-05-13 For authors and other creative professionals, an appearance at the Googleplex, the company’s sprawling complex of office buildings, is good business — but nonetheless conjures some mixed emotions in light of Google’s complicated relationship with content creators. The company is involved in a bitter lawsuit over its efforts to scan all of the world’s books and make them available online, and has long stood accused of unfairly profiting from work that is excerpted and indexed by the company’s search services.

“I think it’s a great thing that they’re doing this,” Chris Clarke, a natural history and environmental writer, said of the talks. “I don’t think that it clears their karma as far as trying to become the sole-source provider of all intellectual property everywhere.”

The speaker series began in 2005 with the New Yorker writers Malcolm Gladwell and James Surowiecki as its first two guests and has since featured hundreds of authors, musicians, chefs, economists and politicians.

Google employees involved in the program say that it evolved out of employees’ interests and at their initiative.

“The program was a grass-roots effort that started when a few Googlers realized that some remarkable people were passing through the halls of the Googleplex,” said Ann Farmer, an information engineer. She is one of more than two dozen employee volunteers who organize the events, which are now held three to five times a week.

Since 2005, more than 1,000 guests have appeared. Garry Kasparov, the chess master, and Jesse Ventura, the former governor of Minnesota, are among some 600 authors, mostly of nonfiction, who have participated. The list includes a number of authors who have written books about Google.

Talks now take place at Google offices around the world, with employees from 18 offices participating via videoconferencing. At larger events, employees use Google Moderator software, which fields questions from the audience, ranking the most popular ones.

In the early days of the series, the employees had to cajole speakers to attend, working personal connections, since the company did not pay an honorarium. But the program gained traction, with some talks drawing more than a million viewers on YouTube. “Let’s put it this way,” said Ms. Farmer. “The tables have turned.”

As of April 1, Cliff Redeker, 27, is the company’s official “speakers specialist.” He used to organize author visits in his spare time as a support specialist, but now his full-time job is dedicated to the speaker series.

The series has made the Googleplex an increasingly important stop for authors promoting their work in the Bay Area, as many major bookstores that featured readings have closed.

“It’s not going to replace bookstore events,” said Larry Weissman, a literary agent in Brooklyn, “but if I have an author going to San Francisco, I always want my author to stop in at Google and do an event there as well.”

The Google books lawsuit, though, combined with a broader concern that the Internet is undermining the ability of authors to get paid for their work, remains a big issue for some.

As of last October, Google Books had already scanned more than 15 million titles from more than 100 countries in 400 languages. On March 22, a federal judge threw out a settlement agreement between Google and groups representing authors and publishers. The Authors Guild had filed a class-action lawsuit against the company over copyright infringement.

Ellen Ullman, a former software engineer and author of “Close to the Machine” and “The Bug,” is a member of the Authors Guild, and she sees the speakers program as a way to “soften the blow.”

She said, from Google’s perspective, it is “ ‘Look, see? We’re not making money off of you. We’re promoting you.’ ”

The YouTube factor also introduces a novel dynamic.

“You know this is going to be videotaped, and there is a sense that you’re speaking for posterity,” said Christopher McDougall, the author of “Born to Run,” who has appeared at the company’s offices in Mountain View and New York. “With the Google events, it was more about talking to the camera than talking to the people.”

Typically, some employees have their laptops open during the talk, and the guest speaks not just to them but also to a future audience on YouTube.

Sherry Turkle, author of “Alone Together,” who directs the M.I.T. Initiative on Technology and Self, appeared at Google’s office in New York to promote her book. Yet she says, “We shouldn’t kid ourselves that going on YouTube to watch an author is the same thing as going to a bookstore.”

For many authors, though, it’s all good. T. J. Stiles, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of “The First Tycoon: The Epic Life of Cornelius Vanderbilt,” who is on the executive council of the Authors Guild, said of the speaker series: “That’s Google focusing on authors, not just addressing books as the subject of an information aggregation operation. It’s a healthy development.”

For one Bay Area independent bookstore, the program has been a boon. Books Inc. provides books for the events held at the Mountain View campus. At most talks, employees can buy the books at a deep discount, because Google subsidizes the purchases. For some special events, the company simply buys the books and gives them away.

Having a chance to attend the talks is a great perk for Googlers that reinforces the sense that their work, and technology in general, is driving the cultural conversation in a way it never has before.

“This didn’t happen in Web 1.0,” said Mike Vorhaus, president of Magid Advisors, a division of Frank N. Magid Associates, who was a consultant to Excite in the late 1990s. “I never saw a single celebrity ever.”
330 2011-05-13 They marched to Wall Street to protest issues as varied as the war in Afghanistan, bonuses for bankers and budget cuts. But many of them directed their unhappiness in the same direction: at Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.

To the thousands of protesters who inundated Lower Manhattan on Thursday, New York’s billionaire mayor seemed a fitting symbol of much that they found wrong with society, including the wide gap between rich and poor and the call to lay off teachers.

Teachers wore black shirts reading, “ ‘The Education Mayor’ Really?” Others called Mr. Bloomberg out of touch. One man carried a sign comparing him to Mr. Burns, the cold-blooded businessman from “The Simpsons.”

Mr. Bloomberg’s popularity has suffered in his third term, and public criticism has escalated since last Friday, when he proposed laying off 5,400 city workers, the majority of them teachers, to balance the city’s budget.

Mr. Bloomberg, speaking with reporters before the protests on Thursday, blamed Albany for the city’s budget cuts, which he attributed to a reduction in state aid. The mayor suggested that the protesters would have been wiser to direct their energy at pressuring the governor and the Legislature to allocate more money for the city.

“If they thought we should have more money, why don’t they go up to Albany and fight for it?” he said. “We’ve been up there and we haven’t really got a lot of help.”
331 2011-05-13 Asked this week to specify Mr. Emanuel’s position on fire department staff levels, a spokeswoman, Chris Mather, issued a one-sentence statement: “We have serious fiscal issues ahead of us, but we also understand how critical the dedicated firefighters in Chicago are to ensuring the safety of our city.”

Daley administration officials have rejected suggestions from the city’s inspector general that the department reduce staffing from five firefighters to four in each crew, as is the norm in most other cities.

“The decline in fire deaths and fires over the years is not reason to think about cutting back the number of firefighters or firehouses,” the fire department spokesman, Larry Langford, said in a statement this week.

Still, with the city’s budget deficits exceeding $500 million every year, some fiscal experts questioned whether Mr. Emanuel could afford to avoid the politically touchy issue of fire department staffing.

Police and fire costs are to the city budget as defense spending is to the federal budget, not only in the sense that police and fire forces provide core public safety functions, but also because they make up a huge chunk of the payroll. Of the city’s almost 33,000 full-time workers, roughly two-thirds are police or fire department employees. The city allocated almost $2 billion in its $6.15 billion spending plan for 2011 to public safety.

“Firefighters and other public safety personnel will have to be included in the efficiencies and possible reductions,” said Laurence Msall, president of the Civic Federation, a local budget watchdog group that is financed largely by business interests.

“We recognize the political sensitivity, but staffing for public safety must match the actual needs rather than relying on traditional levels of staffing,” Mr. Msall added.

Financial pressures have led to a decrease in the number of police officers (a trend that Mr. Emanuel has vowed to reverse), but the fire department has the same number of budgeted positions in Mr. Daley’s 2011 budget as it did last year.

There are almost 5,200 employees in the fire department, including about 4,300 firefighters, according to city budget documents. In the last five years, the budget of the fire department has grown more than 12 percent, to $509.4 million this year.

Officials of Chicago’s firefighters’ union did not return calls for this article. The union, which led a 23-day strike in 1980, had endorsed Gery Chico to succeed Mr. Daley as mayor.

Mr. Hoff, who will remain as fire commissioner after Mr. Emanuel’s inauguration on Monday, declined an interview request. Mr. Langford, the department spokesman, said the lower fire death rate is due in part to the department’s having “enough manpower to conduct searches while simultaneously” fighting fires and keeping flames from spreading to other buildings.

The decline in the number of fire deaths in Chicago was part of a national trend attributed to a variety of factors, including sprinkler systems, fire alarms and smoke detectors. City statistics for structure fires show a drop from almost 5,700 in 1996 to less than 2,500 in 2008.

But the number of medical calls to the fire department increased at the same time that the number of fires dropped, Mr. Langford noted.

Nicholas Sposato, a 17-year firefighter who won election last month to a City Council seat, said he favored maintaining fire staffing levels. After winning the aldermanic race in the 36th Ward, Mr. Sposato gave up his job at the firehouse on Cumberland Avenue, on the far Northwest Side.

“We would get a lot of runs they call ‘assist the invalid,’ ” Mr. Sposato said. “I’m all for doing stuff like that for the citizens. Some people may think it’s silly, but you have seniors with one kid in Naperville and the other in Lake Zurich. When something happens, we need to be there, even if you just pick them up and sit them in a chair, or get them in their bed.”

Providing that level of service is particularly expensive because the city’s contract with the firefighters union requires five firefighters on every apparatus. In a report issued in October, Inspector General Joseph Ferguson estimated that shifting to four firefighters per piece of equipment could save the city more than $63 million a year.

Personnel costs, including benefits, for each firefighter are more than $100,000 a year, according to the report.

The inspector general noted that the National Fire Protection Association recommends a minimum of four fighters in each crew. Of the 10 largest cities, only New York and Los Angeles regularly staff both engines and trucks with at least five firefighters, the C.N.C.’s survey found.

But other factors, such as density of development, could require greater staffing levels than the four-firefighter minimum, said Ken Willette, the public fire protection division manager for the national association, which is based in Quincy, Mass. “We would defer to the commissioner to apply our standard” to Chicago, Mr. Willette said.

Mr. Langford said Chicago needs larger crews because it has many apartment buildings and multistory public schools and nursing homes. Even in largely residential areas of the city’s bungalow belt, Mr. Langford said, homes “are often very close together,” requiring more firefighters than the minimum standard.

He pointed to studies showing that four-person crews were only 65 percent as efficient as having five firefighters in a team. “That translates into minutes saved,” Mr. Langford said, “which is lives and property saved.”
332 2011-05-13 That people should have been in the area at 3:30 a.m., when huge blasts from the bombings shook the otherwise deserted districts of central Tripoli, was not unusual, the officials said, since Libyans were a nocturnal people who often gathered at that hour.

Moussa Ibrahim, the Qaddafi government’s chief spokesman, called the attacks a further example of NATO spending “billions of dollars on death,” in the latest instance “in front of a children’s playground.”

“People are being killed every day, every night, and nobody is reporting this,” he said. “NATO is enjoying a conspiracy of silence.”

But acting as a sort of truth squad in weighing the authenticity of the Qaddafi government’s accounts of the bombings is an essential part of the job description for foreign journalists, and the notion of reporters lingering in a children’s playground in the pre-dawn hours was not the only element in the official story of the compound bombing that raised serious doubts.

There was, too, the fact that the three huge water-filled bomb craters shown to the reporters, and other features close by, appeared to point to the real target of the bombings as being a vast network of underground bunkers running for a half a mile or more beneath the compound — a network that is believed to have been well known, for years, to Western intelligence agencies tracking the largely clandestine life of Colonel Qaddafi.

The other features that pointed to an attack on the compound’s subterranean tunnels and bunkers included bomb fragments strewn around the craters that indicated that they came from bunker-busting, 2,000-pound bombs that were used by American aircraft in the attack on Baghdad in 2003, according to a Western security adviser accompanying one of the television crews who said he was familiar with the bombs.

Also, smaller craters at the bomb sites were tangled with what appeared to be the punctured wreckage of massive concrete and steel structures reaching deep underground, and at least one large aboveground ventilation shaft. Close to the children’s playground, there was a concrete stairway descending to a steel door, flanked by green-painted steel railings.

An official determination to disguise the stairway’s presence was betrayed by what appeared to have be a carefully marshaled gathering of a crowd of protesters around the stairway, and a frenzied push forward by the protesters whenever a reporter or a camera crew approached to get a closer view.

If the NATO bombings were intended to destroy parts of the underground complex, they amounted, in practice, to another attempt to destroy what NATO officials have described as the “command and control structures” of the Qaddafi government — to all practical effect, to kill Colonel Qaddafi himself.

The bomb that struck near the playground was only 150 yards or so from the building that was hit in a 1986 American bombing attack ordered by President Ronald Reagan. That building is now a memorial and the attack is believed to have persuaded Colonel Qaddafi to build the underground complex at the compound. Security experts reached after the bombing said that placing a children’s playground over an entry-point to the subterranean complex might have been one of the measures adopted by Colonel Qaddafi’s security advisers to deter bombing attacks on a crucial part of the complex.

In the case of the attacks in the small hours of Thursday, reporters were taken by bus to a hospital that received casualties — and at least two badly burned and blasted bodies — before dawn. By noon, reporters were back aboard the bus for the visit to the sites of three huge bomb craters inside the Bab al-Aziziya compound, which has been the principal stronghold of Colonel Qaddafi, his family and top government officials for decades.

The Qaddafi government’s calculation has been that showing the buildings blasted by the bombs, and emphasizing the impact on the civilian population of this city of 2 million, is the most promising way to erode public and political support for the NATO air campaign.

The choreography of Thursday’s visit to the compound appeared to have been fashioned to meet the political needs of the moment. One element was the presence of African refugees, some of whom said they were from Chad.

The Qaddafi government’s treatment of African refugees from the conflict has been an issue of growing concern, with humanitarian organizations claiming that some of the refugees have been forced at gunpoint aboard boats leaving Tripoli’s harbor for Europe, and that one of the boats, carrying several hundred passengers, sank with heavy casualties shortly after embarking.

Officials also tried to deflect the blow to morale from the rebels’ seizure of the airport in Misurata. Mr. Ibrahim delivered a second denial of the news during the tour on Thursday. “They are losing their mind, they are hallucinating, because they can see they are losing,” he said, referring to Western nations that have hailed recent rebels successes at Misurata as a portent of the rebels’ eventual ability to prevail in the war.
333 2011-05-13 There was a sense of relief at nine low-performing city high schools on Thursday as the city’s Department of Education announced they would not be closed next year. The decisions came after months of uncertainty about the schools’ future.

But with the relief came concern and confusion over what exactly would happen to the schools, which instead will go through a federal process known as the restart model, which has not been tried before in New York City.

“I am pleased that they have come to a decision not to close the school,” said Dominick Scarola, the principal of Grover Cleveland High School in Queens, one of the nine, “but I am still a bit apprehensive because I am not sure how it is going to roll out.”

Each of the nine schools is eligible to receive up to $6 million over three years to transform its lower-than-average graduation rate into an educational success story. But to qualify for the money, the city has to contract with outside organizations to see if they can do a better job managing the school than the city did.

That raises a host of questions about how much authority these organizations, nonprofit groups that will be called educational partnership organizations, will have to lead the schools.
334 2011-05-13 Russia eliminated Canada, 2-1, in Bratislava, Slovakia, to reach the semifinals of the hockey world championships. Russia will play Finland on Friday, and the Czech Republic will meet Sweden. Alexei Kaigorodov and Ilya Kovalchuk scored late for Russia. Jarkko Immonen scored twice to help Finland beat Norway, 4-1.
335 2011-05-13 A market-making franchise that executes trades for clients should be far less volatile than one engaged in lots of speculative prop trading. So a largely customer-focused business should have a much higher Sharpe ratio than a hedge fund. As a guide, the better investors have ratios somewhere in the region of 2.5. So a high Sharpe ratio should indicate profitable low-risk client business, while a relatively low one would more likely derive from prop trading.

The trick is to determine how high a ratio purely client-driven trading businesses should generate and how much leeway to allow for riskier client-related positions. One of the measure’s drawbacks is that losses incurred from nonproprietary trades could reduce a bank’s Sharpe ratio, producing what is known as a “false positive.”

There are ways to handle this. For example, when a bank’s traders score poorly, regulators could investigate the positions more closely — in effect, exercising the judgment that Mr. Volcker himself suggests is a relatively easy process of observation.

But as an early and broad warning sign about the level of proprietary risk a bank is taking with its capital, the Sharpe ratio might do the trick. Moreover, Sharpe’s calculation can be uniformly applied across all different trading platforms — from currencies and commodities to foreign exchange and equities — and from one bank to the next. That means regulators need not worry that the banks are using different formulas. It does mean having to trust some of their inputs, but regulators can always verify them.

It is not foolproof, by any means. Trading is an enormous business. The top nine global securities firms raked in revenue of $100 billion in fixed income, currencies and commodities last year alone. Even with effective management, processes and controls, there will be occasions when traders take undue, nonclient risks with bank capital.

And the Sharpe ratio is not a measure of systemic risk. Indeed, it suffers from the same flaws that caught regulators, investors and bankers off guard in the housing market crash that led to the financial crisis of 2008.

Like the risk models that failed then, the standard deviation in a Sharpe ratio would use historic data on volatility and assume a normal distribution for market moves. So-called black swan events (rare and unexpected), like America’s first ever steep decline in house prices, can and will occur.

Finally, it bears remembering that a low Sharpe ratio would not necessarily be proof of a slide into proprietary trading. A firm may simply be so inept that it keeps losing money on customer trades. But that is something regulators and investors may like to know anyway.

It may not be the whole answer. But treating bank trading floors like hedge funds and having them disclose their Sharpe ratios, whether or not in response to the Volcker Rule, seems like a sensible step forward.
336 2011-05-13 The White House also appointed an acting director for the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The agency has operated without a permanent head since August 2009. And since August, 2010, an acting director also has run the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversees most of the nation’s largest banks.

A new position on the Federal Reserve Board, vice chairman for supervision, has remained vacant since it was created last summer. So has a seat on the council of regulators designated for someone with insurance expertise.

Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman, said that President Obama would announce nominees for the positions “as soon as possible.”

“The president is looking for strong, well-qualified candidates who can lead these institutions to protect American consumers and taxpayers, while ensuring the stability of an American economy emerging from the worst recession since the Great Depression,” she said.

The White House soon plans to nominate a replacement for Ms. Bair at the F.D.I.C., according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because no plans had been publicly announced. The front-runner is Martin J. Gruenberg, currently the agency’s vice chairman, who worked for years as a Democratic staff member on the Senate Banking Committee.

A decision also is close on a nominee for comptroller of the currency, those people said.

The lack of permanent leadership is a significant handicap, according to current and former regulators. It is fairly easy to keep doing the same things, but much harder to navigate unexpected difficulties or to consider new ideas.

And agencies are being asked to do both of those things as perhaps never before.

The sweeping overhaul of financial regulations passed into law last year requires agencies to write hundreds of rules, an unprecedented task, even as they grapple with the unfamiliar financial landscape left by the crisis.

John Walsh, the acting comptroller of the currency, said that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner had encouraged him to do the job as if it were, indeed, his job.

“But the fact is that I have said to him and have said repeatedly that I do think it’s very important for independent supervisory agencies to have nominated and confirmed heads in place,” Mr. Walsh said Thursday at the same Senate hearing. “It’s important for independence and for the perception of independence.”

Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said Thursday that the absence of leadership was complicating the work of identifying “systemically important” financial firms that could pose a threat to the broader economy.

“We need strong nominees who will not be afraid to take bold steps to prevent a new financial crisis,” Mr. Brown said. Senators from both parties urged regulators at a hearing Thursday to offer more detailed criteria for designating such firms, which will be subject to stricter regulation.

Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets automatically fall under the designation, according to the Dodd-Frank law approved last year. But there is no clear standard for selecting other kinds of financial firms like insurance companies, hedge funds and investment managers.

Proposals issued by regulators in January “lacked the necessary specificity that we need to understand how this process is going to unfold,” Senator Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, said at the hearing. Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, agreed. “We’ve got to give some more clarity here, the sooner the better.”

Regulators, racing against a January 2012 deadline to complete the work, told the committee that they agreed more details were necessary, and that they hoped to release a package of proposed rules this summer.

But Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said regulators still would need to make subjective decisions in some cases.

“I don’t think we can provide an exact formula that will apply mechanically without any application of judgment,” said Mr. Bernanke who played a leading role along with Mr. Geithner in the government’s bailout of certain banks and financial institutions in 2008.

The difficulty of appointing regulators to make those decisions was underscored in December, when Senate Republicans blocked the nomination of Joseph A. Smith Jr., the commissioner of banking in North Carolina, to lead the housing finance agency.

“We need a watchdog, not a lapdog,” Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the banking committee, said in voting against the committee’s decision to send Mr. Smith’s nomination to the Senate floor.

After losing that vote 10 to 6, Republicans refused to allow a vote on the nomination, and Mr. Smith, bowing to the inevitable, withdrew.

Last week, Senate Republicans went one step further, announcing in a letter to Mr. Obama that they would not consider any nominee to lead the new consumer protection agency until Democrats agreed to reduce the agency’s powers by rewriting the Dodd-Frank law that created the agency last year.

“We are simply asking the president to support common-sense reforms that provide the accountability absent in the current structure,” Mr. Shelby said in a statement last week.

Tim Johnson, the chairman of the banking committee, a Democrat from South Dakota, said Thursday that he was “increasingly concerned” by the Republican position.

“Not having strong individuals in place at the agencies as we continue to implement Dodd-Frank,” he said, “seems to me to be detrimental to our fragile economic recovery and financial stability.”
337 2011-05-13 PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. (AP) — Coming off his worst performance in nearly a year, Nick Watney looked better than ever Thursday in the Players Championship with an eight-under-par 64 that put him atop the leader board.

Watney opened with three straight birdies, did not let a double bogey slow him and finished with his best score at the T.P.C. Sawgrass by four strokes. He took a one-shot lead over Lucas Glover, who won Sunday at Quail Hollow in Charlotte, N.C.

The surprise of the day came from 54-year-old Mark O’Meara, who qualified by winning the Seniors Player Championship. He finished with a long birdie on the 18th for a 66 in his first round at Sawgrass in eight years. Davis Toms also had a 66 and did not have a single bogey.

Watney had not missed the cut since last June when he had rounds of 76-75 last week for an early departure at Quail Hollow. He went to Florida to practice and came out firing.

“Last week in Charlotte, I got off to a bad start and I never really righted the ship,” Watney said. “So today to have a bad hole like that and still play a good round is a rewarding feeling, just because I didn’t let it affect the rest of my day.”
338 2011-05-13 Pepsi Refresh “would not have happened” without Good, “which was an extremely valuable partner,” Ms. Irazabal said.

Now Good is officially starting an agency arm, Good/Corps, to work with other companies on altruistic efforts, which go by many names, including cause marketing, social impact marketing and corporate social responsibility.

“Over the last three or four years people have been looking at brands and asking, ‘Is this brand part of the solution or is this brand part of the problem?’ ” said Kirk Souder, executive creative director of Good/Corps. “More brands are coming out wanting to create a new North Star for themselves, and we help them align their business strategy with social impact.”

A study by Edelman, the public relations business, found that 87 percent of Americans believe that companies should be at least as concerned with societal interests as with business interests.

The 2010 Cause Evolution Study by Cone, another public relations company, found that 41 percent of consumers had bought a product in the last year because it was associated with a good cause, more than double the 20 percent who did so in 1993, the first year of the annual study.

Cone also found that 80 percent of Americans were likely to switch to brands that supported a good cause, with an even greater portion of mothers (93 percent) and 18- to 24-year-olds (85 percent) likely to do so.

While altruism may sound as simple cutting a check to an appreciative cause, such efforts can be fraught with missteps. In 2010, for example, as part of a “Buckets for a Cure” promotion to raise money and awareness for breast cancer, KFC changed its fried chicken buckets from red to pink.

Both KFC and Susan G. Komen for the Cure, which lent its imprimatur to the promotion and was its beneficiary, were widely ridiculed, with critics associating deep-fried chicken with obesity, and adding that among postmenopausal women obesity has been linked to an increased risk of breast cancer.

PR Watch, the Web site published by the Center for Media and Democracy, called the campaign an example of “pink washing,” which it defined as “when a company promotes pink-ribboned products and claims to care about breast cancer while also selling products linked to disease or injury.”

The KFC campaign was “one of those where you say, ‘Oh, I wish you hadn’t done that,’ ” said Alison DaSilva, executive vice president of Cone, which helps companies develop cause-related marketing. “A lot of times marketers are not meant to be the experts of all things at all times, and when it comes to corporate responsibility efforts, it does make sense to get outside counsel.”

Good was started in 2006 by a group including the chief executive, Ben Goldhirsh, then 26, whose father, Bernard A. Goldhirsh, founded Inc. magazine.

In April, the Good Web site drew 1.1 million unique visitors, and the magazine, which is published quarterly, has a circulation of 65,000. The company, which has slightly more than 100,000 followers on Facebook and about 587,000 on Twitter, says the average age for its magazine and online readers is 34.

While Good/Corps is a new moniker for the agency arm for the company, for the last couple of years, under the name Good Projects, it developed programs for companies besides Pepsi, including Toyota, Starbucks and IBM.

For the Toyota Prius, for example, in 2009 Good built an interactive microsite, Roadmap to Harmony, that, like a television and print campaign called “Harmony” by the Los Angeles office of Saatchi & Saatchi, explored being environmentally and socially harmonious.

And for Starbucks, during election season in 2008, Good produced weekly small newspapers that were circulated in all Starbucks coffee shops in the United States.

In an era when consumers actually follow brands in the same manner they follow their friends on Facebook and Twitter, “the values revolution is in many ways being amplified by the digital revolution,” said Sebastian Buck, a co-leader of Good/Corps.

“Customers can advocate both for and against companies, so companies have to be truly authentic,” Mr. Buck said. “All brands are going to have to cross this threshold in terms of redefining themselves in this new culture — and we think we occupy a very novel place in helping brands with this challenge.”
339 2011-05-13 WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said on Thursday that the air offensive in Libya had cost the Pentagon $750 million so far, more than originally expected for a conflict that Mr. Gates said he had never imagined the United States would enter.

“If you’d asked me four months ago if we’d be in Libya today, I would have asked, ‘What were you smoking?’ ” Mr. Gates told Marines during a visit to Camp Lejeune, N.C.

Last month, the Pentagon estimated the cost of the offensive from its start on March 19 until April 4 at $600 million, with continuing costs expected to be around $40 million per month. On Thursday, Mr. Gates did not give a reason for the higher price tag.

In comparison, the war in Afghanistan costs the United States $100 billion a year. But unlike those costs, which are paid from a supplemental contingency fund, the expenses for Libya come out of the Pentagon budget.

“We’re fundamentally having to eat that one,” Mr. Gates told the Marines.
340 2011-05-13 WASHINGTON — The Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, said Thursday that the debt ceiling debate provides Congress with a rare opportunity to make sweeping changes to entitlement programs and spending, and that he would not vote to raise the level without significant budget cuts and revisions to Medicare and Medicaid.

“Divided government is the best time — and some would argue the only time — where you can do really big stuff,” Mr. McConnell said at a news conference after a meeting between President Obama and Republican senators. He said he had thought the meeting would be a waste of time but was pleased that it was a “candid exchange.”

Mr. McConnell, until now in the background of the fight over the debt ceiling, put himself in the center of the debate Thursday, laying out, though without specifics, some indication of what it would take to get him and presumably other Republicans to agree to increase the limit.

Saying it was unlikely that the Republican-controlled House would come to a budget agreement this year with Democrats in the Senate and White House, Mr. McConnell said that he would look for an agreement to reduce spending on discretionary federal programs in the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years and to put caps on spending for 2014 and beyond.

“There will be no tax increases in connection with raising the debt ceiling,” he added.

Under such a plan, appropriators could finance the government without the need to pass a string of short-term spending agreements like those that nearly led to a government shutdown this year.

Mr. McConnell did not call for approval of the House plan that seeks to convert Medicare into a program that subsidizes future retirees in private insurance plans. But he did say that he would require significant changes to both Medicare and Medicaid, possibly in terms of eligibility, and that Mr. Obama’s fiscal commission had made numerous recommendations from which a solution could be culled.

While he favored changes in tax policy and Social Security, Mr. McConnell said that there was too little time to undertake the former before the August deadline for increasing the debt ceiling and that the White House had no interest in the latter, and therefore it was not part of Thursday’s discussion.

He compared making changes in entitlement programs to the bipartisan Social Security overhaul in the 1980s and the reshaping of welfare policy during the Clinton administration. “If there’s a grand bargain of some kind” as part of the debt ceiling negotiations, Mr. McConnell said, none of it will be usable by either side in next year’s election.
341 2011-05-13 Serena Williams pulled out of the French Open, a decision that was expected because she has been off the tour for more than 10 months. Williams has not competed since early July, sidelined by two foot operations and blood clots in her lung. She returned to practice last month and says she hopes to play this summer. Her older sister Venus, who has not played since January because of a hip injury, is doubtful for the French Open, which starts May 22.
342 2011-05-13 PARIS — The French authorities are dropping a terrorism investigation into 24 members of an Iranian dissident group for lack of evidence, court documents show, nearly eight years after a sensational raid on the organization’s headquarters amid charges that the group was planning attacks on targets in Europe.

Marc Trévidic and Edmond Brunaud, the judges investigating the case for the Paris Tribunal de Grande Instance, a superior court, found that there were no grounds for proceeding with indictments for terrorism or terrorism-related finance, according to the documents, which were dated Wednesday.

The inquiry grew out of one of France’s largest anti-terrorist operations, when 1,300 police officers and intelligence officials descended on June 17, 2003, on the offices of the Mujahedeen Khalq, or People’s Mujahedeen Organization of Iran, which wants to overthrow the Tehran government.

Acting under Nicolas Sarkozy when he was interior minister, the police arrested 120 people at the group’s headquarters in Auvers-sur-Oise, near Paris.

According to classified French documents that were leaked in 2003, the People’s Mujahedeen had been plotting to attack Iranian embassies and assassinate former members working with Iranian intelligence services in Europe.

The People’s Mujahedeen maintains that the French state carried out the raid in the hope of winning friends in the Iranian government.
343 2011-05-13 Not only is the science behind the climate-change forecast solid, the report found, but the risks to future generations from further inaction are profound. Already, the report noted, sea level is rising in many American towns and the average United States air temperature has increased by two degrees in the last 50 years.

The report’s authors — an unusual combination of climate scientists, businessmen and politicians — said they were very aware that the political mood on climate change had changed significantly from when the committee was formed in 2009. Because the report was also about policy advice, the council named nonscientists, including Jim Geringer, a conservative Republican and a former governor of Wyoming.

Albert Carnesale, the chairman of the panel and a chancellor emeritus of the University of California, Los Angeles, said that he hoped the panel’s diversity and that many came to the job without “prior bias” would help sell it even to skeptical policy makers.

“It is an urgent problem to turn to, and what we’ve done differently is to look at this as a risk management problem,” Dr. Carnesale said.

While no one knows the exact shape of the risks, Dr. Carnesale said, we know that they are real enough to act on. And that they will be harder to act on as time passes. “We don’t know exactly when the tsunami will hit or how high it will be, but we know it is coming, and we should prepare,” Dr. Carnesale said.

But Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, who has been leading the charge against further regulating carbon emissions, swiftly dismissed the council’s findings in an interview Thursday. “I see nothing substantive in this report that adds to the knowledge base necessary to make an informed decision about what steps — if any — should be taken to address climate change,” Mr. Barton said.

Although the report characterizes climate change as a problem that urgently needs attention, it stops short of making highly specific policy prescriptions, leaving that to lawmakers.

To many worried about climate change, that is a common flaw of such reports.

“This is the classic problem — the divide between scientific reality and political courage,” said Paul W. Bledsoe, a senior adviser with the Bipartisan Policy Center who has worked in Congress and with the White House on these issues. “The scientific organizations are reluctant to advocate detailed policy prescriptions, while political actors are tentative about the scientific realities.”

The report outlined four areas that demanded immediate action by the federal government.

For starters, it emphasized that reducing carbon emissions was critical to keeping the United States from having to make dire choices in the future. While stopping just short of recommending a carbon tax, the committee did praise its efficacy.

“Analyses suggest that the best way to amplify and accelerate such efforts, and to minimize overall costs (for any given national emissions reduction target), is with a comprehensive, nationally uniform, increasing price on” carbon emissions enough to “drive major investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies,” the report said.

It also called on the federal government to play a much more active role in researching new technologies and in helping the nation adapt to the changes in the natural world that are already inevitable. Even with a reduction in carbon output, the report said, some climate change will continue to occur.

It noted that while many of the nations’ cities and states are taking steps toward mitigating carbon output and preparing for hotter, wetter conditions, it suggested that the federal government could help coordinate these activities while also encouraging more research and development.

“The federal government,” the report said, “should immediately undertake the development of a national adaptation strategy and build durable institutions to implement that strategy and improve it over time.” Finally, while this report was designed, in contrast to the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, to be by Americans for Americans, the authors noted that climate change was a global problem and the nation had an obligation to remain engaged with the international community on possible solutions.
344 2011-05-13 “I think more details are necessary,” said Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve. “I support providing more information to the public and getting public comment.”

Mr. Bernanke said that while he doubted regulators could “provide an exact mechanical formula that can be applied without judgment,” they could lay out objective criteria that they consider most important in making the designation.

But the decision also requires some subjective judgment, Mr. Bernanke added, indicating that the decisions would not be so cut and dried as to eliminate questions over why one company fit the bill and another did not.

Senator Patrick J. Toomey, a Republican from Pennsylvania, urged the regulators to leave their proposals on the subject open for public comment for at least 60 days, roughly double the comment period that regulators have been using for many of the rules being drawn up to carry out aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act.

While none of the regulators would commit to that, several said they supported the idea. Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said a “robust comment period” would help to clear up much of the uncertainty around the “systemically important” designation.

The Banking Committee also voted 12-10, along party lines, to send to the full Senate the nomination of Peter A. Diamond to the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System.

It was the third time Mr. Diamond had been approved by the Senate panel, but the nomination has yet to come to a vote in the Senate. The Senate adjourned last year without acting on the second nomination, and the first nomination was returned to the White House on a procedural objection.

Republicans on the Senate committee universally opposed Mr. Diamond, an M.I.T. professor and Nobel Prize winner, raising doubts about whether Democrats could gather the 60 votes necessary to bring the nomination to a vote on the floor of the Senate.

Senator Richard C. Shelby, a Republican from Alabama, said he still viewed Mr. Diamond as “an old-fashioned big government Keynesian” who was not a good person to join the Fed “at this point in our financial history.”

The Senate Banking Committee also approved several other nominations. David S. Cohen was approved as under secretary for terrorism and financial crimes in the Treasury Department on a 18-4 vote. A few senators of both parties objected to the nomination because, they said, they did not believe Mr. Cohen adequately indicated that he would support enforcement of economic sanctions against Iran.

Several other nominations were approved by the committee on a unanimous voice vote. They were: Daniel L. Glaser to be assistant secretary for terrorist financing at Treasury; Wanda Felton to be first vice president of the Export-Import Bank of the United States; and Sean Robert Mulvaney to be a director of the Export-Import Bank.
345 2011-05-13 AIDS prevention specialists not connected to the trial were enthusiastic.

“These results are phenomenal,” said Thomas J. Coates, director of the global health program at the , and the founder of the Center for AIDS Prevention Studies in San Francisco. “It was a tough study to do, and I’m thrilled it came out this way.”

Dr. Julio Montaner, an AIDS specialist at the University of British Columbia whose work among Vancouver heroin addicts helped lead to the Unaids policy, called the result of 96 percent protection “as good as it gets.”

“This is consistent with what we’ve been saying and doing in British Columbia for close to a decade,” he said. “How much more evidence do we need before we implement what we know works?”

The $73 million trial, known as HPTN 052, involved 1,763 couples in 13 cities on four continents. One member of each couple was infected with H.I.V.; the other was not. In half the couples, chosen at random, the infected partner was put on antiretroviral drugs as soon as he or she tested positive for the virus.

In the other half, the infected person started treatment only when his or her CD4 count — a measure of the immune system’s strength — dropped below 250 per cubic millimeter.

In 28 of the couples, the uninfected person became infected with the partner’s strain of the virus. Twenty-seven of those 28 infections took place in couples in which the partner who was infected first was not yet getting treatment.

On Thursday, Dr. Fauci and Dr. Myron Cohen, an AIDS specialist from the at and the study’s director, announced that the data collected since the study began in 2005 had been “unblinded” to an independent safety review panel, which is standard procedure in clinical trials. When the panel realized how much protection early treatment afforded, it recommended that drug regimens be offered to all participants. Although participants will still be followed, the trial is effectively over because it will no longer be a comparison between two groups on different regimens.

The results carry moral implications for doctors in the . Although medical associations like the Infectious Diseases Society of America advocate starting patients on AIDS drugs early, the decision is made by the doctor and patient. Some patients fear the reported side effects of AIDS drugs and want to delay taking the drugs until they get obviously sick or until their CD4 counts fall, and some doctors go along with that, Dr. Fauci said, especially as long as their patients’ CD4 counts remain above 350.

But that means the patient may infect others during the delay. Of the 27 people in the study who became infected while their partners were not yet taking the drugs, 17 had partners whose CD4 counts were still above 350.

Asked if it could now be considered immoral for a doctor to accede to a patient’s request to delay starting drugs, Dr. Fauci said: “I’m not going to go there. I’m not going to say it’s immoral. But there is more and more data showing the advantages of starting as early as you can.”

Dr. Coates of U.C.L.A. said he hoped that treatment delays would fade away because the newest antiretroviral drugs had few side effects.

Although the evidence suggests that it would be good public health policy to lower infection rates by starting everyone on drugs as soon as they are infected, that is impossible in much of the world. For lack of money, clinics in are turning away patients who are not just infected but close to death. And in some American states where money provided by the Ryan White Care Act has run out, poor uninsured people are on waiting lists.

Although the trial was relatively large, there are some limitations on interpreting the data.

More than 90 percent of the couples in the trial, who lived in , , , , Malawi, , , the United States and , were heterosexual.

“We would have liked to have a substantial number of men as potential study subjects, but they just weren’t interested,” Dr. Cohen said.

Although common sense suggests the results would be similar in the contexts of homosexual sex and sex between people who are not couples, strictly speaking, the results apply only to the type of people studied, Dr. Fauci said.
346 2011-05-13 “I cannot believe this,” said a motorcycle driver awaiting Mr. Besigye. “I can’t believe this day.”

For the past month, Mr. Besigye and other opposition leaders, many of whom lost handily to Mr. Museveni in the February election, have staged twice-weekly street demonstrations against rising fuel and food prices and what they call debilitating government corruption.

The protests have mostly been tiny and timid, and have been dismissed by some as shallow political theater orchestrated by the losing candidates.

But in recent weeks, the protests’ narrative and political momentum have built as the government has mounted a brutal and at times fatal response, making many Ugandans rethink the extent of the nation’s democracy.

Mr. Museveni touched on the issues in his inaugural address, saying the government would scrutinize fuel prices, but he also argued that the country was more united than ever.

Scenes from the street drew a different portrait. Mr. Besigye flew to Kenya last month for medical care after being arrested, attacked with a type of pepper spray by plainclothes police officers and shot in the hand with a rubber bullet.

On Tuesday, the police used water cannons to disperse a group of six people, some of them political leaders, who were huddled against a building. Another opposition leader was whisked away in a police van.

And what started as an almost-embarrassing political flop for Mr. Besigye last month — with roughly five followers during his first protest — culminated Thursday in a dramatic procession celebrating his return.

A deeper political dispute may be developing. In recent weeks, there has been a surge of criticism against the government and the use of force against the mostly peaceful protesters.

“Lots of this anger is being vented at Museveni as he is sworn in, both because of widespread belief of fraud in the election and because of the way the government has handled Besigye,” said Elliott Green, a specialist on Uganda at the London School of Economics. “The next question is where things might go from here.”

Mr. Besigye, who came in a distant second to Mr. Museveni in the elections, with roughly 20 percent of the vote, said he would not recognize the government.

Mr. Museveni has long been a close ally of the United States, and many voters gave him high marks for stabilizing the country and delivering growth after decades of dictatorships and rebellion.

But Mr. Museveni has recently been bedeviled by accusations of corruption involving campaign financing, the purchase of Russian fighter jets and secretive oil contracts.

Furthermore, many security officials used by the government to counter the protests have been linked to a violent branch of Uganda’s police force accused of widespread human rights abuses.
347 2011-05-13 But some Iraqis called Parliament’s effort a quixotic waste of time by a legislature that has dithered on questions of greater import, like whether American troops should be allowed to stay past a withdrawal deadline of January 2012.

The prospects for passage of the tobacco ban are, well, cloudy, at best.

In the six months since competing factions quilted together a partnership government, ’s Parliament has passed about 10 laws, none of them highly controversial.

They have passed a budget, canceled some -era measures and moved to cut their own salaries and increase some public aid in response to calls for government reform.

Politicians in the Shiite-led government have also spent time on impassioned speeches defending fellow Shiite protesters in , and took a day off in solidarity. After a tortured debate, they approved a procedure for selecting vice presidents, but have yet to name one.

Through this, Iraq’s leaders have moved slowly on resolving the status of the disputed northern city of Kirkuk, an oil-rich prize that is one of Iraq’s biggest trouble spots. They have not named ministers to lead the army and police forces, leaving a vacuum that some Iraqis blame for a recent spike in assassinations and other violence.

“There are more important issues they should be considering,” said Aboud al-Dulaimi, who was sitting with two friends outside a tiki-themed hookah bar in downtown Baghdad. “The government needs to pass laws to serve the people. They have more than three million unemployed, and they are busy with such laws.”

Sitting beside him, Abbas al-Janabi took a drag and declared, “It’s stupidity.”

Mr. Janabi, 46, said he had been a pack-a-day smoker in the 15 years before the 2003 American invasion. But in the chaos that followed, as he shut down his once prosperous factory, sold his house and moved abroad, Mr. Janabi said he began smoking more.

Now back in Baghdad after a brief exile in and and living in a small apartment on Street, Mr. Janabi said he burned through four packs a day as he scavenged for work. He knows the habit may be his death, but he treats it with a fatalism commonly heard throughout Iraq.

“I know a cigarette will kill me one day, but I can’t do anything about it,” he said. “I may get killed tomorrow. It’s just fate.”

Parliament tried such a move once before, in 2009, but dropped the measure. It was reintroduced in April, and lawmakers have scheduled a second reading for Sunday, a necessary step toward passage.

Although smoking rates in Iraq lag far behind those in , and much of eastern , few women or devout Muslims smoke, meaning that the rate among men is considerably higher. With Iraq’s cigarette consumption among the highest in the , smoking is easily Baghdad’s most widespread vice.

Bars and public alcohol consumption have rebounded as Iraq’s streets have become safer to traverse at night, but Islamic prohibitions against drinking and raids of Baghdad’s nightclubs have limited the spread of alcohol. At most cafes and restaurants, Iraqis sip fruit juice or tea instead of , and content themselves with cigarettes and shisha — flavored tobacco from ornate water pipes.

Ali Assan Ali said his shisha cafe would be devastated by an outright ban on smoking in public places. He said he had spent $400,000 to open the business and renovate a second-floor space, and said the proposed smoking restrictions were too broad.

“This is my life, this is my health,” he said.

“We are Iraqi,” said Rami , 19. “We like the shisha and the smoking. It’s a good place for young people to just waste time.”

His friend Baraa Ghazi, 27, offered a broader pronouncement as he took a languid drag. “This,” he said, “is freedom.”
348 2011-05-13 Over the last 12 months, the index has increased 6.8 percent, the biggest gain in nearly three years. Outside of food and energy, prices rose 2.1 percent, up from a 1.9 percent gain in March.

Turmoil in the Middle East and rising demand from fast-growing developing countries have pushed up the price of oil and gas since last summer. The prices of corn, wheat, cotton and other commodities have also increased because of strong global demand. That has raised worries among some economists that consumer prices could also rise and inflation could surge.

But some signs in recent days suggest that inflation pressures could cool in the coming months. Oil prices dropped on Thursday to nearly $96 a barrel on expectations that global demand would slow this year. The price was about $114 a barrel last week. Prices of corn and other grains fell on Wednesday.

Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, said higher energy and agricultural commodity prices could push the 12-month increase in the Producer Price Index to 8 percent in the coming months. But he said it would be a temporary spike.

“With commodity prices now falling, both producer and consumer price inflation are likely to drop sharply in the second half of the year,” Mr. Dales said.

A separate report from the Labor Department showed that the number of people applying for unemployment benefits dropped last week, reversing nearly all the sharp rise reported the previous week.

The number of laid-off workers seeking benefits dropped 44,000, to a seasonally adjusted 434,000. That was the steepest weekly fall since February 2010.

The drop suggests that the increase of 47,000 reported last week was mostly because of temporary factors. Still, the latest applications figure is far above the 375,000 level typically consistent with sustainable job growth. Weekly applications peaked during the recession at 659,000.

The four-week average of claims, a less volatile measure, rose to 436,750, its fifth consecutive increase. The average has increased 46,500, or nearly 12 percent, since early April.

Many economists say a brighter outlook for hiring should blunt the impact of inflation. Companies have added 250,000 jobs each month, on average, in the last three months, the biggest hiring spree in five years. The unemployment rate has dropped nearly a full percentage point in the last five months.

More jobs are critical to increasing consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.
349 2011-05-13 As has been the Qaddafi government’s practice, the tour, nine hours after the bombings, was carefully choreographed. The reporters arrived at a playground to find children swirling about enthusiastically on a carousel no more than a stone’s throw from a gaping hole left by a bomb. Some of them were holding pictures of the Libyan leader.

But as has often happened on Libyan tours for the press since the uprising began more than 12 weeks ago, the visit exposed what appeared to be information that the government would have preferred to hide.

In this case, reporters saw evidence that the NATO bombing might have been aimed at a maze of subterranean tunnels and bunkers, and had done extensive damage. Bomb fragments indicated that bunker-busting bombs — meant to destroy underground sites — had been used, according to a Western security adviser to a TV crew who was on the tour. Close to the playground, a concrete stairway flanked by green-painted steel railings descended to a steel door set about 15 feet below ground level.

An official determination to disguise the stairway’s presence was betrayed by what appeared to have been a carefully marshaled gathering of people protesters around the stairway. Whenever a reporter or camera crew approached to get a closer look, the crowd lurched forward, effectively stopping them.

If the NATO bombings were intended to destroy parts of the underground complex, they appear to have amounted, in practice, to another attempt to destroy what NATO officials have described as the “command and control structures” of the Qaddafi government, leaving open the possibility that Col. Qaddafi himself could be killed.

On Thursday, Defense Secretary said airstrikes and other military operations in support of the Libyan rebels have cost the about $750 million so far, news agencies reported. The figure appeared to be at the low end of cost projections before the bombing campaign began on March 19.

The strikes on the compound in Tripoli came shortly after Colonel Qaddafi made his first public appearance in nearly two weeks on Wednesday night, speaking briefly on Libyan state television. Wearing dark sunglasses, he gestured to his audience in a Tripoli hotel and said, “We tell the world: those are the representatives of the Libyan tribes.”

Yet even as Colonel Qaddafi sought to underscore his support among some of ’s fractious tribes and quell rumors about his health, the rebels notched one of their most significant victories of the Libyan conflict Wednesday by seizing the airport in Misurata, dealing a stiff military and public-relations blow to the Qaddafi government.

The airport and its approaches were the last remaining pieces of terrain in the city to be controlled by Qaddafi soldiers.

With these soldiers pushed back, the western area of Misurata, a city that has been under siege for nearly two months, appeared by nightfall to be out of range of the most common of the Qaddafi forces’ heavy weapons, including self-propelled artillery, Grad rockets and 120-millimeter mortars, which loyalists have used to fire .

Though potentially reversible, the capture of the airport appeared to be a break in the siege. With the loyalists suffering a string of defeats in recent days and the rebels gaining weapons and confidence, Colonel Qaddafi now appeared weaker than ever before, Misurata residents said. With their advance, the rebels had, at least for the moment, the potential to cut off government forces in the east from those in the west of Libya, threatening the logistics lines of Qaddafi forces.

The rebel commander at the airport added that the rebels, who now have physical control of all of Misurata, Libya’s third-largest city, had given the citizens of Libya a psychological milestone that could endanger Colonel Qaddafi’s hold on the capital.

“Any victory we make here will encourage the people of Tripoli,” he said, as he strutted through the airport’s departure terminal, where the abandoned green uniforms of Qaddafi soldiers rested on several luggage carts. “They will say: ‘Qaddafi is weak. Why can he not keep Misurata?’ ”

The rebels also appeared to make progress in their diplomatic efforts as well on Thursday. Mustafa Abdul Jalil, chairman of the Libyan rebels’ national council, met with the British foreign secretary, William J. Hague, and secured a physical home for the fledgling government’s diplomatic efforts in . “We’ve announced today that the Libyan Interim National Transitional Council will be able to open an office in ,” Mr. Hague announced in a post on late Thursday morning. However unlike France and Italy, Britain has not recognized the national council as the legitimate government in Libya.
350 2011-05-13 Use any kind of barley, brown rice or arborio rice in this Proven&#231;al gratin....
351 2011-05-13 8:15 p.m. | Updated Ending a five-year court battle over music piracy, the major record companies on Thursday settled a copyright infringement lawsuit with LimeWire, a popular file-sharing network, for $105 million, the Recording Industry Associat...
352 2011-05-13 7:52 p.m. | Updated      Already facing diminished expectations for a stock offering of the American International Group, Treasury officials are planning a secondary sale of General Motors shares for late summer or early fall - later than many inv...
353 2011-05-13 WEISSMAN--Vivian J. March 22, 1921 May 10, 2011. Lee Vivian Betty Jacobs grew up in Baltimore, Maryland, daughter of Gustav and Bertha Jacobs. In the 1940s, she moved to New York City to seek her fortune. She landed a job in high-tech, which at th...
354 2011-05-13 6:00 p.m. | Updated      The Takeda Pharmaceutical Company of Japan is in talks to buy the Swiss drug maker Nycomed for 8 billion to 10 billion euros (about $11.4 billion to $14.2 billion), a person with direct knowledge of the discussions said on...
355 2011-05-14 The Morning Line for May 14, 2011....
356 2011-05-14 Venus Williams withdrew from the French Open on Friday, one day after her younger sister Serena did. Venus’s agent, Carlos Fleming, wrote in an e-mail that Williams notified tournament organizers Friday that she would not compete in the tournament, which starts May 22.

Venus Williams, 30, has been off the tour since January, when she stopped playing only minutes into her third-round match at the Australian Open because of a hip injury. A left knee injury limited her to just one tournament over the final six months of 2010.
357 2011-05-14 Microsoft’s purchase of Skype, Music Beta from Google, guilty verdict for Raj Rajaratnam, G.M. investments and more....
358 2011-05-14 The United States International Trade Commission, in a preliminary ruling, rejected Apple’s digital-camera patent claims against the Eastman Kodak Company. Kodak’s technology does not infringe Apple’s patent rights, and one of the two patents in dispute is invalid, Robert Rogers Jr., a judge at the federal agency that oversees trade disputes, said in the ruling. His decision is subject to review by the agency’s six commissioners. The judge’s reasoning will not be made public until Kodak and Apple review his ruling and determine whether it includes information they believe is confidential. Shares of Kodak, which is based in Rochester, rose 15 cents, or 5.26 percent, to $3. Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., fell $6.07, or 1.75 percent, to $340.50.
359 2011-05-14 In language some would later criticize as unfit for a scholarly journal, Dr. Forrest also questioned Dr. Beckwith’s qualifications, writing that he takes positions on church/state issues but has “no formal credentials as a constitutional scholar.” She suggested connections between Dr. Beckwith and intelligent design theorists and the marginal, far-right Christian Reconstructionists, who believe that a theocracy under Old Testament law is the best form of government.

In January, two years after the Synthese issue went online, the print version finally appeared — containing an addition, an unusual statement from the journal’s main editors (not the guest editors). In it, they commented on the tone of the issue, a move that appeared to undermine Dr. Forrest and the guest editors who had solicited her piece.

“We have observed,” begins the note from Johan van Benthem, Vincent F. Hendricks and John F. Symons, the journal’s editors, “that some of the papers in this issue employ a tone that may make it hard to distinguish between dispassionate intellectual discussion of other views and disqualification of a targeted author or group.”

The editors refer to “some of the papers,” but many concluded that it was Dr. Forrest’s critique of Dr. Beckwith, a professor at Baylor University, that made them uncomfortable.

So what happened, in the two years between the article’s appearance online and in print, to give the editors pause?

Dr. Forrest has said that after the online publication the editors asked if she would soften her tone, but she said no, then heard nothing more. Some wondered if, in the lag between online and print publication, the intelligent design community had pressured the editors to apologize.

Last month, the philosopher Brian Leiter published on his blog a letter from Mr. Branch and Dr. Fetzer, the guest editors, who angrily wrote that they had not been consulted about the unusual statement in the print edition.

“We are both shocked and chagrined,” they write, “that a journal of Synthese’s stature should have sunk so low as to violate the canons of responsible editorial practice as the result of lobbying by a handful of ideologues.”

Dr. Leiter titled his blog post “Synthese Editors Cave in to Pressure from the Intelligent Design Lobby: Philosophers Should Boycott Synthese.” The next week he linked to a petition demanding that Synthese’s editors “disclose the nature of complaints and/or legal threats from Francis Beckwith, his supporters, and supporters of intelligent design” that they received after publishing the special issue.

In an interview Thursday, Dr. van Benthem said he and his co-editors had “received some messages that could be interpreted as legal threats,” but not from Christian philosophers. He added that another article in the issue concerned them in addition to Dr. Forrest’s and moreover that their statement was an endorsement of civility, not intelligent design.

Dr. Forrest said this week that she suspected that intelligent design theorist William A. Dembski “was involved in this, because his work was mentioned” in her article, too. Reached by phone, Dr. Dembski said that he had not contacted Synthese and knew of no specific campaign to influence the journal.

“I presume there was some pressure put on them, but where that came from I do not know,” Dr. Dembski said.

Three philosophers have, however, admitted to contacting the editors who issued the quasi-apology for Dr. Forrest’s article. One is the Christian philosopher Alvin Plantinga, of Notre Dame, who recalled sending an e-mail to the editors two years ago.

“I thought her article didn’t measure up to the usual academic standards of Synthese at all,” he said on Thursday. “It was heavy on character assassination and innuendo and light on anything Beckwith ever said.”

In May 2009, the Calvin College philosopher Kelly James Clark also wrote to Synthese. “I reject intelligent design and I don’t think it should be taught in the schools in the U.S.,” he said in an e-mail dated May 5, 2009. Like Dr. Plantinga, Dr. Clark accused Synthese of “character assassination.”

Dr. Beckwith, the article’s subject, also wrote to the editors in 2009.

“For a couple of days, I was really depressed,” he said by telephone. He was baffled by what he felt were ad hominem attacks, and what he saw as guilt by association. (He says he has nothing to do with Christian Reconstructionists, for example.) He wrote a letter to the editors, but said he never asked anyone else to complain on his behalf. “I don’t know these guys well, but to have philosophers of that stature come to your defense — I was blown away by that.”

Lately, Dr. Beckwith has been avoiding the dispute. “I gave up Googling my name for Lent,” he said.

Mr. Branch, one of the guest editors, said he knew of at least one philosopher who had withdrawn a paper from Synthese because of the controversy. Dr. Fetzer, the other guest editor, is still indignant over how Dr. Forrest was treated.

The dispute has titillated bloggers on both sides of the issue, in the Christian, secular humanist and academic camps. Some defenders of Dr. Beckwith have enjoyed noting that Dr. Fetzer’s well-publicized conspiratorial view that the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks were “a staged event arranged especially by neocons with the complicity of the Mossad to galvanize the American people in support of wars of aggression for the sake of oil, Israel and ideology.”

Dr. Forrest, whose essay began it all, was sounding a bit philosophical. Last week, she was visiting a friend at Stanford, where Dr. van Benthem teaches. She could have knocked on his door.

“I deliberately did not go and talk to him,” Dr. Forrest said, “because I did not want him to feel I was pressuring him.”

“I figured that he’s under a lot of pressure. But he made a mistake.”
360 2011-05-14 Reach Sambath, who survived the Khmer Rouge killing fields as an orphan and rose through journalism and teaching to become the spokesman for a tribunal in Cambodia that is trying the leaders of the Khmer Rouge, died on Wednesday. He was 47.

The cause was a stroke brought on by high blood pressure, his family said.

Mr. Reach Sambath often said that as the spokesman for the United Nations-backed tribunal, he was helping to represent the 1.7 million who died during Khmer Rouge rule, from 1975 to 1979. Among them were his parents and all but one sibling. He called himself “a spokesperson for ghosts.”

Mr. Reach Sambath entered journalism in 1991 as a reporter for Agence France-Presse, the French news agency. He was one of the first Cambodians to work for a foreign news agency, and he covered the nation’s first democratic election, a coup, a lingering civil war and finally the collapse of the Khmer Rouge insurgency and the death of its leader, Pol Pot. During these years he also worked as a reporter and translator for The New York Times, whose global edition is The International Herald Tribune.

He was present in 1998 when two of the last Khmer Rouge holdouts, Khieu Samphan and Nuon Chea, both of whom are now on trial, surrendered to the government.

“When I see them, it is difficult to forgive — very difficult,” he said at the time. “But we have to forgive and move on.”

Mr. Reach Sambath sold ice and ferried passengers on a bicycle to support himself after the fall of the Khmer Rouge while he attended elementary and high school and learned English. He graduated in 1987 and became an English teacher. He then won a place as one of the first post-Khmer Rouge students to be sent abroad, to study agriculture in India, before returning to join Agence France-Presse. On leave from that job, he earned a master’s degree in 2001 from Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism.
361 2011-05-14 LOS ANGELES — Want to see the California Governor’s Mansion, once home to such political giants as Ronald Reagan and Earl Warren? You’d better hurry.

The Governor’s Mansion will be among 70 state parks that will close to the public, Gov. Jerry Brown’s administration announced Friday — part of $11 billion in budget cuts that had already been approved, while a gap of more than $15 billion remains.

The closings highlight the depth of the budget cuts California is set to endure. Though Mr. Brown, a Democrat, has lobbied hard for temporary tax extensions that could close the remaining gap, Republicans have blocked a vote on his plan; he is preparing to unveil his proposal for an all-cuts budget next week.

“We have made some very difficult decisions to close the deficit,” the State Assembly speaker, John A. Pérez, said in a written response to a request for comment. “I am hopeful that with the release of the May revise, we can close out the remainder of the deficit with a balanced approach without resorting to further cuts.”

In choosing which of the 278 parks to close, officials worked to keep open those with the most attendance and historical significance, as well as those that bring in the most revenue. Officials said 92 percent of park attendance and 94 percent of revenue would be preserved. There may be more closings if the department’s budget is further cut.

But Mark Standriff, communications director for the California Republican Party, said Mr. Brown was trying to scare voters into supporting tax extensions.
362 2011-05-14 Victrelis, also known as boceprevir, inhibits an enzyme, called protease, that the virus needs in order to replicate. By blocking viral enzymes, Victrelis borrows a page from the strategy that has been successful in treating H.I.V.

Vertex Pharmaceuticals is expected to win F.D.A. approval this month for its own hepatitis C protease inhibitor, starting a fierce marketing war with Merck. Based on clinical trial results, analysts generally expect Vertex’s drug to outsell Merck’s. Both drugs received unanimous recommendations from an F.D.A. advisory committee late last month.

Many other companies are not far behind, making hepatitis C one of the hottest areas in the pharmaceutical industry.

“Regardless of the ultimate success of this drug, it’s a harbinger of a great new era in treating patients with hepatitis C,” said Dr. Scott L. Friedman, chief of liver diseases at the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine in New York. While the Vertex drug, called telaprevir, and Victrelis must be used with the existing drugs, the hope is that in several years, three or four new drugs might be combined, as is done for H.I.V., doing away with the need for the interferon injections.

For now, though, the Merck and Vertex drugs could allow some patients to clear the virus from their bodies with shorter durations of treatment. In Merck’s clinical trial, 44 percent of patients who had not previously been treated were able to complete their treatment in 28 weeks instead of the usual 48.

Dr. Ira M. Jacobson, professor of medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College in New York, said many patients have been forgoing treatment in order to wait for the approval of the new drugs. “There are also patients who have tried to be treated in the past, often more than once, and have been waiting for something that gives them a significant chance of success,” said Dr. Jacobson, who is a consultant to both Merck and Vertex and a speaker for Merck.

Victrelis is approved for treatment of the genotype 1 strain of hepatitis C, which represents about 70 percent of the cases in the United States and is one of the toughest strains to treat.

Merck set the wholesale price of Victrelis at $1,100 a week, meaning a full course of treatment will cost $26,400 to $48,400. Although the treatment takes 28 to 48 weeks, Victrelis is not used for the first four weeks.

In Merck’s clinical trials, about half the patients who got Victrelis suffered from anemia, roughly double the rate for those who got only the existing drugs. The risk of having low white blood cell counts was also higher for those who got Victrelis.

Moreover, patients will have to take a lot of pills. Victrelis is taken three times a day, with a total of 12 capsules daily. Ribavirin is taken twice a day, usually with a total of five or six pills. If patients do not take Victrelis faithfully, the virus might become resistant to the drug.

Most people who are infected with hepatitis C virus do not know it, health authorities say. The biggest group consists of baby boomers who might have been infected decades ago through needles used to inject drugs, or through sex, blood transfusions or hemophilia medications.
363 2011-05-14 Democrats said that the financial outlook for Medicare would have been much worse without the new health care law. The law, which President Obama cites as one of his greatest political accomplishments, promises to be a central point of conflict in the 2012 presidential election.

Without the new law, said Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, “Medicare would have gone bankrupt in 2016, only five years from now.”

Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said, “The current economic crisis has hit the Medicare trust fund, and hit it hard.” Mr. Baucus, an architect of the new law, and other Democrats vowed to resist Republican efforts to repeal it.

The trustees said the financial outlook for Social Security had changed little. They said the Social Security trust fund would be exhausted in 2036, one year sooner than projected in last year’s report, and even then, they said, tax revenue would be sufficient to pay three-fourths of promised benefits through 2085.

It is inconceivable that politicians would allow either program to run out of money. The projected dates of insolvency are widely used as a measure of the financial condition of Social Security and Medicare, which together account for more than one-third of all federal spending.

In unveiling the new estimates, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, the managing trustee of the trust funds, noted the need for additional borrowing to keep the government’s myriad commitments in other programs.

“On Monday,” Mr. Geithner said, “just three days from today, the United States will reach the debt limit set by Congress. Because Congress has not yet acted, we have now set in motion a series of extraordinary measures that will give Congress some additional time to raise the debt limit.”

As a condition of increasing the debt limit, many Republicans are demanding changes in benefit programs. But House Republicans have discovered that they are playing with political dynamite when they propose major changes in Medicare.

The reports were signed by the six trustees: three cabinet officers, the Social Security commissioner and two public representatives.

The Medicare report included a disclaimer by the chief Medicare actuary, Richard S. Foster. “The financial projections shown in this report for Medicare do not represent a reasonable expectation for actual program operations” in the short term or the long range, said Mr. Foster, a civil servant whose independence is protected by law.

The projections assume that Medicare will cut doctors’ fees by 29 percent on Jan. 1, as required under current law, but Congress routinely intercedes to block such cuts.

Moreover, the report says that projected Medicare costs over 75 years are about 25 percent lower because of the new health care law.

Under the law, Medicare will hold down payments to hospitals and other health care providers to reflect presumed increases in productivity. But, Mr. Foster said, if these constraints are kept in place, Medicare payments to providers will eventually be “far below the levels paid by private health insurance.”

“Well before that point,” Mr. Foster added, “Congress would have to intervene to prevent the withdrawal of providers from the Medicare market and the severe problems with beneficiary access to care that would result.” This, in turn, would “lead to far higher costs for Medicare in the long range than those projected” in the report, he said.

The report on Social Security predicts that beneficiaries will receive a cost-of-living increase of seven-tenths of one percent in 2012. Because of low inflation, beneficiaries did not receive increases this year or in 2010.

Turning to the long-range outlook for Social Security, the trustees said the gap between income and costs over the next 75 years would be somewhat larger than projected in last year’s report. One reason is that the trustees now believe that people will live longer, thus lowering mortality rates for the population 65 and older.

Population experts have said for some years that Social Security was underestimating gains in life spans likely to occur in the 21st century.

The trustees also revised their estimates of immigration. Because of the weak economy, they said, the number of immigrants entering the United States is assumed to be lower than in last year’s report. This adversely affects the long-range financial outlook for Social Security because “immigration occurs at relatively young ages,” and taxes paid by immigrant workers help finance Social Security benefits for retirees.

The trustees sounded an alarm about financial problems in Social Security’s disability insurance program. The trust fund for this program will be exhausted in 2018, they said, “so legislative action will be needed as soon as possible.”

In a joint statement, the two public trustees, Charles P. Blahous III and Robert D. Reischauer , warned, “The financial shortfalls confronting both Social Security and Medicare are substantial and — absent legislation to correct them — quite certain.”
364 2011-05-14 You have to hand it to the N.B.A. and the N.H.L. for producing conference finals with great psychodramatic subplots. Now, you don’t have to credit the actual leagues — especially the N.H.L., which was too busy trying to figure out what to do with the Green Men to concoct any actual strategy — but feel free to enjoy the results.

First, you have the Miami Heat and the Chicago Bulls in the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, a match made in morality play heaven. That’s because Chicago recruited LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh in last year’s free agency bonanza but instead the Bulls signed none of them, built an eight-man-deep lineup led by Derrick Rose, the team glue, and were the top team in the East.

Now, everyone will consider the Heat the favorite here, but Michael Wallace writes on ESPN.com that it’s because people favor style over substance. His ESPN.com colleague Michael Wilbon writes that the free agents the Bulls did sign are more valuable than their lack of star power suggests. Dan Wetzel of Yahoo.com points out that Rose refused to participate in the over-the-top woo fest that was the free agency recruiting period last summer, which now becomes a delicious slice of irony in this series. It also means the Bulls are the natural rallying point for everyone who hated “The Decision” and all of the other excesses of LeBron mania. That category includes Foxsports.com’s Jason Whitlock, who predicts the Bulls will win the morality play.

The Bulls certainly painted quite a different picture when they toppled Atlanta Thursday night in Game 6. There was no on-court catharsis, Heat-style, just a hard-working victory, writes Bill Trocchi on SI.com. That’s because the Bulls were concerned only with the step right in front of them, writes David Haugh in The Chicago Tribune, and did not look ahead at Miami. Rick Morrissey wonders in The Chicago Sun-Times that if Miami considered Boston the highest mountain in the conference, does that mean it has taken beating the Bulls for granted?

One thing the N.B.A. cannot take for granted is its supremacy, even in one of its own arenas. Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals was initially supposed to be Tuesday, but had to be moved all the way back to Sunday because Oprah is taping one of her last shows in the United Center, and as we all know, Oprah rules. Perhaps she could discuss the moral lessons of Bulls versus Heat.
365 2011-05-14 Gasoline prices were up 3.3 percent in April. According to the report, energy prices have now risen 19 percent over the last 12 months, with gasoline prices up 33.1 percent.

Consumers are “painfully aware” that if high energy and food costs continue, “the cost of living is going to go up,” said Stuart Hoffman, the chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group.

Inflation as measured by the core C.P.I., which strips out volatile prices for energy and food, edged up 0.2 percent in April, making it the third increase of that size in the last four months, the department’s Bureau of Labor Statistics said.

Housing and apparel prices each climbed by 0.2 percent, the figures showed.

Core inflation was up 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the department said. The core index, which was also in line with analysts’ forecasts, was also pushed up by rises in the prices of new vehicles, shelter, medical care and airline tickets.

“I think that you are seeing inflation drift higher,” said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc. “On the core side it is a slow drift, but it is nonetheless there. What will be important to the Fed is the mix between inflation and real growth.”

Many economists expect gasoline prices to ease over the summer. But in some regions of the country, consumers have been paying $4 or more a gallon at the pump since demand in emerging markets and turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa in the first quarter of the year sent prices higher. While consumers are feeling the strain, economists emphasized that the Federal Reserve was unlikely to take any action to relieve it by lowering interest rates or extending its quantitative easing program.

The Fed has raised its forecast of inflation, projecting that prices could rise 2.1 to 2.8 percent this year, mostly because of higher oil prices, although it stressed that those increases would subside. In April, the Fed’s policy-making body voted to continue several stimulus policies, like keeping short-term interest rates near zero. In a statement, the committee said it expected inflation from higher prices in energy and other commodities to be “transitory.”

Mr. Hoffman said core inflation, which is the rate the Fed focuses on, had edged up in the last year, meaning the Fed could put deflation concerns behind it. The 1.3 percent rate in the latest report was still below the unofficial target of the central bank of 2 percent or less.

“It is still not of concern to the Fed,” Mr. Hoffman said. “We are sort of in the middle, not going up too fast to worry the Fed about inflation.”
366 2011-05-14 Stocks were mostly lower on Friday, erasing a weekly gain, as CA Inc. led technology shares lower after its earnings missed estimates. Bank stocks slid over concerns about Europe’s debt crisis and closer government scrutiny.

CA, one of the largest makers of software for mainframe computers, tumbled 8.6 percent, its biggest drop since 2009. Nvidia, the maker of 3-D graphics processors, fell 10.9 percent. The Janus Capital Group lost 4.5 percent to lead financial companies to the biggest decline among 24 industries.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 10.88 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,337.77, leaving it down 0.2 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 100.17 points, or 0.79 percent, to 12,595.75. The Nasdaq fell 34.57 points, or 1.21 percent, to 2,828.47.

“You’re seeing liquidity drain off. People have had a good year so far and rather than get tagged for staying too long at the party, they’re exiting,” said Peter Sorrentino, a senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “With all the liquidity out there needing a home, it’s a tug of war back and forth between inflation fear and a need to keep that money invested.”

The S.& P. 500 has fallen 1.9 percent this month as gauges of energy and raw-material producers slumped with metal and oil prices. The gauge has still climbed 6.4 percent this year as government stimulus measures and corporate earnings raised confidence in the recovery.
367 2011-05-14 “It’s almost impossible to fathom,” he said, referring to Jagr’s hat trick, in which he demonstrated a different skill with each goal. “Playing here must be special for him. The Czechs have a good team. He’s one of their leaders and the reason they’re undefeated.”

Jagr, wearing his familiar No. 68, is tied for sixth in scoring at the worlds, with five goals and three assists.

“The game has changed; it’s so much about practicing,” said Jagr, who began his N.H.L. career with the Penguins in 1990. “I don’t think age matters much if you’re willing to practice, plus you have more experience. My advantage is that I don’t think my game was about speed. When you’re older, you’re losing the speed, but my game was never about the speed.”

Ilya Kovalchuk, a Russian player who twice scored 50 goals in the N.H.L., said this week that he thought Jagr could play until age 50. The Czech goaltender Ondrej Pavelec, 23, who hails from Kladno, where Jagr grew up, called him a “great teammate, great guy in the locker room.”

Jagr scored 646 goals and totaled 1,599 points in the N.H.L. Playing alongside Mario Lemieux, now a Penguins co-owner, he helped give Pittsburgh the league’s most formidable 1-2 scoring threat and led the franchise to consecutive Stanley Cup titles in 1991 and 1992.

Jagr was traded to the Washington Capitals in 2001 and then joined the Rangers in 2004. His N.H.L. career came to an end after the 2008 season, when he felt he was no longer the centerpiece around which Rangers General Manager Glen Sather would build.

Jagr moved to the Kontinental Hockey League in Russia, where he has played with Avangard Omsk the last three winters, averaging 22 goals and 48 points a season.

He is currently without a professional contract, and it remains to be seen whether he will return to Russia, go home to play in the Czech Republic, or perhaps attempt an N.H.L. comeback. Speculation has swirled at the world championships about a possible return to North America.

Asked whether he believed he could still compete in the N.H.L., Jagr responded with a laugh and answered, “I think so,” then added, “When people say you cannot play anymore, it’s extra motivation to prove them wrong.”

Jagr said he had a good offer on the table from Avangard Omsk, yet he still waffles about where to play next.

“It’s too early for me,” he said. “I really don’t know where I want to play next year. Right now, I just want to concentrate on this tournament, and then I have to make a decision.”

But could Jagr, who lost favor with the Penguins and their fans when he asked to be traded in 2001, return to Pittsburgh for a chance to play with the team’s latest superstar, Sidney Crosby?

“Jagr is a guy who is part of the Penguins family and always will be forever,” Shero said. “He was drafted by the Penguins, grew up as a Penguin and won Stanley Cups with the Penguins. The relations that he had with guys like Mario and Craig Patrick is really special. We don’t want him to forget that because we certainly haven’t forgotten him.”

Shero also said that Jagr had been invited to a summer golf outing with Lemieux and his former teammates to commemorate the 20th anniversary of their 1991 Stanley Cup championship.

“The fans in Pittsburgh, they all wanted to help me and they all liked me when I was younger,” Jagr said. “Plus, the biggest thing is I had a chance to watch and play with the best player ever, and that’s probably the best thing that’s happened to me in my life.”
368 2011-05-14 8:21 p.m. | Updated      BATS Global Markets filed on Friday to go public, after a wave of industry consolidation that has raised speculation that BATS could become a takeover target....
369 2011-05-14 KOMISSAROFF--Joseph. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Joseph Komissaroff, associated with The New York Times from November 1, 1971 until retiring on May 1, 1994....
370 2011-05-14 The 137,000-plus Mormons who live in Colorado (not to mention the rest of the state's population) will be the first people outside New York who get the chance to see ''The Book of Mormon.''     Producers of the smash musical, which is nominated fo...
371 2011-05-15 Still, some in City Hall wonder whether Mr. Emanuel has created a path to circumvent Mr. Burke’s committee, if necessary. Alderman Patrick O’Connor (40th Ward), who is viewed as a more reliable ally for the mayor, is slated to take the helm of a newly created committee that could instead shepherd crucial financial legislation.

Mr. O’Connor had been among the earliest supporters of Mr. Emanuel’s mayoral bid, and he was the first person whom Mr. Emanuel greeted after leaving the podium where he delivered his election-night victory speech.

Mr. O’Connor predicted no tensions between the new mayor and the council dean, but he said the responsibilities that the Finance Committee would retain were not yet clear.

“Exactly how it will work or how it plays out — some things remain to be seen,” Mr. O’Connor said. “This isn’t about trimming the Finance Committee as a playing-out of any personality conflict.”

One critic said the continued prominence of Mr. Burke and other veteran allies of Mr. Daley could test Mr. Emanuel’s campaign promise to change the contours of city government so that it works for the people rather than for insiders.

“This City Council reorganization is nothing but a reshuffling of old Daley administration players,” Alderman Ricardo Munoz (22nd) said. “It’s no reform plan.”

Mr. Burke did not respond to requests to be interviewed for this article.

Twenty-two years ago, he seemed to be in a similarly tenuous position. Mr. Daley, his longtime rival in the South Side Irish political class, had assumed office promising to mend the divisions of the racially charged “Council Wars” era. Mr. Burke had drawn widespread scorn during the 1980s as a leader of the white bloc of council members who frustrated the agenda of the city’s first black mayor, Harold Washington.

Rather than try to crush Mr. Burke, Mr. Daley carved out a peaceful and mutually beneficial coexistence with Mr. Burke, whom he had defeated in the 1980 race for Cook County state’s attorney. Mr. Burke kept tabs on the council for Mr. Daley, and the mayor passed no judgment as Mr. Burke amassed a long list of lucrative law clients who do business with city government.

The council as a whole might have been derided as a rubber stamp for Mr. Daley, but Mr. Burke undoubtedly was the biggest shark in the aldermanic pond.

Now in his 42nd year in the council, Mr. Burke, 67, comes across more like a Wacker Drive C.E.O. than the boss of a blue-collar ward.

At council meetings he often wears a finely tailored pinstripe suit with an emerald-green tie and handkerchief. That is no doubt an expression of pride in his ancestry, just like the rug in his third-floor office that could pass for the surface of a mini-golf course. His visage almost always stern behind wire-rimmed glasses, Mr. Burke likes to begin his council speeches with a quotation, perhaps Aristotle or an old Irish folk saying.

The council alpha dog’s bite is worse than his bark. After years of one-sided votes in favor of Mr. Daley’s agenda, Mr. Burke may be among the few aldermen with a deep understanding of the parliamentary process governing the city’s legislative branch.

Alderman Joe Moore (49th) was foiled by a parliamentary maneuver that Mr. Burke employed when Mr. Moore tried to oppose a Daley administration plan last year.

“He has a very commanding knowledge of City Council rules and procedures and a very commanding knowledge of how city government operates,” Mr. Moore said.

Many observers speculated that Mr. Burke could also use his deep political war chest to win council allies and block Mr. Emanuel’s legislative agenda. While he has been among the biggest political fund-raisers in the city’s history, Mr. Burke has been relatively stingy with that money, state records show.

His political committees have raised almost $12.5 million in the past decade, according to a Chicago News Cooperative analysis of state campaign-finance disclosure documents. He has donated only about $2.8 million during that period, and much of that went for contributions and tickets to charity events, rather than to his allies.

The personal wealth of Mr. Burke and his wife, the State Supreme Court Justice Anne M. Burke, is not known. As he has in most years, Mr. Burke reported that in 2010 he had dozens of law clients who do business with the city. Last year, he reported that 39 clients who have city business were worth at least $5,000 in fees to him in 2010.

Mr. Burke’s personal interests and public duties frequently clash on the council floor. During the last four-year council term, of the 559 instances when aldermen refrained from voting on measures that touched on their personal interests, more than 300 of them were invoked by Mr. Burke.

City records show that one of Mr. Burke’s children, Edward M. Burke Jr., briefly worked as a City Hall lobbyist. The younger Burke reported taking on two clients with interests in city government last year, including a Naperville company that conducted a pilot program of energy-efficient street lights for the Daley administration.

The contract with PolyBrite Inc. was signed on Sept. 15 and was supposed to pay $7,500 a month to the younger Mr. Burke for one year, records show. Two days after the February city election, however, he told city officials that he no longer was lobbying at City Hall.

Even rivals like Mr. Munoz, who helped a narrowly failed campaign to unseat Alderman Burke’s brother from the state legislature last year, acknowledge that Mr. Burke takes care of his constituents and those who help him as aggressively as he pursues his lucrative side work.

“He knows the system,” Mr. Munoz said, “and he works it.”
372 2011-05-15 The bill would allow authorities to seek court orders directing domestic Internet service providers, search engines and others to stop doing business with foreign-owned sites that trade in pirated material....
373 2011-05-15 Breaking the connection....
374 2011-05-15 “Portrait of Emily,” for instance, depicts Emily Alman, who was her sociology professor at Douglass College, and with whose family Ms. Snyder lived at the time the work was made. According to the wall label, Ms. Snyder stayed up all night carving the woodcut after learning on the evening news that John F. Kennedy had been assassinated. Another print, “Jenny,” also from 1963, depicts the teenage daughter of Ms. Alman and her husband, David.

A year later, Ms. Snyder unveiled a freer line and racier subject matter. “Woman Undressing,” from 1964, is a lithograph with the curvy outline of a female nude whose expressive shock of pubic hair becomes the focal point of the image. In “Lithograph of an Angel,” from 1966, a spread-eagled woman becomes a mythical, mystical flying creature.

Once Ms. Snyder’s feminist consciousness was uncorked in the mid-1960s, there was no returning to polite woodcuts inspired by art history. The title of “Whispers/Screams,” a large, colorful abstract screenprint from 1972, reflects the manic, exuberant approach of her gestural “stroke” paintings from the same period.

Many of the prints on view document or parallel events in Ms. Snyder’s life. A miscarriage is memorialized in “FMSWNL [For My Son Who Never Lived],” a nine-color lithograph that was begun four months after a happier event, the birth of her daughter, Molly. “Dancing in the Dark,” a woodcut from 1984, includes naïvely rendered figures inspired by one of her daughter’s drawings. “Woodcut for Love’s Deep Grapes,” from 1983, alludes to the affair Ms. Snyder had with the female psychiatrist she consulted after the breakup of her marriage; “My Maggie,” a color lithograph and etching from 2000, commemorates the 10th anniversary of her meeting Maggie Cammer, her longtime partner.

Along with prints on the themes of motherhood, autobiography and sexuality — leading tropes of 1970s feminist art — are those that suggest the ways in which larger cultural and political events intersect with the personal. In 1975, Ms. Snyder began collecting newspaper articles about the rapes and murders of women. That source material served as the background for “Resurrection,” a 26-foot mural, now at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, and the “Resurrection Etching,” from 1978 to 1981, which is on view here. Reprinted newspaper fragments, handwriting and smears of color that evoke a crime scene appear in the print next to a sketchily drawn rural scene that refers to another murder: that of the woman who once inhabited the farmhouse where Ms. Snyder and her husband were living in Pennsylvania, and whose spirit she felt was haunting them.

“Soul Series,” from 1993, is an ode to loss, including the deaths of Ms. Snyder’s parents and those of friends who died of AIDS. The work is meant to be displayed alongside an Edna St. Vincent Millay poem, “Dirge Without Music,” from 1928, which includes a line that resonates with the exhibition’s title: “Into the darkness they go, the wise and the lovely. Crowned/ With lilies and with laurel they go; but I am not resigned.”

The inclusion of text in — rather than just alongside — a work becomes itself a ground of contention. Ms. Snyder is quoted in a wall label saying that instead of being praised for writing on her work, “I get nailed, usually being called a ‘feminist’ who ‘wears her heart on her sleeve.’ ” In contrast, she said, when male artists like Cy Twombly, Julian Schnabel or Robert Rauschenberg use text, “they are considered very sensitive.”

Later works read almost like a flagrant rejoinder to this criticism. A color etching and woodcut from last year, when Ms. Snyder turned 70, consists entirely of a passage from an 1842 journal entry by Henry David Thoreau. It is both a meditation on mortality and a celebration of nature and beauty: “No man knoweth in what hour his life may come. Say not that Nature is trivial, for to-morrow she will be radiant with beauty.”

Then there is the issue of hearts. Like the sunflowers and ponds that have become guiding motifs for Ms. Snyder in recent years, hearts are plastered throughout her recent paintings — although they are somewhat less prevalent here. The implication seems to be that Ms. Snyder is doing what good feminists have always done: appropriating criticism and using it to productive ends. With that in mind, she is not only wearing her heart on her sleeve, but inserting it where it will be seen by the largest public: in her work.
375 2011-05-15 The same governor who raised taxes $6.8 billion and has a $12 billion borrowing binge under way — even though Illinois’s bonds already are at junk status — is promising to give tax breaks to Sears. In other words, a company with no strategic plan is likely to get a big new tax break to stay in a failed real estate development with no foreseeable economic value.

Sadly, this comes as no surprise. The governor who is sprinting to grant Sears’s wish is the same one who this month gave a $100 million tax-break package to Motorola Mobility, another fumbling company, to persuade it to base its cellphone business in Libertyville.

Motorola Mobility is the smart-phone business that descended from Motorola — a company that wrangled a $36 million credit from the state in 1994 to build a cellphone plant in Harvard, Ill., only to pull out of Harvard a decade later.

In Illinois, serial recipients can get taxpayer giveaways even for moves just a suburb away. Consider Navistar. Late last year, Mr. Quinn granted a $64.7 million break to help Navistar move its headquarters to Lisle from Warrenville, or $10 million for each of the six miles between the far western suburbs. And never mind that Navistar got taxpayer help a decade ago to move to Warrenville from Chicago.

In his two years in office, Mr. Quinn has granted tax-incentive packages to 124 companies, with much of the money going to prevent companies from skedaddling out of state. Recent big gifts to U.S. Cellular and Continental Tire are among them.

Then there’s Caterpillar. Just days after Mr. Quinn got his tax increase, Douglas R. Oberhelman, the company’s chief executive, wrote him a letter — leaked to the press — to let Mr. Quinn know that rising taxes would cost the company's employees $40 million a year, enough to afflict Caterpillar with a bad case of wanderlust.

This is the same Caterpillar that made an exaggerated and unsubstantiated claim in 2010 that the Obama heath care plan would cost it an extra $100 million. It also is the Caterpillar that is as entrenched in Peoria as Coca-Cola is rooted to Atlanta.

But never mind. Mr. Quinn answered the Cat call, met with Mr. Oberhelman a month ago, and even though a spokesman said Cat has asked for no special treatment, no one would be surprised to see a big-bucks tax break follow.

Some tax breaks can be tolerable. The $52 million spent to lure Boeing’s corporate headquarters to Chicago in the 1990s probably was worth it. And it’s good for Chicago that tax incentives helped persuade the brewing giant MillerCoors to make this city its home.

But the unspoken reality is this: well-run companies don’t hopscotch around the world to gain tax incentives that amount to rounding errors on corporate financial statements. Moving is costly. It’s disruptive to employees. It can send signals to Wall Street that corporate management is distractible.

All too often the companies that want tax breaks aren’t necessarily companies worth keeping. State tax breaks should be directed at growing companies, not listless and confused former giants like Sears.

Warren Ribley, director of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, says Illinois’s bill for inducing headquarters to stay could be much higher. Mr. Ribley noted that the state turns down as many tax-break packages as it approves. “We had about 12 proposals this week,” he said.

“There is significant economic benefit through supply chains, spinoff relationships, jobs and such,” he said. “The reverse question is, what is the negative economic impact to the state when you lose one of these?”

At the rate Mr. Quinn is going, we may never know.
376 2011-05-15 The city’s inspector general forced Christopher Kozicki from his high-ranking job in Mayor Richard M. Daley’s administration three years ago, citing his involvement in the infamous hiring of an unqualified, but politically connected, teenager as a building inspector. At the time, his lawyer said Mr. Kozicki would move on to “pursue other opportunities.”

His new opportunity turns out to involve lobbying the mayor’s office, according to city records. Mr. Kozicki’s employer installs steel covers over the windows of abandoned city properties like police stations and firehouses.

“If, in fact, Kozicki is working for city funds and lobbying people in the mayor’s office, the current administration has no interest in punishing people for illegal hiring,” Noelle Brennan, the city’s court-appointed hiring monitor, said last week. “It suggests instead that such people are rewarded.”

The state’s last two governors have faced corruption charges in cases based largely on the testimony of former top aides. Yet, despite federal prosecutors’ threats to aim for bigger targets at City Hall, their investigation of illegal patronage hiring never reached into the highest echelons of the mayor’s office.

Whenever the smaller fish caught in the federal net would refuse to incriminate their superiors, members of the city’s political class shrugged and suggested that the “stand-up guys” would eventually be taken care of.
377 2011-05-15 Remember when Microsoft ruled the PC industry? In the 1990s, its Windows operating system became so dominant that government trust-busters took it to court. They spent four years and millions of dollars making the case that Microsoft was unduly using its power to wipe out rivals in the Web browser business and other domains.

The settlement to that case, which put limits on Microsoft’s behavior and imposed a decade of government oversight on the company, expired last Thursday. Almost nobody noticed. Given the furious pace of innovation by companies like Apple, Google and Facebook, an inevitable question springs to mind: Did the biggest high-tech legal action of the 20th century make any difference, or was it a waste of money and time?

Critics of the settlement, and there are many, argue that the Microsoft case did little to change technological development; it was Google, the Internet and bad business decisions that put an end to the dominance of Microsoft. The conditions imposed by the court, to stop forcing consumers to use Internet Explorer and preventing rival software from operating properly on Windows, had little relevance to the future path of innovation.

This seems too narrow a reading of history. It is, of course, impossible to say what would have happened had the Justice Department and 19 state attorneys general not taken Microsoft to court in 1998. But beyond specific conditions imposed on the company, the case did seem to alter Microsoft’s behavior, taming its ruthless drive.

Government oversight not only swayed Microsoft to pull its punches, it sent a signal to other innovators that it was O.K. to work on technologies that Microsoft was interested in — something they might never have done before. Had Internet Explorer become as dominant as Windows, Microsoft could have held more sway over the development of new services on the Web.

Today, Microsoft is way behind the curve. New innovators, like Google and Facebook, have emerged with big power over their respective markets. Yet the precedent of Microsoft’s antitrust case poses an important question about the future: Should we worry about dominant information technology companies, or can we simply wait for the next big thing to bump them aside?

Microsoft thinks we should worry. Last June, it filed a letter about Google with the Federal Communications Commission. It said: “When a single entity achieves dominance and thereby becomes a gatekeeper, there is an inherent risk that it may have both the incentive and ability to place its own interests above consumers’ interests in access to a broad and diverse range of content, services and viewpoints.”
378 2011-05-15 Given this political reality, it is hardly a surprise to read a headline that says, “N.A.A.C.P. Joins With Gingrich in Urging Prison Reform,” rather than the other way around. If there were ever an illustration of Professor Bell’s theory that whites will support racial justice only to the extent that it is in their interests, this would seem to be it.

Of course, in the late 1970s, when Professor Bell, who now teaches at New York University School of Law, first advanced his theories, our prison population was much smaller. The Reagan revolution had not yet taken hold. No one knew that the war on drugs and the “get tough” movement would unleash a wave of punitiveness that would trap generations in ghettoes, and brand them criminals and felons. No one foresaw the caste-like system that would emerge, the millions who would be stripped of basic civil and human rights supposedly won in the civil rights movement — the right to vote, to serve on juries, and to be free of discrimination in employment, housing, education and public benefits.

Today, 2.3 million Americans are behind bars; the United States has the world’s highest rate of incarceration. Convictions for non-violent crimes and relatively minor drug offenses — mostly possession, not sale — have accounted for the bulk of the increase in the prison population since the mid-1980s.

African-Americans are far more likely to get prison sentences for drug offenses than white offenders, even though studies have consistently shown that they are no more likely to use or sell illegal drugs than whites.

What to do now? Understandably, civil rights advocates and criminal justice reformers are celebrating this moment of what Professor Bell calls “interest convergence.” They say we must catch the wave and ride it. Many have given up all hope of persuading the white electorate that they should care about the severe racial disparities in the criminal justice system or the racial politics that birthed the drug war. It’s possible now, they say, to win big without talking about race or “making it an issue.” Public relations consultants like the FrameWorks Institute — which dedicates itself to “changing the public conversation about social problems” — advise advocates to speak in a “practical tone” and avoid discussions of “fairness between groups and the historical legacy of racism.”

Surely the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would have rejected that advice.

In 1963, in his “Letter From a Birmingham Jail,” he chastised white ministers for their indifference to black suffering: “I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negro’s great stumbling block in his stride toward freedom is not the White Citizens Counciler or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate who is more devoted to ‘order’ than to justice; who prefers a negative peace which is the absence of tension to a positive peace which is the presence of justice; who constantly says, ‘I agree with you in the goal you seek, but I can’t agree with your methods of direct action’; who paternalistically believes he can set the timetable for another man’s freedom; who lives by a mythical concept of time and who constantly advises the Negro to wait for a ‘more convenient season.’ ”

He continued: “We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the hateful words and actions of the bad people but for the appalling silence of the good people.” Such language would not have tested well in a focus group. Yet it helped to change the course of history.

Those who believe that righteous indignation and protest politics were appropriate in the struggle to end Jim Crow, but that something less will do as we seek to dismantle mass incarceration, fail to appreciate the magnitude of the challenge. If our nation were to return to the rates of incarceration we had in the 1970s, we would have to release 4 out of 5 people behind bars. A million people employed by the criminal justice system could lose their jobs. Private prison companies would see their profits vanish. This system is now so deeply rooted in our social, political and economic structures that it is not going to fade away without a major shift in public consciousness.

Yes, some prison downsizing is likely to occur in the months and years to come. But we ought not fool ourselves: we will not end mass incarceration without a recommitment to the movement-building work that was begun in the 1950s and 1960s and left unfinished. A human rights nightmare is occurring on our watch. If we fail to rise to the challenge, and push past the politics of momentary interest convergence, future generations will judge us harshly.
379 2011-05-15 Gmail presents a single text ad when you look at an inbox view and haven’t selected a particular message. A recent sampling of ads included one inviting me to invest in oil stocks; a message from Rand Paul seeking my signature on a petition; and a plea from BP seeking to tell me about its restoration work in the Gulf of Mexico.

I have no idea how I was matched to any of those ads. Alex Gawley, Google’s senior product manager overseeing Gmail, explained that in cases like these, “the advertiser may be using keywords that are very broad.” Which means that, despite Google’s intent, the ads can be matched to most any e-mail message, making the likelihood of the ad matching my particular interests very small.

Mr. Gawley said Gmail’s revamped ad-matching system, now in limited tests, analyzes context as well as the content of an individual message. It looks at what he calls “signals in your inbox,” like whether you open messages with particular keywords and don’t open those with other keywords.

Given that advertisers pay Google only if a user takes the trouble to click on the ad, it might seem that the company has every reason to display more, not fewer, ads on the right-hand side accompanying individual e-mails. But Mr. Gawley says that Google has greatly reduced the number of ads it displays — because it wants its users to develop confidence that the ads they see have been winnowed carefully, leaving only the most relevant.

Then Mr. Gawley revealed a surprise: Gmail will begin allowing advertisers to use images. For example, an e-mailed offer for a ski package showing a skier on the slopes could be accompanied by an ad on the right side of the screen, showing a competing offer, replete with another skier coming down another slope.

Mr. Gawley said the image used in the ad would be static, not animated, and would be used only in cases where the e-mail message itself showed images.

Gmail has never permitted anything but text ads, so this will be a major change for its users. Mr. Gawley acknowledged this and emphasized that the company was moving slowly before it introduced images as an ad option. “Even though we’ve seen positive results on the advertising side, we want to make sure that users are not alienated,” he said. “With this one, we want to be extra cautious.”

Hotmail and Yahoo Mail have long used not only image ads but also animated ones. Last week on Hotmail, I saw two different versions of an ad titled “Return to School With a Grant.” One displayed cartoon school buses going round and round a figure-eight track. The other showed a woman in a leotard, with a cap on her head and an inclination to jump up and down every few seconds, apparently ecstatic that she had just graduated.

A spokeswoman for Microsoft said Hotmail had recently reduced the number of image ads per page to one from two, as part of a “consumer-first approach.” She also said the company had eliminated text-only ads entirely from Hotmail in order to “provide a cleaner user experience.”

For me, though, a clean user experience is a text-only advertisement of just a few words — it beats images or anything else. Google’s text ads are the modern equivalent of tiny text ads that daily newspapers in the 19th century carried on their front pages. James D. Norris, an emeritus professor of history at Northern Illinois University, described those ads as saying “nothing more than ‘we have such-and-such goods in stock.’ ”

AS a result of advances in rotary press technology in the late 19th century, the cost of printing illustrations fell and advertisements began to include images. This was more than a change in graphic design — it was also “a shift from a culture of production and savings to one of consumption,” Mr. Norris said. “Ads now were designed to induce want.”

Google’s quiet text ads do not induce want — they don’t have the graphic palette and the room to do so. They can say only, “We have such-and-such goods in stock.” And that’s all I really want to know.
380 2011-05-15 MORGANZA, La. — After declaring that “public safety is our No. 1 priority,” officials from the Army Corps of Engineers opened the Morganza spillway, sending water from the engorged Mississippi River rushing into the pastures and cropland here to forestall potentially catastrophic damage farther downstream.

As Col. Ed Fleming, commander of the corps’ New Orleans district, had said beforehand, one bay of the giant structure was opened Saturday at 3 p.m. local time, sending water out at a predicted 10,000 cubic feet per second. If current forecasts hold, officials would eventually open enough bays to allow water out at 125,000 cubic feet per second, a quarter of the spillway’s capacity.

That diversion would relieve the already enormous pressure on the levee system as the river courses past Baton Rouge, New Orleans and a corridor of chemical plants and oil refineries. But it would also flood hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland and thousands of homes, as it pours out into the Atchafalaya River basin. Evacuations have been taking place for days in the towns and communities throughout the basin, along with large scale operations to protect these towns with sand bags and other barriers.

The Morganza, one of four floodways in the Mississippi River and tributaries flood control system, has only been opened once, in 1973. “We’re using every flood control tool that we have in the system,” said Gen. Michael J. Walsh, commander of the Mississippi Valley Division of the Corps of Engineers.

General Walsh added that the system was still under “tremendous pressure” and would remain so for weeks as the crest slowly moves down the river to the Gulf. The Morganza, which is triggered to open when the river is flowing at 1.5 million cubic feet per second past the Red River Landing north of Baton Rouge, was likely to remain open for weeks, ensuring that the river remains below that flow rate downstream. Any more pressure would put the levees past their design capacity.
381 2011-05-15 “Playing next to Rafa everyday is first and foremost an unbelievable learning experience,” the club’s second-year defender Tim Ream wrote recently in a posting on The New York Times’s Goal blog. “Learning from a player who has played at the highest level for so long is a different animal. I feel more confident this year in my positioning than I did all of last year. Maybe you can attribute that to having a year under my belt, but a lot of that has to do with playing next to Rafa.”

Marquez, 32, made his professional debut at 17 in 1996, in Mexico with Atlas. Then he became one of the first Mexicans to succeed in Europe, first with Monaco in France, then with Barcelona in Spain, where, in 2006, he was the first Mexican to play on a club that won the Champions League title. He played seven seasons with Barcelona, winning 12 titles while appearing in 242 games, the most of any non-European player in club history.

“When I had a chance to go to Europe, I didn’t care what team or what country,” he said. “But it is very difficult for players to leave the Mexican league. There are many issues, but in Mexico, if you are a soccer player, you are very famous, make a lot of money and people treat you like a king.”

Injuries and changing circumstances made Marquez and Thierry Henry expendable to Barcelona. After last year’s World Cup, Henry signed with the Red Bulls for $5.6 million a year, No. 2 in the league behind David Beckham. Then Marquez ($4.6 million, No. 3 in M.L.S.) joined the club. Marquez turned down offers from Manchester City, Bolton and Juventus, among others. And although he and Henry struggled to regain their strength and fitness last summer, most of the attention from the news media and fans was focused on Henry — then and now.

“Is Rafa overlooked? Probably,” Red Bulls Coach Hans Backe said. “But look at Thierry Henry’s history, he’s been one of the four best strikers in the world. A massive name. A great career at Arsenal. He’s been doing it on another level and been involved with the best teams three times in his career. There is a feeling that Rafa is a little forgotten with all the attention around Thierry. You need the right balance among your key players.”

To many American fans, it is difficult to separate Marquez from his role as the captain of the Mexican national team, especially after he received red cards in contentious games against the United States. The first was for a serious foul on Cobi Jones in a Round of 16 World Cup match in 2002 in South Korea, then in a confrontation with Tim Howard during a qualifier in February 2009 in Columbus, Ohio.

“The incident with Marquez was a pivotal moment,” Jones said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. “Bitter rivals on the biggest stage. With me and Mexico, it seemed to be a personal thing, and there was more to it with Marquez. He always seemed to pick on me, but I always liked the battle. In that game, he just lost his head.

“That said, he’s a quality professional player, a competitive player who always gives 100 percent and does what it takes to help his team win. It’s a quality you can’t teach. Either you got it or you don’t. That fire burns inside to win.”

As Jones pointed out, as Marquez conceded and as the soccer world knows, the United States’ 2-0 win in 2002 was a pivotal moment.

“Maybe it was coming more and more, the equality, and it has grown significantly since 2002,” Marquez said, “but that was the turning point.

“Everyone knew that Mexico was No. 1 in Concacaf for so long,” Marquez said of the regional confederation that includes the United States and Mexico. “But with that game, it was no longer the case. It has been very difficult. It’s very complicated and hard to win here in the U.S. against the national team. But with the level of competition, both teams are forced to get better.”

Is he the bad guy in the eyes of American fans?

“Yes, I think so,” Marquez said. “There are two things: I’m the reference point for the national team because I’m the captain, and in the World Cup, frustration got the best of me and I lost it. On the field, I’m another person. I feel a passion for the game. And I never want to lose. That mentality sometimes changes who I am.”

So it is more than a bit incongruous to see Marquez, indeed all Mexican players on M.L.S. teams based in the United States, gliding around the field with the Stars and Stripes on his left sleeve. Has he noticed?

“Oh yeah, a flag? I never saw it,” he said, with a laugh.

Does it feel weird? “No, not really.”

But what would people in Mexico watching a Red Bulls game think?

“Rafa U.S.A.! No really, it is not weird. I think it is a different situation. It’s my work to defend my team, and maybe in M.L.S. I forget what has happened in the past on the field.”

Marquez will soon leave the Red Bulls to join his Mexico teammates as they prepare for next month’s Concacaf Gold Cup, and an expected confrontation with the United States in the final June 25 in Pasadena, Calif. After that, he would not rule out a run to the World Cup in Brazil in 2014, when he will be 35.

“Here, I have more time to rest between games,” he said. “And with all these things, maybe I can think about the next World Cup.”
382 2011-05-15 Pamela Paul reviews new children’s picture books about pets and working animals....
383 2011-05-15 “I heard low notes I had never heard before and thought, ‘What is that?’ ” she said. “I wouldn’t have pursued it except that I was taking private lessons in composition with Mario Davidovsky. So I was looking for new things I could do on the violin. And I thought, ‘Maybe I can use this.’ I scratched and scratched and finally got to the point of making the octave.”

Born to a professor of law and a professor of architecture in Tokyo, Ms. Kimura trained in Canada, Japan and the United States with Mr. Weisbord, Toshiya Eto, Roman Totenberg and Joseph Fuchs, four grand old men of violin pedagogy, mentors she continues to revere. But along the way she encountered Marvin Minsky, the guru of artificial intelligence and for a while her next-door neighbor. It was he who first suggested she compose.

“Why?” Ms. Kimura demanded at the time. “I’m a violinist.” But then the idea took.

“I was like a horse with blinders on,” she now says. “Marvin took my blinders off, and all of a sudden I could see the world.”

Ms. Kimura’s coterie of fellow trailblazers in music and science should be out in force for her next Manhattan concerts. Characteristically, these will be off-the-radar affairs: May 20, a recital at the Bohemian National Hall on the Upper East Side, under the aegis of the Vilcek Foundation, a boutique philanthropy that supports foreign-born innovators in the arts and biomedical sciences; and on June 25, a duo program with the pianist Stephen Gosling, presented by the New Spectrum Foundation at the Tenri Cultural Institute, which is dedicated to the study of the Japanese language and of international art forms.

Ms. Kimura set off on her road less traveled with a New York debut recital in 1994. Presented by the League of Composers/I.S.C.M. at Merkin Concert Hall, the program constituted an experimentalist’s tapestry light-years beyond Paganini. She played pieces of her own and the American premieres of Luciano Berio’s hallucinatory Sequenza No. 8 and Salvatore Sciarrino’s scarcely decipherable “Six Capricci,” as well as rarities by the likes of Conlon Nancarrow and John Cage.

In a glowing review, Edward Rothstein, then the chief music critic of The New York Times, dwelt on those mysterious low notes. “Ms. Kimura did not use them for novelty’s sake,” he wrote, “but as elements in a sweet, ghostly composition meant to expand musical territory as well.” (That review, Ms. Kimura says, helped her get a green card.)

In the violin’s conventional range, any competent concert artist is expected not only to sound pitches but also to control attack, dynamics and expression. Subharmonics, Ms. Kimura admits, are options she can only switch on and off. Finer shadings are not yet available. Even so, she deploys the colors of her arsenal with considerable variety. In stark contrast to Mr. Rothstein’s description, a recent Times review by Zachary Woolfe ascribed to Ms. Kimura’s Bach deconstructions, which also feature subharmonics, a “ferociously guttural power.”

While acousticians who have studied her techniques under laboratory conditions still find them deeply perplexing, a graphic formula Ms. Kimura has come up with may capture all the lay public really needs to know. Step 1 in producing a subharmonic is “clunk,” a brusque, decisive smack of the bow on the G string. Step 2 is “drag,” the stroke itself, executed under unusually high pressure, at unusually slow speed and with unfailing steadiness. Step 3 is “release,” effectively the clunk in reverse. (A home video on her Web site, marikimura.com, illustrates.)

But clunk-drag-release is not the be-all and end-all of Ms. Kimura’s quest for the new. Her work with an electronic 3-D bowing-motion sensor has likewise caused a stir. Developed at Ircam, the musicians’ think tank in Paris, it consists of a half-finger glove equipped with electrodes that monitor the angle and speed of her bowing arm, allowing her to synchronize real-time acoustic performance with recorded material. More nebulously, it affects expression in ways impossible to quantify.

Frédéric Bevilacqua, who directs Ircam’s real-time musical interaction team, noted that others have used this technology, too. “What’s special,” he said, “is that Mari is at the same time a performer, composer, improviser, all in the same person. She achieves an extraordinary intimacy between her acoustic violin and the electronic sound. She makes everything expressively coherent.”

Jean-Claude Risset, a founding father in the field of music for computers and a composer, has been fascinated by Ms. Kimura’s adventures on the acoustic and the cybernetic fronts. “The sounds that Mari gets out of the violin are novel,” he said recently from Marseille, “yet one senses that they are deeply anchored in the genius of the instrument.”

As for pieces predicated on electronics, Mr. Risset noted that their shelf life is often brief. “Technology changes so quickly,” he said. “Ligeti always refused to work on an interactive piece for fear that it would not be playable for long.” All the same, in his first composition for Ms. Kimura, Mr. Risset used a technique called signal processing.

“I like to suggest going beyond limits, ‘plus oultre,’ ” Mr. Risset said, citing the motto of Emperor Charles V in its original archaic French. “And Mari’s skills and adventures certainly do exemplify ‘going beyond.’ ”

Yet by her own account, Ms. Kimura remains a traditionalist, too, if a traditionalist with a difference.

“I studied with very old people,” she said. “They were all my grandfather’s age. Through them, I feel a connection to the era of the 1920s or even before, when violin playing was more creative than it is now. Today there’s a division of labor between composers and interpreters. I’m trying to bring back the old way that was the norm for Vivaldi or Corelli or Tartini in the 17th and 18th centuries. They wrote for themselves and invented their own techniques. That’s what made them who they are. That’s how they made their mark in violin history. The tradition of the violin lies in creation. By being creative, you learn about tradition.”
384 2011-05-15 Carolyn Louise Jones and Todd Christopher McCarty were married Saturday at St. Michael’s-by-the-Sea Episcopal Church in Carlsbad, Calif. The Rev. Doran B. Stambaugh, the church’s priest in charge, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. McCarty, 46, is a corporate branding consultant who trains executives and employees on ways to promote their companies to potential customers. Later this month she plans to relocate her business, currently based in Carlsbad, to Danbury, Conn. She graduated from Ryerson University in Toronto. She is a daughter of Margaret Louise Stevenson of Roseneath, Ontario, and the late Edwin R. Clarke.

Mr. McCarty, 45, is the senior vice president for human resources at The New York Times Company. He graduated from the University of Minnesota. He is a son of Ruth K. McCarty of Maple Lake, Minn., and the late Edwin C. McCarty.
385 2011-05-15 Melissa Kai Gronlund and Christian Paul Le Mière were married Saturday in New York. The Rev. Michael L. Lindvall performed the ceremony at the Brick Presbyterian Church, where he is the senior pastor.

The bride, 32, will keep her name. She is the managing editor of Afterall, an art journal, at the Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design in London. She is also a visiting lecturer on art history and artists’ films at Oxford, from which she received a master’s of philosophy in film aesthetics. She graduated cum laude from Princeton. The bride is the daughter of May-Lis Gronlund and Jay K. Gronlund of New Canaan, Conn.

The bridegroom, also 32, is a research fellow for naval forces and maritime security at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. He graduated from Oxford, and received a master’s in war studies from King’s College London. From 2006 until last year, he was the editor of Jane’s Intelligence Review, the international security magazine, also in London. The bridegroom is a son of Lamberta A. W. M. Le Mière and Arthur P. Le Mière of Chester, England.
386 2011-05-15 Aided by two superb actresses in top form, Preminger conjures meanings from this scene far beyond its dialogue: the coordination of cutting, framing and camera movement allows us to see the relationship between the two women shifting from mother and daughter to servant and master, a whole history of the South unfolding as genuine emotion is balled up with poisonous exploitation, as the past threatens to strangle the future, leaving yet another child alone and forgotten just as Julie Ann was.

Filmmaking does not get much more elegant and expressive than this, yet “Hurry Sundown” is ultimately not a satisfying film. Based on a now forgotten novel by the husband and wife team of Katya and Bert Gilden, this sprawling, 146-minute film would be the last of the ambitious literary adaptations to be directed by Preminger (in a run that included “Bonjour Tristesse,” “Anatomy of a Murder” and “Advise & Consent”) and the last to be shot in the grand, classical style — long takes and elaborate camera movements — that he had been cultivating since his debut film in 1931.

The first major filmmaker to defy the Production Code (with “The Moon Is Blue” in 1953), Preminger prided himself on being ahead of his time, systematically breaking sexual taboos and dramatizing controversial social themes. But “Hurry Sundown” seems a bit quaint and preachy, its characters thin and situations schematic, as if the times had passed Preminger by. He would make five more features, some of them quite interesting, but he would never recover his vanguard position.

“Hurry Sundown” is one of two Preminger titles being released this week by Olive Films, the other being the even more challenging “Such Good Friends,” from 1971. If “Hurry Sundown” seemed behind the times in the year of “Bonnie and Clyde” and “The Graduate,” “Such Good Friends” — a black comedy based on a novel by Lois Gould — seems in active opposition to its cultural moment.

The central character is Julie Messenger (Dyan Cannon), a fashionable Upper East Side housewife who seems to have been designed as a nobly suffering martyr from a vintage soap opera. As her beloved husband (Laurence Luckinbill), a Life magazine editor who has just published a successful children’s book, lies dying in a hospital (the result of a botched mole removal), she discovers he is a serial adulterer whose regular partners include several of her closest acquaintances.

Yet Preminger allows little sympathy for this woman, who, when her maid is slow to answer the door, wonders aloud, “Why did they ever abolish slavery?” Her response to discovering her husband’s infidelity is to try a little free love herself, preferably with the spouses of her husband’s conquests: Ken Howard as a dashing fashion photographer who proves to be impotent, and James Coco as a physician who (in the film’s most excruciating scene) struggles desperately to remove his corset before Julie sees it. She seems less interested in honest revenge than in making other (relative) innocents suffer as mightily as she has.

The expansive use of widescreen and the carefully choreographed camera movements are gone in “Such Good Friends,” replaced by crowded, shallow images of claustrophobic spaces. Packed with some of the most garishly tasteless 1970s décor imaginable, the film’s Park Avenue apartments start to resemble the hamster cage owned by Julie’s two quarrelsome sons. (It’s unclear whom the hamster is supposed to represent, but he remains the film’s most empathetically observed figure.)

The wavering, uncertain tone of “Such Good Friends” may be a result of the too-many hands that worked on the screenplay: Joan Micklin Silver, David Slavitt, David Shaber and the team of John Gregory Dunne and Joan Didion all labored on the adaptation, according to the Preminger biographer Foster Hirsch, before the final script was shaped by Elaine May (who chose to sign it with a pseudonym, Esther Dale).

But the ambivalence is ultimately Preminger’s. In many ways, “Such Good Friends” parallels his 1947 “Daisy Kenyon,” a melodrama also set in the glamorous world of Manhattan publishing, with Joan Crawford as a commercial artist torn between her married lover (Dana Andrews, as a socially connected lawyer) and a returning veteran (Henry Fonda), who wants to live an ascetic life on Cape Cod. In typical Preminger fashion, “Daisy Kenyon” examines the strengths and weaknesses of Daisy’s two suitors; neither is wholly wrong for her, neither wholly right.

“Such Good Friends” suggests a “Daisy Kenyon” after the pill, set in a world in which sex is no longer freighted with such weight and consequence, in which choices are not permanent and are much too plentiful. Preminger is drawn to the new freedoms but also unsettled by them: they create clutter, not clarity, a circle of endless possibility in which there is no satisfaction and from which there is no escape. When Daisy wants to get away and clear her mind, she retires to an isolated shack by the sea. When Julie wants to run away from her “good friends” — who have gathered for her husband’s deathwatch — she too flees into nature, grabbing her children and heading for Central Park. Is she headed for a Walden Pond, or just a hamster cage with trees?

ALSO OUT THIS WEEK

THE MECHANIC When his best friend and mentor (Donald Sutherland) is murdered, a hit man (Jason Statham) goes gunning for revenge, but the dead buddy’s callow son (Ben Foster) insists on going along for the ride. Directed by Simon West. “The accretion of sadism, humorlessness and antediluvian sexual politics is finally more exhausting than enlivening,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times in January. (Sony, Blu-ray $34.95, DVD $28.95, R)

THE RITE A young priest (Colin O’Donoghue) joins a practiced exorcist (Anthony Hopkins) in an attempt to aid a young woman who may be carrying Satan’s offspring. With Alice Braga, Ciaran Hinds, Toby Jones and Rutger Hauer; Mikael Hafstrom directed. “At least you can count on Mr. Hopkins, whose Father Lucas is eventually possessed by the Devil, to deliver an expertly hammy variation on his ‘Silence of the Lambs’ performance,” Stephen Holden wrote in The Times in January. (Warner Home Video, Blu-ray combo $35.99, DVD $28.98, PG-13)

THE ROOMMATE A college student (Minka Kelly) finds herself sharing quarters with an excessively adoring young woman (Leighton Meester). With Cam Gigandet and Frances Fisher. “Substituting sex for suspense and pop music for ideas, the director Christian E. Christiansen drags ‘The Roommate’ — a bloodless ripoff of Barbet Schroeder’s deliciously trashy 1992 thriller, “Single White Female” — from limp beginning to lame conclusion,” Jeannette Catsoulis wrote in The Times in February. (Screen Gems, Blu-ray $34.95, DVD $28.95, PG-13)

DEEP RED Dario Argento’s grisly Italian thriller has gathered an intense following in the years since its 1975 release. This new edition has been transferred from the camera negative and features both the 105-minute English and 126-minute Italian versions. David Hemmings stars as a musician who witnesses the murder of a psychic and joins a reporter (Daria Nicolodi) to investigate. (Blue Underground, Blu-ray $29.98, DVD — English version only — $14.98, not rated)

SOPHIA LOREN: AWARD COLLECTION Three vintage Italian features starring Sophia Loren and Marcello Mastroianni and directed by Vittorio De Sica: “Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow” (1963), “Marriage Italian Style” (1964) and “Sunflower” (1970), plus a documentary on De Sica titled “Vittorio D” (Kino International, Blu-ray $99.95, DVD $49.95, not rated; films also available individually on Blu-ray)
387 2011-05-15 “Among the Truthers” is a remarkable book, not least because its author, Jonathan Kay, appears to have emerged with his sanity intact after immersing himself for several years in the wilder precincts of conspiracy theories about everything from President Obama’s birthplace to 9/11 to vaccines. Like a modern-day Gulliver, he has traveled widely and conducted numerous interviews to map what seems like every nook and cranny of the conspiracist universe. Yet Kay, an editor and columnist at the conservative Canadian newspaper The National Post, has not written a Swiftian satire on the foibles of humanity. Rather, he sounds alarms about what he depicts as a mounting paranoia inspired by an invisible and nefarious oligarchy.

Kay usefully cautions at the outset, “Some conspiracies are very real.” Nor is the conviction that secretive elites are manipulating the destiny of the world novel. On the contrary, Kay reminds us, the belief that coastal political elites, bankers and Ivy League intellectuals are conniving to victimize ordinary people has long been a staple on the fringes of American politics. Robert Welch, the founder of the John Birch Society, even claimed that Dwight Eisenhower’s brother Milton was in cahoots with Moscow.

But as Kay sees it, conspiracy thinking is now experiencing a dangerous uptick in popularity. The terrorist threat has replaced the Red menace, as 9/11 had nothing less than what Kay deems a “seismic” effect on America’s “collective intellect.” He devotes much attention to the “truther” movement, which contends that the United States government perpetrated the terrorist attacks.

Some of Kay’s most illuminating passages center not on what conspiracy theorists believe — even to dignify it with the word “theory” is probably to grant them more legitimacy than they deserve — but on why they are attracted to such tedious rubbish in the first place. He divides them into different camps, including the “cranks” and the “firebrands.” Cranks are often reacting to male midlife crises — combating conspiracies, Kay says, offers a new sense of mission. Cranks, he adds, are frequently math teachers, computer scientists or investigative journalists.

A leading case, according to Kay, is David Ray Griffin, a former professor at the Claremont School of Theology who has devoted his retirement to writing no fewer than 11 books that examine each minute of the 9/11 timeline. Then there is Paul Zarembka, a professor of economics at the State University of New York, Buffalo, who has scrutinized “such arcane subjects as the price of individual airline stocks in the run-up to 9/11, and the tail numbers of the hijacked 9/11 aircraft.” And Barrie Zwicker, a mainstream Canadian journalist turned truther, insisted on interviewing Kay while Kay was interviewing him, hitting buttons on a chess clock to regulate the amount of time each had.

Once upon a time such people would most likely have operated in relative anonymity. But with the emergence of the Internet, Kay says, they have established their own cult followings, along with the sense of superiority that is created by seeming to enjoy direct access to what actually makes the world tick. Kay writes: “Many true conspiracy theorists I’ve met don’t even bother with Web surfing anymore. . . . From the very instant they first boot up their computer in the morning, their in-boxes comprise an unbroken catalog of outrage stories ideologically tailored to their pre-existing obsessions.” As Kay sees it, the Enlightenment is itself at stake. His verdict could hardly be more categorical: “It is the mark of an intellectually pathologized society that intellectuals and politicians will reject their opponents’ realities.”
388 2011-05-15 As students of Kissinger well know, he has long considered democracy to be a burden on statecraft — both the clamor of democracy within the United States and our agitations for democracy in other lands.

He recalls yet again his agonies in office in the 1970s, when he thought that American demonstrations during the Vietnam War could have misled Mao into believing that a “genuine world revolution” was at hand. He argues that the “destruction” of Nixon in the Watergate crisis, the withdrawal of Congressional support for Vietnam, new curbs on presidential war powers and the “hemorrhaging” of intelligence secrets all combined to undermine the quasi alliance with China, making America appear ineffectual against the Soviets. He is glad that Jimmy Carter did not let his human rights concerns upset relations with China and that Ronald Reagan’s cheerful personality overcame the “almost incomprehensible contradictions” of his dealings with Beijing even as he promoted the idea of an independent Taiwan.

The severest test of the quasi alliance, of course, was the brutal suppression of democratic strivings in Tiananmen Square in 1989. That violent crackdown also tested Kissinger’s tolerance for the assertion of American values in foreign relations.

Looking back, he believes everything depends on circumstances: “There are instances of violations of human rights so egregious,” he writes, “that it is impossible to conceive of benefit in a continuing relationship; for example, the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, and the genocide in Rwanda. Since public pressure shades either into regime change or a kind of abdication, it is difficult to apply to countries with which a continuous relationship is important for American security. This is especially the case with China, so imbued with the memory of humiliating intervention by Western societies.”

And so Kissinger admires the way President George H. W. Bush, “with skill and elegance,” walked the “tightrope” of punishing China with sanctions after Tiananmen while simultaneously apologizing with private letters and special emissaries. President Bill Clinton tried applying pressure for a time, Kissinger notes, but was shown no gratitude when he wisely relented; the Chinese “did not view the removal of a unilateral threat as a concession, and they were extraordinarily touchy regarding any hint of intervention in their domestic affairs.” And President George W. Bush, despite his “freedom agenda,” earns Kissinger’s praise for overcoming “the historic ambivalence between America’s missionary and pragmatic approaches,” by means of “a sensible balance of strategic priorities.”

If America’s preference for democratic governance is made the main condition for progress on other issues with China, Kissinger concludes, “deadlock is inevitable.” Those who battle to spread American values deserve respect. “But foreign policy must define means as well as objectives, and if the means employed grow beyond the tolerance of the international framework or of a relationship considered essential for national security, a choice must be made.” That choice “cannot be fudged,” he insists, even as he attempts to protect his flanks with a fudge of his own: “The best outcome in the American debate would be to combine the two approaches: for the idealists to recognize that principles need to be implemented over time and hence must be occasionally adjusted to circumstance; and for the ‘realists’ to accept that values have their own reality and must be built into operational policies.”

Still, in the end, Kissinger votes for national security über alles. Scattered through his history are tributes to American values and commitments to human dignity, which may indeed sometimes drive our policies beyond calculations of the national interest. Exactly that happened, in fact, after “On China” went to press, when President Obama ventured into Libya. Kissinger was perhaps surprised when that humanitarian intervention and bid for regime change failed to evoke a Chinese veto at the United Nations. But in Asia now more than Europe, he argues, “sovereignty is considered paramount,” and any attempt “from the outside” to alter China’s domestic structure “is likely to involve vast unintended consequences.” Besides, as he used to insist while practicing realpolitik in Washington, the cause of peace is also a moral pursuit.

This central theme of Kissinger’s experience and counsel must be distilled from the sometimes ­meandering and largely familiar history he tells in “On China.” Only in its last pages does he discuss the essential question of future Sino-American relations: With no common enemy to bind them, what will keep the peace and promote collaboration and trust between the world’s major ­powers?

Kissinger addresses this question by looking to the past, a memorandum written by a senior official of the British Foreign Office, Eyre Crowe, in 1907. Crowe argued that it was in Germany’s interest to “build as powerful a navy as she can afford” and that this would itself lead to “objective” conflict with the British Empire, no matter what German diplomats said or did. There is today a “Crowe school of thought” in the United States, Kissinger observes, which sees China’s rise “as incompatible with America’s position in the Pacific” and therefore best met with pre-emptively hostile policies. He perceives growing anxieties in both societies and fears they are exacerbated by Americans who claim that democracy in China is a prerequisite for a trusting relationship. He warns that the implied next cold war would arrest progress in both nations and cause them to “analyze themselves into self-fulfilling prophecies” when in reality their main competition is more likely to be economic than military.

Indulging his habitual preference for diplomatic architecture, Kissinger insists that the common interests the two powers share should make possible a “co-evolution” to “a more comprehensive ­framework.” He envisions wise leaders creating a “Pacific community” comparable to the Atlantic community that America has achieved with Europe. All Asian nations would then participate in a system perceived as a joint endeavor rather than a contest of rival Chinese and American blocs. And leaders on both Pacific coasts would be obliged to “establish a tradition of consultation and mutual respect,” making a shared world order “an expression of parallel national aspirations.”

That was indeed the mission of the very first Kissinger journey to Beijing. And while he does not quite say so, he invests his hopes in a concert of nations represented, of course, by multiple Kissingers.
389 2011-05-15 The one-woman blogging enterprise known as the Pioneer Woman, whose Web site tracks her path from city gal to ranch wife, has written her first children’s book, a day in the life of her basset hound, Charlie. Described from Charlie’s languorous perspective, ranch living is a round of hard labor, from sniffing the porch steps to supervising the activities of his peppier companion, Susie. DeGroat appealingly illustrates the bucolic setting, and Charlie agreeably channels his owner’s down-homey twang.

PUSSYCAT, PUSSYCAT, WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN? 

By Dan Bar-el. Illustrated by Rae Maté. 

32 pp. Simply Read Books. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)

Unbeknownst to many Mother Goose readers, a number of classic rhymes continue way past their well-known opening stanzas (“Old Mother Hubbard” is a particularly fine example), but here, Bar-el creates his own extension of the initial London rendezvous in “Pussycat, Pussycat.” Traveling onward to Paris and Australia and over the midnight seas, the pussycat adventures through imaginative Chagall-style acrylic paintings. “Pussycat, Pussycat, will you stay home? / I always get restless, I always will roam.” Take that, lazy cats.

MEET THE DOGS OF BEDLAM FARM 

By Jon Katz. 

Illustrated. 32 pp. Holt. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 4 to 8)

Another blog, another book: Katz, the author of popular dog books for adults (“A Dog Year”) makes a foray into children’s books with an introduction to his four dogs. Rose herds sheep, Izzy visits sick people and Frieda guards the farm. But what, the book repeatedly asks, does Lenore do? Katz’s photographs depicting the dogs’ vastly different personalities are great fun for dog lovers and a fine lesson for dog fearers. Lenore, it turns out, makes sure everyone is happy. “Thanks to Lenore, the dogs are a family.”

GRACIE THE LIGHTHOUSE CAT 

Written and illustrated by Ruth Brown. 

32 pp. Andersen Press USA. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 4 to 9)

This true story of a double rescue in 1838, in which Grace Darling, a lighthouse keeper’s daughter, alerts her father to a storm-struck ship at the same time the lighthouse cat, Gracie, discovers one of her kittens is missing, is illustrated with lush, expressive paintings. From the cat’s-eye view, the human drama, in which 13 people were saved, is relegated to backdrop. A historical note about Darling, a heroine in Victorian England, appears on the endpaper.
390 2011-05-15 “There are retirement communities all over the country that function fine for their residents,” said Jim Dresser, a selectman, commission member and contributor to the housing report. “But the issue is, is that what we want for Salisbury?”

Six lakes and hills high enough to be called mountains have long made Salisbury a favored weekend haven; its proximity to the cultural attractions of the Berkshires adds to the appeal. Mr. Dresser, who lives in a large historic house in Salisbury village, is a former summer resident who wound up moving to town full time, a common pattern.

Multimillion-dollar properties are not unusual. The town’s considerable stock of conservation land — roughly a quarter of its area — only buttresses the value of remaining buildable land.

Between 1994 and 2009, the median home price rose 104 percent, to $397,500, after peaking at $542,000 in 2007. That, according to the housing report, has made the town more or less off-limits to the younger generation of teachers, bank employees and workers at the assisted-living facility.

Only 27 of the roughly 2,400 housing units meet the state’s definition of affordable. The three private boarding schools in town provide on-campus housing for faculty.

The depressed housing market has created more market-rate opportunities under $300,000, but financing is a big hurdle for lower-end buyers, said John Harney Jr., the owner of John Harney Associates.

Moderate-income workers tend to live instead in neighboring Canaan and Millerton, N.Y., but prices in those communities are rising, Mr. Dresser said. As a small town dependent upon volunteers, Salisbury needs to accommodate cheaper housing within its borders, he said, adding that “people are unlikely to stay involved if they can’t afford to live here.”

Housing pressures have constricted the supply of young volunteers for the Lakeville Hose Company. Jason Wilson, the chief, says at least eight of his volunteers are in need of less expensive housing, or in-town housing. Four or five volunteers don’t live in town, and must travel up to eight miles to respond to calls, he said.

The few affordable units were created by private organizations — the Salisbury Housing Committee, Habitat for Humanity and the Salisbury Housing Trust. The trust, for its part, has relied solely on privately raised funds to create 10 affordable single-family homes — seven of them new and the other three rehabs. The trust makes the homes affordable by retaining ownership of the land, and charges buyers only for the cost of the house, according to Digby Brown, a trustee.

Volunteer first-responders are given top priority for trust housing, he said.

The focus of the new town commission is on creating as many affordable units as possible without adding buildings, possibly by converting large houses into multiple units, encouraging accessory apartments, and putting apartments over commercial buildings.

“No one is proposing drastic change and things to alter the landscape,” said Curtis Rand, the first selectman. “There’s an attempt to work with what we have.”

Recent proposals for new, denser development have proved unsuccessful.

In 2009 Wendy Hamilton, a 15-year resident, proposed to add two affordable homes to a 2.6-acre village lot that already had a house on it. The application ran into opposition from some neighbors, as well as regulatory obstacles. Ms. Hamilton eventually withdrew the application, though not happily: she estimates that preparing the property for the venture cost her $500,000.

Elsewhere in the village, neighbors strongly opposed a proposal last year to create about 20 town houses, some of them below market rate, on two acres. Proposed as an Incentive Housing Zone under a state program that provides towns with financial incentives to develop high-density mixed-income housing, the plan has not been formally pursued.

Opposition to the density in the housing zone was “reasonable,” Mr. Dresser said.

But he didn’t rule out the possibility that the new housing commission could be slowed by the Nimby factor once it got down to detailed proposals. For now he is reassured that, since the release of the housing report last year, “nobody’s come up and said, you’ve got the statistics wrong and the conclusions wrong.”
391 2011-05-15 Paramount Woods is the largest single-family-home community to break ground in Suffolk in four years. Mitchell Pally, the chief executive officer of the Long Island Builders Institute, a trade group, described it as an “anomaly” in a  home-building industry that is “significantly distressed.”  According to the New York State Builders Association, 101 building permits for single-family homes were issued in Suffolk County through March of this year; in Nassau 57 permits were recorded. During the same time period in 2006, 442 single-family-home permits were issued in Suffolk, 368 in Nassau.

Joseph Criscuolo, the operations manager for Paramount Woods’ developer, Paramount Custom Homes and Renovations of Center Moriches, said his company had invested in the subdivision “for a very competitive number” during the downturn, “with all the permissions in place.”  Profits and prices were cut, to sell faster.

He described the new subdivision both as a “golden goose” and a “dying breed.” Despite the push for “smart growth,” with multifamily developments closer to downtown areas and transportation, he said, many young families still covet single-family homes in quiet neighborhoods with ample back and side yards offering space for swing sets and swimming pools. (The five one-acre lots in the community are also zoned for horses.)

The Zabbias would seem to fall into that category. “New construction wasn’t an option until we saw this opportunity,” Mr. Zabbia said. “My wife and I are going to be able to survive on Long Island with this deal.” They signed to build their clay-colored vinyl-sided home, with chocolate shutters and a matching architectural shingle roof, even before the models were up. “It’s away from everything,” Mr. Zabbia said. “It is almost countrylike.”

The community’s curving roads and five cul-de-sacs are newly blacktopped, and curbs are being set. Three two-story model homes with front porches and Victorian flourishes  are getting their finishing touches in anticipation of opening festivities on June 12 (though one other family in addition to the Mahers and the Zabbias has already bought in).

Islandwide, construction of single-family homes is  “very, very slow” except for the top of the Nassau County market, Mr. Pally said, adding, “Other bright spots include niches in multifamily projects, assisted-living and some age-restricted multifamily houses.” In Suffolk, prices low enough for some first-time buyers and proximity to Brookhaven National Laboratory may also help. “The rest of the market is being curtailed by the ability of people to sell their existing homes,” he said.

On the South Shore, after three years with only three model homes built, Nick Cannis, a managing partner of the Ranches at Eastport, a gated subdivision of 64 single-family homes planned for a 75-acre site, expects to blacktop the roads and break ground in the next 60 days on two smaller models. The community is to include a clubhouse with a pool, as well as tennis courts, a dog run, a toddler playground and walking trails.

“As soon as we got our approvals, the market changed,” Mr. Cannis said. “It was like a guillotine.” Now he anticipates “a big pent-up demand” for the development, which is off Sunrise Highway just west of the Hamptons.  Though the site was initially to have had 2,400- to 2,500-square-foot houses costing $599,990 to $900,000 on one-acre lots, the developer opted for 1,500- to 2,000-square-foot ranches and 2,100-square-foot colonials on quarter-acre and third-acre plots clustered around two lakes. They will range in price from $379,990 to $499,990.

Mr. Cannis said that because the development is not age-restricted and includes landscaping, garbage pickup and snow shoveling in its monthly $350-to-$375 maintenance, “there is a big market for this product” among families and empty nesters. “I am seriously thinking of keeping one for myself,” he added.
392 2011-05-15 The economic differences among the country’s various religions are strikingly large, much larger than the differences among states and even larger than those among racial groups.

The most affluent of the major religions — including secularism — is Reform Judaism. Sixty-seven percent of Reform Jewish households made more than $75,000 a year at the time the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life collected the data, compared with only 31 percent of the population as a whole. Hindus were second, at 65 percent, and Conservative Jews were third, at 57 percent.

On the other end are Pentecostals, Jehovah’s Witnesses and Baptists. In each case, 20 percent or fewer of followers made at least $75,000. Remarkably, the share of Baptist households making $40,000 or less is roughly the same as the share of Reform Jews making $100,000 or more. Overall, Protestants, who together are the country’s largest religious group, are poorer than average and poorer than Catholics. That stands in contrast to the long history, made famous by Max Weber, of Protestant nations generally being richer than Catholic nations.

Many factors are behind the discrepancies among religions, but one stands out. The relationship between education and income is so strong that you can almost draw a line through the points on this graph. Social science rarely produces results this clean.

What about the modest outliers — like Unitarians, Buddhists and Orthodox Christians, all of whom are less affluent than they are educated (and are below the imaginary line)? One possible explanation is that some religions are more likely to produce, or to attract, people who voluntarily choose lower-paying jobs, like teaching.

Another potential explanation is discrimination. Scott Keeter of Pew notes that researchers have used more sophisticated versions of this sort of analysis to look for patterns of marketplace discrimination. And a few of the religions that make less than their education would suggest have largely nonwhite followings, including Buddhism and Hinduism. Pew also created a category of traditionally black Protestant congregations, and it was somewhat poorer than could be explained by education levels. These patterns don’t prove discrimination, but they raise questions.
393 2011-05-15 Pasta primavera, which means “springtime pasta,” is an American invention — at least as American as, say, fettuccine Alfredo. It first appeared on the menu at Le Cirque in the 1970s, and Sirio Maccioni, that restaurant’s owner, not only takes credit for it but was also quoted in 1991 in The Times saying, “It seemed like a good idea and people still like it.”

But with all due respect to Mr. Maccioni, is pasta primavera still a good idea? Which is to say, pasta tossed with every vegetable under the sun, spring or not — broccoli, tomatoes, peas, zucchini, asparagus, mushrooms, green beans, you name it — and enough cream to smother any hint of freshness? I’m all in favor of pasta with vegetables, but I want to be able to taste them. And I want them to be prepared thoughtfully.

So, just as vegetable bins were beginning to brim with the good stuff, I set out to create several spring-vegetable pasta dishes that are made in a more traditional Italian way — simply, and in a skillet — with just enough additional ingredients to heighten the flavors of the dish. Consider this pasta primavera nuova or, perhaps, pasta primavera classica — because nothing seems more authentic than tossing the vegetable of the moment with pasta and a little seasoning.

The technique is simple and consistent from dish to dish. (For the basic pasta recipe, see below.) As for the vegetables, sauté them in a large skillet until they’re just barely tender. When the pasta’s tender but not mushy, drain it, reserving about a cup of cooking water, then add the pasta to the skillet and toss, pouring in enough of the reserved water to cook both the pasta and the vegetables through.

The pasta shapes I’ve suggested for each dish are just that — suggestions — so use what you like and don’t worry about it. I’ve chosen the vegetables, however, based on what’s in season right now. So try to resist the urge to throw them all together.
394 2011-05-15 And the Nominees Should Be ...

The theater critics of The New York Times make their Tony Award choices. For the “Should have been nominated” category, the critics were allowed to expand the potential nominees to Off Broadway productions that were ineligible for the Broadway-only Tonys. The ceremony for the 65th annual Tony Awards will be held on June 12 at the Beacon Theater, and will be broadcast on CBS.
395 2011-05-15 IN the cutthroat world of high-end New York City real estate, there is a simple maxim among brokers: Sell what you have seen.      And as the spring selling season enters its peak days, open houses for brokers, or broker parties, are a critical co...
396 2011-05-15 RIENDEAU--Emile C.,Died with a song in his heart on Saturday, May 7, 2011. Emile was born in Bristol, CT the son of the late Wilfred and Yvonne (Taillon). He enjoyed homes in New York City, Fire Island Pines, NY, Atlantic City, NJ and Sarasota, FL...
397 2011-05-16 Regulators’ concerns appeared to have derailed the $11 billion attempt and forced Nasdaq to figure out another way to grow in an increasingly competitive global market....
398 2011-05-16 When Goldman went public in 1999, a group of 221 executives controlled the firm. Now, only 39 remain, with the others going to top jobs in finance, government and even sports....
399 2011-05-16 When academic freedom is an issue, and when it isn’t....
400 2011-05-16 How to connect Apple’s Mac and Windows-compatible music player to a PC running Ubuntu Linux....
401 2011-05-16 Senator Olympia Snowe, the chief architect of legislation to set aside 2.5 percent of federal agency grants to outside researchers for small companies, blocked a bill to extend the program....
402 2011-05-16 After 25 years with her public relations firm Robinson Lerer & Montgomery, Linda G. Robinson will be a senior managing director and the global head of marketing and communications for BlackRock....
403 2011-05-16 Malcolm Pray, whose cars are a fixture at the Greenwich Concours d’Élégance, held a charity viewing of his collection on Sunday....
404 2011-05-16 Now that Nasdaq and the IntercontinentalExchange have pulled their hostile bid for NYSE Euronext, after regulators signaled that a merger would run afoul of antitrust regulations, the Nasdaq OMX Group may focus on overseas targets. DealBook’s Az...
405 2011-05-16 Now $40,000 in debt, Annie is miserably working in retail, living with two revolting roommates and driving a car that’s ready for the junkyard. And she can’t bear the thought of baking....
406 2011-05-16 Nasdaq OMX Group and IntercontinentalExchange have pulled their hostile bid for the New York Stock Exchange after regulators signaled that a merger would run afoul of anti-trust regulations.
407 2011-05-16 Rahm Emanuel, who served as President Obama’s first White House chief of staff, completes latest his political transformation on Monday, taking office as the next mayor of Chicago....
408 2011-05-16 While a failed bid for NYSE Euronext cost it some money, there are several reasons why Nasdaq may have considered the exercise worthwhile....
409 2011-05-16 The appointment of Richard Gnodde comes amid other senior staffing changes in its investment banking division....
410 2011-05-16 With the Nasdaq OMX and IntercontinentalExchange dropping their joint bid, the NYSE Euronext can now focus on its preferred deal with Deutsche Börse....
411 2011-05-16 The custom-built bug, which once belonged to the actor-turned-racer, is powered by a midmounted 351 Ford V-8....
412 2011-05-16 Rich enough to do without Social Security, but not rich enough to pay more taxes?...
413 2011-05-16 The decision comes after antitrust regulators made it clear they would not approve the joint takeover bid for the operator of the Big Board....
414 2011-05-16 Yes, it’s National Small Business Week!...
415 2011-05-16 The London Stock Exchange Group, which made a friendly all-share bid for the TMX Group in February, said it “remains committed” to its offer in the face of a rival proposal from a group of Canadian financial institutions....
416 2011-05-16 Novak Djokovic extended his streak to 37, and Maria Sharapova is a step closer to regaining a top-five ranking....
417 2011-05-16 The reports are, however, a reliable measure of comparison among peer schools in a single year, the audit concludes. In its response, the Education Department says that is exactly what they are supposed to do.

“The department adjusts the methodology of the progress reports periodically to account for changes in school performance, new information and new ideas about how to measure school quality, all in order to produce the best possible instrument for the current year,” the school system’s chief academic officer, Shael Polakow-Suransky, wrote in a letter to the comptroller’s office.

One of the new metrics that will be used to calculate a school’s grade, to be introduced in the fall, is how well the school prepares its students for college, Mr. Polakow-Suransky said in an interview. “If you’re going to make improvements” in the reports, he added, “you have to make some changes, and what that means is that you have to look at them in the year they’re published.”

The audit did not set out to assess the accuracy of statistics like graduation rates and Regents scores, which are reported by the schools to the Education Department, despite rising concerns that some schools might be manipulating the numbers to enhance their performance. The department announced in February that the task would be undertaken by its general auditor, who will look first at about 60 high schools whose data show suspicious patterns.

Some of these numbers have already been reviewed by previous city and state audits, but no serious anomalies have been uncovered.

Mr. Liu undertook the effort shortly after education officials voted to close 19 schools early last year, and it took his auditors roughly 14 months to pore through the records, including four years’ worth of progress reports and manuals for the computer programs that store things like students’ grades, attendance records and test scores.

The audit focused on 10 high schools in the five boroughs, including three schools that had been slated for closing. It issued several recommendations, most of which the department said it would consider carrying out. They include submitting screen shots whenever student records are changed during the period in which they are being verified, and ensuring that the records are tracked and retained by the schools.
418 2011-05-16 Around 10 a.m. on Sunday, according to officials from the , the river broke the record elevation set here during the flood of 1927, rising to 56.3 feet, 13 feet above flood stage and 1.2 feet below the predicted crest on Thursday. It was flowing by at a rate of nearly 17 million gallons a second, which is the highest rate it is likely to reach in its entire race down to the Gulf of Mexico.

Those numbers may be nerve-racking for those along its , but the weekend also brought some relatively good news: the failure of a predicted rain storm to appear has resulted in a lower estimated crest downriver at .

Furthermore, the Yazoo River, engorged with backwater, had been projected to overtop its at some point this weekend, flooding 285,000 acres of delta farmland and threatening some anxious country towns. But the overtopping, designed into the system as a sort of relief valve, has not happened yet.

If the Mississippi comes in a few inches lower than predicted as it passes Vicksburg, the overtopping may not happen at all.

“It’s going to be really close,” said Robert Simrall, the chief of water control for the Vicksburg district of the corps.

These yardsticks are more or less irrelevant for the residents of Kings. While the river has been indifferent to income, folding over multimillion-dollar homes and valuable farmland in the delta along with single-wide trailers in Kings, the consequences for rich and poor vary considerably.

“Out of the whole community, I would say it’s probably three families with flood ,” Mr. Buck said.

The worries here are as much about the water as what it will bring in the weeks it sits here. Snakes, of course. Just about everyone in the neighborhood knows someone who has recently seen an alligator, or killed one, or lost a dog to one. More acute is the worry about who might come to their homes if they have to evacuate, and what those people might do or take.

The traffic was slow along Washington Street here, as gawkers pulled off on the increasingly narrow shoulder, emerging in Sunday clothes to take pictures of an old brick church that itself was undergoing something of a full-immersion baptism.

“This is ridiculous,” said Tawanna Bush, a 36-year-old waitress at a Cracker Barrel restaurant, looking at the top third of her uncle’s house. “Is it a sign?”

“Yeah, it’s a sign,” said Floyd, 49, offering the practical fatalism of those who have known hard luck. “It’s a sign that it’s time to move and get another house.”
419 2011-05-16 Credit: William Widmer for The New York Times
420 2011-05-16 ¶Bernstein-Rein, Kansas City, Mo., hired two executives for top creative posts. Brian Brooker joined as chief creative officer, assuming duties from Arlo Oviatt, who had been executive creative director. Mr. Oviatt left to join Y&R as global executive creative director, working from the Kansas City office of a sibling agency, VML; Y&R is part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP. Mr. Brooker had most recently been chief idea officer at Barkley, Kansas City, Mo. Also, Joe Bartolucci joined Bernstein-Rein as executive creative director for digital, a new post; Mr. Bartolucci had been senior vice president and creative director at Leo Burnett, Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe.

¶Colleen Stein joined the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as managing director for its yellow pages operation, Telmark, which has been renamed Martin Local Lead Generation. Ms. Stein had been regional sales manager for Yellowbook360. Annette Baldwin, executive vice president and chief operating officer at Telmark, continues in that post at Martin Local Lead Generation.

¶Barbara Yolles, chief marketing officer at McCann Midwest, part of McCann Erickson Worldwide, was named to an additional post, as chief growth officer for the McCann Erickson operation in North America. She assumes those duties from Mitch Caplan, who had the title of North American chief marketing officer; Mr. Caplan recently left the agency. McCann Erickson is part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Eleftheris Papis joined the New York and London offices of McCann Erickson Worldwide as chief brand editor, a new post. She had been creative editor at Adweek, published by Prometheus Global Media. She is the third former editorial employee of an advertising trade publication to be hired recently by an agency, joining Barbara Lippert, formerly of Adweek and now at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, and Jonah Bloom, formerly of Advertising Age and now at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners. McCann Erickson Worldwide is part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Paul Chibe joined Anheuser-Busch, St. Louis, part of Anheuser-Busch InBev, as vice president for United States marketing. He assumes duties from Keith Levy, vice president for marketing, who left in January to “pursue other opportunities,” the company said at the time. Mr. Chibe had most recently been vice president and general manager for United States gum and mints at the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, Chicago, part of Mars.

¶Mike Jackson, a longtime automotive advertising executive, and R&R Partners, Las Vegas, have formed a joint venture, Jackson & Partners, that will specialize in campaigns for auto dealerships. Mr. Jackson will be chief executive; R&R will provide services like media buying and production support. Other longtime agency executives who are joining Jackson & Partners include Dana Locatell and Gary Topolewski.

¶Blitz, Boston, opened a strategic communications practice, focused on public relations and social media. MaryBeth Vrees will lead the unit as vice president and director for strategic communications.

¶Jeffrey Hollender, a founder of Seventh Generation, formed a partnership with Kelliher Samets Volk, Burlington, Vt., where he will serve as a consultant on so-called responsible marketing initiatives. The agency also has offices in Boston and New York.

¶Alphabird, San Francisco, acquired the PlaceVine Corporation, New York and Los Angeles, which helps agencies integrate brands and products into content like video clips. Financial terms were not disclosed.

¶Publicis Groupe, Paris, acquired Dreams Communication, a Chinese agency that specializes in health care advertising. The agency will be renamed Publicis Life Brands Dreams and become part of the Publicis Healthcare Communications Group. Financial terms were not disclosed.

¶Wieden & Kennedy was the major honoree at the 90th annual awards show of the Art Directors Club, New York, winning the agency of the year award as well as the awards for Best of Show in Advertising (for Nike) and Best of Show in Interactive (for Old Spice). Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP, won for agency network of the year. The New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty won for interactive agency of the year. The New York Times Magazine won for design team of the year. And the School of Visual Arts, New York, won for school of the year.

¶Wieden & Kennedy was also the major honoree at the 36th annual One Show, sponsored by the One Club for Art and Copy, New York. The agency’s “Write the future” campaign for Nike won Best of Show along with three awards called Gold Pencils. Various campaigns by Wieden & Kennedy for Old Spice won four Gold Pencils and a Bronze Pencil.

¶Groupon, Chicago, awarded a $100,000 cash prize to Josh Stevens, the contestant in a yearlong contest the company sponsored named Live Off Groupon. The rules called for Mr. Stevens, 28, to receive the prize if he was judged to have spent the full year using Groupon discount coupons rather than money for his daily needs.

¶The singer Rihanna had a busy week last week on the endorsement front as she was announced as a spokeswoman for Nivea skin-care products, sold by Beiersdorf, and Vita Coco coconut water, sold by All Market Inc.
421 2011-05-16 Few national television news anchors or hosts have publicly acknowledged being gay. Rachel Maddow is perhaps the best known. Her MSNBC colleague, Thomas Roberts, has also come out as gay.

Mr. Lemon has not made a secret of his sexual orientation in his work life; many of his CNN co-workers and managers have long been aware that he is gay. But he still acknowledged that going public in his book carries certain risks.

“I’m scared,” he said in a telephone interview. “I’m talking about something that people might shun me for, ostracize me for.”

Even beyond whatever effect his revelation might have on his television career, Mr. Lemon said he recognized this step carried special risk for him as a black man.

“It’s quite different for an African-American male,” he said. “It’s about the worst thing you can be in black culture. You’re taught you have to be a man; you have to be masculine. In the black community they think you can pray the gay away.” He said he believed the negative reaction to male homosexuality had to do with the history of discrimination that still affects many black Americans, as well as the attitudes of some black women.

“You’re afraid that black women will say the same things they do about how black men should be dating black women.” He added, “I guess this makes me a double minority now.”

So why do it? It really came down to the act of writing the book. Mr. Lemon said he had been on a panel a couple of years ago called “The Black Man in the Age of Obama,” and was approached afterward by a publisher’s representative about writing an inspirational book.

“It was supposed to be a little pamphlet,” he said. “You know: say your prayers; have a good, hearty handshake; say good morning to your boss.”

But as he began to write, he came to realize that he could not hold back the truth of who he was. He started to pour out the details of his personal life. How he had grown up not knowing his father, how he had suffered abuse by someone close to him.

When he informed the publisher of his new tack, the initial reaction was caution. But when the editors saw the material, they embraced it. It was left to Mr. Lemon to experience a bout of nerves and suggest at one point that the most personal material be taken out.

“But as I started to read it back, I said, no, leave it,” Mr. Lemon said. “I abhor hypocrisy. I think if you’re going to be in the business of news, and telling people the truth, of trying to shed light in dark places, then you’ve got to be honest. You’ve got to have the same rules for yourself as you do for everyone else.”

He has been assured of support by CNN, which has booked him as a guest Monday on its daytime show “CNN Newsroom.” He will also be on Joy Behar’s show on the network’s sister channel, HLN. A few other possibilities remain “up in the air,” he said.

Mr. Lemon said he knew that coming out this way would stir up a degree of comment about other television news personalities, and whether any would acknowledge being gay.

“I think it would be great if everybody could be out,” he said. “But it’s such a personal choice. People have to do it at their own speed. I respect that. I do have to say that the more people who come out, the better it is for everyone, certainly for the Tyler Clementis of the world.”

Mr. Clementi was the Rutgers student who committed suicide by jumping off the George Washington Bridge after his sexual encounter with a man in his dorm room was shown on the Internet.

“I think if I had seen more people like me who are out and proud, it wouldn’t have taken me 45 years to say it,” Mr. Lemon said, “to walk in the truth.”
422 2011-05-16 Fifty years ago this month, a group of black and white volunteers boarded two public buses in the District of Columbia to travel into the Deep South, where segregated waiting rooms, restrooms, lunch counters and other indignities were a fact of life despite Supreme Court rulings striking down segregation in interstate travel.

These Freedom Riders would be followed by hundreds of others. Their mission was to nonviolently confront local laws and customs that perpetuated illegal segregation. Their aim was to jolt Americans’ consciousness and challenge the Kennedy administration to enforce African-Americans’ constitutional rights.

A new documentary on PBS stations captures the political complexities and drama of this pivotal chapter in civil rights history. Written and directed by Stanley Nelson, it is based on Raymond Arsenault’s 2006 book, “Freedom Riders: 1961 and the Struggle for Racial Justice.”

Fears that the integrated teams would meet with violence proved well founded. The first bus was attacked in the Alabama town of Anniston by a mob of Ku Klux Klansmen who slashed the tires and then firebombed the crippled vehicle. The mob first held the doors shut, and then beat passengers escaping the burning bus. When the second bus arrived in Birmingham, passengers were brutally attacked by another Klan mob.

The violence did not end the Freedom Rides. In all, more than 400 men and women participated. Many were arrested and ended up spending time at Mississippi’s bleak Parchman prison farm. In the end, they could claim victory. Acting at the request of Attorney General Robert Kennedy, the Interstate Commerce Commission issued a sweeping order in September 1961 ending segregation in all interstate facilities and calling for all “Whites Only” and “Colored Only” signs to come down.

Five decades later, injustices remain. But the country’s debt to the Freedom Riders is clear.
423 2011-05-16 G. Wallace F. McCain was born in Florenceville on April 9, 1930. After obtaining a degree in mathematics and economics, which meant attending three universities over several years, Wallace joined Harrison in trying to start a business. A third brother, Robert, noted that although frozen fast food was quickly becoming popular in Canada, there was no locally owned producer. For perhaps obvious reasons, French fries became McCain’s first product.

McCain fries were cooked longer before being frozen, making them darker and richer tasting than American imports.

Within four years the company was successful enough to expand to Britain, a nation known for its love of deep-fried potatoes and with close trade links to Canada at the time. In what would become a model for its foreign businesses, McCain’s British operation was given considerable autonomy in the hopes that consumers there would view it as a local company.

Over time, the business expanded into pizza and other frozen foods.

But the brothers’ personal relationship frayed. During the 1990s they became estranged when Harrison McCain wanted outside managers to assume the top executive positions at the company, while Wallace McCain favored his son, Michael. After prolonged litigation, at estimated legal costs of $20 million, Wallace McCain resigned as president and co-chief executive and left Florenceville, although he retained one-third ownership of McCain Foods, which has annual sales of about $6 billion.

“The biggest thing that happened to me in the past 25 years — and in my life — was being unceremoniously dumped from McCain Foods,” Mr. McCain told The Globe and Mail in 2009.

After moving to Toronto, he took control of Maple Leaf Foods, a processed food company with several valuable brands that had fallen on hard times. He made his son Michael Maple Leaf’s president and, eventually, its chief executive. Wallace McCain remained chairman.

After modernization and several acquisitions, Maple Leaf became Canada’s dominant processed food supplier, particularly in meats. It had a serious setback in 2008 when some of its cold cuts, infected with the listeriosis bacteria, caused several deaths.

In his final years, Mr. McCain became entangled in another corporate battle. Outside investors in Maple Leaf have opposed the family’s plan to invest heavily in the company to improve its efficiency and to compete better with American imports.

Mr. McCain is survived by his wife of 56 years, the former Margaret Norrie; two sons, Michael and Scott; two daughters, Eleanor and Martha; and nine grandchildren.
424 2011-05-16 Mr. Kerry indicated that during briefings in Khost Province, where the United States keeps watch on Pakistani tribal areas, he had been told that Pakistan remained involved in helping to send insurgents into Afghanistan.

“Yes, there are insurgents coming across the border. Yes, they are operating out of North Waziristan and other areas of the sanctuaries. Yes, there is some evidence of Pakistan government knowledge of some of these activities in ways that are very disturbing,” he said. “That will be, without any question, one of the subjects of conversation. It will not be the first time this has been raised.”

As far as Afghanistan goes, he said, “We’re at a critical moment where we may be able to transition at a greater speed.”

Mr. Kerry did not specifically mention civilian casualties. But when he spoke about “reducing the footprint,” he seemed to indirectly allude to civilian casualties and the house searches and night raids that Afghans hate.

After years of Western military and civilian leaders arguing that the deaths and raids, while regrettable, were a byproduct of NATO’s fight against terrorism, Mr. Kerry said that President Hamid Karzai’s complaints about them were “correct.” One benefit of reducing the number of troops, he implied, would be to also reduce such searches and civilian casualties.

What is being talked about, he said, is a “a smart, thoughtful way to rapidly, as rapidly as possible, while maintaining progress, shift responsibilities to Afghans,” he said.

Underpinning that judgment, he said, were conversations with President Karzai; Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior commander in Afghanistan; Karl W. Eikenberry, the American ambassador in Kabul; and other Afghan political figures, who all said that security had improved, which opens the way for a reduction in the NATO presence.

Senator Kerry acknowledged that improvements were needed in governance and in fighting corruption, but he sounded willing to be satisfied with the situation as it stands. “To the credit of the Afghans, they have made a series of choices and decisions and progress that is beginning to provide a road, even notwithstanding the level of cooperation of Pakistan,” he said.

Some lawmakers in Congress are demanding that aid to Pakistan be cut off or sharply reduced, but Mr. Kerry said such actions could have a profound effect on the extent to which Pakistan encouraged the largely Pashtun Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan.

“It’s important to try to not allow the passions of the moment to cloud over the larger goal that is in both of our interests,” Mr. Kerry said.
425 2011-05-16 The United Arab Emirates confirmed on Sunday that it had hired a company run by Erik Prince, the billionaire founder of Blackwater Worldwide, to provide “operational, planning and training support” to its military. But it gave no details of the company’s project to build a foreign mercenary battalion for the Emirati government.

A written statement from a top Emirati general, issued through the U.A.E.’s official news agency, said that the country had relied extensively on outside contractors to bolster its military, and that all work with contractors was “compliant with international law and relevant conventions.”

The statement, by Gen. Juma Ali Khalaf al-Hamiri, said that the U.A.E. had signed a contract with Reflex Responses, but made no mention of the hundreds of Colombian, South African and other foreign troops now training at an Emirati military base. The statement did not mention Mr. Prince by name.

The New York Times reported on Sunday that the company last year signed a $529 million contract with the Emirati government to recruit and train a foreign battalion for counterterrorism and internal security missions, according to former Reflex Responses employees, American officials and corporate documents.

Former employees said that the company had a separate lucrative contract to help protect a string of nuclear reactors planned in the U.A.E. and to provide cybersecurity for the nuclear sites.

The U.A.E is a close American ally, and officials in Washington indicated that there was some support in the Obama administration for the foreign mercenary battalion. But the State Department is looking into the project to ensure it does not violate American laws regulating the export of defense technology and expertise.
426 2011-05-16 West Ham became the first team relegated from England’s Premier League this season after squandering a two-goal lead in a 3-2 loss at Wigan. West Ham is in last place with 33 points, 6 fewer than Wigan, which can avoid relegation in next week’s final round.

The Hammers led, 2-0, after 26 minutes on goals by Demba Ba. But Wigan tied the score in the 68th minute, and Charles N’Zogbia scored deep into injury time.

Arsenal is in danger of finishing in fourth, matching its lowest finish since Arsène Wenger became manager in 1996, after a 2-1 home loss to Aston Villa.

¶ Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice as Real Madrid won at Villarreal, 3-1, and with 38 goals tied the Spanish league record set by Athletic Bilbao’s Telmo Zarra in 1950-51 and matched by Madrid’s Hugo Sanchez in 1989-90.

¶ The American midfielder Lindsay Tarpley will miss the Women’s World Cup after tearing her right anterior cruciate ligament Saturday in a 2-0 exhibition win over Japan.
427 2011-05-16 In “Preventing the Next Flash Crash” (Op-Ed, May 6), Edward E. Kaufman Jr. and Carl M. Levin make the point that high-speed transactions using computer algorithms have turned the stock market from a place for emerging companies to finance their growth into a no-holds-barred gambling casino.

To reverse this debacle, I suggest two tax increases that would be supported by an overwhelming proportion of the voters. The first would be a transaction tax, so small that it would barely affect the ordinary investor, but large enough to deter the high-speed, high-volume trader.

The second method would revise the capital gains tax schedule to reward long-term holdings while penalizing in-and-out transactions.
428 2011-05-16 The New Victory Theater will open its new season on Oct. 1 with a show starring new creations from an “Avenue Q” puppet maker. The show, “The Little Prince,” an adaptation of the French fable by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, written by Rick Cummins and John Scoullar, will feature life-size puppets designed by Michael Schupbach, an alumnus of the Jim Henson Muppet Workshop. The season continues Oct. 13 with the United States premiere of “White,” a contemporary work from the Catherine Wheels Theater Company, of Scotland, that was a 2010 Edinburgh Festival Fringe award-winner last year; and the Reduced Shakespeare Company’s “Complete World of Sports (abridged),” beginning on Oct. 21. Other highlights will include “Untapped!,” a dance and rock review from Australia (Nov. 11), and “Bai Xi,” a circus show from Shanghai (Dec. 2).
429 2011-05-16 The filmmaker Stanley Nelson has a stunning accomplishment in “Freedom Riders,” a documentary that chronicles a crucial, devastating episode of the civil rights movement, an episode whose gruesome visuals impinged on the perception of American liberty around the world. Commemorating the 50th anniversary of the freedom rides, the film (to be shown Monday on PBS) is a story of ennobled youth and noxious hatred, of decided courage and inexplicable brutality. In May 1961 the Congress of Racial Equality sought to challenge the segregation of interstate travel on public transport and sent forth activists, both black and white, and many of them students, on a bus journey through the South, where they were received with violence that law enforcers refused to tame.

It is hard to imagine a feature film conveying the events with a more vivid sense of drama or suspense. The commentators — the riders themselves, historians, politicians, civil rights leaders — have mostly been chosen for an uncanny ability to convey the tension in a present-tense reconstruction. Blowhards and professors of the obvious have been excised, and the archival photographs and news clips have been edited down to those most affecting and lyrical.

The story told begins like this: On Mother’s Day in 1961 two buses departed Atlanta headed for Birmingham, Ala. CORE leaders assumed that the activists would confront hostility, but they had no idea what would follow. The first bus was burned in Anniston, Ala. Occupants of the second forged on with no knowledge of what their compatriots had just encountered. The riders possessed a fearlessness that leads you to imagine that even if cellphone technology had existed and had allowed them to be warned, little about their plans would have changed.

Birmingham, at the time among the most racially divided cities in the country, was not poised to greet the riders neutrally. The city was ruled by the notorious Bull Connor, a police commissioner economically described here by Julian Bond, a founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center, as “some kind of psychopath, rabid on the subject of race.” Connor had allotted the hordes of Klansmen intent on disrupting the arrival of the buses 15 minutes to beat, maim and burn the passengers, with the promise that none would be arrested.

One of the most bizarrely compelling figures to emerge in the film is John Patterson, then Alabama’s governor, who had to be strong-armed by the federal government into offering protection to the riders. He speaks to the cameras now with an oddly casual air and no obvious sense of contrition. He says that he was afraid of Connor. He was also a political opportunist who had won the Democratic gubernatorial primary in 1958 with the support of the Ku Klux Klan. His opponent, George Wallace, had lost with the support of the N.A.A.C.P. (Wallace’s segregationist politics flourished as a result of this defeat.)

“Freedom Riders” implicitly and ably conveys the powerlessness of positive law in the face of a toxic cultural emotionalism. By the time the freedom riders had begun their efforts, the Supreme Court had twice handed down decisions — first in 1946, in Morgan v. Virginia, and 14 years later in Boynton v. Virginia — declaring segregation on buses and trains traveling between states a violation of interstate commerce laws. But Jim Crow traditions meant an ugly disregard for what was already mandated.

By the fall of 1961, 400 Americans had participated in the freedom rides, facing attack and arrest. That September the Interstate Commerce Commission delivered its order to end segregation on buses and in railway stations, and the civil rights movement had an enormous triumph. Now so too does this genre of documentary film. It is easy to imagine “Freedom Riders,” attaining the status of “Eyes on the Prize,” the multipart film on the history of the civil rights movement that has been an essential component of American history classes for years. “Freedom Riders” should have an equally long life.
430 2011-05-16 A faunlike boy (the softly riveting, adolescent-looking Steven Melendez), after dancing alone, meets six nymphs and has an extended dance duet with one (Rie Ogura), before allowing the six to dance together and then becoming one of their number in the finale. The costumes are by Sylvia Taalsohn Nolan; Mr. Melendez’s look recalls the more heroic protagonist of Tudor’s jungle-story “Shadowplay” (1967, to be revived next week by American Ballet Theater). But there are abrasive tensions in Copland’s modernist harmonies that the choreography avoids.

In fact, the audience would probably enjoy “A Rugged Flourish” more if the recurrent harshness of Copland’s writing — played here by Mariko Miyazaki — didn’t seem to get in the way. But it also makes Mr. Alston look relatively polite, especially in the dances for the women, and more conventional than he actually is. (The women are on point. Mr. Alston, a modern-dance choreographer, has choreographed point work only a few times in the last 30 years. He does so here tactfully rather than tellingly.)

The finest dances are for Mr. Melendez, alone and with Ms. Ogura. The opening solo has really marvelous self-contradictions and explorations: Mr. Melendez faces one way and jumps the other or advances in a new direction while looking behind, and the mixture of impulsiveness and reflectiveness is compelling. The duet has a tension that is half competitive, half getting-to-know-you: warily, they present each other with dance material that keeps extending them as personalities.

The Theater Ballet program notes about Tudor encourage the audience to regard him as a psychological choreographer, which is the wrong way to prepare for “Soirée Musicale” and a relatively trite way to follow “Jardin aux Lilas.” The pure-dance “Soirée,” set to Rossini, is a bright study in different 19th-century dance styles. It seems to want to look more predictable and dated than it is; you have to home in on its dance details to find it rewarding, but its three male-female duets, its female trios and the changing structures of its larger ensembles all have memorable ingenuities.

There are novels, poems, plays, operas and modern-dance works that all penetrate further into the human psyche than does “Jardin,” whose psychological subtleties are unusual only by ballet standards. Even so, “Jardin” really is a masterpiece by the standards of any art. Its dramatic skill lies in its rapid and economical garden-party alternation of social decorousness and private revelation, and in the amazing, modernist restraint with which it sets those changes to the various colors of its score, Chausson’s “Poème” for violin and orchestra.

The structure is such that very often the dance shows how the characters are unable to open up, while the music shows what they are feeling. (And though the eyes stay true, the face says least of all.) This works because the body language, from Caroline’s first conflicted, closed-arm gesture, is acute: a hundred deft strokes show us how divided these characters are.

Friday’s “Jardin” — better than the already good ones we saw from this company in 2008 — was especially fine. Elena Zahlmann as Caroline and Ms. Ogura as An Episode in the Past of the Man Caroline Must Marry (I wish someone had persuaded Tudor to give them all names) were especially attuned to character, music and atmosphere. And the ballet has a doubled intensity on the Gould Hall’s small stage (still larger than that of the Mercury Theater, where it had its premiere).

Friday’s “Septet,” excellently led by Joshua Andino Nieto, was immeasurably improved from the company’s performance three months before. There was far less acting overlay, a far fuller trust in Cunningham’s choreography, and a rare sense of the musicality of these dances.

Both in the movement it sets to silence and in the motionless standstills and tableaus it sets to music, “Septet” often makes the independence of music and choreography obvious. But it is a far richer and stranger work when it shows you how attuned to Erik Satie’s harmonies and rhythms it sometimes is. Way beyond occasional step-for-note fidelity, its gestures and groupings sometimes release movement into the air to match or underscore Satie’s chords. There is a restraint here akin to Tudor’s.

Modernist economy is also apparent in Ashton’s earliest extant ballet, “Capriol Suite.” Beneath its mock-Elizabethan idioms, its cool charm and its bubbling inventiveness, the choreography places its faith in pure form. I know of no British company that has performed this work since Ashton’s death in 1988. Here, as throughout this program, New York Theater Ballet does us great service.
431 2011-05-16 The entertainment industry threw its weight behind a proposed law that would give law enforcement officials and others new authority to move against Internet sites that traffic without permission in copyrighted material.     The bill was introduce...
432 2011-05-16 Yale is going first. The university, in New Haven, announced that it is opening its entire digital image collection to the public for free - the first Ivy League institution to take this step toward open access. Yale houses millions of images in i...
433 2011-05-17 Disagreeing with Senator John McCain is one thing. But it was Rick Santorum’s choice of subjects that made people take notice....
434 2011-05-17 Researching historical eras in which major events happened with respect to the Mississippi River and reflecting on the larger meaning of those events and of the river itself in American culture and identity....
435 2011-05-17 Researching historical eras in which major events happened with respect to the Mississippi River and reflecting on the larger meaning of those events and of the river itself in American culture and identity....
436 2011-05-17 D.I.Y. surfboards are on the rise. Here, a list of some of the California-based gear guys who are leading the way....
437 2011-05-17 Morning Line for Tuesday, May 17...
438 2011-05-17 Animal Kingdom galloped by us the first time at Fair Hill and looked good. He galloped by us the second time and he looked fantastic. He was striding out nicely, and moving right along....
439 2011-05-17 LinkedIn is poised to make its closely watched stock market debut on Thursday. Who’s next among the social media darlings?...
440 2011-05-17 Fill in the blanks in the paragraphs below taken from the article, “The Dogs of War: Beloved Comrades in Afghanistan.” Use your own words and phrases, or choose from a scrambled list of the words or phrases that were removed....
441 2011-05-17 Which strategies are working and which are causing pain....
442 2011-05-17 Every month, in the Pigalle neighborhood in Paris, beyond the red-light district and Moulin Rouge, you’ll find a congregation of the literary sort. “The Book Club” is a party that occurs on the last Wednesday of every month at newly refurbis...
443 2011-05-17 The possibility has also been raised that the banks did not disclose to mortgage insurers the risks in the instruments they were agreeing to insure against default. Another potential area of inquiry — the billions of dollars in credit extended by Wall Street to aggressive mortgage lenders that allowed them to continue making questionable loans far longer than they otherwise could have done.

“Part of what prosecutors have the advantage of doing right now, here as elsewhere, is watching the civil suits play out as different parties fight over who bears the loss,” said Daniel C. Richman, a professor of law at Columbia. “That’s a very productive source of information.”

Officials at Bank of America and Goldman Sachs declined to comment about the investigation; Morgan Stanley did not respond to a request for comment.

During the mortgage boom, Wall Street firms bundled hundreds of billions of dollars in home loans into securities that they sold profitably to investors. After the real estate bubble burst, the perception took hold that the securitization process as performed by the major investment banks contributed to the losses generated in the crisis.

Critics contend that Wall Street’s securitization machine masked the existence of risky home loans and encouraged reckless lending because pooling the loans and selling them off allowed many participants to avoid responsibility for the losses that followed.

The requests for information by Mr. Schneiderman’s office also seem to confirm that the New York attorney general is operating independently of peers from other states who are negotiating a broad settlement with large banks over foreclosure practices.

By opening a new inquiry into bank practices, Mr. Schneiderman has indicated his unwillingness to accept one of the settlement’s terms proposed by financial institutions — that is, a broad agreement by regulators not to conduct additional investigations into the banks’ activities during the mortgage crisis. Mr. Schneiderman has said in recent weeks that signing such a release was unacceptable.

It is unclear whether Mr. Schneiderman’s investigation will be pursued as a criminal or civil matter. In the last few months, the office’s staff has been expanding. In March, Marc B. Minor, former head of the securities division for the attorney general, was named bureau chief of the investor protection unit in the New York attorney general’s office.

Early in the financial crisis, , the governor of New York who preceded Mr. Schneiderman as attorney general, began investigating Wall Street’s role in the debacle. But those inquiries did not result in any cases filed against the major banks. Nevertheless, some material turned over to Mr. Cuomo’s investigators may turn out to be helpful to Mr. Schneiderman’s inquiry.
444 2011-05-17 There was the 3,000-foot red carpet (though in this case it was black) that rolled up Main Street in Disneyland, right to Frontierland. The street was lined with television cameras, correspondents and photographers. Nearly 20,000 fans, many wearing mouse ears, screamed at people they recognized, or thought they recognized. It all led to a full-blown outdoor theater, with a 3-D screen and stadium seating for 2,000 guests, built — for this night only— over a lake in the center of Disneyland.

Who says the era of over-the-top movie premieres is over? This was the opening May 7 of “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” and Disney, as it has before for an opening of this franchise, commandeered its theme park to provide a suitably buzz-worthy unveiling.

This display of Hollywood excess is understandable, even in these tough times. Truth be told, it takes a lot to get people to drive this far to see a movie (it can easily be an hour’s drive from Hollywood, especially on a Saturday night. And did we mention that there was no alcohol served, since this is liquor-free Disneyland? (Guards carefully searched people, so sneaking in a flask wouldn’t work.)

So Disney compensated. First, knowing the other big draw for a crowd in Los Angeles besides free food and alcohol — celebrities! — it managed to wrangle pretty much all of the film’s stars — even Keith Richards, who has a bit part — to make the trip here. The cast, including, of course, Johnny Depp, Penélope Cruz and Geoffrey Rush, bounced out theatrically on the stage in the lake before the film began, then walked over a bridge to their seats. (Kind of like the ending of the new “Rheingold” at the Metropolitan Opera in New York, absent the Rhinemaidens.)

Fireworks exploded over the lake as the credits ended. (One nonspoiler alert if you see the movie: Stay through the credits.)

And in what might have been the biggest draw of all, Disneyland was opened to attendees, many of whom brought children. Waiting time for the Haunted Mansion, still open past midnight? Zero minutes.
445 2011-05-17 Ben Swift of Britain emerged from a sprint finish to win the opening stage of the Tour of California, which was shortened to 76.3 miles because of snow at high elevations near the planned start at Squaw Valley. He rode the stage from Nevada City to Sacramento in 2 hours 47 minutes 12 seconds and leads Peter Sagan of Slovakia by four seconds. The original first stage on Sunday was canceled because of snow.
446 2011-05-17 Diego Maradona signed a two-year contract to coach the United Arab Emirates club Al Wasl, his return to coaching after leading Argentina to the World Cup quarterfinals last year. Maradona, 50, is joining a fourth-place team whose next season begins in September.
447 2011-05-17 Tiger Woods said Monday that he did not do any more damage to his left knee and Achilles’ tendon last week and that he expected to play in the United States Open next month. Woods withdrew from the Players Championship after nine holes Thursday with pain in his left leg.

On his Web site, Woods said that he irritated his knee, which has been operated on four times, and Achilles’ tendon. He said on Twitter that he “will do all I can to get there” to the United States Open, June 16 to 19. He is unlikely to play in the Memorial, two weeks before the Open.
448 2011-05-17 Also, Crane put aside $8.5 million in 2001 to settle a racial and gender discrimination complaint by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission against his freight company, Eagle Global Logistics.

The commission said, among other things, that Eagle failed or refused to promote African-Americans, Hispanics and women into managerial and sales positions; demoted women from managerial jobs; maintained a hostile environment against blacks, Hispanics and women; and paid those groups less than white or male employees performing comparable work.

Eagle disputed the allegations and sued the agency. Eventually, after a review of the number of claims against the company, the E.E.O.C. returned about $6 million to Eagle, according to The Houston Chronicle.

Major League Baseball is aware of the case but had no comment, a baseball official said.

The sale has to be approved by three-quarters of baseball’s owners. If that happens, Crane will be a rare team owner who actually played the game. As a pitcher for the University of Central Missouri, he struck out 18 Ohio Northern batters in the first round of the 1974 N.C.A.A. Division II College World Series. Ryan, the Rangers’ president and chief executive, was a far better pitcher, but he owns only a small piece of that team.

Crane is probably paying more for the Astros now than he would have in 2008 because McLane, the Houston Rockets and Comcast last year created a regional sports television network, Comcast SportsNet Houston. Like the Astros’ deal, the Cubs and Red Sox transactions included related entities.

The Houston teams combined own nearly 80 percent of the network, and Comcast owns the rest. Rockets games will move to the network from Fox Sports Houston in 2012, followed the next season by Astros games.

Chris Bevilacqua, the chief executive of Bevilacqua Media, a consulting firm, said the Astros “unlocked significant value” by creating the network because such assets “are for the most part impervious to the ups and downs of a team’s performance on the field.”

The sale of the Astros was handled for McLane by Steve Greenberg of Allen & Company, which is the Mets’ adviser in their attempt to sell a minority share of the team.

The Astros, who are in their 50th season, reached the playoffs six times during McLane’s tenure, but they have finished with a losing record in three of the past four seasons and were a National League-worst 15-25 entering Monday’s games.
449 2011-05-17 Stocks retreated on Monday as Greece sought additional bailout money and a report showed that manufacturing growth in the New York region cooled.

Shares in the Lowe’s Companies, the home improvement retailer, dropped 3.6 percent after it cut its full-year earnings forecast. NYSE Euronext shares tumbled 13 percent after the Nasdaq OMX Group and IntercontinentalExchange withdrew their takeover bid for their rival.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 0.6 percent, to 1,329.47. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 47.38 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,548.37. The Nasdaq fell 46.16 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,782.31. The Dow and the S.& P. had risen early before slipping.

“There’s concern about a soft spot,” said Burt White, the chief investment officer at LPL Financial in Boston. “We are starting to see a peak in manufacturing and margins. In addition, there’s the European debt crisis. They’ve been trying to deal with the symptoms, without curing the disease. It’s not an easy fix. The market has had a big run, with both stocks and commodities up a lot. The bigger the party, the tougher the hangover.”

While the S.& P. 500 has rallied 5.8 percent since its year-to-date low on March 16, the gains have been led by so-called defensive industries that are thought to hold up better during an economic slowdown. Health care companies, consumer firms that sell necessities, telephone operators and utilities have risen at least 9.9 percent. Financial and energy companies have been the worst performers.
450 2011-05-17 Dr. King, who will be New York’s first African-American and first Puerto Rican education commissioner, was part of a circle of idealistic charter-school founders in Boston who experimented with longer school days, strict rules to guide student behavior and ways to hold teachers accountable for student performance. They raised expectations for poor students, and sought to form close relationships with children while reshaping teaching into a more quantifiable science.

Since joining the state Education Department in 2009, Dr. King worked with Dr. Steiner on an ambitious agenda that shares some of those goals, and he takes the helm at a critical moment. The state is on a tight timeline to implement data-driven teacher evaluations, create computer systems to track student progress, toughen curricular standards and open more charter schools. Dr. King helped broker a fragile peace with the state’s main teachers’ union to begin those changes last year, but continuing disputes, particularly over the state’s proposed use of standardized tests to rate teachers, periodically disrupt it.

If Dr. Steiner, a mild-mannered classics professor who will be returning to his post as dean of the education school at Hunter College this summer, was the intellectual driver of the plan, Dr. King was the details person, preferring to sit in a room eating takeout and crunching numbers rather than dipping into Albany politics, which he found frustrating and divisive.

“There is a tremendous amount of work in turning the big ideas into real change,” he said in the interview.

Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of the statewide teachers’ union, expressed some concern about Dr. King’s background and perspective on hot-button issues like school choice and teacher evaluation systems. “My hope will be that he remembers that in his new role, he represents all of public education and not exclusively an interest that he’s been aligned to in the past,” Mr. Iannuzzi said.

Dr. King was born in 1975 in Flatlands, Brooklyn. His father, John B. King Sr., was a 66-year-old retired public school teacher and administrator, who had been the first African-American principal in Brooklyn and later, the city’s executive deputy superintendent of schools. His mother, Adalinda King, was a guidance counselor born in Puerto Rico, who met her future spouse when he taught her in a graduate program.

Dr. King’s mother was working at a middle school when she had a fatal heart attack at 48; Dr. King was 8. His father soon afterward began to show signs of advancing Alzheimer’s, leaving young John to cook, shop and more or less fend for himself until age 12, when Mr. King also died, at 79.

Dr. King went to live with his 24-year-old half brother on Long Island, then briefly attended Phillips Andover, an elite New England boarding school, where he rebelled against the strict curfews and cut class. He was expelled as a junior.

“I sort of resented adult authority,” he said. “At the time I felt like adults had let me down in my life.”

An uncle and aunt in Cherry Hill, N.J., took him in. When it came time to apply to college, Dr. King poured his heart out explaining his circumstances in his Harvard essay, and was accepted.

“Hollywood used to make movies about people like John King,” said Wade S. Norwood, a Regents member, who formally nominated Dr. King for the new job on Monday.

One of Dr. King’s most vivid memories of Harvard is of standing on the bridge over the Charles River, surrounded by the glinting, reflecting spires of the college.

“I would go to the bridge and just think, how could they possibly let me in here,” he said. “There must have been some kind of mistake.”

Dr. King decided he wanted to become a social studies teacher, and earned his master’s from Teachers College at Columbia University. After three years of teaching, two in a charter school in Boston, he was asked to help start Roxbury Prep.

Dr. King spent five years there as co-director, putting in 12-hour days designing the curriculum and the structure — students may not talk in the hallways between classes, for example — within which teachers and students can improvise. He then moved to New York to help start Uncommon Schools, which now has 24 charters.

He now lives in Slingerlands, outside of Albany, with his wife, Melissa, a researcher for Scholastic Inc., whom he met on a blind date while both were teachers in Boston. Their two children, Amina, 7, and Mareya, 4, attend a Montessori school.

Over the past two years, he has been courted for several prominent education leadership positions, including the superintendent’s seat in Newark, by Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook executive who has pledged $100 million to that city’s troubled schools.

But Dr. King said he wanted to stay in New York because of his personal ties and his desire to finish what he started with Dr. Steiner. His salary will be $212,500, up from the $186,500 he earned as deputy, but, at his request, less than the $250,000 given to Dr. Steiner.
451 2011-05-17 At Monday’s meeting in Brussels, ministers nominated Mario Draghi of Italy as the next president of the European Central Bank, making his endorsement by European Union leaders a formality.

As also expected, they unanimously agreed to grant aid worth a total of 78 billion euros ($110 billion) to Portugal under a three-year program jointly administered by the European Union and the I.M.F.

Under the deal, the Portuguese authorities would encourage private investors “to maintain their overall exposures on a voluntary basis.” Although it was unclear how that encouragement would be offered, one possibility would be special guarantees to those who agreed to retain Portuguese bonds.

Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said that the interest rate charged on loans to Portugal would be “above 5.5 percent but clearly below 6 percent.”

But the most difficult discussions came over Greece, which was urged to speed up its promised 50 billion euro privatization program before a second rescue. Ministers discussed putting Greece’s privatization project in the hands of an external agency.

While Mr. Juncker ruled out the possibility of restructuring Greek debt, he said that he “would not exclude in a definite way a kind of reprofiling,” or a voluntary easing of loan terms. The idea, however, was rejected by France’s economy minister, Christine Lagarde.

Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s arrest was not discussed formally at the meeting, but the implications of the case dominated debate in the corridors.

Most diplomats expected him to leave the I.M.F. soon to run for president of France in elections next year. But now, he may depart under a cloud, which increased concerns over the cozy arrangement that had allowed for a European to lead the I.M.F.

Even with Mr. Strauss-Kahn at the helm, Europeans felt a hardening of attitudes at the I.M.F., where concerns have grown in North America about Europe’s internal policy divisions over the debt crisis.

Meanwhile, some in the developing world are concerned about the amount of effort the I.M.F., which has traditionally devoted resources to their problems, is having to expend on Europe, said a European Union diplomat who was not authorized to speak publicly.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany defended Europe’s claim to keep the top job at the I.M.F. for now, saying it made sense given its role in tackling the euro zone crisis, Reuters reported from Berlin. However, she said it was not yet time to discuss a successor.

“Generally, we know that in the medium term developing countries certainly have a claim both to the post of I.M.F. chief as well as World Bank chief,” Mrs. Merkel said. “I believe, however, that in the current phase, there are good reasons for Europe to have good candidates ready.”

That view was echoed in Brussels by Didier Reynders, the Belgian finance minister. “It would be preferable if we continued to hold these posts in the future,” he said.

As a former French government minister, Mr. Strauss-Kahn has been a strong presence and is someone who feels at home in the complex world of European Union policy making.

A Frenchman who speaks English and German, he was well placed to play at Europe’s top table. He was scheduled to meet Mrs. Merkel on Sunday before his arrest.

Technical work was continuing with officials from the I.M.F., the European Central Bank and the European Commission ahead of a likely new package of aid next month. The I.M.F. is providing about a third of the original 110 billion euro loan package for Greece.

But European officials are finding it increasingly difficult to quash speculation that Greek debt will have to be restructured.

“Of course we discuss all kinds of topics, including restructuring,” said Jan Kees de Jager, finance minister of the Netherlands, as he arrived at the meeting Monday. “But in public, we are very reluctant about discussing and debating restructuring.”

On Sunday, Wolfgang Schäuble, the finance minister of Germany, suggested that extending the maturities of Greek bonds could be a way to help ease the country’s debt crisis if private investors participated..

The I.M.F is believed to be more positive toward a restructuring of Greek debt than the European Central Bank and particular European governments, prompting some speculation that Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s absence might affect policy.

However, Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies, said that the effect was most likely to be felt over the longer term.

“They have pretty much made up their minds that nothing on restructuring happens before 2013,” he said. “If they want to keep their promise then the voice of the I.M.F. might be relevant next year. And maybe the next I.M.F. managing director will be clearer in saying you in Europe got us into this and we want to get our money back.”

In the meantime, Mr. Gros said, the message from leading governments was that the euro zone would do what was necessary, though the details of another aid package for Athens, and what Greece could offer in return, were not yet clear.
452 2011-05-17 The dissident artist was allowed a visit from his wife on Sunday, the first time he has been seen or heard from since being detained by authorities 43 days ago and held incommunicado in a secret -area location, Mr. Ai’s attorney said on Monday.

The attorney and family friend, Liu Xiaoyuan, said he had met on Monday with Lu Qing and that she said her husband appeared to be in good physical condition. Mr. Ai also asked about the health of his mother and family, he said, but the circumstance of the supervised visit offered no chance to discuss how his captors were treating him or other details of his confinement.

News service reports stated that Mr. Ai, who suffers from and , was receiving needed medications.

Ms. Lu said that Mr. Ai was not being held in a hospital or a jail but did not further describe his living conditions. “It appears he’s not in handcuffs, he was not wearing prison clothes and he was allowed to move freely within where he is living now,” Mr. Liu said. “So I guess it’s a form of house arrest, under supervision.”

Chinese authorities have yet to bring any charges against Mr. Ai, 53, who was seized at Beijing’s main airport on April 3 as he prepared to board a plane to . The government has since said that he was suspected of committing economic crimes, and investigators have searched his office records, Mr. Liu said.

A number of foreign governments, human rights organizations and groups have denounced Mr. Ai’s detention, saying it was clearly linked to his sharp criticism of ’s government on a number of fronts. An internationally recognized artist and architect, Mr. Ai has used his art and leveraged his fame to criticize socials and political conditions in China, from restraints on freedom of expression to official corruption.
453 2011-05-17 A new analysis adds to growing evidence that people using proton pump inhibitors to control symptoms of acid reflux are more likely to fracture bones than those who do not.

The analysis did not find a similar increase in fracture risk among patients taking older acid reflux medications, called histamine-2 receptor antagonists.

Last year, the Food and Drug Administration revised the label on proton pump inhibitors, or P.P.I.’s, to warn that they may raise the risk of fractures. In March, it removed the warnings from nonprescription P.P.I.’s, saying those were meant only for short courses of treatment while the fracture risk had been observed in long-term users.

The new analysis, published in the May-June issue of Annals of Family Medicine, examined 11 studies and found that patients taking P.P.I.’s were 29 percent more likely to get fractures.

The researchers also found that long-term users were 30 percent more likely to get fractures, and those taking high doses were 53 percent more likely to get hip fractures in particular.

Dr. Seung-Kwon Myung, a staff physician and senior scientist at the National Cancer Center in Seoul, South Korea, and one of the paper’s authors, said P.P.I. treatment may affect the intestine’s ability to absorb calcium. “Long-term or frequent use of P.P.I.’s should be avoided,” he said.
454 2011-05-17 The Museum of Modern Art will pay $31.2 million for the American Folk Art Museum's building, according to a notice the folk art museum filed to its bondholders. The two museums announced the planned sale last week but had not disclosed the price. ...
455 2011-05-17 In the latest twist in its frantic struggle for survival, the Swedish company Saab Automobile on Monday signed a tentative financing and import deal with the largest publicly traded car distributor in China.      Saab's parent, the Dutch sports ca...
456 2011-05-17 The operator of the Nasdaq market withdrew its $11 billion rival bid for the New York Stock Exchange's parent on Monday after the Justice Department said it would challenge the deal, raising questions about Nasdaq's next steps as exchanges around ...
457 2011-05-18 After the field was drawn Wednesday for the Preakness Stakes, the Kentucky Derby winner Animal Kingdom was made the early 2-1 favorite for Saturday's race....
458 2011-05-18 Anthony Scolaro, an ex-manager at Diamondback Capital Management, pleaded guilty to insider trading last year and is cooperating with the government’s widespread inquiry....
459 2011-05-18 LinkedIn is expected to raise $352.8 million, valuing the company at $4.3 billion. It is the first of the big social media companies to go public in the United States....
460 2011-05-18 The financial regulatory system was remade under Dodd-Frank and requires strong leaders, but five major bank regulatory positions are either unfilled or staffed with acting directors....
461 2011-05-18 Steeplechase Times is with Animal Kingdom at the Fair Hill Training Center as he prepares for the Preakness Stakes on Saturday....
462 2011-05-18 A jeweler in Paris finds inspiration in dollhouse furniture....
463 2011-05-18 The Pew Charitable Trusts advise extending credit card protections to small business accounts....
464 2011-05-18 Nobelists and others pass judgment on a potent species transgressing planetary boundaries....
465 2011-05-18 Two granddaughters of Jacques Cousteau are in the inspiration business, invoking his name to prompt others to take interest in a variety of environmental issues....
466 2011-05-18 The insurance company will acquire Esurance, an online provider of auto insurance quotes, and Answer Financial, which gives quote comparisons, from White Mountains Insurance....
467 2011-05-18 An agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation got too close to a confidential informer in a criminal investigation and is now in trouble with the law, an indictment made clear on Tuesday.

The agent, Adrian Busby, 37, was assigned to a mortgage fraud investigation in New York, according to the indictment, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan.

In January 2008, the indictment says, Agent Busby received authorization to use a woman as a confidential informer. But in obtaining that authorization, he stated on an F.B.I. form that the woman was not the subject of any pending investigation, even though he knew she was, the indictment charges.

The woman, who is not identified in the indictment, was under investigation by the New York Police Department and the Queens district attorney’s office, the document says. She was arrested in February 2008 and subsequently convicted in an identity theft case.

The woman was designated as a confidential source for about eight months, the indictment says; it does not elaborate on her role, or describe the information she provided.
468 2011-05-18 Joseph Wershba, who as a CBS television reporter working with Edward R. Murrow revealed the story of Lt. Milo Radulovich, whose dismissal from the Air Force because of his relatives’ leftist leanings became a symbol of the anti-Communist witch hunts of the 1950s, died on Saturday at a hospital near his home in Floral Park on Long Island. He was 90.

The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Shirley, said.

Mr. Wershba went on to become an Emmy Award-winning producer of “60 Minutes.”

It was Mr. Wershba who went to Dexter, Mich., in 1953 to interview Lieutenant Radulovich, who had been discharged from the Air Force Reserve because his father, an immigrant from Serbia, subscribed to newspapers from his native country, and because his sister was an avowed liberal.

After a “See It Now” broadcast on Oct. 20, 1953, viewers responded by sending some 8,000 letters and telegrams to CBS and Alcoa, the program’s sponsor, that ran about 100 to 1 in support of Lieutenant Radulovich. Newspaper editorials also rallied to his cause.

That broadcast was the first salvo “See It Now” fired against Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the Wisconsin Republican who was the central figure in the hunt for Communists in the United States. Although the Radulovich case did not involve the senator, two later “See It Now” programs dealt directly with McCarthy and his tactics. Mr. Wershba helped report and produce all three segments, which have come to be seen as among the first potent blows to McCarthyism.
469 2011-05-18 Fourteen of the products contained the flame retardant TCEP, which the State of California describes as a cancer-causing agent. Four of them contained Penta-BDE, a flame retardant that builds up in human tissue and that manufacturers voluntarily phased out in 2004; it is banned in many countries, but not the United States, and in some states, including New York.

“Why do you need fire retardant in a nursing pillow?” said Dr. Blum, who is the executive director of the Green Science Policy Institute, a nonprofit organization that brings scientific data about toxic chemicals to policy makers.

“The whole issue is, they are toxic chemicals that are in our homes at high levels; and right now, people don’t know much about it,” she said.

Asked about the new research, the Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association, an industry trade group, said all nursery products sold in the United States conform to “tough federal safety standards.”

“Not only do these safety standards contain flammability requirements, they also restrict the use of substances that are harmful or toxic and to which children might be exposed,” the association said in a statement.

The association also noted that chlorinated Tris was not banned by the government, but rather a related compound, brominated Tris, also found in the pajamas decades ago. “This study does not support allegations that the banned retardant Tris is in use,” the association said.

Gordon L. Nelson, a chemistry professor at Florida Institute of Technology, said the new research was interesting but hardly proof that the flame retardants were doing harm. He noted that some children’s products that use foams have plastic covers around them, which would prevent flame retardants from leaching out.

“The question is, in actual use, does the flame retardant come out?” Dr. Nelson said. He says he has done research on fire safety for decades and occasionally accepts research money or consulting fees from the industry.

In addition, Dr. Nelson maintained that fire retardants have vastly reduced the number of fire deaths caused by upholstered furniture, a point that critics of the chemicals dispute.

The new research is being released amid a broader, and often bitter, debate about flame retardants and a California flammability rule that has become the de facto national standard.

The California standard, passed in 1975, requires that polyurethane foam in upholstered furniture be able to withstand an open flame for 12 seconds without catching fire. Because there is no other state or federal standard, many manufacturers comply with the California rule, usually by adding flame retardants with the foam, Dr. Blum said.

Last year, California exempted strollers, nursing pillows and baby carriers from the flammability standard. Dr. Blum characterized the exemption as a positive step, though she noted that many other baby products were not exempted and it was not yet clear if manufacturers had stopped using flame retardants in those products.

Dr. Blum is among a group of academics and environmentalists who argue that the California standard exposes people and their pets to toxic chemicals. The flame retardants can migrate from furniture to household dust, and can be ingested by people and pets.

Some of the chemicals used in flame retardants are suspected carcinogens, and studies have linked the chemicals to variety of health issues, including problems with fertility and neurological development, the authors of Wednesday’s journal article said.

Heather M. Stapleton, an assistant professor of environmental chemistry at Duke University and the lead author, complained that current federal oversight of chemicals is so weak that manufacturers are not required to label products with flame retardants nor are they required to list what chemicals are used.

Under current law, it is difficult for the federal Environmental Protection Agency to ban or restrict chemicals. Even now, the agency has yet to ban asbestos, widely known to cause cancer and other lung diseases.

“We can buy things that are BPA free, or phthalate free or lead free. We don’t have the choice to buy things that are flame-retardant free,” Dr. Stapleton said. “The laws protect the chemical industry, not the general public.”

In a statement, the American Chemistry Council, which represents manufacturers of flame retardants, said the products are “well studied and provide important safety benefits.”

“This study attempts to examine the existence of certain flame retardants in a small sampling of children’s products,” the council said, in a statement. “It does not address exposure or risk.”

The Consumer Product Safety Commission has been working on a federal flammability standard for upholstered furniture for 16 years. The current proposal would allow manufacturers to meet the flammability standard without fire retardants. An agency spokesman said that “additional research looking into consumer exposure and the impact of chemical alternatives is needed.”
470 2011-05-18 Kenyan authorities began an investigation into the death of the Olympic marathon champion Sammy Wanjiru. Officials have said Wanjiru, 24, died in a fall from a second-story balcony at his home in Nyahururu after his wife found him with another woman. Charles Owino, a national deputy police spokesman, said the inquest would explore whether Wanjiru deliberately jumped, was pushed or intended to commit suicide.
471 2011-05-18 TEHRAN (Reuters) — An Iranian flotilla that was sailing to Bahrain to show solidarity with protesters there has halted its mission, Iran’s official news agency, IRNA, reported Tuesday.

Bahrain had called the flotilla a blatant interference in its affairs.

The Iranian government had told the convoy, which included 120 students, clerics and activists, to abandon its plan, IRNA said.

“Following the frequent requests of the authorities to stop the flotilla, a gathering was held onboard, and it was concluded to stop the fleet,” the organizer of the mission, Mehdi Eqrarian, was quoted as saying by IRNA.

Bahrain, a tiny kingdom where a Sunni Muslim monarchy rules over a population with a Shiite majority, has accused Iran of fomenting unrest, which has been led primarily by Shiites.

Iran, a majority Shiite country, has welcomed popular uprisings in the Arab world, calling them an “Islamic awakening” against despotic rulers, and it says the revolts were influenced by its own 1979 Islamic Revolution.
472 2011-05-18 The family of Bennie Abram, who was a Mississippi football player, filed a wrongful-death lawsuit against the university, Coach Houston Nutt and the N.C.A.A. in Hinds County Circuit Court.

Abram was 20 when he collapsed during the first day of formal off-season workouts on Feb. 19, 2010, and died at a hospital. An autopsy revealed that Abram died from complications associated with sickle-cell trait, which can lead to severe problems after strenuous exercise. The university has repeatedly said that all of its employees acted properly.

The N.C.A.A. made sickle-cell trait testing mandatory for all Division I athletes last year, although carrying the trait does not prevent an athlete from playing sports.

¶ Deion Sanders, a cornerback at Florida State, and four defensive tackles — Marty Lyons of Alabama, Russell Maryland of Miami, Doug English of Texas and Rob Waldrop of Arizona — were among the 14 players chosen for induction into the College Football Hall of Fame.

Coaches Lloyd Carr, who led Michigan to the 1997 national title, and Fisher DeBerry who led Air Force to a winning record in 17 of his 23 seasons, will also be inducted. (AP)
473 2011-05-18 American Ballet Theater opened its new season with gala on Monday night at the Metropolitan Opera House that featured 12 short performances....
474 2011-05-18 If the idea is to entice audiences to see the rest of the season, I’d wager that the onslaught of excerpts is a failing strategy. With the exception of Alexei Ratmansky’s “Bright Stream,” frustratingly truncated sections of which bookended the evening, and Diana Vishneva in “Manon,” there was nothing to make you think, “I’d like to see that,” and everything to make you feel that ballet is a pretty tedious affair.

Most important, if you are going to nod toward new work, or provide a pièce d’occasion, why not commission or stage something with a little choreographic interest? (Why not use your resident genius, Mr. Ratmansky?)

“Majisimo,” by a Cuban choreographer, features the excellent Cuban guest artists Reyneris Reyes (Miami City Ballet), Lorna Feijóo and Nelson Madrigal (Boston Ballet), Ms. Feijóo’s sister Lorena Feijóo and Joan Boada (San Francisco Ballet), alongside the Ballet Theater principals Jose Manuel Carreño, Paloma Herrera and Xiomara Reyes. (She is not related to Mr. Reyes). It had a certain raison d’être as a tribute to the Cuban-born Mr. Carreño, who retires this season.

But that’s about all it had. Set to music (well played, as was the entire program) from Massenet’s opera “Le Cid,” “Majisimo,” was first created in 1965 for the National Ballet of Cuba. It is a forgettable trifle invoking a vaguely Spanish ambience (much snapping open of fans and taking up of flamenco arms) and offering Mr. Carreño a small star turn to show that he can still pull off technical feats. He can. It did give an animated Ms. Reyes a chance to sparkle in a series of diagonal turns, and it showed Mr. Boada’s crisp, clear technique, but it was mostly a wasted opportunity.

There is, on the other hand, no reason whatsoever for the existence of Ms. Lang’s “Splendid Isolation III.” It opened with Irina Dvorovenko, midstage in a backless white dress, the skirt taking up a good deal of space. Its volume drew applause, which was about right, since that’s all there is to this piece. Maxim Beloserkovsky threw himself around the edges, occasionally pulling Ms. Dvorovenko about in the dress, or lying down, covering himself with it as if about to take a nap. Who could have blamed him?

The brightest spots came toward the end, with Ms. Vishneva and an ardent Marcelo Gomes in the Act I pas de deux from Kenneth MacMillan’s “Manon,” and Alina Cojocaru, a guest artist from the Royal Ballet, in the Rose Adagio from “The Sleeping Beauty.” Ms. Vishneva and Mr. Gomes had the better deal, with a duet that tells its story in clear terms, even in isolation from the ballet. Despite the strangely dark lighting, they were utterly transporting in their evocation of the first stages of love. Delight, wonder, lust, awe — all passed, as evanescent as time, through their bodies.

Ms. Cojocaru was her radiant, transcendently lyrical self in the Rose Adagio, but without the context of the full ballet, the excerpt felt entirely arbitrary. The balances in the Rose Adagio aren’t just a feat. They are symbolic of the young princess’s debut in the world, her growing assurance and grace. On a bare stage even Ms. Cojocaru, one of the world’s great ballerinas, couldn’t make the piece look like much more than a technical accomplishment.

For the rest, Gillian Murphy and David Hallberg provided an impeccable, fleetly musical “Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux,” and Isabella Boylston showed both charm and virtuosity in the concluding “Bright Stream” excerpt, as did the corps de ballet dancer Alexandre Hammoudi, who also partnered Ms. Herrera in a rather lugubrious Act II pas de deux from “Swan Lake.” (Seven proficient students of the company’s Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School also appeared, in Raymond Lukens’s “Karelia March.”)

More “Swan Lake” (really?) arrived from Michele Wiles, straining hard for effect, with Cory Stearns, in the Act III pas de deux. And even more pas de deux came from Veronika Part and Mr. Gomes in Mr. Ratmansky’s “Nutcracker” and from Julie Kent and Mr. Stearns in the mopey duet from John Neumeier’s “Lady of the Camellias.”

It was enough to make you weep. Just not in the right way.
475 2011-05-18 Mark Melancon blew a save chance in the ninth, ruining a brilliant performance by Wandy Rodriguez, who pitched five-hit ball over eight scoreless innings.

ROCKIES 5, GIANTS 3 Carlos Gonzalez hit a two-run single off Javier Lopez to complete a four-run eighth-inning rally and host Colorado surged back into first place in the National League West.

Gonzalez, whose three-run homer off Tim Lincecum propelled Colorado past the Giants on Monday, sent a fastball to right to snap a 3-3 tie and make a winner of Matt Belisle (4-2), who worked one inning of relief. Huston Street pitched the ninth for his 14th save in 15 tries.

With the two-game sweep, the Rockies lead the Giants in the division by half a game.

REDS 7, CUBS 5 Reliever Kerry Wood’s throwing error let two runs score and Chris Heisey followed with a tie-breaking sacrifice fly in the eighth inning that sent Cincinnati to a victory at home.

The Cubs self-destructed with four errors in a steady rain. All seven of Cincinnati’s runs were unearned.

Wood (1-3) threw wide of third while trying to get a force on Ryan Hanigan’s sacrifice bunt, allowing Hanigan to go to third base while the tying runs scored. Heisey put the Reds ahead and Joey Votto added a run-scoring double.

The Reds won for the 11th time in 13 games, sweeping the two-game series. While the Reds reached a season-high at eight games over .500, the Cubs fell to a new low at 17-23.

CARDINALS 2, PHILLIES 1 Lance Berkman lined a bases-loaded single over a drawn-in outfield with one out in the ninth inning, giving host St. Louis a victory over run-starved Philadelphia.

Jaime Garcia allowed five hits and an unearned run in eight innings for the Cardinals, but gave up a 1-0 lead in the eighth when second baseman Tyler Greene dropped Jimmy Rollins’s routine pop fly with one out. Rollins eventually scored on a sacrifice fly by Placido Polanco.

Garcia is 5-0 with a 1.64 earned run average, which is tied for the N.L. lead, and has permitted only one earned run on 15 hits in 31 innings at home.

The Phillies became the last team in the majors to lose three in a row Monday and have totaled seven runs on 17 hits during their first four-game losing streak since Aug. 23-26.

INDIANS 7, ROYALS 3 Carlos Santana and Asdrubal Cabrera homered and Travis Hafner hit a bases-loaded double, powering Cleveland to a two-game sweep of host Kansas City. One night after the Indians romped, 19-1, and tied the record for Kansas City’s biggest losing margin, Hafner unloaded his three-run double in the first inning off Sean O’Sullivan. Santana hit a solo home run off O’Sullivan in the fifth and Cabrera made it 7-2 with a home run in the seventh off left-hander Everett Teaford.

WHITE SOX 4, RANGERS 3 Gordon Beckham scampered home on Cody Eppley’s wild pitch in the eighth inning, lifting host Chicago to a sorely needed victory.

Beckham began the inning with a walk and made it to third on a single to center by pinch-hitter Dallas McPherson. McPherson, who was promoted when Mark Teahen went on the disabled list earlier in the day, picked up his first hit since Sept. 10, 2008, for Florida at Philadelphia.

Eppley (1-1) then bounced his first pitch to Alexei Ramirez, and Beckham rushed home to give Chicago a 4-3 lead.

FOUR GAMES RAINED OUT The Baltimore Orioles’ game at the Boston Red Sox was postponed because of rain.

It was among four rainouts on Tuesday: The Pittsburgh Pirates’ game at the Washington Nationals; the Florida Marlins’ contest at the Mets; and Toronto Blue Jays’ game at the Detroit Tigers were also postponed.

There have been 30 postponements in the majors this season. Last year, there were a total of 21.

BRADEN HAS SURGERY The Oakland Athletics announced that the left-hander Dallas Braden had surgery to repair a torn capsule in his left shoulder and is expected to miss the rest of the year. The question now is whether Braden will be ready by the 2012 season.

Braden, who is 1-1 with a 3.00 earned run average this season, pitched a perfect game against Tampa Bay last season. MATSUZAKA HEADED TO D.L. Red Sox Manager Terry Francona said starting pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka was going on the disabled list to rest his right elbow, which is sprained. The Red Sox had not officially made the move as of Tuesday. Francona said there was no timetable on Matsuzaka’s return. Boston also put John Lackey on the disabled list this week, leaving them without two starters.
476 2011-05-18 “If all your customers are paying $50 for a tank of gas that they used to pay $25 for, somebody is not getting that $25,” said William Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Business.

According to a recent survey, one in four small businesses cited weak sales as their No. 1 problem.

Although gas prices have eased slightly in recent weeks, they are, on average, up about 30 percent over a year earlier. High prices have also driven up prices of food, airfares and even taxi rides in some regions, diverting consumers from other purchases.

The nation’s largest retailer, , which reported earnings on Tuesday, said high gas prices had restrained its shoppers, and its business. Sales at stores open at least a year fell by 1.1 percent in the first quarter, as visits to stores in the declined.

“Our customers are consolidating trips due to higher gas prices,” said Bill Simon, who oversees the United States business. It was the eighth consecutive decline in same-store sales at Wal-Mart.

Lowe’s, the home improvement chain, which reported a 5.7 percent slide in quarterly profits on Monday, said its traffic was down 3.4 percent in the quarter as customers made fewer trips.

“Rising gas and energy prices are cited by homeowners as the top factor affecting future spending plans, followed by the state of the overall economy and inflation in general,” said Lowe’s chief executive, Robert A. Niblock, explaining earnings that missed analysts’ expectations in a conference call with investors.

Advisors’ SpendingPulse, which researches consumer spending, reported on Tuesday that the gallons of gas pumped nationwide in the last month fell by 1 percent from the period a year ago.

Conserving miles has become a new business priority at Topical BioMedics, where Ms. Greene works in , N.Y. Her boss, Lou Paradise, recently invested in cloud computing so employees could access documents and programs and work from home more. He hands out gas cards as bonuses and birthday gifts, and holds seminars on how to make a car more energy-efficient. And when employees have to drive somewhere on business, he urges them to use the company cars — a TDI, a clean-diesel car and a van, which is relatively .

Other companies are also trying to help workers cope with high gas prices. Robert Trow, who runs a small distribution company in Mashpee, Mass., recently gave his employees a raise — on top of the one he gave in December — to help them deal with pump prices.

At the hair products business Paul Mitchell, which is based in the area, the company gives employees 20 cents a mile when they carpool, and covers bus fare in full. More employees are taking the company up on the offers now. Even the chief financial officer, Rick Battaglini, has begun carpooling to work.

Over all, the economy, though still slowly mending, has largely been able to shrug off the effects of high gas prices. Since the beginning of the year, employers have added more than 750,000 jobs, which puts more money into the economy in the form of additional paychecks.

And while the rise in gas prices since the beginning of the year roughly translates into a loss of $75 billion to $100 billion in spending power if sustained for the entire year, the payroll tax cuts adds back about $112 billion, according to an analysis by .

“It looks like those two things have fought each other to a standstill,” said Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse.

Some have benefited from the higher gas prices. Online sales boomed in April as shoppers stayed home on weekends, clicking a mouse instead of driving a car. E-commerce sales grew 19.2 percent in April compared with a year earlier, the biggest increase since July 2007, according to SpendingPulse.

Car sales have also risen recently as consumers choose smaller cars. In April, vehicle sales rose 18 percent, as shoppers turned toward compact and fuel-efficient models like the , and Focus models, and even like the Nissan Leaf.

Tom Veasey, owner of the True Value in Wilmington, said that customers had been grumbling to cashiers about the high cost of driving, and those who might previously have traveled five miles to a were now shopping in his store. But total sales were still flat, he said, as an increasing number of customers replaced parts rather than bought new gear.

“A new wheelbarrow is $59.95” and they can get a new tire for $20, Mr. Veasey said. “When things are going good they will just buy something new and save themselves the time it takes to repair something.”

Airlines and hotel companies say that improvements in the broader economy are helping them continue to sell tickets and rooms. A Gallup poll released on Monday showed that more than six in 10 Americans planned to take a vacation away from home this summer, although they expected to pay more for transportation costs than last year.

Henry Harteveldt, travel industry analyst at , said he had detected a deceleration in advance reservations. “The booking path has been slowing down,” he said. “We’re now getting into the heavy intense period for summer vacation planning and there is concern among hotel operators that because gas prices are higher whether the customer is flying or driving, there will be less discretionary budget to spend” on things like restaurants, entertainment and other businesses that rely on travelers. For now, analysts expect oil prices to level off rather than shoot higher. But if the recent softening reverses and gas prices go higher, economists suspect that more consumers will react.

“There is some point where people may get a little more panicky about it rather than simply adjusting to it,” Mr. Soss said.
477 2011-05-18 If other moves prove insufficient, “we’ll have to consider measures that aren’t just at taxpayers’ expense but also involve the private sector on a voluntary basis,” Mr. Asmussen said.

The policy shift follows intensive talks in which several ministers expressed frustration at the meager progress Greece has made so far on a promised program of state asset sales to investors that would raise 50 billion euros ($71 billion) .

Within a fractious monetary union, the politics of offering new loans are increasingly difficult, particularly if voters in creditor countries do not see greater evidence of Greek consolidation.

“They promised 50 billion of privatization, but they are still where we were in the 1970s,” said Maria Fekter, the Austrian finance minister, referring to Greece.

But with its debt level now at almost 150 percent of gross domestic product, Greece risks being trapped in a spiral of negative growth, prompting speculation that a new package of about 30 billion euros of new loans may be needed.

Officials from the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, are compiling a report to be used next month when the governments contemplate a second bailout — nicknamed “Grease II.”

But before agreeing to a second round of aid, finance ministers want more evidence that Greece is fulfilling its part of the existing bargain.

Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said that although Athens had made budgetary adjustments in the last 12 months, further “decisive steps by the Greek authorities are indispensable.”

The Dutch finance minister, Jan Kees De Jager, said, “We now expect Greece to do the heavy lifting by cutting, reforming and privatizing, painful as it is.” He added, “If Greece doesn’t deliver on its promises and the I.M.F decides not to extend the second tranche of its loans, the Netherlands will follow the I.M.F.”

The depth of division over the rescue plans was highlighted Tuesday by Michael Noonan, the Irish finance minister, who suggested that the terms attached to European bailouts were so stringent that they threatened to make growth impossible and were thereby self-defeating.

“You can enhance the possibility of success of the programs if you reduce the pricing,” said Mr. Noonan, who is campaigning for a reduction in the interest paid on Ireland’s bailout loans.

Mr. Noonan said that the mindset under which struggling countries were asked for concessions in exchange for easier conditions “was not the smartest way to proceed.”

Ireland’s bid for lower rates has run into resistance from France and Germany, which want an increase in the low Irish corporate tax rate of 12.5 percent. But Mr. Noonan ruled out any such concession.
478 2011-05-18 Strong sales to businesses continued to prop up Dell’s earnings in the first quarter despite a weak economy and still-sluggish demand from consumers.

Dell’s report Tuesday report came on the heels of earnings from Hewlett-Packard, which earlier in the day lowered its forecast for the year on weak personal computer sales, trouble in its services division and the impact of the Japanese earthquake in March.

For Dell, sales of servers, computers and storage devices to businesses continued to help it offset weaknesses that have plagued its consumer business the last few years. The company reported net income nearly tripled to $945 million, or 49 cents a share, from $341 million, or 17 cents a share.

Analysts had forecast earnings of 43 cents a share, on average, on $15.4 billion in revenue for the first quarter.

Sales to large corporations increased 5 percent to $4.5 billion, while Dell’s sales to consumers declined 7 percent.

“We’re off to a solid start in our fiscal year 2012,” Michael Dell, chief executive of the company, said in a news release. “Our substantial profit increase demonstrates that our strategy is working and our execution is improving.”
479 2011-05-18 The musical and experimental theater — the two theatrical forms in which New York is arguably the world leader — have more in common than you might think. Currently dominated by technologically sophisticated, rigorously precise and highly self-aware productions, they are both generally more visceral than intellectual. And when something goes wrong, it’s always the book writer’s fault.

Of course, that’s not what they call the job downtown and in Brooklyn, where 31 Down’s stunningly designed “Here at Home” is at the Bushwick Starr. The publicity material for this eerie play, about the effects of war on those waiting for loved ones to return from battle, reports that “the text” is by Eric Bland. Sometimes the title listed is just “writer,” or an entire company gets a credit, which means that no one gets the blame. In last year’s “Red Over Red,” 31 Down created strikingly memorable sights and sounds, complemented by a forgettable script.

Now the troupe has mounted yet another pocket-size spectacle with charged and moody stage pictures that stubbornly resist cliché. Ryan Holsopple’s video design alternates crisp, geometric patterns with digitally manipulated silhouettes that are as striking as they are mysterious. His rumbling sound design is equally evocative. Shannon Sindelar, the director, maintains a dispassionate mood that suggests something intense and ugly gurgling underneath.

In the war stories that Frank (D. J. Mendel), a veteran of the first Iraq war, tells Holly (Hollis Witherspoon) on a work break outside a Wal-Mart, you get a sense that he’s warning her. She has loved ones in combat.

And her job doesn’t seem to help. “Being dead is a lot like being stuck at work,” she says.

But these scenes are as familiar as the design is fresh. Not only have there been plays in which overeducated, angst-filled young people complain outside of soulless chain stores, but they have made their points less obviously. The people here are mouthpieces for ideas.

“I don’t have agency,” Frank declares. “Or a will. Or ego. Something got blown out of my brain.”
480 2011-05-18 Iran said Tuesday that it was pursuing information about a missing Al Jazeera reporter sent to Tehran by the Syrian government in early May, saying she had committed “several offenses,” including traveling without a valid passport.

The disclosure, by a Foreign Ministry spokesman at a Tehran news conference, was the first public indication from the Iranian authorities of their intentions toward the reporter, Dorothy Parvaz, who has apparently been in Iran for more than two weeks and is possibly in Iranian custody. She has had no communication with her employer, friends or family.

The Foreign Ministry spokesman, Ramin Mehmanparast, offered no detail on Ms. Parvaz’s precise whereabouts. He also did not say whether Ms. Parvaz had even been detained. But he called her case “important.”

Ms. Parvaz disappeared upon arrival in Syria last month to cover antigovernment protests there. Her whereabouts remained unknown until Syrian officials acknowledged a week ago that they had sent her to Iran because, they said, she had traveled to Syria on an expired Iranian passport.

The authorities in Iran and Syria, close political allies, have little tolerance for antigovernment protests in their own countries and both restrict outside press coverage.

Al Jazeera has said that Ms. Parvaz, who holds American, Canadian and Iranian citizenship, appears to have been in Iranian custody since May 1, when Syria deported her. But the news organization, which is based in Qatar, said it had received no official word on her location or condition from Iranian authorities despite repeated requests. Iran’s foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, said on Saturday that he had “no information” regarding Ms. Parvaz, according to Iran’s state-run news agency, IRNA.
481 2011-05-18 “We’re absolutely still concerned,” Mark Cooper, director of the Louisiana Governor’s Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness, said Monday. “We’re still at a full activation, 24/7 emergency operation.”

State officials estimated that at least 2,500 people were being evacuated and that several communities in Southern Louisiana could be covered in several feet of water in the coming days. As many as 25,000 people could be directly affected, Mr. Cooper said.

Those who had evacuated from the small Cajun community of Butte La Rose over the weekend had been told the forecast was for a river level of 29 feet, which would translate to about seven feet of water or more in the center of the community.

Now, the level is estimated to be about 27 feet or lower when the water crests sometime next week.

“We heard today that as of next Wednesday it will be at the 25 mark,” said Charlene Guirdy, 57, who packed her belongings and left last weekend.

Her house on the Atchafalaya River is nine feet off the ground. “Twenty-five feet would keep it out of my house,” Ms. Guirdy said.

Still, she and others affected were concerned that the companies that insure them against floods might not pay because the flood was man-made.

Officials at the Federal Emergency Management Agency say that is not the case. Under the National Flood Insurance Program, policyholders by law will be covered, whether they own federally mandated policies or private ones.

For people without insurance, just how much state or federal aid will come their way has yet to be determined.

So far, Gov. Bobby Jindal has asked the federal government for, and received, only a level of help that has brought FEMA supplies and personnel to aid with evacuations and with shoring up areas that are about to or have taken on water.

If the governor believes the state cannot take care of the long-term needs of residents whose homes and businesses are damaged, he can ask for a major disaster declaration. But that step has not been taken, and there are no assurances that President Obama would grant such a request.

All of it is dependent on how bad the flooding gets. On Monday, the new models from the Army Corps showed water was moving more slowly than it did in 1973, the last time the area that encompasses the heart of Cajun country was intentionally flooded to divert water from a dangerously high Mississippi River.

Unlike 1973, on which the original forecast was built, the ground is much drier and is absorbing more water.

Also, a large system of commercial crawfish ponds, with their own protective levees, has been built since the corps last flooded the basin nearly 40 years ago. Those ponds and much heavier brush are further slowing the flow of water.

In addition, the corps is being more conservative than the last time around in how many of the 125 gates that make up the Morganza Spillway are being opened.

As of Monday, only 11 had been opened.

“Everything’s been pushed later, which is a great thing,” said First Sgt. Jimmy Hankins, an Army Corps spokesman. “It allows people more time to get things in order and allows the wildlife more time to get out of there.”
482 2011-05-18 The family scandal unfolded in real time on social networks. One of their sons, Patrick, 17, posted his distress on his account, though he presented his name as Patrick Shriver, rather than Patrick Schwarzenegger. “Some days you feel” terrible, he wrote, borrowing lyrics from a Fort Minor song, including a profanity to convey that feeling. He added, “Some days you want to quit and just be normal for a bit, yet I love my family till death do us apart.”

His sister Katherine, who is 21, wrote: “This is definitely not easy but I appreciate your love and support as I begin to heal and move forward.”

The disclosure set off a clamor in a city that has always been intrigued by the celebrity wattage produced by this marriage of show business and politics. Reporters and camera crews crowded around the looming stone gates near the couple’s home, craning for a glimpse of the former governor. Mr. Schwarzenegger and Ms. Shriver found themselves back in the sights of two Web sites that have feasted on their marriage before: and .

Associates of Mr. Schwarzenegger and Ms. Shriver, pointing to the request for privacy, offered only scant details. The child was said to be a boy, about 14 years old. Several friends said the mother was working around the house, pregnant, at the same time that Ms. Shriver was pregnant with the youngest of the couple’s four children, Christopher, who is 13. The woman and the child did not live in the house.

By every account, Mr. Schwarzenegger made no mention of the situation to Ms. Shriver or to the team of political consultants he brought in during the 2003 recall election against Mr. Davis, and in the re-election campaign in 2006.

Friends of both Mr. Schwarzenegger and Ms. Shriver expressed astonishment not only at his actions, but also that he had eluded detection by the public and his family over the course of his very public life. Mr. Schwarzenegger told his wife about the affair only late last year, at the end of his public service career, and shortly after the mother of his son left the job with severance after working for the family for 20 years.

“After leaving the governor’s office I told my wife about this event, which occurred over a decade ago,” he said in a statement. “I understand and deserve the feelings of anger and disappointment among my friends and family. There are no excuses, and I take full responsibility for the hurt I have caused. I have apologized to Maria, my children and my family. I am truly sorry.”

Democrats who worked for Mr. Davis during the recall election said they were not surprised at the revelation, noting that rumors about Mr. Schwarzenegger’s infidelity were a constant backdrop of the campaign.

“In 2001 when he first came forward and indicated that he might run for governor there were rumors coming to us constantly about affairs and children,” said Garry South, a Democratic consultant in . That year, Mr. Schwarzenegger threatened to sue Mr. South, who worked for Mr. Davis at the time and sent reporters copies of Premiere magazine detailing Mr. Schwarzenegger’s issues with women. “There were always stories about kids, how there was a son out there, some kid he had been supporting.”

Peter Ragone, who was a senior adviser to Mr. Davis at the time, said: “There were all sorts of rumors flying around like this. Voters knew what they needed to know on this topic with Arnold Schwarzenegger, and honestly they just didn’t care.”

None of Mr. Schwarzenegger’s political advisers agreed to speak on the record about the episode; nor did Ms. Shriver’s friends or family members. Ms. Shriver has always benefited from careful image management, and keeping a close cadre of friends and confidants who circle the wagons in times of trouble.

One of the last public events Ms. Shriver and Mr. Schwarzenegger attended together was the funeral of her father, , who died in January. Some who attended said that the two were polite to each other but in no way warm; Ms. Shriver gave a heart-rending and pointed eulogy, as her husband looked on, praising her father for teaching her brothers how to properly treat women.
483 2011-05-18 Oaktree Capital Management is planning to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the latest private investment firm to tap the public markets.     Oaktree, which manages about $82 billion, mostly in fixed-income strategies, is expected to...
484 2011-05-18 Pam Gems, a British playwright who, in works like ''Piaf'' and ''Stanley,'' explored the temperament of impassioned, embattled artists and politically engaged women, died on Friday in London. She was 85.     United Agents, which represented her, c...
485 2011-05-18 LISS--Elliott R. 7/6/31-5/18/04. Not a day goes by that you are not lovingly remembered by your family and friends....
486 2011-05-18 7:03 p.m. | Updated      A few months ago, LinkedIn's market debut looked to be relatively modest. Its value on a secondary exchange had stagnated at roughly $2.5 billion....
487 2011-05-18 The mural occupies the walls and steel doors along two floors of a middle school in Brooklyn. If turned into pavement, it would extend more than two city blocks....
488 2011-05-18 Updated 7:28 p.m. |  A man who shot and killed a  business associate and wounded the victim's wife in their home on Staten Island on Tuesday was fatally shot by the police after he pointed a gun at responding officers and refused orders to drop hi...
489 2011-05-19 The decision to wind down and restructure its business is a surprising reversal of fortune for FrontPoint, which had appeared to have weathered the scandal....
490 2011-05-19 In which I actually learn something new about Yoko Ono....
491 2011-05-19 The app lets bidders track the status of auctions as well as tailor parts purchases for vehicles they already own....
492 2011-05-19 The Morning Line for Thursday, May 19...
493 2011-05-19 Anton Hammerl, the South African photographer who has been missing in Libya since early in April, was not released on Wednesday, as some hoped he would be....
494 2011-05-19 An online budget calculator breaks down how the city spent individual New Yorkers’ hard-earned money....
495 2011-05-19 After a series of strong gallops over the past few days, Animal Kingdom enjoyed a more relaxed training program Thursday morning....
496 2011-05-19 Leading science advisers press the no-brainer case for sanitation and science literacy....
497 2011-05-19 Toshiba is buying Landis & Gyr for $2.3 billion to bolster its presence in energy and infrastructure technology solutions....
498 2011-05-19 Not In My Line of Sight – acronym denoting opposition to plans to construct multi-storey buildings on San Francisco’s Treasure Island....
499 2011-05-19 “Japan’s economy is expected to remain weak for the time being,” Kaoru Yosano, Japan’s economics minister, told reporters after the figures were announced Thursday morning. Supply constraints were easing, and reconstruction demand would most likely be felt later this year, Mr. Yosano said.

“The economy has the strength to bounce back,” he said.

Masamichi Adachi, an economist at JPMorgan Chase in Tokyo, said in a research note that the “immediate impact from the disaster on March 11 was larger than we had expected.”

But he echoed Mr. Yosano’s sentiment, adding that “monthly data and anecdotal information suggest that economic activity has bottomed in March and an improvement likely will continue.”

On the other hand, Frederic Neumann, a regional economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, said the data also showed just how weak the Japanese economy had been even before the March disasters.

“The event affected only the last three weeks of the quarter and thus doesn’t fully account for the surprising weakness for the whole period,” he wrote in a research note. “Moreover, the substantial downside revisions to fourth-quarter G.D.P. also suggest that underlying momentum wasn’t as robust as widely thought.”

The data, released by the Cabinet Office in Japan, showed that the country’s gross domestic product had shrunk 0.9 percent in the first quarter, compared with the previous three months. That translates to a decline, in annualized terms, of 3.7 percent.

The nuclear crisis at the Fukushima Daiichi plant has compounded the effects of the earthquake and tsunami by reducing power capacity.

The government has ordered factories, offices and homes across Japan to reduce their electricity use 15 percent this summer.

Earlier this month, the government told another nuclear power plant to shut down until it could bolster its tsunami defenses, adding to concerns about a possible energy shortage. A number of other nuclear reactors that suspended operations after the quake remain closed as the government overhauls its policy on nuclear power, which supplies 30 percent of Japan’s electricity.

More than 24,000 people are dead or missing as a result of the March 11 quake and tsunami, which destroyed swaths of Japan’s northeast coast. The government has estimated that damage from the disaster could be as much as ¥25 trillion, or more than $300 billion.

The disaster hit an economy already weakened by years of deflation and depressed consumer spending, which made it reliant on exports for growth. The Japanese economy shrank for four consecutive quarters during the global financial crisis.

Japan has long been the laggard in the Asian region, where most countries rebounded quickly after the crisis. Regional heavyweights like China and India are growing quickly, and on Thursday, Singapore said its economy had expanded 8.3 percent in the first quarter, compared with the same period the previous year, and a seasonally adjusted, annualized 22.5 percent from the previous quarter, thanks to strong manufacturing.

In contrast, Japanese exporters have had to cut back production since the disaster as they have repaired their supply chains and grappled with the energy shortage. Last week, Toyota Motor, whose operations have been severely disrupted since the quake, said its first- quarter profit had fallen 77 percent from the same period last year.

The Nikkei 225-stock average in Tokyo has lost more than 7 percent since March 11. Retail sales recorded their biggest drop in more than a decade in March as uncertainties after the disaster caused consumers to avoid nonessential spending.

The Japanese economy contracted in the fourth quarter of 2010 as well.

Though economists often define a recession as two consecutive quarters of decline in G.D.P., Japan appoints a committee of academics to determine when recessions begin and end.

The Japanese Parliament has approved a ¥4 trillion supplemental budget for reconstruction, and Prime Minister Naoto Kan has promised more spending to help cushion the economic blow.

The Japanese central bank has also injected record amounts of cash into money markets in a bid to encourage spending in the economy.

The bank may need to take further action in coming months, Mr. Neumann of HSBC said.

“The real message from today’s G.D.P. release is that even before the earthquake struck, the economy was flying in lower orbit than previously thought. Deflationary pressures, therefore, will prove more persistent than initially assumed,” Mr. Neumann wrote. “More monetary policy action, therefore, appears likely.”
500 2011-05-19 A government agency in Beijing has said it will investigate a company that tried to open a luxury private club inside the Forbidden City, according to a report on the Web site of People’s Daily, the official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party. The agency, the Beijing Administration of Industry and Commerce, is looking into wrongdoing by the Forbidden City Cultural Development Company, which had been charged by the palace’s management office with organizing salons and lectures. Instead, the company began handing out “membership sign-up forms” without telling the managers, a palace spokesman said. The company reportedly wanted to sign up 500 members at a charge of one million renminbi each, or about $154,000.
501 2011-05-19 This is the time of year I beat back my inner wise guy and acknowledge, yes, I’d like a horse to pull into New York with a chance to become the 12th Triple Crown champion and the first to do so since Affirmed in 1978. The reason? When the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes champion shows up at Belmont Park it really feels like a grand old racetrack in Long Island.

Silver Charm (1997), Real Quiet (1998), Charismatic (1999), War Emblem (2002), Funny Cide (2003), Smarty Jones (2004) and Big Brown (2008) put racing front and center during their quest to sweep the sport’s holy grail. It was good for the soul of horseplayers and horse lovers alike.

We got lost in weeks of prerace drama, rose to our feet when those horses pounded down Belmont’s grueling stretch and got our hearts broken a little when their bids failed. We were not, however, disappointed.

But the past two years, all but the most optimistic among us doubted Super Saver or Mine That Bird could get out of here with the Preakness trophy. I was one who hoped against hope. Lookin at Lucky was better than Super Saver — except for Derby day, when he got buried coming out of the No. 1 post and lost all chance.

Mine That Bird, a little gelding, got a dream trip along the rail from Calvin Borel in the Kentucky Derby and shocked everyone at odds of 50-1. Borel, however, traded him for the star filly Rachel Alexandra two weeks later and beat the Derby champion here in the second leg of the Triple Crown. No one was surprised — Rachel was better, as her Horse of the Year title proved.

Now, here comes Animal Kingdom, a colt that was sent off in the Derby at odds of better than 20-1, and on Wednesday was made the 2-1 favorite in the morning line after drawing the No. 11 hole. Animal Kingdom certainly didn’t scare anyone off; a full field of 13 rivals is here to challenge him.
502 2011-05-19 Every week, it seems, a new study identifies potentially harmful chemicals in the food we eat, the makeup we wear, the toys and bottles used by our children. Next up: the recycled foam padding installed under wall-to-wall carpeting.

Scientists with the International POPs Elimination Network (IPEN), a nongovernmental group dedicated to eliminating persistent organic pollutants (or POPs) and other toxic chemicals, recently tested recycled foam padding from six countries where it is used, and concluded that 23 of 26 samples from the United States, Canada and Hungary contained one or more flame retardants considered toxic. (Samples from the other three countries — Kyrgyzstan, Nepal and Thailand — where wall-to-wall carpeting is less common, did not contain the flame retardants. Six other countries — Albania, Belarus, Eqypt, Ethiopia, Russia and Senegal — were investigated but not included in the report, because recycled padding wasn’t found there.) According to the Carpet Cushion Council, an industry group, an estimated 12.3 billion pounds of recycled foam padding is in homes and offices in the United States, and around a billion pounds more is produced in this country each year. We asked Joseph DiGangi, a biochemist and molecular biologist and the lead author of the IPEN report, whether this figure and his findings are a cause for anxiety.

Why did you decide to test carpet padding?

Two years ago, the global scientific community decided that two brominated flame retardants were so harmful and such dangerous substances that they needed to be eliminated globally. Their short names are pentaBDE and octaBDE. So we added these substances to the Stockholm Convention.

Could you explain what the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants is?

It’s the first global, legally binding agreement that seeks to protect human health and the environment by reducing and eliminating the world’s worst chemicals. The secretariat for it comes from the United Nations Environment Programme.

You can think of them as among the world’s worst chemicals: substances which cannot be managed because they travel long distances and build up in the food chain, so even if you live in a place where there is no production, you are still exposed to them in your food and other sources. And they are toxic.

The participants are 173 countries that have ratified the treaty.

Is the United States one of them?
503 2011-05-19 It is a global phenomenon, with yarn bombers taking their brightly colored fuzzy work to Europe, Asia and beyond. In Paris, a yarn culprit has filled sidewalk cracks with colorful knots of yarn. In Denver, a group called Ladies Fancywork Society has crocheted tree trunks, park benches and public telephones. Seattle has the YarnCore collective (“Hardcore Chicks With Sharp Sticks”) and Stockholm has the knit crew Masquerade. In London, Knit the City has “yarnstormed” fountains and fences. And in Melbourne, Australia, a woman known as Bali conjures up cozies for bike racks and bus stops.

To record their ephemeral works (the fragile pieces begin to fray within weeks), yarn bombers photograph and videotape their creations and upload them to blogs, social networks and Web sites for all the world to see.

Sometimes called grandma graffiti, the movement got a boost, and a manifesto, in 2009 with the publication of the book “Yarn Bombing: The Art of Crochet and Knit Graffiti,” by Mandy Moore and Leanne Prain, knitters from Vancouver, Canada. It is part coffee-table book, with color photographs of creative bombs, and part tutorial, with tips like wearing “ninja” black to avoid capture.

The book borrows from the vernacular of street graffiti and half-jokingly positions yarn bombing as an illicit alternative for knitters bored making yet another Christmas sweater. It asks readers to get off their rocking chairs and “take back the knit.”

Since the book’s publication, Ms. Prain said, she has been getting dozens of e-mails a week from yarn bombers from as far away as Russia, Morocco and Iran. The last month has been particularly busy ever since a Canadian knitter declared June 11 International Yarn Bombing Day on Facebook.

Three film crews contacted her about making yarn bombing documentaries, and several graduate students e-mailed her about writing theses on the subject.

Many of these people also reached out to Magda Sayeg, a 37-year-old Texan who is considered by many to be the mother of yarn bombing. By her recollection, it started on a slow day in 2005 at Raye, her quirky boutique in Houston. On a lark, she knitted a blue-and-pink cozy for the shop’s door handle, a piece she now calls “alpha.”

Passers-by loved it, stopping to admire her handiwork. “People got out of their cars just to come look at it,” she said.

Next, she knitted what looked like a leg warmer for a stop sign down the street; from there she slowly infiltrated Houston with her stitchery. Within a few years, she had tagged dozens of lampposts and stop signs and assembled a crew of fellow yarn bombers she called Knitta Please.

Soon, Ms. Sayeg was commissioned to do larger projects. Photographs of her pieces spread online, inciting other knitters to take up the budding art form.

Yarn bombing grows out of the larger D.I.Y. movement, which seeks to resurrect traditional handicrafts “more typically associated with grandmothers, like knitting, canning, gardening and even raising chickens,” said Annette DiMeo Carlozzi, a curator at the Blanton Museum of Art in Austin, Tex. In March it commissioned Ms. Sayeg to cover the trunks of 99 trees in front of the museum.

“You see the resurgence of handicrafts in art, too,” Ms. Carlozzi said. “It is part of the appeal of yarn bombing: the surprising juxtaposition of something that is clearly personal, labor-intensive and handmade in an urban, industrial environment.”

Not all artists who use yarn in their work are thrilled with the woolly trend.

“I don’t yarn bomb, I make art,” said Agata Oleksiak, 33, an artist in New York who has been enshrouding humans, bicycles and swimming pools in neon-colored crochet since 2003. Last Christmas Eve, Olek, as she prefers to be called, blanketed the “Charging Bull” statue near Wall Street in a pink and purple cozy, and uploaded a video of it to YouTube. “If someone calls my bull a yarn bomb, I get really upset,” she added.

Olek, whose work has been shown in museums and galleries worldwide, considers yarn bombing to be the trite work of amateurs and exhibitionists.

“Lots of people have aunts or grandmas who paint,” she said. “Do you want to see that work in the galleries? No. The street is an extension of the gallery. Not everyone’s work deserves to be in public.”

Whether yarn bombing is the work of artists or glorified knitters, the view of law enforcement is clear: it is considered vandalism or littering. Still, the police seem to tolerate it. Yarn bombers say they rarely have run-ins with the law. And in the few instances when they are stopped, yarn bombers say, the police are more likely to laugh at them than issue a summons.

Ms. Prain once tried to yarn bomb a sign post in Washington, in front of F.B.I. headquarters. A security guard wearing a bulletproof vest approached her, she said, and demanded that she stop immediately. “Ma’am,” she recalled him saying, “step away with the knitting.”

Still, yarn bombing seems to be having its moment in pop culture. Fortune 500 companies have paid Ms. Sayeg as much as $20,000 to wrap their wares in yarn. Toyota hired her to knit a Prius a Christmas sweater last year for a promotional video. The makers of the Smart car flew her to Rome to wrap a car in what looked like 1970s-inspired throw blankets, and Mini Cooper recently commissioned a similar ad.

Ms. Sayeg has so much work that she closed her shop in 2009, moved to Austin and turned her hobby into a full-time job. Clients have included the Montague Street Business Improvement District in Brooklyn, which paid Ms. Sayeg to knit covers for 69 parking meters, and Insight, an Australian company that sells surfing clothing, which has an ad featuring a scantly clad woman riding a yarn-covered scooter. Last month, Ms. Sayeg wrapped all the heating ducts at the Brooklyn offices of Etsy.com.

Companies seem to be attracted to the retro handcrafted cheeriness of yarn. Toyota chose Ms. Sayeg for the Prius sweater project because her work is “optimistic and community oriented,” Sona Iliffe-Moon, a marketing executive for Toyota, wrote in an e-mail.

Ms. Sayeg now has five assistants to help her knit, which she now does primarily on looms rather than needles to meet the demand.

“In the early years I identified with underground graffiti artists,” she said. “Now the very people I feared I would get in trouble with are the ones inviting me to do this work for them.”
504 2011-05-19 One of his most telling responses, to a question about his decision to replace veteran regional leaders, seemed to refer equally to the choice currently before Mr. Putin, whose rule of Russia will approach two decades if he returns to the presidency and serves six years.

“No one can stay in power forever,” Mr. Medvedev said. “People who harbor such illusions usually come to a rather bad end, and the world has given us quite a few examples of late. This applies to the regional governors, too.

“You cannot have one and the same person in power for 20 years, even if they are competent, well qualified, and know their region,” he said. “We need to open the road to young people.”

Commentators began to deconstruct Mr. Medvedev’s appearance as soon as it ended. Many liberals — eager to see him seize the political initiative by declaring his candidacy or announcing significant firings — said he had let a fateful moment slip by. Lilia Shevtsova, an analyst at the Moscow Carnegie Center, described the appearance as “political hara-kiri,” all but guaranteeing that Mr. Putin would return.

“Mr. Medvedev has practically no time left to declare his political intentions,” read an editorial on the online newspaper Gazeta.ru. “This means that Russia’s new president will be chosen behind the scenes, and not in public.”

But other analysts found hints that Mr. Medvedev was prepared to fight for power.

One possibility discussed in recent weeks was that Mr. Medvedev could use his extraordinary executive powers to dismiss part or all of the government, up to and including Mr. Putin. Asked Wednesday why he had not fired ministers since becoming president, Mr. Medvedev said he had complaints about their work but did not think piecemeal firings were effective, suggesting he would consider a broader overhaul.

In the middle of the news conference, Mr. Medvedev glanced down at his iPad and announced a piece of news: Sergei M. Mironov had been removed as head of the Federation Council, the upper house of Russia’s Parliament.

Mr. Mironov, a loyal ally of Mr. Putin, helped the Kremlin establish A Just Russia, a pro-government opposition party. He had become an increasingly vociferous critic of United Russia, the governing party, and the authorities in his native St. Petersburg. Minutes earlier, Mr. Medvedev had answered a question about the conflict, calling it “a sign of political competition.”

“None of us wants to have just one party deciding everything,” he said. “What we are seeing now reflects the differences that exist in political life at the moment.”
505 2011-05-19 Tania Bruguera, an artist, works to address issues facing illegal immigrants....
506 2011-05-19 Widespread gains in commodity prices lifted energy and materials companies as part of a broad stock market rally Wednesday after three days of declines.

Energy and materials companies helped indexes move up, though mixed earnings reports from retailers tempered gains. Stocks got another push in the afternoon, after the Federal Reserve released minutes of its April meeting, saying that any move to pull back its stimulus efforts and eliminate mortgage-related debt would be gradual.

Oil gained 3.3 percent to move back above $100 a barrel, after an Energy Department report that inventories of crude oil did not rise last week as expected. Energy stocks rose, including Chevron, which was up 2.4 percent, and Exxon Mobil, which gained 1.7 percent.

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 80.60 points, or 0.65 percent, to 12,560.18 points. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 11.70 points, or 0.88 percent, to 1,340.68. The Nasdaq composite index rose 31.79 points, or 1.14 percent, to 2,815.00. Stock indexes inched up slowly in morning trading as investors tried to make sense of mixed earnings reports.

The release of the Fed minutes sent debt prices lower because some of the central bank’s members said it might need to start moving interest rates higher this year to guard against inflation. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 17/32 to 99 17/32. The yield rose to 3.18 percent, from 3.12 percent late Tuesday.
507 2011-05-19 “A bunch of people are real sorry they left,” said Tim Stennett, 52, a building contractor who took over the bar when Strick himself — Mike Strickland, formally — handed off the keys.

Mr. Stennett’s wife, Sheryl, became the bartender, though the Stennetts leave the keys with anyone who wants to drink late. Drinks are paid for on the honor system. In keeping with the handwritten admonitions posted throughout the bar, overnight tabs are frowned upon.

The Eagle Lake community, for it is not technically a town, sits between an expanse of cornfields and picturesque Eagle Lake itself. It is a popular spot for fish camps and weekend homes, but over the years more and more people have made the decision to live here full time, making the 35-mile commute into Vicksburg for work.

With floodwaters closing roads and highways, that trip has now stretched to 140 miles.

To get here from Vicksburg, they now take a circuitous tour of the Mississippi Delta, driving past sprawling cotton fields and through tiny hamlets like Midnight and Onward, past sparkling lakes that did not exist a week ago and isolated farmer’s cottages that may not exist next week if something goes wrong at the levee.

The way to Eagle Lake then winds down Low Water Bridge Road, where the water is anything but, and along a one-lane road atop the levee holding back Lake Chotard, swollen as a blister.

Eagle Lake itself is higher by 12 feet, increased by the Corps of Engineers to equalize pressure on the Buck Chute levee along the . This elevation swallowed up piers and boathouses, and with the level projected to stay above normal until August, probably ruined the summer season.

But the predicted deluge that sent nearly everyone running for higher ground has not come to pass, not yet anyway.

The evacuation began after a meeting at the fire station on April 29, when a somber host of officials from the Sheriff’s Department, the Corps of Engineers and the levee board came and told everyone, in so many words, that it would be wise to leave.

There was talk of rising waters in the lake, and the prospect of being cut off from the outside world by the floods.

But the real concern is that Buck Chute levee. “If that broke,” said Cindy Roberson, a 49-year-old real estate broker who has lived with her husband on the lake for the past eight years, “they told us we’d have 12 hours to evacuate.”

A levee breach remains a possibility, and with the crest of the Mississippi scheduled to begin its multiday tenure in Vicksburg on Thursday, it is a worry that will continue. If it were to happen, Eagle Lake would simply disappear.

Most did not wait. They packed up belongings, emptied refrigerators and piled garbage into roadside bins for the garbage haulers who have not returned.

Just about anyone who remained after the first exodus was spooked into leaving when officials came door to door, urging people to either leave or to sign forms declaring that they were voluntarily staying and to identify their next of kin.

The preachers left, as did the volunteer firefighting force. The Yore Country Store was shuttered, along with the hotel and the lodge. The lack of mail delivery is a sore spot.

“You know that thing about sleet, snow, dark of night, will not keep this courier from his rounds?” asked Rodney Walters, 61, a retiree from the Corps of Engineers who was nursing a Bud Light. “They were the first ones to quit.”

The only vestige of authority remaining is a four-day rotation of two officers from the Warren County Sheriff’s Department. They sleep in a back room at the fire station and stop by Strick’s for dinner.

During the day, the officers drive around keeping an eye on activity at the levee and watching for looters. They did see a man walking down the street with a shotgun once. They went to Strick’s and asked about it.

“That was me,” one of the patrons said.

Those at Strick’s acknowledge that some think they are a little crazy for staying. But for nearly all of them, their life is the lake.

Most of Mr. Stennett’s work is on lake houses. Ms. Roberson is the sole remaining Eagle Lake representative of Godfrey & Ivy Realty, and all of her properties are along the lake as well. She checks in on them every day.

“It’s not rocket science,” she said of the calculus behind staying. “This is home.”

So even though she’s not much of a barfly, nearly every afternoon Ms. Roberson is at Strick’s, sometimes cooking dinner.

She even spent her Mother’s Day here at the lake. Her husband gave her a life jacket.
508 2011-05-19 Movie-rental and streaming company Netflix announced today that it had a streaming app for Android. The iOS app for Apple devices was released in 2010, but now users of Google's mobile operating system can watch the thousands of movies and TV show...
509 2011-05-19 8:36 p.m. | Updated      The professional social network LinkedIn priced its public offering at $45 a share late Wednesday, at the top of its expected price range....
510 2011-05-19 After the worst crisis since the Great Depression, President Obama has unleashed an unusual force to regulate the financial system: a bunch of empty seats.     With Sheila C. Bair soon to leave her post at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation...
511 2011-05-19 AS a founder of Paper Denim & Cloth and Earnest Sewn, Scott Morrison knows a thing or two about making jeans. At 3x1, opening today, he invites you to commission your own dream jeans from a daunting range of fabrics, washes and hardware. The new s...
512 2011-05-19 6:02 p.m. | Updated      Securities regulators are out to tame the credit rating agencies, crucial Wall Street players at the center of the financial crisis....
513 2011-05-20 The TMX Group, parent of the Toronto Stock Exchange, said the offer by Canadian banks and pension funds was “inadequate” and not superior to its deal with the London Stock Exchange....
514 2011-05-20 Credit: Danny Ghitis for The New York Times
515 2011-05-20 Bethanie Mattek-Sands, Julia Görges and Andrea Petkovic could make a splash at Roland Garros....
516 2011-05-20 Richard Gasquet, David Ferrer and Thomaz Bellucci could make a run at Roland Garros....
517 2011-05-20 From St. Bart’s to the Thames, the new Summer Travel issue of T sets sail....
518 2011-05-20 The jury in the trial of former Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer heard from a disbarred lawyer who told of using prepaid cell phones to pass along merger tips gleaned from his former law firm and taking cash-stuffed envelopes in return.
519 2011-05-20 PARIS — Ryan Harrison of the United States, who had spurned a chance to earn a U.S.T.A. wild card to the French Open and chose to seek a berth as a qualifier, lost in straight sets in the final round of competition to the energetic Javier Marti ...
520 2011-05-20 Animal Kingdom completed his final preparations at Fair Hill Training Center Friday morning, ahead of Saturday’s Preakness Stakes....
521 2011-05-20 Five Leaves, the Brooklyn cafe and bar, is about to expand its laid-back Aussie vibe with its new spot on Bedford Avenue....
522 2011-05-20 When Willie Harris has gotten to play for the Mets, it has been against elite pitchers....
523 2011-05-20 Because the Big Three’s light trucks and larger cars have farther to go, they have greater potential to add consumer value through improved fuel economy, a report says....
524 2011-05-20 The conglomerate’s three-way split moves forward with the purchase by Fila Korea and the largest private equity firm in South Korea....
525 2011-05-20 Soon a rooftop cafe there will have beer and wine....
526 2011-05-20 The family of Anton Hammerl, a South African photojournalist who has been missing in Libya since early last month, said late Thursday that they think he died after being shot on April 5 in the desert.

Two journalists who were released by the Libyan government on Wednesday told Mr. Hammerl’s wife that they had been with him when he apparently was shot in the stomach, a family friend, Bronwyn Friedlander, said in a telephone interview. Ms. Friedlander was with Mr. Hammerl’s wife, Penny Sukhraj, and the couple’s children at their home in London.

Ms. Sukhraj heard a first-hand account of her husband’s shooting in a phone call from Clare Morgana Gillis and James Foley, who were among four journalists held by the government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi until Wednesday. When Mr. Hammerl was not released with them, his family began to fear the worst.

South African officials called Ms. Sukhraj first on Thursday, then the colleagues called to share their account, Ms. Friedlander said.

After they came under fire, the photographers told her, they heard Mr. Hammerl cry “Help,” Ms. Friedlander recounted. Mr. Foley asked if he was alright and Mr. Hammerl said he was not. When they called out to him, there was no response.

Then, Qaddafi loyalists captured Ms. Gillis and Mr. Foley. They did not see Mr. Hammerl again, but they told his wife that they thought his injuries were so severe that there was “no hope that he would have survived,” Ms. Friedlander said.

Mr. Hammerl, 41, a former pictures editor and chief photographer for The Saturday Star in Johannesburg, had gone to cover the fighting in Libya in late March as a freelancer. In an interview this week published in The Lens blog on nytimes.com, while she awaited word of his fate, his wife described what her husband loved to do: “covering difficult situations; getting to the bottom of human dramas.”
527 2011-05-20 Andy Roddick and the 2003 French Open champion, Juan Carlos Ferrero, withdrew from this year’s tournament after failing to recover from right shoulder injuries. The 11th-ranked Roddick pulled out of the Italian Open doubles final last weekend and the singles event at this week’s Open de Nice to give himself a chance of recovering in time for Roland Garros.
528 2011-05-20 The proposal comes as leaders at every level of government are calling for strategies to lift sagging college graduation rates. And it follows similar moves at the State University of New York and other public universities around the country over the past 10 years. The thorny issue will be taken up in June by the university’s board of trustees, which is still reeling from a much-criticized move this month to withhold an honorary degree for the playwright Tony Kushner, a decision the board later reversed.

Many professors acknowledge that the snarls in transferring credits are a serious problem.

“But our position is that all of these real transfer issues are not to be solved by undermining the quality and breadth of general education,” said Sandi Cooper, a professor of history at the College of Staten Island and chairwoman of the university’s Faculty Senate. “We have struggled to tighten up requirements and standards, and spent years revising general education. We are trying to defend the quality of the degree.”

The overhaul would set the number of required general education credits at 42. The requirement now varies from campus to campus, with some senior colleges exceeding 60 credits. Brooklyn College, for example, requires students to amass 48 credits of core coursework.

“I don’t see a way that you could cut six credits out of our general education curriculum without making it a very different, and lesser, curriculum,” said Matthew E. Moore, chairman of the college’s philosophy department. Others have warned against a wholesale acceptance of transfer credits from CUNY’s two-year institutions, saying the courses there may not match the rigor of those at senior colleges.

Alexandra W. Logue, the university’s executive vice chancellor and provost, said limiting the core requirement to 42 credits would not diminish quality, but would give students flexibility — a chance to specialize more, or explore elective courses.

“Forty-two credits is actually on the high side, nationally,” she said. “When you get up to this very high number, approaching 60 credits, there isn’t room to change your major and still graduate on time, and it makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to double-major.”

Students say that making it easier to transfer credits and lowering core requirements would help them graduate on time. With many students juggling jobs and even young children, the added time and expense of making up for unaccepted credits can be a burden.

Cory Provost, a graduate student who is president of the university’s Student Senate, said steep core requirements prevented students from pursuing more courses in their chosen fields. “That’s problematic, especially in this economy,” he said.

The snags in transferring course credits have grown as CUNY’s campuses have diverged. With colleges carving out academic specialties, exact course matches have become increasingly unlikely, making it difficult for the new institution to determine just how many credits to award.

The university’s chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, has spoken out about the problem since 1999, and says it is the most common complaint he hears from students. “Instead of chipping away at the problem,” he said, “I felt the best way to do this was to reform general education. We’re out of step with respect to so many universities.”

Amid growing unease over low college graduation rates, federal education officials in March sent a “College Completion Tool Kit” to state leaders. One recommendation was called “Making it Easier for Students to Transfer Among Colleges,” which implored educators to develop general education curriculums accepted by all two- and four-year institutions.

At the University System of Georgia, a committee devised a common core curriculum for the university’s three dozen colleges in the 1990s, also settling on 42 credits to fulfill the requirement. George W. Rainbolt, a professor of philosophy who headed the curriculum committee, said that transfers were now mostly seamless and that graduation rates had improved.

Most striking, Dr. Rainbolt said, is the fact that the changes have helped close a wide gap in the graduation rates of black and white students. A convoluted system, he said, is trickier for low-income students, who may not have friends and relatives to advise them on the best sequence of courses. “I think the current lack of a unified system at CUNY really does have a differential impact on students from disadvantaged backgrounds,” he said.

If the CUNY plan is passed, a universitywide task force composed predominantly of faculty members, along with administrators and students, will first outline broad learning objectives for different disciplines, like communications or social sciences. Each campus will then determine which courses would fulfill those requirements, with 30 credits allotted for general education at the community colleges and 12 more at the senior colleges.

Under the proposal, any general education course at a two-year college would automatically be accepted by any other college in the system. That would especially help transfer students, two-thirds of whom do not first complete their associate’s degree.

“When a student transfers with an associate’s degree, they’re supposed to get credit for all general education courses,” said Dr. Logue, the executive vice chancellor and provost. “But if a student is one course short of the associate’s degree, what happens is their portfolio is opened and everything is up for grabs. They may or may not get credit for anything in there.”

Christina Chaise, a junior at Hunter College who transferred from Borough of Manhattan Community College after completing her associate’s degree, said she was in favor of making it easier to transfer credits. But she has qualms about reducing core requirements that she says have helped her.

“I  became a well-rounded student,” she said. “It allowed me to dip my feet into a lot of different subjects that I would not have otherwise done.”
529 2011-05-20 There was little we could do but wait and pray. We sat in the church and sang freedom songs and hymns that strengthened our spirits and soothed our fears. Occasionally, I took a deep breath to get a little relief from the pain of my fractured ribs. At times I wondered whether it would be better to be safe in jail or to be there, in the church, surrounded by a vicious mob.

Eventually Dr. King announced that he had a special mission for which he needed volunteers. The main qualification, Dr. King said, was a commitment to nonviolence. He didn’t need hotheads, or people overcome by anger. Needless to say, no one rushed the pulpit. After my experience at the bus station, I didn’t feel I could handle another mob, so I held back, too.

However, about 10 or 12 people eventually did volunteer for the mission, which Dr. King then explained. Reports had come in over the phone that a group of black men, led by armed cab drivers, were mobilizing at a nearby service station with plans to attack the mob and rescue the people trapped in the church. Some of them, no doubt, had relatives and friends in the church.

Black cab drivers were an important part of the local civil rights movement. They had helped out in the car-pooling efforts during the bus boycott. When the boycott ended, some of them formed their own cab companies to serve black customers. But they were more than just drivers: they saw themselves as part of a security force as they moved passengers around the segregated city.

Some of these men were war veterans; some were experienced hunters, and were probably more experienced with weapons than their white antagonists. Had these men attacked the mob surrounding the church, the story of the Freedom Rides would have had a much different ending.

Dr. King’s mission, then, was to persuade the cab drivers to abandon their rescue attempt, lay down their weapons and go home. His small group gathered at the front door of the church, lined up in twos. Then they walked out the doors, as if they were marching.

There was an unforgettable silence as they passed out of the church. We watched as they walked through the howling crowd; I was sure I would never see them again. And yet, for all the yelling, the mob didn’t touch them — such is the power of nonviolence.

About an hour passed. Suddenly, out of the darkness, they all reappeared, unharmed. Dr. King had convinced the cab drivers to abandon their mission. This was no small miracle. Dr. King showed through this act of courage in this most harrowing moment of the campaign that fear was not a factor for him. It was, at that point in the Freedom Rides, the greatest lesson he could have offered.

Early the next morning, with the help of the Alabama National Guard (which arrived after hours of pressure from Mr. Kennedy on the Alabama governor, John Malcolm Patterson), we were able to leave the church unharmed. Dr. King’s courageous mission to our would-be rescuers prevented great bloodshed and kept the Freedom Rides on its nonviolent course. And it showed us what the Freedom Rides, and the movement overall, were about.

The man and the movement were behind the decision by each of us to stand up and take action, even if it required extraordinary courage. If we were ever in doubt, he reminded us why we had chosen to leave the comforts of our homes, college campuses and family and friends to travel to unknown places fully aware of the possibility that we’d never return. Dr. King showed how quiet strength can overcome violence, how courage can overcome fear, how peace can overcome the most awful hate.
530 2011-05-20 DETROIT — Don H. Barden, who rose from poverty to build one of the nation’s largest black-owned businesses through casinos and cable television, died on Thursday in Detroit. He was 67.

The cause was lung cancer, his lawyer, Henry Baskin, said.

Mr. Barden’s business empire started with a record store in Lorain, Ohio, that he opened at 21 with $500 in savings. Last year, the magazine Black Enterprise ranked Barden Companies as the 10th-highest-grossing black-owned company, with $405 million in revenue. Mr. Barden was the founder of Barden Cablevision, which built the cable television system serving Detroit and several suburbs. Comcast bought the system for more than $100 million in 1994, and Mr. Barden used the proceeds to open the Majestic Star, a riverboat casino in Gary, Ind.

In 2001, Mr. Barden became the first black owner of a Las Vegas casino with his purchase of Fitzgeralds.

But he remained bitter about being denied the opportunity to open a casino in Detroit. Several years after the city began to allow casinos, he tried to get one of the licenses, proposing a $1 billion theme park and resort in partnership with Michael Jackson.

In recent years, he faced setbacks in his businesses and in his personal life. His gambling company, Majestic Star Casino, which operates casinos in Indiana, Colorado, Mississippi and Nevada, filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009. Earlier this year he and his third wife, Bella Marshall, separated after 23 years of marriage. She said he was no longer competent to handle his investments, an assertion he denied.

Mr. Barden was widely known for his charitable work. He organized a series of regional economic peace conferences to address Detroit’s crime problem, national reputation and need for economic development.
531 2011-05-20 Officials in Belarus said Thursday they had won a $3 billion loan from a Russian-backed fund to alleviate the economic crisis, but Russia’s finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, said no such decision by the Eurasian Economic Community had been made. Belarus has little hope of winning loans from Western governments, so Russia and other former Soviet states are negotiating a bailout. Twice this week, Belarussian officials have announced a deal, apparently eager to tamp down market panic, only to be contradicted by Mr. Kudrin.
532 2011-05-20 “We consider banks and Tepco systemically important institutions,” wrote Tetsuya Yamamoto, a Moody’s analyst based in Tokyo. “Debt forgiveness undermines the systemic importance of the bank and utility sectors in the national economy.” These are, he added, “developments we did not anticipate.”

It has been more than two months since an earthquake and tsunami caused radiation leaks at the Fukushima nuclear power plants. Residents have been forced to evacuate a large area, and there is no assurance when the plants will be brought under control.

Tepco is clearly to blame. In hindsight, the plant should have had better protection against both earthquakes and tsunamis, or it should have been built in a region less vulnerable to them.

Yet it is deemed shocking to suggest those who financed the company should suffer losses.

In “free-market-based capitalism” — or at least the version they used to teach when I went to business school — lenders and shareholders were supposed to monitor the risks taken by companies. They would benefit if the company prospered and suffer if it failed.

By not spending more money on safety, Tepco was taking a risk. That risk did not work out. The question now is who will pay the bill. If it is the investors, that would serve as a powerful incentive to the other nuclear plant operators to make changes. If it is the government, with investors protected, we are left with only the hope of better regulation to prevent a recurrence.

Tepco shareholders have suffered, but the shares are still worth something, if you believe the stock market. Tepco lenders seem to think they should be allowed to collect every yen they would have received if nothing had happened. Maybe even more, since this could serve as a reason to charge higher interest rates to utilities.

That is, more or less, what happened to most bank investors in the financial crisis. The American government chose not to rescue Lehman Brothers, a fact that stunned investors and precipitated a panic. In the aftermath, it was considered too dangerous to even question the safety of bonds issued by banks. A suggestion they could bring losses might have caused more banks to fail. So while bank shares fell sharply, bank bonds did not default.

In Ireland, it was even more absurd. Bailing out collapsing banks left the Irish government unable to pay its bills without a bailout of its own, and forced it to embark on a bitter policy of austerity that has hurt every citizen. But senior bondholders of the failed banks are being protected, and it was considered a victory that subordinated lenders agreed to take partial — not complete — losses.

In the United States now, there is anger that few bank executives have faced criminal charges. Perhaps more charges should be filed, but excessive risk taking, in and of itself, is not illegal.

As Roger Lowenstein wrote in Bloomberg Business Week: “The financial crisis was accompanied by fraud, on the part of mortgage applicants as well as banks. It was caused, more nearly, by a speculative bubble in mortgages, in which bankers, applicants, investors and regulators were all blind to risk.”

The anger might be better directed at the fact that those whose bad decisions led to the crisis did not suffer, or that not enough of them did. Some bank bosses did lose their jobs, but the replacements usually came from the next level down, and were hardly uninvolved. Bondholders who financed the bubble were allowed to walk away.

When the bailouts were taking place, I thought protection of lenders to the banks was justified to keep the crisis from getting even worse. In hindsight — and with the memory of the terror of those days dulled by the passing of time and the knowledge that we did avoid Great Depression II — I am less certain.

If all the banks that were bailed out had been forced to restructure their debts — that is, make their bondholders suffer losses — then banks would have been more reluctant to take bailouts. Those that had to take them would have been the only ones scarred with what Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, later called the “scarlet letter.”

Instead, all were scarred, which in practice meant there was little public differentiation between those, like JPMorgan, that had been run well, and those, like Citigroup, that had not.

Without losses, why should we think investors will do a better job of monitoring what is being done with their money?

In Europe, it is becoming clear that Greece will have to default at some point. But that would hurt banks that were foolish enough to buy bonds from a country they knew had lied its way into the euro zone. Such an outcome is deemed unacceptable. So they go on pretending that Greece will someday be able to pay back its loans.

In this age of government austerity, it is deemed mandatory that important borrowers retain access to capital markets. That they have such access only because governments are thought to be the real lenders of last resort does not have to show up in government budget statements, and so can be ignored.

In Japan, the government may be backing down.

“Talk of debt write-offs is a bit too extreme,” Koichiro Gemba, the national strategy minister, told an interviewer on Asahi television a few days after Mr. Edano shocked the banks, “since that would mean that Tepco would not be able to borrow again.”
533 2011-05-20 The Rwandan government has rejected such accusations, including any threats in London.

“The government of Rwanda does not threaten the lives of its citizens wherever they live,” it said in a statement. “The Metropolitan Police have not approached us with evidence of allegations, but we are ready, as always, to work with them to ensure that nobody, be they Rwandan or not, is the victim of violence on British soil.”

The form letters, signed by a member of the Metropolitan Police Service, did not vouch for the accuracy of the threat but said it came from a source whose account the police had “no reason to disbelieve.”

One of the recipients of the warning, Rene Claudel Mugenzi, has been actively working with Rwandan opposition groups in London and said he was contacted by the British police late on May 12. “They said it was important,” Mr. Mugenzi said, “that I should not leave home.”

Mr. Mugenzi, 35, said he was aware that the Rwandan government did not appreciate his political views. But when two police officers showed up at his door in east London around 10:30 p.m. and told him and his wife of a threat to his life, he said he was speechless.

“I did not think they could think to kill me here in the U.K.,” he said.

Mr. Mugenzi says that in March he asked a pointed question to Rwanda’s president, Paul Kagame, during a BBC call-in show about whether Mr. Kagame believed an Egypt-style revolution could happen in Rwanda.

He also helped organize a recent meeting of exiled Rwandans in London. The Rwandan government has accused many opposition officials of working with a rebel group in eastern Congo that has been classified as a terrorist group by the United States and linked to the 1994 Rwandan genocide.

Mr. Mugenzi, who says he holds British as well as Rwandan citizenship, also works as a director at the London Center for Social Impact. He ran with the Liberal Democrats in local London elections last year and lost.

He has been living in Britain since 1997 and has frequently criticized Rwanda’s government for rights abuses.

“Take such remedial action as you see fit to increase your own safety measures, e.g. house burglar alarms, change of daily routines, always walk with an associate,” said the warning letter. “It may even be that you decide that it is more appropriate for you to leave the area for the foreseeable future.”

He said he had no plans to leave, but he was not ruling it out.

The other recipient of the warning, Jonathan Musonera, said he was a former Rwandan Army captain who fled to Britain in 2001 after defecting while the army was fighting in Congo. He said he was subsequently tortured by the Rwandan government. Now a critic of the government, he said the British police visited his home about an hour before the visit to Mr. Mugenzi.

“They told me about the Rwandan government,” Mr. Musonera said, “that they put my life in danger and they were trying to kill me.”

Critics of the Rwandan government have been killed or have simply vanished. Seth Sendashonga, a former member of the governing party, was fatally shot in Kenya in 1998. Augustin Cyiza, a former vice president of Rwanda’s Supreme Court, disappeared and is believed to have been killed in 2003. Leonard Hitimana, an opposition politician, disappeared the same year.

A Rwandan journalist covering the apparent assassination attempt of the general in South Africa was shot dead the day his story was published. The shooting strained relations between South Africa and Rwanda, with South Africa recalling its ambassador in August.

Last month, The Independent, a British newspaper, reported that Britain’s domestic intelligence service, MI5, had warned Rwanda’s high commissioner in London that a harassment campaign against Rwandan dissidents must be stopped or more than $100 million in foreign aid to Rwanda could be cut.

The Rwandan government has repeatedly denied that it represses its citizens or has had a hand in any of the attacks on high-profile dissidents.
534 2011-05-20 Exhibiting the work of Mr. Xu is a continuation of the Morgan’s mission to strengthen its programs and acquisitions of art and objects from the 20th and 21st centuries. Recently the museum acquired the entire output of illustrated books by Henri Matisse. All but three are a gift from Frances and Michael Baylson, Philadelphia collectors. (The Morgan was able to buy the missing books through dealers in the United States and in France.)

From 1914 until his death in 1954, Matisse took on more than 30 illustration projects. Sometimes he would be involved in the entire production of a book, from the illustrations through the typography; other times he would illustrate the complete text of a book, and in still other cases he contributed only the frontispiece. An exhibition of the whole collection is scheduled for 2015.

The acquisition dovetails with the Morgan’s holdings, which include the archives from the artist’s son, the dealer Pierre Matisse — a chronicle of nine decades of 20th-century art in New York. They were a gift from the Pierre Matisse Foundation in 1998.

The Matisse works aren’t the only collection of books the Morgan has acquired recently. It also bought a collection devoted to the Man Booker Prize, given annually to the best novel written in English by a citizen of the British Commonwealth or Ireland. Amassed by the London literary agent Peter Straus, the collection includes signed first editions, proofs, manuscripts, letters, judge’s copies, promotional material and other ephemera. John Bidwell, who is in charge of prints and bindings at the Morgan, hopes to keep adding to the collection, getting copies of all the short-listed books and winners every year.

The Brooklyn Museum likes taking exhibitions considered controversial or racy elsewhere. After months of negotiations, it has confirmed that it will present “Hide/Seek: Difference and Desire in American Portraiture,” an exhibition that closed in February at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington. The show, which examines gay and lesbian themes in American portraiture, drew attacks from Republicans and religious conservatives over “A Fire in My Belly,” a four-minute video by David Wojnarowicz (pronounced voy-nah-ROH-vitch) that included an image of ants crawling on a plastic crucifix. The image was interpreted as sacrilegious.

Mr. Wojnarowicz, who died of AIDS in 1992, created the piece when he was in Mexico, where the crucifix had a special cultural meaning. But critics of the video prevailed, and it was removed from the National Gallery show, prompting accusations of censorship and causing other museums to display it along with other works by Mr. Wojnarowicz.

The Brooklyn Museum will include the video in its version of the show, which will run Nov. 18 through Feb. 12. Arnold L. Lehman, director of the Brooklyn Museum, said that the show would be almost the same in Brooklyn as it was in Washington (except for the inclusion of the video). After its Brooklyn run, the show will head to the Tacoma Art Museum, where it will be on view in March 2012.

Mr. Lehman said that the timing of “Hide/Seek” is intentional. It will run at the same time as “Youth and Beauty: Age of the American Twenties,” which opens in October. “Brooklyn will be the place to see American 20th-century art this fall,” he said.

While some eyebrows may be raised over the inclusion of “A Fire in My Belly” in the Brooklyn showing of “Hide/Seek,” few expect anything like the uproar that occurred in 1999 when “Sensation: Young British Artists From the Saatchi Collection” opened in Brooklyn. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called the exhibition “sick stuff” and threatened to cut city subsidies because Chris Ofili’s painting of the Virgin Mary included clumps of elephant dung.

Few contemporary dealers have fascinated the art world as much as Ileana Sonnabend, whose ability to spot talents like Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Jeff Koons and the British duo Gilbert and George before anyone had heard of them made her something of a legend. Besides running the Sonnabend Gallery, she also assembled a personal collection. Some of it was sold by her heirs to pay estate taxes a year after her death in 2007, but much of it remains intact.

Now, from May 29 through Oct. 2, the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice is presenting “Ileana Sonnabend: An Italian Portrait,” an exhibition featuring works from her holdings that have to do with Italy.

Organized by Philip Rylands, director of the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, and Antonio Homem, Sonnabend’s son, who runs the Sonnabend Gallery, it will include more than 60 works. There will be examples from Italian artists like Lucio Fontana and Piero Manzoni, along with work from American artists like Rauschenberg, Warhol and Cy Twombly, who were inspired by the Italian landscape and culture.
535 2011-05-20 “This is obviously a very small amount,” Steven A. Cook , a senior fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, said after Mr. Obama’s speech. Egypt, he noted, has external debt in excess of $30 billion, and an economy in freefall. “But it’s what the political freight these days will bear,” he said.

The problem becomes more complex because there are no institutions in the Arab world akin to the European Union. The prospect of joining the European bloc became the beacon that drove many of the former Soviet states to adopt the institutions of democratic capitalism. For many, even success stories like Poland, it took years. But usually the goal of becoming integrated with the West ended all political debates about how to proceed.

So Mr. Obama and other Western leaders, when they meet in France next week, will be racing to invent something.

The drive now is to persuade the Saudis and other oil-rich states to underwrite the transitions to democracy. It is not an easy sell in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, where King Abdullah was outraged by Mr. Obama’s abandonment of President Hosni Mubarak. (He told Mr. Obama that he needed to support the Egyptian leader even if the protesters in Tahrir Square were fired upon.) Saudi Arabia’s drive now is to stop the threat to established governments — even as Mr. Obama seeks partners in helping integrate a new Egypt into the world economy.

Mr. Obama’s economic team, however, believes there is no need for a Marshall Plan for Egypt. “It’s a misdeveloped economy, not a destroyed one the way Europe was after World War II,” said one of the president’s top economic aides. “They need to privatize, to open the economy to trade, to create jobs.”

The relief Mr. Obama described is largely symbolic, he conceded, an effort to show that the United States was willing to contribute to economic change just as it was willing in the past to help support Mr. Mubarak.

Mr. Obama worded his speech carefully to make it clear that economic support was dependent on letting democracy flourish — code words for a warning that if the Muslim Brotherhood became the dominant force in the country, economic cooperation could halt. But this is more than just the usual economic sticks and carrots.

Six months after a Tunisian street peddler named Mohamed Bouazizi immolated himself in protest, starting the cycle of uprisings and revolution, the president was understandably eager to fill any vacuum forming in the region.

With the fate of Libya, Syria and Yemen still in play, his aides knew he had to align himself more forcefully with the voices for change, and to equate their revolution with America’s, 235 years ago.

He did, declaring: “The United States of America was founded on the belief that people should govern themselves. Now, we cannot hesitate to stand squarely on the side of those who are reaching for their rights, knowing that their success will bring about a world that is more peaceful, more stable and more just.”

Such an embrace of traditional American values carried deliberate echoes of Mr. Obama’s 2009 speech in Cairo, his plaintive call for a restart between the Muslim world and the United States. But back then, it was a theoretical issue.

Now, Mr. Obama has hard choices to make. He must find a way to support the protesters in Bahrain without overthrowing the government that houses the Navy’s Fifth Fleet. He must find a way to keep Saudi Arabia in the American camp, while urging reforms that some in the Saudi royal family view  as assisted suicide. And mostly, he must create beacons for democratizing states — hard enough in normal times, and far harder in an age of austerity.
536 2011-05-20 On the vote, 49 Democrats, two independents and one Republican, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, voted to end the filibuster; 42 Republicans and one Democrat, Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, voted against allowing a final up-or-down vote on confirmation.

Mr. Liu, 40, was first nominated in February 2010 to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which is based in San Francisco.

Coming just weeks after Republicans tried but failed to thwart the confirmation of a district court judge, the Liu vote suggests a new Republican willingness to blockade judicial nominees. It also indicates that President Obama could face serious resistance as he tries to fill vacancies on the bench.

Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said Republicans were adhering to a strategy of trying to keep major judicial vacancies open as long as possible in the hope that a Republican president would be able to fill them after the 2012 elections.

Mr. Durbin said the appeals courts were a particular target “because of the tremendous responsibility and opportunity there is for important and historic decisions — and so Professor Liu has been caught in this maelstrom.”

Democrats pointed to strong endorsements of Mr. Liu from the American Bar Association and from noted legal conservatives, accusing Republicans of keeping a highly qualified man off the bench without justification.

Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, praised Mr. Liu as an “extraordinary American” and warned Republicans that Democrats would not forget how he was treated.

“This is not going to go down easily,” said Mrs. Boxer. “I think the ramifications of this filibuster are going to be long and difficult for those who caused this good man to be filibustered.”

The tenor of the judicial fight was reminiscent of the mid-2000s, when Republicans and Democrats engaged in a partisan struggle over federal court nominations before striking the bargain that allowed many nominees to clear such procedural hurdles.

But Republicans said they were drawing the line at Mr. Liu. Several of them highlighted what they called his “scathing” testimony against Mr. Alito before the Judiciary Committee in 2006, when he picked apart the nominee’s record and said he was too deferential to government power.

“Judge Alito’s record,” Mr. Liu said in his testimony, “envisions an America where police may shoot and kill an unarmed boy to stop him from running away with a stolen purse; where federal agents may point guns at ordinary citizens during a raid, even after no sign of resistance.”

Though Mr. Liu later apologized, Republicans called the marks intemperate and said they showed that the nominee did not have sufficient judicial reserve.

“These statements about Judge Alito and the decisions he’s rendered and his philosophy are designed to basically say that people who have the philosophy of Judge Alito are uncaring, hateful and really should be despised,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and one of the architects of the 2005 judicial compromise. “That is a bridge too far, because I share Judge Alito’s philosophy.”

Republicans raised other objections as well, including a lack of judicial experience. Democrats called Mr. Liu a superb nominee who would also add racial diversity to the bench.

“There is no Asian-American member on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut. “There should be, and Professor Liu ought to be that judge.”

For some Senate Republicans, it was the first time they had voted to filibuster a judicial nominee. Only Ms. Murkowski sided with the Democrats.

“I stated during the Bush administration,” she said, “that judicial nominations deserved an up or down vote except in ‘extraordinary circumstances’ and my position has not changed simply because there is a different president making the nominations.”
537 2011-05-20 But the question remains: Now that everyone is a celebrity insider, reading Lady Gaga’s Twitter feed and watching Lindsay Lohan’s every move on YouTube, is there anything for Ms. Hart and her imitators left to report?

“I still love what I’m doing,” Ms. Hart said emphatically.

She grew up mostly in South Dakota and eventually competed in the 1970 Miss America pageant as that state’s entrant. Mr. Philbin gave Ms. Hart her start, hiring her in 1981 to be his co-host on “The Regis Philbin Show.” When it was canceled in a matter of weeks, a show that had just gone on the air, “Entertainment Tonight,” interviewed her about the humiliation. The next day the show hired her.

It sounds quaint today, but the series, which has paired Ms. Hart with a string of male co-anchors over the years, most recently Mark Steines, startled just with its concept. A gushy, glossy half-hour of Hollywood news every night? It had never been done. Station owners were so leery of “Entertainment Tonight” that Ms. Hart had to hit the road, traveling station to station on weekends to help sell it.

In time, the show took off. Her girl-next-door charm delighted viewers, and her warmth disarmed celebrities. She became a star in her own right, with the ability to command attention, in Hollywood and in living rooms, like nobody else in this corner of show business.

She has been sawed in half by Siegfried and Roy; she walked a tightrope on “Circus of the Stars.” In 1991, when The New England Journal of Medicine reported that her voice caused seizures in an epileptic woman, inspiring a “Seinfeld” episode, Ms. Hart took it in stride. “That was certainly one of the crazier moments of this wild ride,” she said in her signature sweet way.

If you ask about her best moments on “E.T.” over the years, the immediate answer, surprisingly, has little to do with stars or with the time her manager insured her legs for $1 million each, mostly as a publicity stunt. (The show installed a glass anchor desk to show them off.) Instead, she lists the serious coverage the show did in the wake of 9/11 and the 1994 Northridge earthquake in Los Angeles.

“I’ve always taken umbrage at critics who say it’s fluff,” she said. “We cover news.”

How has she managed to remain fascinated, at least on camera, by celebrities she has interviewed dozens of times over?

“I’m still a fan at heart, and I enjoy watching these people change and grow,” said Ms. Hart, who is married to Burt Sugarman, a TV and movie producer. “And I’ve never, ever, ever wanted to take my job for granted. That has kept my attitude fresh.”

But the show and its brethren have been fighting dwindling ratings, an aging audience and competition from the Web for years. “Entertainment Tonight” has added edge to compete with younger shows like “Extra.” It is not her style to criticize, at least publicly, but regular viewers can see that Ms. Hart does not always appear comfortable with these meaner segments, like Steven Cojocaru’s claws-popped fashion commentary.

Some station executives fret that when Ms. Hart goes, with her will go the format’s relevance. Entertainment journalism could face a cultural vanishing point, just like the movie of the week, the game show and, perhaps one day, the evening newscast.

“Without Mary, ‘E.T.’ starts to look like what it is — kind of dear and not particularly edgy,” said Martin Kaplan, the director of the Norman Lear Center for the study of entertainment and society at the University of Southern California. “I don’t know how large the cultural niche is for dear in a Perez Hilton, TMZ, Gawker world.”

Linda Bell Blue, the executive producer of “Entertainment Tonight” and its spinoff series, “The Insider,” dismissed the notion that Ms. Hart’s departure would put the show or the genre on more precarious footing.

“ ‘Entertainment Tonight’ is this incredible 747 that never lands and keeps circling the planet,” Ms. Blue said. “This plane is going to keep flying.”

John Nogawski, president of CBS Television Distribution, said Ms. Hart’s successor, Nancy O’Dell, shared many of her personality traits. “I think it’s going to be a very natural transition,” he said.

Yet Ms. Blue and Mr. Nogawski both noted Ms. Hart’s importance. “She has defined this genre,” Ms. Blue said, adding, “Mary set the agenda on this television show.”

Entertainment television has a different agenda now, but through it all, Ms. Hart has managed to retain her wide-eyed quality. It is not just an act, either. Off camera, she peppers her sentences with golly this and darn that.

“I’d give you a great big hug,” she said to a reporter she had only just met. “But people have literally spent hours on my hair.”
538 2011-05-20 Mr. FitzGerald, who also served as foreign minister in the 1970s, belonged to the center-right Fine Gael party, became its leader in 1977 and took over as prime minister in 1981, leading a short-lived coalition with Labour that showed what The Irish Times called its inexperience. The government fell because of a proposal to tax clothes and children’s shoes.

The coalition lost power in early 1982 but regained it later that year in a new pact with Labour. Mr. FitzGerald’s new term — he continued in office until 1987 — allowed him to set about improving badly strained relations with Britain, then led by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who had long been skeptical of Irish nationalism.

Asked if he had liked Mrs. Thatcher, the Iron Lady by one nickname, he replied, “It didn’t really matter as long as she liked me.”

Their negotiations led to the British-Irish agreement of 1985, which gave officials from the Irish Republic a formal say in Northern Ireland’s affairs for the first time since the creation of the Irish Free State in 1922.

The cooperation helped the governments in London and Dublin propel the feuding Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland to reach the 1998 Good Friday agreement. From then on, Irish leaders worked closely with British officials, notably Prime Minister Tony Blair, to prod the two sides to a power-sharing government that largely sustained the peace.

Bertie Ahern, a former Irish prime minister who joined Mr. Blair in pressing for the Good Friday accord, said Thursday that Mr. FitzGerald had been “generous in his advice and vocal in his encouragement” of the pact.

Mr. FitzGerald was born in Dublin on Feb. 9, 1926. His parents were both nationalists, his mother, the former Mabel Washington McConnell, a Protestant from Northern Ireland and his father, Desmond FitzGerald, a Roman Catholic from the south. Desmond FitzGerald, who was active in the war for independence, was external affairs minister for the Irish government in the 1920s.

After studying history, French and Spanish at University College, Dublin, Garret FitzGerald qualified as a barrister in 1947, the same year he married Joan O’Farrell, who died in 1999. But he never practiced law, working instead at the national airline, Aer Lingus.

Before entering politics he established himself in academia as an economist, lecturing at University College, and as a journalist, covering Ireland for several foreign newspapers.

He is survived by a daughter, Mary, and two sons, John and Mark.

Mr. FitzGerald was an ardent supporter of the European Union as a means of offsetting Britain’s overwhelming economic influence in his country. Though he retired from formal politics in 1992, almost to the end he campaigned in favor of expanding the European project — and Ireland’s part in it — in contentious referendums in 2002 and 2009.

On Thursday, José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, said Mr. FitzGerald had played a central role in Ireland’s relationship with Europe, praising “his convictions, his brilliance, his energy and his friendliness.”

While his international reputation seemed secure, Mr. FitzGerald fought, and lost, bruising political battles at home, particularly against another former prime minister, Charles Haughey, who was seen as his nemesis. (Mr. Haughey died in 2006.)

Mr. FitzGerald campaigned for what he called a “genuine republic,” which he said would free Ireland from the influence of the dominant Roman Catholic Church hierarchy. But his efforts in office to legalize the sale of condoms and liberalize the divorce laws foundered.

After retiring from politics, Mr. FitzGerald continued to be active in Irish public life, mainly as a columnist for The Irish Times and as a prolific author. He appeared frequently on radio and television, making his last appearance on a Saturday night talk show in April.

Shortly before Mr. FitzGerald’s death, Queen Elizabeth made a speech of reconciliation, expressing “deep sympathy” for “all those who have suffered as a consequence of our troubled past.”

Prime Minister Enda Kenny said Mr. FitzGerald “would have been very happy to hear the words of her majesty,” since he was among those “who played their part in putting the jigsaw pieces together for our country and for our two countries.”

The prime minister added, “It’s a legacy that very few will ever match.”

Mr. FitzGerald had remained active as a journalist at many points throughout his career. According to an account by the British Press Association, one of the foreign newspapers he had written for once called him while he was foreign minister to commission an article, unaware that he had become a senior official.

He “duly dashed off” the requested article, the news agency said.
539 2011-05-20 FrontPoint Partners, once a multibillion-dollar hedge fund before it was battered by allegations of insider trading, will shut down most of its funds by the end of the month.     The decision to wind down and restructure its business is a surprisi...
540 2011-05-21 Animal Kingdom left his barn at the Fair Hill Training Center at 5:20 this morning for his 70-minute ride down to Pimlico Race Course....
541 2011-05-21 Spaceport America, whose anchor tenant is Virgin Galactic, is open for tours....
542 2011-05-21 Some tennis followers are shoveling dirt on 29-year-old Roger Federer’s chances of winning Roland Garros and the other majors....
543 2011-05-21 Dave Zabriskie rode to a time trial victory and Levi Leipheimer was second to cut Chris Horner’s overall lead to 39 seconds after the sixth stage of the Tour of California.

¶ Jose Rujano of Venezuela won the 13th stage of the Giro d’Italia by edging the overall leader Alberto Contador at the finish. The pair completed the 103-mile stage from Spilimbergo, Italy, to Grossglockner, Austria, in 4 hours 45 minutes 54 seconds.
544 2011-05-21 The closer one looks at what passes for serious debate in Washington over energy, the more depressing it gets. The Republicans have nothing to offer but drill, baby, drill. The Democrats are rightly trying to end industry’s cushy tax breaks, but that’s not an energy strategy.

And everyone, including President Obama, seems more interested in scoring political points over rising gas prices than in confronting complex matters like energy security and climate change.

In the Senate, the two parties spent this week beating each other up without advancing the discussion. The Republicans and three oil-state Democrats blocked a worthy Democratic attempt to strip the five biggest oil companies of $2 billion in tax breaks they do not need. The Democrats then crushed an effort by Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, to match two outrageous measures passed by the House that would expedite lease sales in protected coastal waters while undermining safety reforms adopted after the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.

Mr. McConnell said his bill would bring relief at the pump by raising domestic output. That is fiction. Production will take years to come online and even then would have a tiny impact on prices set on the world market.

Mr. Obama has made the right arguments in the past — that the way to achieve true energy security and protect the environment is with greater automobile efficiency, alternative fuels and mass transit. Last weekend, he, too, was out there pitching domestic production.

He announced several modest steps to speed up the search for oil and gas, including seismic studies to measure resources off the Atlantic Coast, long-planned lease sales in the gulf and further development of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska. None will quickly lead to new drilling or have any effect on gas prices. Yet because his remarks were framed as a response to gas prices, he helped feed the Republicans’ bogus narrative.
545 2011-05-21 A company controlled by the dissident artist Ai Weiwei evaded a “huge amount” of taxes and intentionally destroyed financial documents, Xinhua, the government’s official news agency, reported Friday. Xinhua, quoting the police, said that the authorities were focusing on Beijing Fake Cultural Development Ltd. The artist’s sister, Gao Ge, told Reuters that Mr. Ai is neither the company’s legal representative nor its chief executive. “So even if the company is accused of these crimes, Ai Weiwei should not be detained,” she said. Mr. Ai has been detained at an undisclosed location since April 3.
546 2011-05-21 The suit isn’t frivolous, however, legal experts say. They contend the case could offer the first rulings on tricky questions about how far the rights of the copyright holder extend in creations that are, after all, on someone else’s body. They are questions likely to crop up more often as it becomes more common for actors or athletes to have tattoos and as tattoo designs become more sophisticated.

Warner Brothers responded on Friday in a brief to Judge Catherine D. Perry, stating that any delay in releasing the film would have huge economic costs. It also argued that there was no legal precedent for Mr. Whitmill’s assertion of copyright, saying he had put forward a “radical claim that he is entitled, under the Copyright Act, to control the use of a tattoo that he created on the face of another human being.”

Copyright and trademark law can be hard to understand intuitively — for example, the idea that you can “own” a photograph or a letter, but not own the right to reproduce its content. The example of a tattoo, where “ownership” means having it become part of your body, actually does little to clear up the matter.

The wrinkle in the “ ” lawsuit is that Mr. Whitmill has taken pains to leave Mr. Tyson out of it. “This case is not about Mike Tyson, Mike Tyson’s likeness, or Mike Tyson’s right to use or control his identity,” the complaint says. “This case is about Warner Bros. appropriation of Mr. Whitmill’s and Warner Bros. unauthorized use of that art, separate and apart from Mr. Tyson.”

“One of the things that the copyright law gives you as an artist is control over your work — and he lost control here,” said Michael A. Kahn, the lawyer who is representing Mr. Whitmill. The complaint includes a photograph of the tattoo being inked and a statement from Mr. Tyson agreeing that “all artwork, sketches and drawings related to my tattoo and any photographs of my tattoo are property” of Mr. Whitmill’s business.

If a tattoo clearly violates copyright — say, exactly reproduces a drawing or an photograph without permission — could a court order it removed?

The case gets more serious, according to Christopher A. Harkins, an expert on copyright and patents who has written the definitive law review article on the subject, when someone tries to profit from the copying — by, for instance, selling photographs of the infringing tattoos.

“I don’t see a court forcing someone to remove it, or wear a , but they may not allow me to profit from that work that I had tattooed on my body,” he said, adding that it would be very unlikely that this action could delay “The Hangover Part II” from being released.

The range of material that individuals and businesses are seeking to get copyright protection for has only been expanding, often at the insistence of movie studios. Mattel has gone to court to assert the copyright of the face of its doll; fashion companies have been lobbying Congress to pass a law to protect unique, nontrivial new designs. And trademark, which is governed by different laws and is much more contextual, has been used by athletes and coaches to get a measure of control over terms like “three-peat” or “Revis Island.”

In 2005, and were sued by a tattoo artist, Matthew Reed, over a commercial that outlined a tattoo as he discussed why he had it created; the case was settled. and his favorite tattooist, Louis Molloy, had a public dispute that year over his plan to highlight them in an advertisement. The feud culminated in an interview with Mr. Molloy in The Daily Mirror that ran under the headline “I Own Beck’s Tattoo .. and I’ll Sue.”

“It is such a nascent area,” Mr. Harkins said, “and courts are always struggling to keep up with technology. I don’t think Rasheed Wallace ever thought about copyright infringement.”

Warner Brothers in its brief also invoked the “fair use” defense for “Hangover Part II,” namely the right to parody what has become a well-known tattoo since it first appeared on Mr. Tyson’s face in February 2003.

“That’s the real question: the copyright act balances the copyright owners’ rights and not stifling the creativity of the owners — it would stifle creativity to not be able to make a parody,” Mr. Harkins said.

Issues like how central the tattoo is to the plot, how much of the film it is in and whether it is shown in a non-parody context were the kind of factors a judge would consider when determining if “fair use” was in play, he said.

With so many factors in play, and the motivator of ever-rising legal fees, Mr. Harkins said, “it will be settled out of court, as most of them are.”

Mr. Whitmill declined to be interviewed, but Mr. Reed, the tattooist who sued Rasheed Wallace and Nike, spoke from his shop in , Ore.

While he would not comment on his case directly, he explained that one could think of the process as a collaboration between the tattooer and the tattooed, “owned by both people, based on the trust that is used to create it.”

“It’s there for everyone to enjoy,” Mr. Reed added, “but if you think you are going to make money from it, you should get the artist’s permission.”
547 2011-05-21 BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) — A World Press Photo exhibit in Beirut closed early after Lebanese authorities ordered the removal of an Israeli photographer’s prize-winning work, an organizer of the exhibit said Friday.

A Lebanese security official said the General Security Directorate ordered the organizers to remove the work of Amit Shaal because he is Israeli. Speaking on condition of anonymity, he noted by way of explanation that the two nations were “in a state of war.”

Erik de Kruijf, a World Press project manager, said the organization preferred to close the exhibit 10 days early rather than face censorship.

“For a week it was no problem, and then someone noticed that he is an Israeli photographer,” he said. “We cannot allow censorship of any kind, so that’s why we decided to take everything down.”

The World Press award is one of the industry’s most coveted prizes. Mr. Shaal won third prize in the arts and entertainment category.

His photographs show street scenes in Israel in which he holds up historical photos of the same places to show past and present.
548 2011-05-21 For tens of millions of iTunes users, listening to music may soon get a lot easier.

Apple has entered the final stages of negotiations with the major record labels and music publishers for a service that will allow people to upload and store their music on the Web and listen to it on smartphones, tablets or computers — so-called cloud-based music.

Amazon and Google introduced similar services weeks earlier. Apple’s service, though, is expected to be easier to use, and to find a ready market in the 200 million people who have iTunes accounts.

The company has signed contracts with Sony Music Entertainment, EMI and the Warner Music Group to license those labels’ recordings for its new service. It is still negotiating with Universal Music Group, the largest of the four labels, but that deal could be finished as early as next week, according to several people briefed on the talks who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deals were private.

Analysts said Apple might announce the new service as early as next month, when it hosts its annual developer conference in San Francisco.

Apple declined to comment, as did the record labels.

Like Amazon’s Cloud Drive and Google’s Music Beta, Apple’s new service will provide access to remote servers that can store digital music files and stream them to users’ computers, smartphones and other devices. But since Amazon and Google did not get licenses from record companies, their music programs are essentially storage systems, which require users to upload the music they already own before they can play it, a process that can take hours.
549 2011-05-21 Acorda Therapeutics, a biotechnology company, won the backing of European Union regulators for a drug it makes with Biogen Idec to improve walking in multiple sclerosis patients, setting off a 14 percent gain in its share price. The regulators, at the European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, recommended conditional marketing authorization for the drug, Fampyra, and asked for further study of the treatment. The drug was approved in the United States in January 2010 and generated $133.1 million last year for Acorda. Biogen markets the medicine outside the United States and pays Acorda royalties. Shares of Acorda, which is based in Hawthorne, N.Y., rose $3.67, or 13.7 percent, to $30.38.
550 2011-05-21 Fortune Brands said on Friday that it had agreed to sell its golf business to a group led by the owner of the Fila sports brand for $1.23 billion. The sale of the business, which includes the Titleist and FootJoy brands, is the first big step toward a planned breakup of Fortune Brands, long an unusual conglomerate with a big spirits portfolio and home and hardware business, in addition to golf products. The buyers are led by Fila Korea and Mirae Asset Private Equity, the largest private equity firm in South Korea. Fortune Brands said it expected to net $1.1 billion after taxes and expenses. The golf business accounted for nearly a fifth of the total revenue of Fortune Brands. Nearly half of the $1.2 billion in net sales for the company’s golf products came in markets outside the United States. The business had operating income of $89 million in 2010. After the split, Fortune Brands will be a liquor company, with brands like Jim Beam, Canadian Club, Courvoisier, Maker’s Mark and Laphroaig. Fortune said it expected to complete the breakup in the fourth quarter.
551 2011-05-21 Scandal at the International Monetary Fund, the fiscal crisis in Greece, rising gas prices and continuing problems at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear complex in Japan....
552 2011-05-21 TOKYO — Japan moved closer Friday to joining an international child-custody agreement that would give rights to non-Japanese parents involved in disputes with Japanese citizens.

The Japanese cabinet said it approved a plan to submit legislation to Parliament by the end of the year to ratify the 1980 Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.

“It is desirable for our country to be consistent with international standards,” Yukio Edano, the government’s chief cabinet secretary, said at a news conference.

The only Group of 7 nation that has yet to sign the convention, Japan has come under increasing criticism by the Unites States, Canada and several European nations for refusing to join the agreement. In most cases of child abduction involving a Japanese parent and a foreign parent, Japanese mothers married to foreigners have returned to Japan with their children, denying the fathers access to their children.

The ambassadors of the United States and 11 other nations released a joint statement last year pressing Japan to join the agreement. “Currently the left-behind parents of children abducted to or from Japan have little hope of having their children returned and encounter great difficulties in obtaining access to their children and exercising their parental rights and responsibilities,” they said.

In Japan, custody is usually given to the mother in the case of a divorce. Many fathers never see their children again, at least until adulthood, because the courts do not recognize joint custody.
553 2011-05-22 Samantha Stosur, last year’s runner-up, advanced easily on the first day of the French Open....
554 2011-05-22 Top-ranked Caroline Wozniacki overcame a thigh injury to beat China’s Peng Shuai, 2-6, 6-3, 6-3, and win the inaugural Brussels Open. It was Wozniacki’s fourth tournament victory this year, tops on the WTA Tour, and a welcome boost ahead of the French Open. Wozniacki needed medical treatment on her left thigh during the third set. She said the injury would not affect her opener at Roland Garros.

¶ Andrea Petkovic of Germany won her second career title after her opponent, Marion Bartoli, retired while trailing, 6-4, 1-0, in the final of the Strasbourg International.

¶ Germany overcame defending champion Argentina, 2-1, in Düsseldorf, Germany, to win the World Team Cup for a record fifth time. Philipp Kohlschreiber and Philipp Petzschner clinched the match by beating Juan Ignacio Chela and Máximo González, 6-3, 7-6 (5).
555 2011-05-22 The Freedom Riders were mostly college students, black and white, who set out on Greyhound and Trailways buses across the South to test a Supreme Court decision banning segregation in interstate transportation. That meant no more separate waiting rooms or water fountains designated for whites and blacks.

After one bus was firebombed near Anniston, Ala., and the Ku Klux Klan threatened and beat Freedom Riders in Birmingham, Ala., Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy secured a promise from Governor Patterson that state troopers would protect the group’s bus from Birmingham to Montgomery. The city police were supposed to take up the job once they crossed the city line.

Mr. Patterson kept his word, with state troopers’ cars and a helicopter guarding the bus. Mr. Lewis said they were so well protected that some slept on the bus.

But when they reached Montgomery’s Greyhound station, the police were not there. Instead, an angry crowd fueled by Klansmen beat the riders as well as journalists and a Justice Department official — John Seigenthaler, later a well-known newspaper editor — after he came to the riders’ aid.

One Freedom Rider, Jim Zwerg, was beaten unconscious and ended up in the hospital, unable to complete the ride.

Mr. Zwerg, now 71, said that when he decided to leave Fisk University in Nashville to participate, he had no idea of the many dangers they faced or that they would ride into history. He said the Freedom Riders were concerned about big issues, like maintaining a policy of nonviolence no matter how hostile the foes, and small ones, like how to pay for their bus tickets and what to do about the final exams they were missing in college.

But Mr. Zwerg said he got some idea of what he faced when he went to ask a Fisk official about making up his finals later. “He said, ‘If you live through it, you can come back and take finals.’ ”

Montgomery was also the scene of another moment of high drama in the Freedom Riders’ journey.

The night after the bus station attacks, federal marshals and the National Guard had to be called in when an angry white mob surrounded the First Baptist Church, where riders and 1,500 supporters, including the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., had gathered. Dr. King pleaded with Mr. Kennedy to intervene, and the attorney general ultimately persuaded Mr. Patterson to send in the Guard.

The bus station attack prompted a court order against the Klan by Judge Frank Johnson of Federal District Court in Montgomery and led to new federal rules guaranteeing an end to segregation in all aspects of interstate travel.

Shortly after the museum opened on Friday, an exhibit recognizing Judge Johnson’s landmark rulings in the civil rights era was dedicated in the federal courthouse next door.

The old bus station was slated for demolition in 1993 to make way for an expansion of the courthouse. A Federal District Court judge, Myron Thompson, and Mr. Patterson advocated that it be spared because of its place in history. After the station sat empty for many years, the Alabama Historical Commission developed the 3,000-square-foot museum with artwork, photographs and descriptions of what happened and the impact it had.

“The museum may be small, but its significance is monumental,” Judge Thompson said.

The Historical Commission is uncertain what days the museum will be open because the commission, like most other state agencies, is facing a 45 percent budget cut over two years.

The museum is within walking distance of several of Montgomery’s other civil rights attractions, including the Rosa Parks Library, the Civil Rights Memorial and Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, where Dr. King was pastor when he led the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955.

Judge Thompson, Montgomery’s first black federal judge, praised the way the museum turned out, but he said, “There is no better way to forget something than to commemorate it.”

He said the museum should not be taken to mean that everything the Freedom Riders sought had been accomplished. He said it should reinvigorate the Freedom Riders’ principles “of liberty and justice for all.”

He asked the crowd, “Would you today take a bus ride under the circumstances faced by the Freedom Riders back in 1961?”
556 2011-05-22 Thank you for commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Freedom Rides (“Remembering the Freedom Riders,” editorial, May 16), which were indeed the story of courageous college students and others whose willingness to risk their personal safety helped change America. But let’s not ignore the ugly story of our F.B.I.’s knowledge of impending violence and failure to stop it.

Some 16 years after the first two buses of Freedom Riders arrived in Alabama, the American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan (of which I was then executive director) brought suit against the F.B.I. on behalf of Walter and Frances Bergman of Detroit, two of the original 13 Freedom Riders. Walter Bergman was severely beaten when a mob of Ku Klux Klansmen attacked the Freedom Riders, first in Anniston, Ala., then again in Birmingham. He suffered a stroke and spent the remaining years of his life partially paralyzed and in a wheelchair.

The case was based on revelations about the role of F.B.I. paid informants in the Klan, one of whom took part in the brutal attack on the Freedom Riders.

In 1983, a United States District Court judge issued an eloquent opinion holding the F.B.I. responsible for the attack. The F.B.I. had advance knowledge of the planned attack and allowed it to happen. That part of the story should not be lost to history.
557 2011-05-22 Even so, hope has drifted into a nagging uncertainty about the men’s fates, leaving families afraid that they will never find answers. Relatives who once received daily updates from F.B.I. agents and diplomats now go months without hearing from investigators. When they do, there are few breakthroughs. Years have passed without fresh leads, videos or phone calls from their kidnappers.

“We don’t know if he’s dead or alive,” said Kazwan Elias, whose brother, Aban, an Iraqi-American engineer from Denver, was kidnapped seven years ago. “We don’t know if they beheaded him or he’s in a jail somewhere. We just don’t know.”

The military has declared other kidnapping victims dead, even without recovering their bodies, and some family members have bowed to what seems like that inevitable conclusion. Others, though, hang their hopes on the transom between an administrative classification of “missing” and “deceased.”

In a fifth-floor Baghdad apartment overlooking the American Embassy and the heavily secured Green Zone, Sabriya Mahdi Naama clutches the belief that her husband, Abbas Kareem Naama, who was known as Tim, is alive after more than five years missing.

“I still believe he’s somewhere,” Ms. Naama said. “I am sure.”

Mr. Naama was a colonel in Saddam Hussein’s army who fled Iraq with his family in 1991, settling in San Diego. They became naturalized American citizens and supported Mr. Hussein’s ouster.

Mr. Naama met with Pentagon officials before the war, his family said, and his grown daughter wrote op-ed articles calling for the liberation of Iraq’s people.

In 2003, he returned to Iraq on the heels of the American Army. After a brief stint with the Coalition Provisional Authority, Mr. Naama, who was also a pharmacist, went to work with the health office of Iraq’s Defense Ministry, his family said.

He was taken one morning in 2005 as he left home to buy a newspaper. He was 58.

Three months later, the family received a phone call demanding $150,000 in ransom. They did not know who the callers were — Al Qaeda? The Shiite militias from the slums of Sadr City? — or if they were even the real kidnappers. But the family decided to pay them anyway, dropping off the money near an old soda factory.

Numerically speaking, the missing Americans — Jeffrey Ake, Aban Elias, Abbas Kareem Naama, Neenus Khoshaba, Bob Hamze, Dean Sadek, Hussain al-Zurufi and Staff Sgt. Ahmed Altaie — are little more than a footnote in Iraq. Their number pales in comparison to the thousands of Iraqis who disappeared during the bloodletting following the United States invasion. More than 10,000 Iraqis were kidnapped by criminal gangs, Sunni extremist groups and Shiite militias during the bloodiest years of sectarian fighting.

Iraq remains battered by the losses. Parents, siblings and children still line up at morgues to page through photo albums of the nameless dead. Farmers, construction workers and government investigators regularly unearth mass graves filled with dozens, sometimes hundreds, of bodies. There is even a television show devoted to tracking down the vanished.

The only American service member among the missing is Sergeant Altaie, whose family fled Iraq when he was 9 years old and settled in Ann Arbor, Mich. Some combination of homesickness and a love for both the United States and Iraq spurred him to join the Army in 2004, and he deployed to Baghdad the next year.

He frequently went “outside the wire” of the military bases to meet his wife, whom he had met on an earlier trip to Baghdad, family members said. One night in October 2006, while visiting his wife’s apartment in Baghdad’s cosmopolitan Karada neighborhood, a gang grabbed him and shoved him into a car.

A few months later, Intifadh Qanbar, an uncle in Baghdad, said, a nine-second video of a man who appeared to be Sergeant Altaie was posted on a jihadist Web site. He looked thinner and haggard, and spoke into the camera. The video had no sound, so his last recorded words were a mystery.

“He never came back,” said Mr. Qanbar, who has been closely involved in the case.

Mr. Qanbar, who works as an aide to the Iraqi politician Ahmed Chalabi, parlayed his connections to try to find Sergeant Altaie. He said he spoke with detained insurgent leaders in jail and wrote letters to kidnappers, promising to forgo vengeance for any word on his nephew’s whereabouts.

“I was so close to getting him out so many times,” Mr. Qanbar said. “I could feel it.”

But he said he kept losing the trail.

Jeffrey Ake, the Indiana businessman, had traveled safely through Iraq once before, and believed he could navigate its treacheries. In 2005, a day before he was to fly home from his second trip to Iraq, a group of men stormed the water-bottling plant where he had been working and whisked Mr. Ake away.

The next weeks were a frenzy of hope and fear.

Mr. Ake’s captors called his family in La Porte, Ind., and — with the F.B.I. listening in — demanded a ransom of $2 million, Mr. Ake’s father, Jim, said. The family asked for proof that Mr. Ake was alive, testing the kidnappers by asking for the name of a family dog. When they heard the answer — “Gizmo” — they knew.

But when the military raced to the coordinates of the traced call, they found nothing more than a cellphone lying by the road.

The kidnappers stopped calling, and the trail went cold. As months, then years, passed, the family sold Jeffrey Ake’s business, and the elder Mr. Ake said he turned his attention to helping his son’s wife and four children, getting them to piano lessons and basketball games.

“You just do what has to be done,” he said. “It’s so sad that this could ever happen, but it happened. You have to get on with it.”
558 2011-05-22 Russia has in the past threatened to place missiles in Kaliningrad — a small area with a population of nearly one million that is sandwiched between two European Union countries, Poland and Lithuania — in response to NATO’s plans to deploy part of its missile shield in Eastern Europe.

President Obama, who is to visit Poland next week, intends to deploy Patriot missiles there, but not the original missile shield system that the administration of President George W. Bush had promised to do. The Bush administration’s plans to place parts of the missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic, which were once part of the Soviet military alliance, led to a sharp deterioration of relations between Washington and Moscow. The Russian prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, has said that the deployments would undermine Russia’s security.

Mr. Obama’s decision to shift strategy was not only because of the costs and the need to modify the scope of any missile defense system that would provide a much broader security umbrella over Europe. The administration said it also wanted to “reset” its relations with Russia.

During Saturday’s discussions, the ministers agreed that their meeting could evolve into something more permanent — like the Weimar Triangle, which the French, German and Polish foreign ministers set up 20 years ago after the reunification of Germany. The Weimar Triangle helped to lead to reconciliation between Poland and Germany, ending decades of enmity and distrust.

Mr. Lavrov acknowledged that Russia could not ignore Poland’s new role on the Continent, now that it is a member of the European Union and it is scheduled to take over the rotating presidency on July 1.

The three officials also discussed Belarus on Saturday. Poland and Germany, with support from France, want European foreign ministers to impose more sanctions against Belarus. The sanctions, already imposed on the top leadership, could be extended to some enterprise managers. At the same time, Poland and Germany intend to strengthen their ties to civil society and the democratic opposition.

Russia, however, said it opposed more sanctions. “This will only lead to further isolation,” Mr. Lavrov said. “That will do nothing to help the way towards direction.”
559 2011-05-22 The bulging Mississippi River broke records this week when the crest rolled through in Vicksburg, Miss., at 57.1 feet.

And while water levels have started to recede slightly in some places, officials warned on Saturday that the river would remain above flood stage for several weeks.

“Just because conditions have crested doesn’t mean the flood is over,” said Robert Simrall, the Army Corps of Engineers chief of water control for the Vicksburg district. “People think, ‘The crest is here! Phew!’ and they relax. But people are still gong to be at risk until the water falls off the levees.”

So far, this year’s floods have killed at least three people and affected millions of acres of farmland in the Mississippi Delta. The enormous amounts of water shooting downstream have created dangerous currents, especially in parts of Louisiana. Economists and farmers estimate that damages could add up to hundreds of millions of dollars.

Most of the Mississippi River had crested by Saturday, according the National Weather Service, but officials there said they expected water levels to remain relatively static for the next week or two. Rain in the forecast for parts of Arkansas, the Ohio River Valley and the Central and Upper Mississippi Valleys will keep the river swollen.

“That’s all going to go downstream and keep levels pretty close to where they are now for some time,” said Bill Cottrill, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service.
560 2011-05-22 Life is slowly returning to a semblance of normalcy. Banks have reopened, the nation’s vital cocoa exports have resumed and civil servants have returned to their desks with two months’ back pay.

Mr. Ouattara must govern under the burden of multiple handicaps. The country is still split between his supporters and those of Mr. Gbagbo, who received 46 percent of the vote in the election; whole villages and cocoa farms in the west remain devastated; and Mr. Ouattara was installed largely by foreign forces.

Months of African diplomacy proved ineffectual in dislodging Mr. Gbagbo, and Mr. Ouattara’s fighters played a secondary role. Ultimately, it was the French missile attacks against Mr. Gbagbo’s heavy-weapons installations that led to his defeat.

France’s central role was recognized at the ceremony in Yamoussoukro when its president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in the audience, was the first head of state to be saluted by Mr. Ouattara, and received sustained applause. Yet much of the population, especially Mr. Gbagbo’s supporters, resent the former colonial master and consider Mr. Ouattara as France’s man.

About 20 heads of state attended the ceremony, including African leaders who have clung to office for decades and are themselves beneficiaries of disputed or fraudulent elections. The event took place in Yamoussoukro, the native village of Ivory Coast’s founding president, Félix Houphouët-Boigny, and its official capital, although Abidjan is the main commercial city and center of government.

Mr. Gbagbo remains under house arrest in the northern town of Korhogo, where he has been interrogated by Ouattara officials with a view to possible prosecution, and about 200 members of his government are also to be questioned, according to officials.

Mr. Gbagbo’s wife, Simone, a powerful influence in his government, has been interrogated in a separate location.

Mr. Ouattara has promised a South African-style “dialogue, truth and reconciliation” commission to look into the conflict, and he has asked the International Criminal Court to investigate crimes committed “since Nov. 28,” the date of the election whose result Mr. Gbagbo refused to acknowledge.

Mr. Ouattara’s call for the investigation to include “all of Ivorian territory” reiterates his position that any atrocities committed by forces that eventually declared their loyalty to him, including a massacre in which hundreds died in Duékoué in the west, should also be punished. Nonetheless, according to Human Rights Watch, “the majority of abuses during the first three months were by forces under Gbagbo’s control” and “probably amounted to crimes against humanity.”

Indeed, the civilian population in Abidjan was repeatedly attacked, over the course of months, by uniformed men directly under Mr. Gbagbo’s control, in what appeared to be deliberate state policy. The killings of Gbagbo supporters that took place at the end of the conflict were carried out by ragtag forces that only belatedly swung to Mr. Ouattara.

Mr. Ouattara, a former prime minister and deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, faces the immense task of rebuilding a country damaged by civil war, 10 years of what is widely acknowledged as the corrupt leadership of Mr. Gbagbo and fierce ethnic divisions. The new government filed suit in Swiss courts this month against Mr. Gbagbo and his entourage to recover tens of millions of dollars in assets.

It was less than three weeks ago that the last pro-Gbagbo mercenaries were finally rooted out of Abidjan, fleeing across the lagoons to the west and killing dozens as they went. United Nations investigators later discovered a mass grave containing some 68 bodies in the neighborhood where the Gbagbo forces had been entrenched.
561 2011-05-22 “I think I was having trouble with a dinosaur, that’s how far back we go,” jokes Mr. Stallone when asked how he initially connected with Mr. Singer. “There was a dinosaur making some sexual innuendos.”

Lately, Mr. Singer has taken up the cudgels for Charlie Sheen with a lawsuit in which Warner Brothers Television and the producer Chuck Lorre are said to have illegally thrown Mr. Sheen off the hit television show “Two and a Half Men.”

“I really believe Charlie Sheen is a victim,” says Mr. Singer, voicing what seems to a core conviction: that even the rich and famous can be abused. And when that happens, they are apt to call in a heavy.

When Jeremy Piven dropped out of a Broadway production of “Speed-the-Plow” in 2008, Mr. Singer was there — to argue that Mr. Piven had been forced out by mercury poisoning from eating too much fish.

Mr. Singer helped save Arnold Schwarzenegger, while he was California’s governor, from two lawsuits by women who contended that they were smeared by political aides — one suit was settled, one dismissed — and this week has been keeping tabs on new reports that Mr. Schwarzenegger fathered a child outside his marriage.

In 2006, Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, hired Mr. Singer to deal with a news report that criticized a land transaction. (Mr. Singer says he doesn’t recall what he did for his reported fee of $25,000, and a spokesman for the senator did not respond to queries.)

Less grandly, Mr. Singer in March filed suit for Quentin Tarantino against a neighbor and a fellow writer, Alan Ball, contending that Mr. Ball’s screeching macaws were keeping Mr. Tarantino from getting his work done.

“That’s been resolved,” Mr. Singer says. Mr. Tarantino has since finished his latest screenplay.

“Some people said it’s the best script he’s ever written, because he had the peace and quiet,” Mr. Singer says.

IT is a Monday afternoon in early May. Just outside the door of Mr. Singer’s office, on the 24th floor of a Century City tower, he can be heard growling orders for corrective action against yet another journalist who, in his view, has done a client wrong.

Mr. Singer is remarkable for transformations that turn what Mr. Stallone describes as a warm and fuzzy friend — his full face and jocular smile recall the comic singer Allan Sherman — into a foam-flecked attack dog.

“If you rattle his cage, you’re in for a fight,” says Mr. Stallone, who has had Mr. Singer go to bat for him in court.

Nothing gets Mr. Singer going like a whiff of defamation. Since the previous Friday, he explains, five situations have cropped up, two of them involving new clients who are asking Mr. Singer to do what Hollywood thinks that he does best: kill, or at least maim, unflattering stories that have yet to surface.

It is not a pretty business. “We’re one of the few firms that sue; we don’t just send a letter,” Mr. Singer says. He is speaking with one foot propped on a chair, to ease the swelling in a calf muscle that was torn 10 days before when his driver in Ireland challenged him to tackle the sport of hurling. (“I’m very competitive,” Mr. Singer explains.)

Neither is defamation very lucrative. Mr. Singer usually jumps in before the nastiness, true or otherwise, is published or posted. Win or lose, that typically means just a few hours of work. The billings, at $750 per hour, add up to less than 20 percent of his total, by his count.

Despite his best efforts, though, Mr. Singer may not have even slowed an increasingly free-wheeling and Web-driven media culture.

“He has had no effect, so far as I know,” said Martin Garbus, a First Amendment lawyer who represented a journalist, Roger Friedman, in a wrongful-termination suit against Fox News. At the time, Mr. Singer represented the actress Kelly Preston, who Mr. Friedman contended had hurt his relations with the company by complaining about his reporting. In an e-mail, Mr. Garbus said of Mr. Singer: “I think of him as a blowhard.”

To triumph against the media can mean relying on foreign courts and lawyers. Not long ago, Mr. Singer said, he attended a two-day seminar with lawyers from Spain, Germany, France and elsewhere, at which they discussed how to coordinate strategies in libel cases. Britain, he said, used to be a favorite jurisdiction for filing such cases, but is “more difficult now.”

Last year, back in the United States, the Gawker Web site took down a sex tape of the actor Eric Dane after settling a suit filed by Mr. Singer, but the issue in that case was an allegation of copyright infringement, not libel.

Mr. Singer acknowledges that defamation suits are tough to win, and seldom pay much. Usually, his aim is suppression. “Our goal is to try to kill the story, to take action before things get out,” says Mr. Singer, who will warn reporters against the consequences of falsehood, or, if he must, trade information to limit damage.

Even when those tactics don’t work, the publicists who refer clients to Mr. Singer in moments of crisis have the comfort of knowing they have recruited the best.

“Does he get results? Absolutely, yes,” says Kelly Bush, a Hollywood publicist whose firm, ID, asks Mr. Singer to help protect a star perhaps a half-dozen times a year. “I’ve had only success with Marty Singer.”

NOTHING in Mr. Singer’s background would have marked him as a guardian of superstars.

He was raised in Canarsie, Brooklyn, the son of a mother who had survived Auschwitz and a father who left Nazi-occupied Austria in his teens to spend much of World War II teaching soccer, his passion, to American soldiers on leave in Shanghai.

From his mother, Sari, who is still alive, Mr. Singer may have learned something about dealing with crisis. Late in the war, he says, she was pushed onto a train with other Jews and hauled from the camp to a field he believes to have been in Poland. The train stopped. The doors opened. Soldiers told the prisoners to run, and then gunned them down as they scrambled.

“But mother went under the car,” Mr. Singer says.

Mr. Singer’s father, Gyula, became a commercial artist in New York and eventually ran a business, with a factory and showroom in Manhattan, that counted theater backdrops among its lines of work.

As a student at the City College of New York, Mr. Singer considered a medical career, but decided he was too sensitive. “I am a very emotional person, and will cry,” he says.

Engineering, which required an especially heavy course load, was ruled out when his father died, forcing Mr. Singer to work long hours. He became a political science major, then went on to the Brooklyn Law School.

His wife, Deena, supported him with her work as a legal secretary.

After Mr. Singer’s law school graduation in 1977, the couple moved to Southern California, where he left résumés at many Los Angeles firms. His wife got closer to the big time: She found work with a firm that included one of Hollywood’s most prominent courtroom lawyers, Bert Fields.

Mr. Singer’s break, though it was barely that, came when he was hired to do research for Schiff, Hirsch & Schreiber, an entertainment law firm that included both Gunther Schiff and Barry Hirsch, two well-known dealmakers. He picked up odd bits of litigation — which he enjoyed for a time, until, in 1980, he was told the firm was folding. Some partners aligned with a major competitor, but Mr. Singer and Mr. Lavely, who also worked there, were left out of the mix.

“He was just an extraordinarily bright guy, an extraordinarily gregarious guy,” says Ron Bass, the Hollywood screenwriter who at the time was a practicing lawyer and one of the partners who left Mr. Singer behind.

Mr. Singer and Mr. Lavely, who is eight years older and also does entertainment litigation, struck out on their own. The big Hollywood firms, several of which had no litigators, began to refer clients. In 1983, Mr. Singer scored an early coup when he was hired by the producer Lawrence Gordon, fresh off of “48 Hours,” to represent him in a fight with Paramount Pictures, which had locked his office door. More Brooklyn than Beverly Hills, Mr. Singer recognized the feud as a landlord-tenant dispute, and won a restraining order that, at least for a while, got his client back on the lot.

Earlier, he successfully represented the photographer Max Aguilera-Hellweg in a suit against Mr. Schwarzenegger, who was accused of misappropriating a photo for use in a body-building calendar. Mr. Schwarzenegger’s deal-maker lawyer Jake Bloom was impressed enough to refer both Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Stallone to Mr. Singer for help with bits of trouble.

Cases and clients piled up, and a legal street fighter was born.

IN April, Mr. Singer showed up in a Santa Monica courtroom to plead Mr. Sheen’s case against Warner and Mr. Lorre. Mr. Singer considers it a point of pride to personally handle at least five or six arbitration hearings or trials every year. This time, he was out to persuade Judge Allan J. Goodman of the Los Angeles County Superior Court that Mr. Sheen’s fight should not be shunted to arbitration, where it would be hidden from the public, and conducted without the legal weaponry of a full-blown trial.

“We had no ability to negotiate this arbitration provision at all, not at all,” Mr. Singer said in court, expressing indignation over contractual terms that he says were foisted on his star. His arms were outstretched. A light spray flew as he tore into an arrangement that, he said at one point, “shocks the conscience.”

John Spiegel, a lawyer for Warner Brothers, asked to reserve five minutes of argument “in case my friend Mr. Singer says something particularly outrageous.”

“Have you ever said anything outrageous, Mr. Singer?” Judge Goodman asked.

Steve Kram, president of Content Partners, a Hollywood financial firm, and a frequent golf partner of Mr. Singer, said, “Marty doesn’t hesitate to express his emotions exactly as he would if he were on the streets of Brooklyn.” One incident, Mr. Kram recalled, found Mr. Singer unleashing “a few choice comments” at a party who was trying to hurry him along. He then marched down the fairway, Mr. Kram said, “brandishing his 5-wood like a sword.”

In his practice, Mr. Singer enforces some house rules. Neither he nor his firm will represent movie studios — relieving him and his firm of a duty to solicit conflict-of-interest waivers when they pursue companies for faulty accounting or other claims.

They also do no criminal work, Mr. Singer says.

But he will often refer clients to criminal lawyers, as happened with Nicolas Cage, who was arrested on domestic violence and other charges in New Orleans last month, only to have the matter dropped. “There was no evidence; he never should have been charged,” says Mr. Singer, who was helpless when it came to blocking the myriad media reports that resulted.

Mr. Cage was bailed out by Duane Chapman, the “Dog the Bounty Hunter” star who is another Singer client. Mr. Chapman has been waiting for a decision from the California labor commissioner, before whom Mr. Singer has been arguing a case against Mr. Chapman’s former manager.

Over the years, Lavely & Singer has made a business of using such actions to help stars void obligations to managers who may have violated California law by booking engagements without becoming a licensed talent agent. In an early instance, Mr. Singer helped Richard Pryor recover fees paid to David Franklin, his manager at the time.

Mr. Singer recalled prevailing in a case that involved a manager whose bookings included one in which he got an actor-comedian a $500 job performing at a Christmas party so that the client would have money to buy gifts. With Mr. Singer’s help, the actor managed to leave the manager and saved over $200,000 in commissions on a television series.

“I felt bad about that,” Mr. Singer says of acting against a manager who obviously had helped the comic by booking business in a moment of need.

But the manager would later become a client, too. In Hollywood, that’s how the fortune cookie crumbles.
562 2011-05-22 Laura Anne Bissell, a daughter of Sandra J. Bissell and Joseph H. F. Bissell of Ipswich, Mass., was married Saturday to Dr. Jordan Elliott Angell, the son of Sandra S. Angell and Dr. Charles S. Angell of Baltimore. The Rev. Patrick Wenrick, a minister affiliated with CITI Ministries, officiated at the Plantation Golf and Country Club in Fort Myers, Fla.

The couple, both 32, graduated from Colgate, where they met.

The bride will continue to use her name professionally. She is the managing director in charge of the mutual fund group at Okapi Partners, a Manhattan concern that helps mutual funds and corporations to communicate with their shareholders. Her father retired as a 767 captain for Delta Air Lines; he was based at Kennedy International Airport in Jamaica, Queens. Her mother is an interior designer in Ipswich.

The bridegroom is a fourth-year resident in urologic surgery at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He received a medical degree from George Washington University. His parents work at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore. His mother is the associate dean for student affairs at the School of Nursing. His father, an internist, is an assistant professor of medicine.
563 2011-05-22 You own magazines and newspapers in Hong Kong and Taiwan and have been called the Rupert Murdoch of Asia — and yet you’re best known here for your company’s very enjoyable and weird animated re-enactments of news events. The one you did for Tiger Woods’s Thanksgiving-weekend car accident got more than five million YouTube views. Why did you get into animation? 

I started the animations because print media was going into a sunset business environment. It’s obvious that we have arrived at an era of images. I thought that if I could speed up the production of animation, I could make a big business out of recreating the amazing images of the news, because what we get on TV is always the last bit of image. What happened before that image is always missing.

You mean that all we ever see is the wreckage after the plane crash, not the crash itself? 

Exactly. We don’t see the pilot flying the plane drunk and what happened in the cabin. If somebody jumped off a roof, we only see the body even though we know that eight months ago, the guy might have gone to Macau, lost a lot of money in a casino, was chased by a loan shark, so he got depressed and decided to jump off a roof.

So you envision these animations as a substitute for reading news? 

Exactly. If I hold an image in front of you, you can right away assimilate a story that may take me 20 minutes to explain or take you 10 minutes to read.

Do you feel as if you have a responsibility to animate only what you believe to be the absolute truth? 

What we created about Tiger Woods we didn’t create out of thin air. We used the same information you read in the newspaper. We double-check our sources. But it still doesn’t mean that it’s true. If we see a guy sitting at a red table, and in fact the table was white, the core of the news is still right.

A table being red or white is quite a bit different from whether or not a woman attacked her husband with a golf club. 

Definitely. But we don’t make it up. We made it according to the reports of the local newspaper, which should know better than we do.

Enjoyable as the animations are, the faces don’t quite resemble whom you’re portraying. 

There’s a problem with faces. If we want to make Tiger Woods’s or Al Gore’s face, the best thing would be to have them come to our light stage so we can scan their faces for our database. But in a couple of hours, all we can do is find a face which looks similar and then correct it.
564 2011-05-22 Credit: Towle Tompkins for The New York Times
565 2011-05-22 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, is examining 20 stock trades by the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, a spokesman for the lawmaker said Saturday.     The inquiry is the result of a letter sent by Mr. Grassley on April 26 to the Fin...
566 2011-05-22 From the late '80s through the early  2000s, much of surf culture was marked by homogeneity. The gear companies became behemoths, and the most popular boards (many shaped by  computers) looked largely the same. In recent years, though, surfing's  ...
567 2011-05-22 A landmark of the Toronto skyline is providing travelers with a dose of extreme adventure starting this summer. The CN Tower is home to a new attraction called EdgeWalk (edgewalkcntower.ca), which will allow visitors to walk around the observation...
568 2011-05-23 Federal forecasters see conditions ripe for another tornado outbreak on Tuesday....
569 2011-05-23 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
570 2011-05-23 Yandex, one of the largest Web companies in Russia, is pricing its offering at $25 a share, well above expectations, according to a person briefed on the matter....
571 2011-05-23 Israel says its Iron Dome missile defense system intercepts short-range rockets fired from Gaza.
572 2011-05-23 Israel said its Iron Dome antirocket missile defense system intercepted short-range rockets fired from Gaza in April.
573 2011-05-23 Jane L. Corwin, running for a Congressional seat in western New York, says she should have done more to blunt attacks over her support for a Republican plan to overhaul Medicare....
574 2011-05-23 Photographs from Missouri, Iceland, Pakistan and Libya....
575 2011-05-23 Pictures of the Day: Missouri and Elsewhere
576 2011-05-23 If Goldman Sachs receives subpoenas from the Justice Department, it could be a sign that the firm could face a sweeping criminal investigation of its mortgage securities operations....
577 2011-05-23 Steeplechase Times followed Animal Kingdom’s journey from a little known 3-year-old colt to Kentucky Derby winner. Joe Clancy was with the colt and his trainer, Graham Motion, on Saturday at Pimlico....
578 2011-05-23 CNBC looks at how LinkedIn’s banner public offering is playing in the venture capital community....
579 2011-05-23 The upcoming Ira Sohn Conference will include a contest for the best investment idea, which is being judge by the investing luminaries Michael Price, William Ackman, Joel Greenblatt and David Einhorn....
580 2011-05-23 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
581 2011-05-23 An antitrust lawsuit contends that an acquisition of TaxAct would lead to reduced competition and higher prices....
582 2011-05-23 Video from news crews and residents of Joplin, Mo. shows the impact of a deadly tornado that struck the city on Sunday evening....
583 2011-05-23 Laurence J. Kirshbaum joins a growing publishing venture....
584 2011-05-23 While Morgan Stanley and Bank of America did not get everything perfect with the LinkedIn I.P.O., they didn’t “scam” the social networking company, as The New York Times’s Joe Nocera suggested in his recent column....
585 2011-05-23 On Monday night, HBO will debut "Too Big to Fail," a retelling of events from the height of the financial crisis, based on the book by DealBook's Andrew Ross Sorkin....
586 2011-05-23 Plus: How do you get a busy person’s attention?...
587 2011-05-23 Commerzban said on Sunday that it would raise 5.3 billion euros through an issue of new shares, the second offering it will make this year to pay off a German government bailout....
588 2011-05-23 “There was panic — firefighters were pulling themselves out of the debris and then helping others,” said Mike Bettes, a meteorologist for the Weather Channel who arrived in Joplin 10 minutes after the tornado touched down, as part of the show “The Great Tornado Hunt.”

Hours later, he said, the scene was “very serene — dark, relatively quiet.” He and his Weather Channel crew had set up to report from the hospital grounds, he said in a telephone interview, and “we are on a hill and the only lights we see are on the fire trucks or ambulances.”

Joplin’s was by far the worst damage on a day of brutal storms in the Midwest, including a tornado in that city officials said left one person dead and dozens injured in an area that covered several blocks. By Sunday night, Missouri’s governor, Jay Nixon, had already activated the National Guard and declared a state of emergency.

said the was being sent.

“FEMA is working with the affected area’s state and local officials to support response and recovery efforts, and the federal government stands ready to help our fellow Americans as needed,” Mr. Obama said.

Weather experts were still trying to assess exactly what had produced such damage. “The power lines have gone down — we can’t reach anyone there,” Bill Davis, a meteorologist at the Springfield, Mo., office of the , said in a telephone interview. He said any assessment of exactly how strong the tornado was would have to wait until tomorrow, when experts would drive to Joplin. However, he said, on a scale from 1 to 10, the tornado looked to be “on the 8-9 level.”

He compared it to a tornado that struck in May 2008 and left a dozen dead in the same part of Missouri. “It very much looked like that supercell,” he said, though that storm managed to spare Joplin a direct hit.

Joplin, a city of about 49,000 people, sits at the edge of the Ozark Mountain region.

Mr. Bettes, the meteorologist, said that the storm that hit Joplin had been hard to read — which was why his crew was willing to travel so close to it. “It was a rain-wrapped tornado,” he said. “When it is obscured by rain, you can’t tell what the danger is.”

One Joplin resident, , described to The Springfield News-Leader driving through the city, saying that Joplin High School’s windows were broken out and part of its roof was missing. A church across the street was demolished, he said. He also described damage to a grocery store and a large apartment building.

“They’re flattened,” Mr. Davis said. “You just can’t believe it. There must have been 150 units. One lady had a bathrobe around her. Others just had blankets around them.”

The scene at St. John’s hospital was equally overwhelming. “I spoke to a couple of nurses who were on the sixth floor,” said Mike Jenkins, a senior producer at Weather Channel who was with Mr. Bettes at the hospital. “They told me they received a warning, that a tornado or possible tornado was 20 minutes away. They took their precaution, ran through their steps, and five minutes later the windows were blown out, people were blown across the hall.”
589 2011-05-23 Unseeded Maryland beat top-seeded Syracuse, 6-5, in Foxborough, Mass., to advance to the N.C.A.A. men’s tournament semifinals when Grant Catalino took a pass from Ryan Young behind the net and beat Orange goalie John Galloway with 32 seconds left in overtime.

The Terrapins (12-4) will play defending champion Duke, a 7-5 winner over Notre Dame, in a semifinal in Baltimore on Saturday. Duke (14-5) broke a 4-4 tie with three goals in the fourth quarter.
590 2011-05-23 Metropolitan Transportation Authority board members have been called all sorts of things, but terms of aristocracy are not normally among them.

That may soon change.

This month, it was disclosed that Nancy Shevell, a board member, had become engaged to Sir Paul McCartney, providing a bit of intrigue and celebrity to a forum not renowned for either. But Ms. Shevell is not only marrying a former Beatle; she is also marrying a knight who received his title from Queen Elizabeth in 1997. That means Ms. Shevell, an executive with her family’s Elizabeth, N.J., trucking empire, will now become Lady McCartney.

And that may give some routine transportation authority meetings glimpses of Tudor court dramas.

Charles Kidd, editor of Debrett’s Peerage and Baronetage, said that once Ms. Shevell weds Mr. McCartney, she should be addressed as Lady McCartney both in person and in formal correspondence. Any children of theirs would not inherit these titles.

Mr. Kidd said that Lady McCartney would not have to face any of the etiquette land mines that Catherine Middleton, the newly named Duchess of Cambridge, is facing when it comes to which in-laws she now must curtsy before and who must bow in her presence. No curtsies or bows will be required for Lady McCartney. Mr. Kidd said “a handshake would be a perfectly sufficient form of greeting.”

On Monday, the transit community will have its first chance to catch a glimpse of Ms. Shevell and what tabloids have described as her five-carat diamond Cartier engagement ring, which could hold its own against any jewels spotted on the M66 bus on opera nights. Several agency committee meetings are scheduled for Monday, although it was unclear if Ms. Shevell would be attending them.

It was also unclear whether Ms. Shevell would remain on the authority’s board after her term expires in June. Ms. Shevell did not answer requests for an interview left at her office and with her fiancé’s publicist.
591 2011-05-23 ¶ Supervalu, Eden Prairie, Minn., named the Kaplan Thaler Group, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, as its lead creative agency, handling advertising, digital marketing and direct marketing for supermarket chains like Acme, Albertsons, Cub Foods, Jewel-Osco, Shaw’s/Star Market and Save-A-Lot. There had not recently been a previous agency for the assignment, with billings estimated at $80 million. Compass Point Media, a unit of Campbell Mithun, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, remains the media agency for Supervalu. The first campaign is expected in the summer, focused on seasonal foods and value.

The arrival of the Supervalu account came after Kaplan Thaler learned that it had been eliminated from a review for the account of United Continental Holdings, which is seeking a new creative agency after the mergers of Continental Airlines and United Airlines. Kaplan Thaler had been the creative agency for Continental for 13 years before the merger. The three finalists in the United Continental review are Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas; McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network West unit of Dentsu; and TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

¶ Friendly Ice Cream Corporation, Wilbraham, Mass., which operates the Friendly’s chain of restaurants, chose the Via Group, Portland, Me., as agency of record. The assignment had been handled by Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group, which did not take part in a review. Spending was estimated at $10 million. Friendly is owned by Sun Capital Partners.

¶ Weight Watchers International, New York, expanded its relationship with McCann New York — the flagship New York office of McCann Erickson Worldwide — by naming McCann New York as agency of record for social media. Spending has not been determined. Weight Watchers had previously handled the assignment internally as well as using various agencies for projects. McCann New York has handled the creative duties for Weight Watchers since 2007. McCann Erickson Worldwide is part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶ Adam Levine rejoined Deutsch, New York, as executive vice president and global brand marketing director on the agency’s Microsoft account, which was expanded recently with the addition of the company’s global cloud computing assignment. Mr. Levine has most recently been chief growth officer at the New York office of DraftFCB and previously worked at Deutsch from 1997 to 2006. DraftFCB and Deutsch are both part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
592 2011-05-23 David Toms threw his arms up and smiled when he finally regained the lead at the Colonial. This time, he did not let it get away.

A day after blowing a seven-stroke advantage to go into the final round at Forth Worth trailing Charlie Wi by one, Toms made an eagle with a wedge shot from 83 yards at the par-5 11th hole Sunday to take the lead for good. Toms went on to his first PGA Tour victory since January 2006.

Toms, 44, closed with a three-under 67 at Hogan’s Alley to finish at 15 under, one better than Wi. Toms’s 13th title came a week after a playoff loss to K. J. Choi at the Players Championship, his sixth runner-up finish since his previous victory.

“That just took a lot of guts; that’s really all,” Toms said. “That’s what I got by on today.”

Wi, of South Korea, shot a 69 for his fourth runner-up finish without a victory.

After that playoff loss at T.P.C. Sawgrass in Florida, Toms began at the Colonial with a 62, his best score in 429 rounds since a career-best 61 during his last victory at the Sony Open in Hawaii. Toms followed with another bogey-free 62 to match the PGA Tour scoring record for the first 36 holes of a tournament (124), and he opened the third round with a birdie.

At 17 under through 37 holes, Toms scored three bogeys in the next five holes. Wi took the lead with a 32-foot birdie at the par-3 16th.

Wi extended his lead to three strokes after consecutive birdies to open Sunday’s round.

Toms finally caught up at 13 under after Wi missed the green with his approach at the par-4 10th and two-putted for bogey.
593 2011-05-23 The writer is a professor at the Boston University School of Management and the author of “Still Broken: Understanding the U.S. Health Care System.”

I am a retired pediatrician who has AARP’s health care option through UnitedHealthcare as my supplementary insurance for Medicare. This year, the premium has risen to $6,000 for me and my husband, an internist. It seems quite obvious that a universal health care plan sponsored by the government (Medicare for all) would not be profit-driven and in the long run would lower medical costs. We would be willing to pay higher taxes for this.

It is truly immoral that about 50 million people are uninsured. Despite all our medical expertise, we have among the poorest outcomes in the developed world. Incidentally, we are among the lowest taxed of those nations that enjoy better outcomes.

I read recently in this newspaper that Medicare runs a 2 to 6 percent overhead compared with the average managed-care companies of 12 percent. It seems wrong that insurance companies are middlemen making a handsome profit on a vital service that could well be done (and has been) without them.

The insurance companies must have a powerful lobby and influence in Washington. Something is very rotten, not in Denmark, but right here in the U.S.A.

As chief medical officer at Aetna, I — along with the entire clinical staff — am focused on making certain that Aetna members get access to the care they need, when they need it.

Use of health services remains lower than expected. The question we are often asked is whether use will return to previous levels. At Aetna, we believe that people will more than likely increase their use of health care over time. Meanwhile, our primary concern is making certain people don’t forgo needed care and become sicker by the time they return to the health system.

We have invested heavily in technology and care management programs to encourage members to get preventive care, see their doctors regularly, and take needed medicines to stay healthy. We also identify potential gaps in care and notify both the physician and our members so that action can be taken to prevent complications and adverse events.

Acknowledging lower use of health insurance benefits by enrollees as a result of higher premiums, deductibles and co-pays, insurance companies, you report, “continue to press for higher premiums, even though their reserve coffers are flush with profits and shareholders have been rewarded with new dividends.”

Is this not rationing? It is dollar, not health resource, rationing, however: preserving profit flow at the expense of timely medical care.

This form of rationing does not address costs per se, because deductibles apply across the board (as opposed to exempting basic preventive or chronic health maintenance care, which would encourage judicious use of resources), and ensures, ultimately, higher mortality per enrollee through delayed diagnosis. Where are the cries of “death panels”?

The writer is an oncologist.
594 2011-05-23 BENGHAZI, Libya — Catherine Ashton , the European Union ‘s foreign policy chief, visited Benghazi on Sunday, providing support and a burst of confidence to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi ‘s opponents, who said the high-profile trip was evidence of growing international recognition for their cause.

That Ms. Ashton, who traveled to the rebel stronghold to officially open a European Union diplomatic office, was not able to provide any sort of formal recognition for the rebels’ governing body, the Transitional National Council, did not seem to bother the rebels. Recognition, she pointed out, was up to the 27 countries in the union, but she said that Europe recognized the council as an “interlocutor.”

“These are the people with whom we have a strong dialogue,” she said. “It’s for the people of Libya to determine the future of the country.”

On Monday, Jeffrey D. Feltman, the American assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern Affairs, started a two-day visit to Benghazi, where he will meet with members of the Transitional National Council, the rebel’s governing body and its leader, Mustapha Abdul Jalil. The trip represented the highest level visit by an Obama administration official to the rebel’s de facto capital and by its timing signaled a growing international effort to bolster the rebels diplomatically as they struggle against Colonel Qaddafi’s forces on the battlefield.

The rebels have pressed the United States for financial aid and weapons. The Obama administration has not recognized the rebel council, but has sent an envoy to Benghazi.

Meanwhile, NATO warplanes attacked another Libyan warship early Sunday as part of a series of overnight airstrikes that also bombed two tanks in western Libya and an administrative barracks that military officials said was being used as a command-and-control site to direct fire against Libyan civilians.

The ship bombing, against a Libyan missile patrol boat in Surt harbor, came two days after allied warplanes struck eight Libyan naval combatant vessels in three ports, including Surt, that allied commanders said were threatening humanitarian relief efforts as well as NATO ships enforcing a maritime embargo against the Colonel Qaddafi’s government.

In the past three weeks, Libyan vessels had mined the harbor in the contested port city of Misurata, and twice sent out small inflatable boats packed with high explosives in apparent efforts to attack allied warships.

Stormy weather over the southern Mediterranean Sea and Libyan coast hampered the air campaign late Saturday and early Sunday, forcing NATO to cancel some strikes on predetermined targets and hampering pilots’ ability to confirm that other suspected targets were Libyan military equipment or weaponry.

The rebels, desperate for foreign recognition and the financial aid that they hope accompanies it, have been recognized by a few countries, including France, Italy, Qatar, Gambia and the Maldives. The United States and Britain, while not offering recognition, have sent envoys to Benghazi.

Seeking a longer list of allies, the rebels have worked to assuage misgivings about their movement: on Saturday, for example, they detailed for reporters the efforts they were making to train rebel fighters to treat prisoners of war humanely.

And though it remains unclear who will lead Libya if Colonel Qaddafi leaves power, the rebel leaders have promised rewards for wavering allies. Mustapha Abdul Jalil, who heads the rebel council, said that friendly countries “would have the best opportunity in future contracts,” The Associated Press reported.

“The United States and the European Union should know that we’re righteous people,” Mr. Jalil said. “We are fighting for a better future, and they will not regret helping us.”

Speaking at a packed news conference at the Tibesti Hotel in Benghazi, where the European Union office was being set up, Ms. Ashton praised the rebels and said the new office represented the commitment and support of the union’s member states.

“We’re here for the long term,” said Ms. Ashton, who had come under criticism this year for what was seen as her slow embrace of Arab revolutionaries in Egypt and Tunisia. “Qaddafi must leave, and we must have a future for Libya that belongs to the people of Libya.”

More in Africa (6 of 44 articles)
595 2011-05-23 “LinkedIn is not a company you have to value on page views. We’re not talking about a start-up here,” said Matt Therian, a research analyst at Renaissance Capital, based in Greenwich, Conn. “This is a company that grew revenues by 110 percent in the first quarter and, on top of that, it’s actually turned a profit.”

By far, the hottest segment of the Internet market is social media companies. The social buying site Groupon, which raised $1 billion from investors in January, is said to be considering an offering that could value the company at $20 billion.

And the barometer for the segment, Facebook, which is widely expected to go public next year, has rocketed higher in the private secondary markets with its shares trading at an implied valuation of as much as $80 billion in recent months.

As the first social media company out of the gates into the public markets, LinkedIn benefited from all of the attention Facebook has ginned up.

“Do you really imagine that LinkedIn could have gotten this valuation if not for the excitement of Facebook?” asked Kevin Landis, the chief investment officer of Firsthand Funds, which rode the tech boom and bust a decade ago. “I don’t know anybody who could make that case.”

LinkedIn’s valuation, many analysts say, is partly a function of investor demand for all things social media but also related to the fact that a limited number of shares — nine million — were issued. Those shares traded 30 million times in the first day.

Initial public offerings remain rare now, and this scarcity can drive up prices. Only 154 companies went public in 2010, and 63 have so far this year, compared with 486 in 1999.

Of course, the big question is whether LinkedIn is destined to become the next Google or Amazon, or whether it is another TheGlobe.com, which was a penny stock by 2001, when the dot-com bubble burst.

At LinkedIn’s current valuation, investors are clearly betting the company will show phenomenal growth, analysts say. LinkedIn is trading at about 554 times last year’s earnings of $15 million (the company posted losses in 2008 and 2009).

That compares with a price-to-trailing-earnings ratio of 149 when Google made its debut in the markets or, in a more extreme example, the 947.5 ratio eBay received in its first day of trading, according to data from Mr. Ritter.

Price-to-earnings comparisons for other hot Internet companies, like TheGlobe.com or even Netscape on their opening days, are difficult as they did not have any earnings.

By another closely watched measurement, LinkedIn is trading at around 25 times this year’s expected sales, said Rick Summer, a senior equity analyst at the Chicago research firm Morningstar.

That’s high, and Mr. Summer says LinkedIn could increase its revenue to $1.5 billion in five years, from $243 million last year. That makes LinkedIn worth about $27 a share, by his estimate.

With LinkedIn shares trading at $93, investors are betting the company’s revenue will rise to $4 billion in five years, Mr. Summer said.

Impossible? No. Difficult? Yes, say analysts.

But that valuation makes sense if an investor believes someone would pay even more for the stock. And that’s how bubbles form.

LinkedIn, which has about 100 million members, does have a revenue model. It offers what is called a freemium business model: users can create free profiles or they can pay a subscription fee for a premium account with special features.

LinkedIn also charges businesses and recruiters for hiring. Although the company is still growing quickly, it faces tough competition from other sites, like the job listing services Monster and CareerBuilder.

The company has repeatedly said it plans to invest in its platform, at the expense of short-term profit, a move that is potentially good for the company over the years, but could make it tough for investors to justify current market valuations, analysts warn.

Mr. Summer said, “We think it’s a very good financial model and a good business, but at these valuations, it’s potentially, ‘Watch out below.’ ”
596 2011-05-24 The prospective buyer of 49 percent of the Mets, whomever it is, will inherit a team in serious financial straits, as emphasized by recent comment from the Mets owner Fred Wilpon....
597 2011-05-24 Mitt Romney opposed bailing out the auto industry in 2008 and 2009. But now that General Motors and Chrysler have returned to profitability, he says the president’s plan was based on his own....
598 2011-05-24 The American International Group raised at least $8.7 billion from its stock offering, which priced the shares at $29 apiece....
599 2011-05-24 A divided House panel approved a bill that would freeze crucial regulations stemming from the Dodd-Frank Act until September 2012, more than two years after the law was enacted....
600 2011-05-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
601 2011-05-24 In Joplin, Mo., rescue workers searched for survivors and victims in buildings leveled by the United States’ deadliest tornado in more than 60 years....
602 2011-05-24 The chef will run an al fresco taproom in a temporary park under the girders of the northern terminus of the High Line....
603 2011-05-24 In Joplin, Mo., rescue workers searched for survivors and victims in buildings leveled by the United States’ deadliest tornado in more than 60 years....
604 2011-05-24 Microsoft showed off its new smartphone software and its catch-up strategy in the smartphone market....
605 2011-05-24 Tiger Woods, who has spent the last week wearing a protective boot on his left leg to immobilize his sore left Achilles’ tendon, said he expected to be ready for the United States Open from June 16-19 at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, M...
606 2011-05-24 The odds of a mandatory ceiling on property tax increases increased significantly after the Assembly unveiled legislation that was endorsed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo....
607 2011-05-24 One of our clients, the Austin Humane Society, recently agreed to a campaign that tries a different approach....
608 2011-05-24 The Clive Davis Department will become the Clive Davis Institute....
609 2011-05-24 A 46-year-old man who swung a pit-bull puppy by its leash against an elevator wall was charged with aggravated animal cruelty, the police said....
610 2011-05-24 A 46-year-old man who swung a pit-bull puppy by its leash against an elevator wall was charged with aggravated animal cruelty, the police said....
611 2011-05-24 Unlike the frenzied rise of LinkedIn after its debut, shares of Glencore dropped to $8.46 on their first day of official trading in London, below the offering price of $8.60....
612 2011-05-24 6 Q's About the News | What do you know about the disaster that struck Joplin, Mo.?...
613 2011-05-24 6 Q's About the News | What do you know about the disaster that struck Joplin, Mo.?...
614 2011-05-24 Rice High School, a Roman Catholic boys’ school in Harlem known equally for serious academics and excellent basketball players, announced on Monday that it would shut down at the end of the school year, after 73 years, because of financial difficulties.

The board of directors voted to close the school after it became clear that it could neither attract enough students to make ends meet nor raise enough money to fill the gap. A statement issued by the board of trustees said, “The school hung on as long as it could to continue fulfilling its core mission of educating young men.”

Student enrollment at Rice had dropped by 44 percent since 2003. Since such schools get a significant portion of their operating budgets from tuition, and Rice was at half of its capacity, administrators could not make ends meet.

For years, the Christian Brothers, a teaching order dedicated to educating the poor that founded the school, had bridged the gap, providing $100,000 to $300,000 a year. But the head of school, Sister Patricia Ells, said this year that it could no longer do so.

In early April, the chairman of the board of directors, Stephen Fitzgerald, said the school was trying to raise $5 million, in hopes of both erasing its $200,000 deficit and making up for the difference between the $10,000 the school spent on each student and the amount each one paid. The tuition was $5,750 a year, and 70 percent of the students received financial aid.
615 2011-05-24 In a familiar pattern, the accounts of the latest attacks given by NATO and the Qaddafi government varied widely. A government spokesman, Moussa Ibrahim, said the strikes had hit a compound housing units of an auxiliary army force known as the Popular Guard. He said military commanders had largely cleared the compound in anticipation that it would be hit, and that casualties — which he gave as 3 dead and 150 wounded — were civilians from a nearby neighborhood.

NATO’S account, issued from the alliance’s southern European headquarters in Naples, Italy, said the target was a government vehicle storage facility adjacent to the Qaddafi compound. It said the facility had been used by the Qaddafi forces since the revolt against the government began in February, “and has remained so ever since, resupplying the regime forces that have been conducting attacks against innocent civilians.”

Reporters taken to the Tripoli Central Hospital were shown three dirt-strewn male bodies in civilian clothes with gaping shrapnel wounds to their heads, and half a dozen other men being treated for what appeared to be light wounds. Mr. Ibrahim said that the other wounded had been treated and released before reporters arrived, or had been treated at another hospital.

It was one of the few instances in recent weeks when reporters who have been told of civilian casualties from a NATO attack have seen any casualties, a pattern that has led to persistent uncertainties about official accounts. Most NATO attacks are launched late at night, and many of the buildings struck appeared to have been empty.

NATO has called the targets military, and often designates them as “command-and-control” centers; Qaddafi government spokesmen say the bombs and missiles have hit civilian structures.

Despite more than 2,500 NATO airstrikes, and an increasing focus in the past two weeks on targets in Tripoli, there have been few signs of an imminent collapse of the Qaddafi government, and rebel forces in the east, despite recent gains around the city of Misurata, have shown no sign of a broader breakthrough to the west.

In a sign that the Obama administration was seeking ways of providing fresh impetus to the rebel cause, the State Department’s highest-ranking Middle East official, Jeffrey Feltman, visited the rebel headquarters at Benghazi on Monday. His visit coincided with an announcement by France’s defense minister, Gérard Longuet, that Britain and France would introduce attack helicopters into the NATO force as soon as possible, a move that appeared intended to go at least some way toward meeting rebel appeals for stronger attacks on Qaddafi loyalist fighters.

Low-flying helicopters, including Britain’s fleet of American-built Apaches and France’s Tigre gunships, would give allied air commanders more flexibility to strike at government targets than the fast combat jets used until now.
616 2011-05-24 Sergio García, who has played in every British Open since 1998, withdrew from this year’s tournament qualifying because of an infected fingernail on his left hand that made it difficult to grip a club. García, 31, had to qualify this year because he has fallen to No. 73 in the world.
617 2011-05-24 The Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad, suffered a heart attack on Sunday at a hospital in Austin, Tex., where he was attending his son’s college graduation, a spokesman said. Mr. Fayyad, a heavy smoker, underwent tests showing a blockage in a coronary artery, and doctors performed a catheterization to open the artery, the spokesman said. He is expected to leave the hospital in two days. Mr. Fayyad has been prime minister since 2007 and has developed close ties with Western leaders.
618 2011-05-24 The auditor at the Chinese-based software company Longtop Financial Technologies has quit and the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States has opened an inquiry, the company said.

The case deepens concern about possible accounting irregularities at Chinese companies. The S.E.C. has created a task force to investigate fraud by non-American companies listed on United States exchanges. Longtop went public in 2007 in an offering led by the Goldman Sachs Group and Deutsche Bank.

The auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, resigned on Sunday, three days after Longtop said that its chief financial officer offered to resign.

Longtop had a $1.08 billion market value before trading was halted in New York last week.

The company, based in Xiamen, China, makes software for Chinese financial services companies. It is among the largest of several Chinese companies, including China MediaExpress Holdings, that were hit recently by accusations of accounting fraud, including from short-sellers or regulatory inquiries.

According to Longtop, Deloitte said that its resignation stemmed in part from “recently identified falsity” in Longtop’s financial records, as well as “deliberate interference” by Longtop management in the audit process. Longtop also said Deloitte could no longer rely on its previous audit reports for the company.

Longtop said it would cooperate with the S.E.C., and had hired legal counsel and was about to hire forensic accountants.
619 2011-05-24 For instance, Picard charged, very little of the material turned over dealt with whether Wilpon and Katz ever meaningfully examined Madoff’s trustworthiness during decades of investing with him. Instead, Picard stated, the documents included about 450,000 pages of nothing more than account statements of those who had invested with Madoff.

But in their legal papers, the owners described what they portrayed as exhaustive efforts to identify and produce any and all relevant material. And last week, in response to Picard’s suggestion that they had been less than transparent, they accused Picard of complaining about not receiving material that he had never asked for.

In Thursday’s filing, Picard indicated that he wanted to see more documentation from Wilpon and the Mets, as well as from financial institutions, like Merrill Lynch, that have done business with the owners.

Picard noted that of the electronic documents turned over by Sterling, Wilpon, the organization’s co-founder and chairman of the board and a longtime friend of Madoff’s, provided only seven. He suggested that considerable parts of the financial empire of Wilpon and Katz remained to be explored and pored over.

He said, for example, that no documents from any employees of the Mets were made available even though the club had 16 accounts with Madoff and had conducted tens of millions of dollars in business with the man behind one of history’s largest financial frauds. Additionally, Picard said that he subpoenaed records from Merrill Lynch, among other third parties, but that it had failed to turn over anything.

Nor did Sterling, Picard added, produce documents from key employees in its accounting department.

Wilpon and Katz have said in court papers that they conducted elaborate computer searches of their records seeking anything that might have indicated they had been warned of Madoff’s fraud, but had found nothing.

“Not one contained a warning from anyone that Madoff might be engaged in fraud,” Sterling’s filing said.

Their lawyers have also said that between June and September 2010, Wilpon, Katz and three other Sterling executives provided more than 10 days of on-the-record testimony.

Picard is alleging that Wilpon and Katz were willfully blind to many alarms that Madoff might be involved in illegal or improper dealings. Wilpon and Katz have accused Picard of having kept evidence from them that would have assisted their case and that would have undermined his central argument.

In an e-mail last week, Sterling contended, “The Trustee has continuously refused to provide the Sterling Partners with any of the pre-complaint discovery he concededly took, and the discovery that the Sterling Partners were able to obtain on their own directly contradicts the Trustee’s complaint.”

Picard’s office has told the owners of the Mets that their request lacks any legal basis and that they do not deserve special treatment. Picard added that they would have to wait, like anybody else being sued by the trustee.

For the time being, Picard’s ability to conduct what is known as full discovery in the case has been halted pending a ruling by United States Bankruptcy Court Judge Burton R. Lifland on Wilpon and Katz’s motion to dismiss the case.

If the owners prevail in their efforts to get the lawsuit dismissed, they will not have to turn over anything more to the trustee — at least for a while. Picard would have the option to appeal.
620 2011-05-24 NEW ORLEANS (AP) — A group of barges was allowed on Monday to pass through a stretch of the Mississippi River that has been closed since late last week, when three vessels in the group sank at Baton Rouge amid high water and fast currents.

The three vessels, owned by Archer Daniels Midland, were part of a 20-barge tow that was being pushed downriver. One of them struck a dock, and two others struck a bridge.

Many barges still waiting to proceed south are carrying grain from farms in the Midwest to the Port of South Louisiana, on the Mississippi between Baton Rouge and New Orleans. It is the nation’s largest port in terms of tonnage, and it handles more than half of the country’s grain exports.

Closing the river is costly because of the volume of commercial traffic. Though port officials could not put a dollar figure on the closing at Baton Rouge, the cost of a more extensive shutdown from Baton Rouge to where the river meets the Gulf of Mexico can top $300 million a day.

Still, a port spokesman, Mitch Smith, said the closing had not resulted in any drastic changes in the port’s operations.

Hundreds of Louisiana residents have left homes threatened by the opening of a major floodway that is diverting water from the Mississippi River to protect more heavily populated cities downriver. By Monday, the threat appeared to have diminished for some neighborhoods in the area.
621 2011-05-24 What adds a layer of complexity — and volatility — is Abyei’s symbolic power. It is a sparsely populated area, dusty and thorny, and it does not even produce much oil anymore — a few thousand barrels per day. But it straddles the north-south border, both sides claim it and both sides have strong allies living there.

The Misseriya nomads, who drift in and out of Abyei and are aligned with the north, are “ferocious fighters” whom the government has used in the past as proxy militias, said Abdelwahhab El-Affendi, a Sudanese political scientist at the University of Westminster in London. Khartoum “feels obliged to them, especially since it may need them again,” he added.

As for the southerners, Abyei is home to some of their top leaders, including several ministers and military commanders. To make matters more complicated, although Abyei is ethnically and culturally connected to southern Sudan, local Abyei chiefs agreed decades ago to be administered by the north. With better education opportunities, the Abyei contingent reached the top ranks of southern leadership.

“There’s a tension in the south,” said Zach Vertin, an analyst for International Crisis Group, a nonprofit organization that advocates the prevention and resolution of violent conflict. “There are some who don’t want to risk renewed war or threaten the south’s independence over the territory, and there is another prominent constituency that feels it cannot capitulate any further.”

On Monday, about 100 people staged a rally in Juba, the capital of southern Sudan, chanting “Abyei is 100 percent ours.” But while southern officials expressed frustration, they did not say what they would do next.

“We do not declare war,” said Col. Philip Aguer, a spokesman for the southern military. “We respect the territories of southern Sudan.”

Western diplomats continued to urge the northern Sudanese to pull out of Abyei, but there was no sign they were budging. United Nations officials said gunmen allied with the north continued to burn down huts and stores, looting what they could. Most residents, and the few southern troops that had been stationed in Abyei, fled just before the attack.

In Washington on Monday, the Obama administration’s special envoy to Sudan, Princeton N. Lyman, said the north’s incursion into Abyei was “disproportionate and irresponsible” and warned that it jeopardized the peace agreement and efforts to normalize relations with the United States.

The administration has promised to remove Sudan from the list of state sponsors of terrorism, to appoint an ambassador and to consider debt relief and other measures following the independence of southern Sudan in July. But “if we don’t have Abyei being negotiated, rather than occupied, it will be hard to move forward,” Mr. Lyman said.

According to a Western official in Khartoum, a similar crisis was narrowly averted a few weeks ago. Western and African diplomats in early May had talked the northern government out of invading Abyei after southern forces ambushed northern troops, which were simply following protocols and convoying into Abyei as part of a United Nations-backed plan to have a few northern and southern troops run patrols together.

The government of President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who has been indicted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges connected to massacres in Darfur several years ago, agreed to show some restraint, even though at least a dozen of Mr. Bashir’s soldiers were killed.

But after this happened a second time on Thursday, with another, similar ambush, the north tapped its air superiority — it has new Chinese-made fighter jets, compared with a few helicopters in the south — and bombed near a strategic bridge in Abyei on Friday. That set the stage for it to move all the chess pieces forward — tanks, troops, artillery — on Saturday.

Despite the show of force, analysts say, the north does not want to start a war either. The south has tens of thousands of experienced fighters and a command cadre partly trained in the United States. Mr. Bashir seems to appreciate that any war with the south would be long and ugly, just as it was on and off since independence in 1956.

A war would also mean that the north could lose access to oil, which it shares with the south and will most likely continue to share with it. While the bulk of the crude is in the south, the pipeline to export it runs through the north, virtually guaranteeing some type of north-south symbiosis after independence.

So, why would the north risk an escalation?

Because Abyei has essentially become a bargaining chip, Mr. Vertin said. “This is aimed at influencing negotiations,” he said.

With the clock ticking toward July 9 and so many unresolved issues on the table — how exactly to split the oil; where to draw the border; how to share Sudan’s $38 billion debt — the north may have seized Abyei to strengthen its hand in the final round of negotiations before Africa’s largest country breaks into two.
622 2011-05-24 The Justice Department is seeking to halt H&R Block’s plans to acquire the creator of TaxACT software, saying the deal would leave just two major competitors in the do-it-yourself tax preparation market.

The agency filed an antitrust lawsuit on Monday, arguing that the deal would eliminate a strong rival of H&R Block and Intuit, the maker of Quicken and TurboTax.

Regulators say those two companies and TaxACT account for 90 percent of tax preparation software sales. H&R Block ranks second, ahead of TaxACT and behind Intuit.

“TaxACT is an aggressive competitor in the market, and is feared” by the other two companies, Christine A. Varney, an assistant attorney general, told reporters on a conference call.

H&R Block said in October that it would pay $287.5 million in cash to acquire the parent firm of 2nd Story Software, the privately held company that created TaxACT. H&R Block said it would combine its H&R Block At Home digital business and the TaxACT business into a single unit led by TaxACT management.

The department said the deal could give H&R Block the chance to coordinate prices and other issues with Intuit.
623 2011-05-24 In a development that could improve AIDS treatment worldwide, modern antiretroviral drugs will be sold at lower prices in 70 of the world’s poorest countries.

The most important price breaks, announced last week, were for first-line treatments containing the drugs tenofovir and efavirenz, and second-line regimens containing atazanavir and ritonavir.

Cocktails of AIDS drugs that once sold for $12,000 or more per year in rich nations are now available in poor ones for less than $200. Still, many patients in poor countries get drugs like AZT and nevirapine, which were developed decades ago and can have harsh side effects.

Combinations containing tenofovir, introduced 10 years ago, are now recommended by the World Health Organization because they have fewer side effects and the AIDS virus is less likely to develop resistance to them. The price of one such combination has dropped to $159 from $400 in three years.

The lower prices, offered by eight Indian pharmaceutical companies, were negotiated by the Clinton Health Access Initiative, part of the former president’s foundation. The price-negotiation work is supported by British foreign aid and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

The money to guarantee the initial payments on behalf of poor countries — crucial to getting the Indian suppliers to expand factories to make these drugs — will come from Unitaid, an independent agency founded at the United Nations that collects several taxes, including one on European airline tickets, to finance global health programs.
624 2011-05-24 In reporting this book Mr. Godwin traveled back to the country where he grew up, despite the dangers: “not only from Mugabe’s banning of Western journalists, but also because I was once declared an enemy of the state, accused of spying.” He uses his intimate knowledge of Zimbabwe to introduce readers to opposition leaders, church authorities, foreign diplomats and ordinary people who have ended up in hospitals or as refugees — beaten, mutilated, raped and terrorized, their houses burned to the ground.

This volume lacks the intimacy of the author’s two affecting memoirs about Zimbabwe (“Mukiwa: A White Boy in Africa” and “When a Crocodile Eats the Sun”), and it sometimes assumes a little too much familiarity on the part of the lay reader with that country’s tragic history. But it remains a document that should be read by anyone interested in the sacrifices that people are willing to make for the sake of democracy — a timely document, indeed, given the democratic uprisings taking place this spring in northern Africa and the Middle East. Not only is “The Fear” a valuable work of testimony — filled with firsthand accounts of witnesses to the most horrific crimes — but it is also a haunting testament to those survivors’ courage and determination.

Among the ordinary citizens depicted in these pages is Tichanzii Gandanga, who worked for the Movement for Democratic Change. Mr. Godwin reports that Mr. Gandanga was kidnapped by thugs he believes were members of President Mugabe’s spying agency, lashed with whips made from tire rubber and kicked in the face. His tormentors then dragged him naked into the road and ran over his legs twice with their car.

Denias Dombo, a farmer who also worked as a district organizing secretary for the movement, Mr. Godwin writes, watched as Mugabe supporters burned down his house, and he was then assaulted with rocks, iron bars and heavy sticks. According to Mr. Godwin, one leg was broken, an arm was shattered and several ribs fractured. His means of making a living, his plow and cultivator, were stolen; his cattle killed. He was unable to find his wife and children.

Dadirai Chipiro, a former nursery school teacher and the wife of an electoral organizer for the Movement for Democratic Change, did not survive an attack by government agents. They hacked off her right hand and both her feet, Mr. Godwin says, dragged her back into her house and set it on fire with a gasoline bomb.

The litany of suffering in this book is devastating, and the accounts that Mr. Godwin has collected, as the saying goes in Zimbabwe, are “just the ears of the hippo.” There are many more stories and much more pain right below the surface. Thousands of people, he says, have simply gone missing: “Bodies are being found bobbing at the spillway of dams; other are discovered in the bush, dumped by their murderers, miles and miles from where they were abducted. In some particularly gruesome cases, the victims have been castrated, their testicles stuffed in their mouths, or their eyes gouged out. Many will never be found. Some 10,000 people have been tortured. Twenty thousand have had their houses burned down — up to 200,000 are now displaced.”

As for prison conditions in the country, Mr. Godwin contends, they are miserable — another index “by which to measure the depths of depravity of Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe.” A freelance saw miller named Shane Kidd, who was thrown in prison after renting a room to the Movement for Democratic Change to use as an office, recounts in these pages how policemen would spray freezing water and sometimes throw buckets of urine through the prison bars, dousing the prisoners and their thin blankets and leaving the cell floors ankle-deep in water.

The opposition leader Roy Bennett reports that in Mutare Remand Prison rations had been cut to one meal from three, and that many inmates suffer from pellagra, a severe vitamin deficiency that was common in Soviet labor camps. Without outside food or medicine, Mr. Godwin writes, “the average inmate is dead within a year.”

One of the most haunting stories in this volume is that of Chenjerai Mangezo, who was nearly beaten to death after winning as a movement candidate for a rural district council. Though his body was completely immobilized in plaster, Mr. Godwin says, Mr. Mangezo insisted on attending the swearing-in ceremony, and he was driven there lying on foam mattresses heaped in the back of a pickup truck. He has continued to attend council meetings, sitting alongside some of the very Mugabe supporters who oversaw his beating.

What, besides courage, has enabled Mr. Mangezo to sit there with his persecutors? “Is it fatalism, a quality that Westerners see in Africans?” Mr. Godwin asks. “Westerners often mistake African endurance, and the lack of self-pity, for fatalism. No, I think the other quality in Chenjerai Mangezo is patience, a dogged tenacity. He hasn’t given up on getting justice. But he will wait for it.”

“People like Chenjerai,” he goes on, “are the real asine mabvi — the men without knees. Not only were his legs covered by plaster casts for months, but he has refused to kneel, refused to prostrate himself before the dictatorship, whatever the consequences.”
625 2011-05-24 Caterpillar fell about 2.34 percent, to $101.89, and General Electric was 1.17 percent lower at $19.39. Energy stocks tumbled, with Halliburton falling 2.16 percent, to $46.16, Exxon Mobil down 1.1 percent at $80.67, and Schlumberger down 1.7 percent at $82.08.

Citigroup was more than 2 percent lower at $40.16, while Bank of America was lower by 1.38 percent at $11.42. JPMorgan Chase fell more than 1.3 percent to $42.55.

In Asia, the Nikkei index fell by more than 1.5 percent and the Hang Seng was down by just over 2 percent. The Shanghai index was lower by 2.9 percent.

In Europe, the CAC 40 closed down by 2.1 percent, the DAX in Germany was 2 percent lower, and the FTSE ended the day down by 1.9 percent.

Analysts said recent news from Europe had not instilled confidence in the Continent’s ability to handle its fiscal challenges. Last week, Fitch Ratings downgraded Greece’s credit ratings by three levels to B+, a rating that is below investment grade. Standard & Poor’s lowered its outlook on Italy’s debt to negative from stable over the weekend, citing a weaker outlook for growth and lower prospects for the country’s ability to trim its debt.

And Spain made headlines after its Socialist Party lost on Sunday in regional and municipal elections as tens of thousands of Spanish protesters, their anger partly fueled by the debt crisis and joblessness, are trying to force an overhaul of the political system.

Declines in Asia’s markets followed the HSBC preliminary purchasing managers’ index reading, a gauge of the manufacturing sector activity, for China, which fell to a 10-month low of 51.1 in May, according to news agencies, signaling a slowdown in expansion. Still, the Chinese government is poised to continue fiscal tightening. A similar gauge for Germany dropped to 54.9 in May, below forecasts.

The financial services and valuations company, Markit, said on Monday that its manufacturing P.M.I. for the euro zone was at a seven-month low at 54.8 in May, the sharpest slowdown since just after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, according to Chris Williamson, the chief economist.

While the numbers could have been affected by seasonal factors like the timing of Easter this year or by supply chain disruptions from the disasters in Japan, they show a “more fundamental slowing in the pace of economic growth,” he said in a statement.

Bruce McCain, the chief investment strategist of Key Private Bank, said the signs of weaker economic activity in China were counterbalanced by high inflation, with the possibility that they would have to continue to raise rates.

In Europe, he added, “not only are they again grappling with the sovereign debt issue, but inflation remains uncomfortably high and they seem determined to raise rates again.”

Treasury prices rose on Monday. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 99 31/32 , and the yield fell to 3.13 percent from 3.15 percent late Friday. The yield has fallen by more than 40 basis points in a little more than a month.

Concerns over Europe reawakened the potential for oil demand to decline, causing crude prices on Monday to slip.

The dollar was higher against a range of currencies, with the euro falling below $1.40.

“Certainly while there is concern about the dollar’s secular decline we have to be encouraged that it is still seen as a strong currency,” said Colleen Supran, a portfolio manager with Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough, which is based in San Francisco.
626 2011-05-24 Most commercial silk today comes from the cocoons of domesticated silkworms, bred over thousands of years to produce cocoons that are easy to unravel into silk that is easy to dye. The use of silkworms is thought to have originated in China nearly 6,000 years ago. There are many species of wild silkworms as well, but their cocoons are more difficult to unravel.

A newly discovered technique may make the unraveling process easier, and help the silk industry expand to new regions beyond Asia, according to a study in the journal Biomacromolecules.

Researchers from England and Kenya have discovered a way to remove the mineral layer that coats the cocoons of wild silkworms using an acidic solution. Removing this layer makes it easy to unfurl long strands of silk from the cocoons, the study’s authors report.

They tested out a variety of solutions, with the goal of finding one that removed the mineral layer without harming the silk.

“You want to use chemicals to demineralize, but you don’t want to use nasty ones, and you don’t want to use ones that will damage the silk quality,” said Fritz Vollrath, a zoologist at the University of Oxford and one of the study’s authors.

Because the textures and colors of wild silks differ from those of silk produced by domesticated worms, wild silk could be highly valued by the fashion industry, he said.
627 2011-05-24 If that’s java in your cup, drink up. A new study says that men who are heavy coffee drinkers are at lower risk for prostate cancer.

As part of the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study, Harvard scientists followed 47,911 men who periodically described their coffee intake. The researchers found that those who consumed six or more cups a day were almost 20 percent less likely to develop prostate cancer over two decades than those who drank none.

More important, the heavy coffee drinkers were 60 percent less likely than the nondrinkers to develop a lethal form of the disease. Even men who drank just one to three cups of coffee benefited: They were nearly 30 percent less likely to develop lethal prostate cancer, the study said. It did not matter whether the coffee was caffeinated or decaffeinated.

The study, published online on May 17 in The Journal of the National Cancer Institute, is one of the first to link coffee consumption to a lower risk of prostate cancer. Coffee is a major dietary source of antioxidants, and other studies have suggested that drinking it is associated with health benefits including a lower risk of Type 2 diabetes.

“We’re not yet telling men to drink more coffee,” said the lead author, Kathryn M. Wilson, “but there’s mounting evidence that if they do, they don’t have to worry about it.”
628 2011-05-24 Doctors in the Netherlands said that a 6-year-old boy with an allergy to peanuts went into anaphylactic shock after receiving a blood transfusion from donors who had been snacking on them.

The episode, described in a letter published on Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, occurred last year as the boy was being treated for leukemia. While receiving a transfusion of blood platelets, he broke out in a rash, his blood pressure dropped and he had difficulty breathing.

He recovered after treatment, but doctors were mystified by his reaction. The boy’s mother then recalled that he had had a similar experience at the age of 1 after eating peanuts, and she said he had not eaten them since.

Blood tests revealed that the child had indeed developed an allergic reaction to peanuts during the transfusion. Three of five donors whose platelets were used recalled that they had eaten peanuts the evening before donating blood.

In their letter, the doctors at Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, hypothesized that “consumption of peanuts by the donors before blood donation provided the trigger for this patient’s transfusion reaction.”

“It is possible that allergens transferred in blood products to other patients have led to reactions that have gone unexplained and unreported,” they added.
629 2011-05-24 This just in: Lt. M. K. Schwenk's first name was Milton, not Melton, as his obituary said.     In 1899....
630 2011-05-24 Less than one week after LinkedIn's blockbuster debut, Wall Street is gearing up for the initial public offering of yet another multibillion-dollar Internet start-up.     Yandex, one of Russia's largest Web companies, will price its offering at $2...
631 2011-05-25 The Treasury Department still maintains significant stakes in a few rescued companies like A.I.G. and G.M., and it hopes to avoid losing money on them....
632 2011-05-25 Scotty McCreery is the new “American Idol.”...
633 2011-05-25 The company, which previously disclosed that its initial public offering could raise more than $1 billion, raised just $783 million on Wednesday, reflecting weak demand from investors....
634 2011-05-25 A group of 44 mostly Democratic members of Congress ask President Obama to invoke existing legal authority to set aside federal land as potential wilderness....
635 2011-05-25 Apple computer users were targeted by fake antivirus software that hopes to gain access to users’ credit cards. Apple said Wednesday that it plans to issue a software update to remove the malware....
636 2011-05-25 Photographs from Missouri, Libya, Afghanistan and Spain....
637 2011-05-25 Thursday’s schedule includes No. 1 Rafael Nadal, coming off his five-set struggle with John Isner, playing his fellow Spaniard Pablo Andujar. That match will be played on Court Suzanne Lenglen, the second show court, following No. 5 Robin Soderl...
638 2011-05-25 Pictures of the Day: Missouri and Elsewhere
639 2011-05-25 The third trial of Cliven Bundy has ended in a mistrial. The prosecution failed to turn over documents that would have helped the defense.
640 2011-05-25 A hearing is planned Thursday to ‘examine what actions (or inactions)’ led to the findings....
641 2011-05-25 Updates on natural gas and tornadoes in the context of climate change....
642 2011-05-25 Members of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission told a House panel that the Dodd-Frank Act was vague on how to handle restrictions on derivatives traded overseas....
643 2011-05-25 It’s looking clearer by the day....
644 2011-05-25 Caroline Wozniacki, Samantha Stosur, Jelena Jankovic and Svetlana Kuznetsova won their second-round matches in straight sets at the French Open. Roger Federer, David Ferrer, Gael Monfils and Juan Martin del Potro were among the early winners in th...
645 2011-05-25 The as-yet untitled film by Kathryn Bigelow and Mark Boal, to be released in the fourth quarter of 2012 by Columbia Pictures, will focus “on the black ops mission to capture or kill Osama bin Laden, which culminated in his death earlier this mon...
646 2011-05-25 Banks used lobbying and political influence to gain larger assistance for their mortgage-lending problems, an economist writes....
647 2011-05-25 GE Capital said on Wednesday that it had agreed to sell mortgages worth about 5 billion Australian dollars to Pepper Homeloans for an undisclosed sum, as high prices feed concern about a bubble in Australia’s housing market....
648 2011-05-25 Among the 69 patients treated by Dr. Carragee who received Infuse, five men developed the complication related to sterility, in contrast to one patient among the 174 men who received a bone graft. The condition resolved itself in half of those six patients.

Two surgeons who were involved in the original Infuse trial defended their findings in statements, saying that not enough men had experienced sterility-related complications in their study to statistically link the problem to Infuse. The surgeons, Dr. J. Kenneth Burkus and Dr. Thomas A. Zdeblick, noted the complication in a medical journal article published soon after Infuse was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2002, but they divided those patients by the surgical technique used, not by whether or not the men had received Infuse.

In his Web article, Dr. Carragee questioned why the researchers had not broken out the patients in their study between those who had received Infuse and those who had not, a method that he said was a standard way to present clinical trial results.

In an e-mail, Dr. Zdeblick said Dr. Carragee’s study was of limited value because it reflected the results of a retrospective look at patients rather than a clinical trial. Such reports “are notorious for being misleading,” he wrote.

The new study is likely to intensify a debate over whether industry-financed researchers present study findings in ways that favor the interests of corporate sponsors. Dr. Burkus, who practices in Columbus, Ga., and Dr. Zdeblick, a professor at the University of Wisconsin, have each received millions of dollars from Medtronic in consulting fees or royalty payments.

Both men have adamantly insisted that those financial relationships have not affected their scientific judgment.

Nevertheless, in a commentary accompanying the new study, Dr. James D. Kang of the University of Pittsburgh wrote that industry support was one way to explain the different conclusions reached by Dr. Carragee and the Medtronic-sponsored researchers.

“There does not seem to be any rational explanation for these observational differences,” Dr. Kang wrote.

Dr. Dan M. Spengler, a professor and former chairman of orthopedic surgery at Vanderbilt University, who was not involved with the study, said it added to growing evidence about various risks from Infuse. “It’s just startling to me,” he said.

Marybeth Thorsgaard, a spokeswoman for Medtronic, based in Minneapolis, said the company believed that it had provided the F.D.A. and doctors with all available medical information about Infuse. Analysts have estimated that sales of Infuse reached about $900 million in Medtronic’s most recent fiscal year; overall company sales hit $16 billion during that period.

“You have to consider the totality of the data that has been presented, not how one study was reported,” said Ms. Thorsgaard.

Dr. Carragee’s report is not the first time doctors have challenged how Medtronic-sponsored researchers characterized the risks of Infuse in medical articles.

Since 2006, an orthopedic surgeon in Croatia, Dr. Tomislav Smoljanovic, has written more than 35 letters to medical journals questioning the claims. In their 2002 report, Dr. Burkus and Dr. Zdeblick reported that a major clinical study involving Infuse had found no adverse effects with the product, including the sterility-related complication.

Among other things, Dr. Smoljanovic and colleagues pointed out in letters that the Medtronic-sponsored researchers, while identifying that six men in their study had developed the sterility-related complication, had not identified how many of those men had received Infuse as opposed to a bone graft.

Last year, Dr. Burkus and his colleagues publicly disclosed in response to the Croatian physicians’ letters that five of the six men affected in their study had received Infuse. However, they have insisted that the figure was not statistically significant to link the problem with Infuse.

Dr. Carragee, the Stanford surgeon, said his Infuse study was prompted by a complaint he received from Dr. Smoljanovic about an Infuse-related article in The Spine Journal.

Dr. Carragee said he and his colleagues had posted their study online, ahead of the publication’s print edition, because of the public health implications of the findings. He said that forthcoming edition of The Spine Journal would be dedicated to complications involving bioengineered bone growth products like Infuse.
649 2011-05-25 WASHINGTON — Domestic migration last year reached its lowest level since the government began tracking it in the 1940s, the Census Bureau said, as the lingering effects of the recession continued to curb Americans’ mobility.

About 10.5 million Americans changed counties from 2009 to 2010, or about 3.5 percent of the population, the lowest percentage since 1947, when the government first started tracking the numbers, according to census data released this week.

It was fewer than the 11 million who moved the previous year, and down by a third from the 15.8 million who moved from 2004 to 2005, when the economy was doing well.

The number caps a decade whose final years had steep declines in migration, as the recession and effects of the housing crisis continue to freeze Americans in place, said Kenneth Johnson, the senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire.

Mobility tends to slow in times of economic hardship, like the Great Depression in the 1930s and the energy crisis in the 1970s.
650 2011-05-25 “We fully expect the board of governors to address these issues with the seriousness they deserve,” Glyn T. Davies, the American ambassador to the I.A.E.A., said in a telephone interview from Vienna.

But at a moment when the Syrian government is struggling to stay in power amid uprisings, the shooting of protesters in Syrian towns will almost certainly seem like a more urgent matter for the United Nations to address. The apparent effort by the Assad government to build a nuclear capacity, with help from North Korea, is likely to be viewed as what one American official called “a historical event, not an ongoing threat.” Even if the reactor was solely for energy production, the country would be required to tell the agency and place the facility under its safeguards.

On Tuesday, Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, at a joint session of Congress, urged the United States not to take the threat of military action against Iran’s nuclear facilities off the table.

“The ayatollah regime briefly suspended its nuclear program only once, in 2003, when it feared the possibility of military action” after the invasion of Iraq, Mr. Netanyahu said. “That same year, Muammar Qaddafi gave up his nuclear weapons program, and for the same reason. The more Iran believes that all options are on the table, the less the chance of confrontation.”

Mr. Netanyahu has been far more assertive than his American counterparts in making public threats about potential military action; the Stuxnet operation, which American and Israeli officials refuse to discuss, appears to have been part of an effort to come up with a covert, nonmilitary solution.

The Stuxnet may have now run its course. David Albright, president of the Institute for Science and International Security, a private group in Washington that tracks nuclear proliferation, analyzed the I.A.E.A. report and concluded that the jump in monthly production of enriched uranium was “the highest level that Iran has ever achieved.”

The official American and Israeli estimates suggest Iran is still at least a year, and most likely several years, from being able to produce a bomb. Iran says its nuclear program is meant only to produce energy, but many Western countries believe the country is hiding a weapons program.

The agency gave some details in Tuesday’s report on work that was apparently done on how to trigger a nuclear device, dating back to late 2003.

“The agency has not described these experiments to this detail before,” said Olli Heinonen, the agency’s former chief inspector.

Starting in early 2008, the agency has repeatedly accused Iran of dragging its feet in addressing “possible military dimensions” of its nuclear program. Tehran has declared that all of the evidence gathered by the agency — mostly from the intelligence agencies of member countries, and some from its own inspectors — are fabrications.

The I.A.E.A.’s last report, issued in February, listed seven outstanding questions about work Iran apparently conducted on warhead design. The documents in the hands of the agency raise questions about work on how to turn uranium into bomb fuel, how to cast conventional explosives in a shape that can trigger a nuclear blast, how to make detonators, generate neutrons to spur a chain reaction, measure detonation waves and make nose-cones for missiles.

Tuesday’s report gave new details for all seven of the categories of allegations. The disclosure about the atomic trigger centered on a rare material — uranium deuteride, a form of the element made with deuterium, or heavy hydrogen. Nuclear experts say China and Pakistan appear to have used the material as a kind of atomic sparkplug.

The report said it had asked Iran about evidence of “experiments involving the explosive compression of uranium deuteride to produce a short burst of neutrons” — the speeding particles that split atoms in two in a surge of nuclear energy. In a bomb, an initial burst of neutrons is needed to help initiate a rapid chain reaction.

Harold M. Agnew, a former director of the Los Alamos weapons laboratory, said the compression of uranium deuteride suggested work on an atomic trigger.

“I don’t know of any peaceful uses,” he said in an interview.

The agency’s disclosure about Iran’s alleged use of uranium deuteride also suggests another possible connection between Tehran’s program and Abdul Qadeer Khan, the rogue Pakistani engineer who sold nuclear information.

A famous photograph of Dr. Khan, whom Pakistan has released from house arrest in Islamabad, shows him in front of the schematic diagram of an atom bomb on a blackboard. A pointer to the bomb’s center is labeled uranium deuteride.

Tuesday’s report also gave fresh charges on the design of missile warheads. Documentary evidence, it said, suggested that Iran had conducted “studies involving the removal of the conventional high explosive payload from the warhead of the Shahab-3 missile and replace it with a spherical nuclear payload.”

The Shahab-3 is one of Iran’s deadliest weapons, standing 56 feet tall. In parades, Iran has draped them with banners reading, “Wipe Israel off the map.”
651 2011-05-25 WASHINGTON — The recovery of the American auto industry, which repaid a significant part of its debt to the federal government on Tuesday, has sparked a political battle over who deserves credit and who deserves blame.

On the day that Chrysler wrote a check repaying $5.1 billion to the United States Treasury, President Obama and his Democratic allies claimed credit for saving a crucial industry in Michigan, a state that will be a critical battleground in the 2012 presidential election.

“Supporting the American auto industry required making some tough decisions,” Mr. Obama said in a statement, “but I was not willing to walk away from the workers at Chrysler and the communities that rely on this iconic American company.”

Democrats also sought to highlight past statements from Mr. Obama’s likely Republican rivals, who had criticized the president for a federal bailout that they said was unnecessary and wasteful.

The Democratic National Committee on Tuesday released a YouTube video highlighting a 2008 opinion article by Mitt Romney in The New York Times titled “Let Detroit Go Bankrupt.” In the video, Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, is shown asserting, “If you write a check, they are going to go out of business.”
652 2011-05-25 The N.C.A.A. put Connecticut on notice: improve in the classroom or face tougher penalties. The Huskies’ men’s basketball team will lose two scholarships for this season for its marks in the N.C.A.A.’s annual Academic Progress Rates report, and if the grades do not improve, the Huskies’ punishment could worsen.

The report measures classroom performance of athletes on every Division I team. The data covers 2006-7 through 2009-10.

Programs given postseason bans for next season are the men’s basketball teams at Cal State-Northridge, Chicago State, Grambling, Louisiana-Monroe and Southern, and the football teams at Idaho State, Southern and Jackson State.

Four universities scored below a level that can result in immediate penalties in football and men’s and women’s basketball: Jackson State, Prairie View A&M, Southern and Texas Southern, all from the Southwestern Athletic Conference. The N.C.A.A. banned Jackson State and Southern from postseason play in football next season, and Grambling and Southern received postseason bans in men’s basketball. Southern became the first university to face postseason bans in two sports because of academics.
653 2011-05-25 The teenagers Ryo Ishikawa and Matteo Manassero were among seven golfers to earn exemptions into the United States Open from June 16 to 19 at Congressional, the United States Golf Association said. Ishikawa, 19, of Japan, and Manassero, 18, of Italy, joined the field because they were ranked in the world’s top 50.

Also qualifying on that basis were Anders Hansen of Denmark, Peter Hanson of Sweden, Rory Sabbatini of South Africa and the American David Toms. Aaron Baddeley of Australia earned an exemption because he was ninth on the PGA Tour money list.
654 2011-05-25 The New Jersey Supreme Court stood up for the state’s children and strongly rebuked Gov. Chris Christie when it ruled on Tuesday that his draconian school budget cuts violated the State Constitution by depriving impoverished children of an effective education.

In 2009, the state promised the court that it would adequately educate these children through a financing formula that guaranteed districts enough money to provide tutoring, counseling and services that high-risk students need to succeed at school. Mr. Christie sabotaged the plan last year when he vetoed a bill that would have raised revenue by taxing New Jersey’s wealthiest citizens. He then used the shortfall as an excuse to shortchange fair financing by about $1.6 billion, a cut of nearly 20 percent.

The cuts were disproportionately destructive for poorer districts that have weak tax bases and depend most heavily on state aid. Earlier this spring, a state court found that the cuts had already harmed disadvantaged children, placing them at an even greater risk of not meeting state standards.

In this latest, strongly worded ruling, the New Jersey Supreme Court admonished the state to put its house in order and reminded the governor and the Legislature that they were “not free to walk away from judicial orders enforcing Constitutional obligations.” Citing limited authority under the law, the court ordered the state to restore about $500 million to the 31 poorest districts covered in the long-running school financing case. The state is also required to ensure that adequate financing continues to flow as intended to these districts in future years.

Governor Christie, who suggested at one time that he would simply ignore this ruling, has apparently remembered his oath of office and says he will obey. That’s not enough. He and state lawmakers have a moral and legal obligation to do better, not just by the very poorest districts, but by the more than 200 districts being starved of the aid that they are legally entitled to and desperately need to educate their high-risk children.
655 2011-05-25 The Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan research group, said this month that three of the five highest-taxed counties in the nation were in New York: Nassau, Westchester and Rockland Counties. In Nassau and Westchester, the median annual property tax bill exceeds $8,000.

The tax-cap agreement was welcomed by business and farm groups, but teachers’ unions reacted with dismay, saying the move would cause cuts to money for education and would diminish the quality of public schools. The unions pointed to California as an example, saying a property tax cap and broader budget woes have had a harmful effect on schools in that state.

“New York would be devastated by the toughest cap in the nation at a time when its public schools have suffered three years of the toughest cuts to education,” said Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers. “There’s no question this strikes at the heart of the educational needs of the most vulnerable students, especially children of color and children who live in poverty.”

The agreement gives the Democratic governor, who made limiting property tax increases a cornerstone of his campaign, his biggest political victory since the Legislature approved an on-time and relatively austere budget in March, and it further establishes Mr. Cuomo’s record of fiscal conservatism.

The agreement, which would take effect next year, would limit the annual increase in the overall amount of property taxes collected by a local government or a school district. Property tax increases for individual homeowners could vary as properties are reassessed.

“This issue is probably the most powerful and pervasive issue across this state,” the governor said at an appearance with legislative leaders on Tuesday. “People in New York City don’t feel it, but I can’t tell you how many times somebody has come up to me and said, ‘You have to do something about property taxes; I just can’t afford to stay in my home anymore.’ ”

The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, has said the tax cap should be approved only in concert with the renewal, and the strengthening, of rent-stabilization regulations in New York City. But Mr. Cuomo, who supports strengthening rent stabilization, and the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Republican from Long Island who does not, said they did not believe the rent issue would jeopardize the passage of a property tax cap before the scheduled end of the legislative session, June 20.

Forty-three other states have some limits on property taxes. But New York is unusual because property taxes are the main source of support for schools outside of New York City. In the city, the schools are primarily financed by a municipal income tax.

While some details remain to be worked out, particularly the length of time before the legislation expires, legislative leaders in both parties said they were confident that a final agreement was at hand.

“This is a great day,” said Mr. Skelos, adding, “New York State once again can be competitive in creating jobs, and rather than exporting people, bringing people to the state.”

Mr. Silver said, “With this legislation, we are finally able to bring property taxes under control and still provide critical services.”

The property tax cap has been debated for more than a decade in Albany. Assembly Democrats have traditionally spurned tax-cap proposals, while Senate Republicans have floated them for years. But the opposition of powerful teachers’ unions, which have influence across the aisles, previously prevented any serious negotiations.

This year, Mr. Cuomo made a property tax cap a top priority, and he used his popularity and political muscle to exert pressure on Mr. Silver, who was inclined to accommodate a fellow Democrat. Mr. Cuomo has also lined up with Mr. Silver in supporting a strengthening of rent-control regulations.

The agreement came after Mr. Silver outlined a proposal for a property tax cap that surprised tax cap advocates with its strength. The Republican-controlled Senate had approved a similar tax-cap proposal, and Senate leaders welcomed the Assembly plan, but said there were still details to negotiate.

The primary remaining disagreement between the Assembly and the Senate is how long the property tax cap would remain in place. The Senate wanted a permanent cap; the Assembly proposed that the cap last as long as rent-stabilization regulations in New York City. Still, both sides said they had agreed to the broad principles of a 2 percent cap on property tax increases.

As outlined by the Assembly, the deal would have some exemptions. Among them, contributions that school districts make into the state pension system would be partly discounted so that pension increases of more than 2 percent from the previous year would not be counted against the 2 percent cap. Districts would be able to adjust tax levies if new development in their areas increased the tax base.

The tax cap could also be overridden with 60 percent of a local school district vote.

Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a research group that favors reduced government spending, said the proposed cap would be among the most stringent in the nation. While Massachusetts has a 2.5 percent cap, the exemptions included in the New York proposal could mean the effective cap would be 2.5 percent to 3 percent, depending on pension contribution rates, he said.

“It’s among the tightest tax levy caps,” Mr. McMahon said. “You actually have a game-changing alteration.”
656 2011-05-25 Many of Sai Baba’s advisers and adherents apparently were shocked by his death, even though his health had been steadily weakening. For several days after his death, the trustees overseeing his organization remained silent as the Indian news media speculated on possible infighting over an empire valued in the billions of dollars, or about the possible existence of a secret will.

“The running of these institutions has been well provided for by Baba,” said V. Srinivasan, one of the trustees, in an interview, dismissing the speculation about a secret will or a government takeover. “The trustees’ responsibility is to ensure that these institutions continue to function as they were functioning before. The material resources for that have been provided.”

Last week, people in Puttaparthi still seemed in a daze, if also cautiously optimistic that their city will continue to thrive as a pilgrimage site. In 1940, Sai Baba, then 14, declared himself the reincarnation of an earlier Hindu holy man, the Sai Baba of Shirdi, who died in 1918. He reportedly realized his godliness after surviving the bite of a scorpion. As word began to spread about this diminutive guru with kinky hair, believers began trickling into Puttaparthi, which gradually evolved into a small but bustling city.

Across India, various gurus operate extensive networks of ashrams, but Sai Baba’s organization was unsurpassed in scale, with service groups in every Indian state and major city, along with ashrams in more than 126 countries. His main ashram, Prasanthi Nilayam, or Temple of Peace, operates like a self-contained small city, with offices for “overseas devotees,” blocks of dormitories, bookstalls, cafeterias offering regional and international fare and a central, open-air temple where Sai Baba held audiences with as many as 30,000 people every day.

As with other self-proclaimed godmen, Sai Baba was denounced as a fraud by many skeptics, who disparaged as sleight of hand the “miracles” he performed — producing sacred ash from his fingers or Rolex watches from his hair. Controversy also arose about claims of pedophilia toward teenage boys, accusations denied by his organization. No charges were ever filed.

What separated him from some other gurus was the scale of his philanthropic work. He built major hospitals for the poor, including the ornate pink structure in Puttaparthi that provides free health care, including heart surgery. He oversaw major water projects in response to shortages and drought. To many devotees, his appeal was that he accepted all religions and never asked people to discard their faith, only to practice it better.

“That was why his acceptability was so wide,” said Jatinder Cheema, who leads Sai Baba’s service organization in New Delhi. “He accepted one and all.”

Katharina Poggendorf-Kakar, a scholar who has studied Sai Baba and other Indian godmen, praised the free services provided by Sai Baba’s schools and hospitals but said these institutions also were intended to perpetuate his empire by nurturing future generations of believers. If she discounted his miracles as clever magic tricks, Ms. Poggendorf-Kakar did not discount his potent appeal or his followers’ good intentions.

“He had a lot of charisma,” she said. “There’s no doubt he had something. Otherwise, he would not have been able to attract so many people.”

In his absence, though, the challenge will be maintaining the dedication and support of his followers. His schools, hospitals and ashrams depend on huge numbers of volunteers who come to Puttaparthi to perform free services, and also on a steady stream of donations. His trustees say the annual organizational budget is about $25 million, equally divided between interest from investments and donations.

In Puttaparthi, business owners are already seeing changes. If devotees once came for weeks or months to spend time near Sai Baba, now they are coming for short trips to pay homage at his burial site. Nearly the entire local economy depended on him: about 10,000 laborers from surrounding villages worked on construction sites, and hundreds of other villagers sell fruits and vegetables to visitors.

“The real impact will be known next year,” said Murli Mohan, 37, a rickshaw driver who says his business is down about a third.

Yet most devotees are certain Sai Baba’s appeal will only broaden. Among believers, stories are circulating about “miracles” witnessed around the world since his death: sacred ashes appearing on a photo of Sai Baba in Uganda; ashes coming out of the nose of a Sai Baba statue in Russia; devotees who have seen him materialize before them.

Sai Baba described himself as the second incarnation in a trinity and predicted that the third would be born in the neighboring Indian state of Karnataka. Yet many believe that Sai Baba will be coming back as himself.

“Even in this form, we think he will come back,” said Sai Prakash, a devotee raised in the ashram. “There are signs.”
657 2011-05-25 Adding to concern, President Obama canceled a plan for a repository at Yucca Mountain in the Nevada desert last year, making it likely that the spent fuel will accumulate at the nation’s reactors for years to come.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission maintains that both pool and cask storage are safe, although it plans to re-examine the pool issue in light of events at Fukushima.

Nearly all American reactors, especially the older ones, have far more spent fuel on hand than was anticipated when they were designed, Mr. Alvarez, a former senior adviser at the Department of Energy, wrote.

In general, the plants with the largest inventories are the older ones with multiple reactors. By Mr. Alvarez’s calculation, the largest amount of spent fuel is at the Millstone Point plant in Waterford, Conn., where two reactors are still operating and one is retired. The second-biggest is at the Palo Verde complex in Wintersburg, Ariz., the largest nuclear power plant in the United States, with three reactors.

Companies that run reactors are generally reluctant to say how much spent fuel they have on hand, citing security concerns. But Mr. Alvarez, drawing from the environmental impact statement for the proposed repository at Yucca Mountain, estimated the amount of radioactive material at all of the nation’s reactors.

In the 1960s, when most of the 104 reactors operating today were conceived, reactor manufacturers assumed that the fuel would be trucked away to factories for reprocessing to recover uranium. But reprocessing proved a commercial flop and was banned in the United States in the 1970s out of concerns that the plutonium could find its way into weapons worldwide.

Today roughly 75 percent of the nation’s spent nuclear fuel is stored in pools, the report said, citing data from the Nuclear Energy Institute. About 25 percent is stored in dry casks, or sealed steel containers within a concrete enclosure. The fuel is cooled by the natural flow of air around the steel container.

But spent fuel is transferred to dry casks only when reactor pools are nearly completely full. The report recommends instead that all spent nuclear fuel older than five years be stored in the casks. It estimated that the effort would take 10 years and cost $3.5 billion to $7 billion.

“With a price tag of as much as $7 billion, the cost of fixing America’s nuclear vulnerabilities may sound high, specially given the heated budget debate occurring in Washington,” Mr. Alvarez wrote. “But the price of doing too little is incalculable.”

The casks are not viewed as a replacement for a permanent disposal site, but as an interim solution that would last for decades.

The security of spent fuel pools also drew new attention after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, partly because one of the planes hijacked by terrorists flew down the Hudson River, over the Indian Point nuclear complex in Westchester County, before crashing into the World Trade Center in Manhattan.

Indian Point has pressurized water reactors with containment domes, but its spent fuel pools are outside the domes. The pools themselves are designed to withstand earthquakes and other challenges, but the surrounding buildings are not nearly as strong as those that house the reactors.

In a 2005 study ordered by Congress, the National Academy of Sciences also concluded that the pools were a credible target for terrorist attack and that consideration should be given to moving some fuel to dry casks.
658 2011-05-25 The most interesting to me is the fiano, partly because it’s stylistically versatile. It can play the role of those Italian whites of yore: clean, cold refreshment. But it can offer more.

At base, it has a smoky, nutlike, spicy quality that I find very attractive, along with winning mineral flavors. Many producers have experimented with fiano, not simply to make fiano taste like more popular wines but to determine which methods can make fiano more distinctively fiano-like.

For example, allowing wines to age on their lees, essentially dead yeast cells and other detritus from fermentation, is an old French technique for adding richness to white wines. Occasionally stirring the lees can add even more body. Many producers are using these methods with fiano, and the result is a richer texture, offering far more tactile pleasure, as if the wine had been aged in barrels — without the wood flavoring — even if the lees stirring took place in steel tanks.

To examine the current state of fianos from Campania, the wine panel tasted 20 bottles from recent vintages. Florence Fabricant and I were joined for the tasting by Brad Nugent, a sommelier at Ciano in the Flatiron district, and Gabrio Tosti di Valminuta, proprietor of De-Vino, a largely Italian wine shop on the Lower East Side.

We were highly impressed with the quality. The best wines had a captivating energy that was wonderfully refreshing. Some were beautifully textured as well, possibly as a result of lees-stirring, and possibly because of barrel aging. (It’s not always clear which methods were used, unless you are in the cellar to observe.) Others were straightforward and juicy, in a sort of polished pinot grigio style.

Those we didn’t care for lacked vivaciousness, as if the manipulations had been overdone, sapping the wine of its vigor. Thankfully, we liked most of them.

Our favorite was the 2007 Fiano di Avellino Radici from Mastroberardino, the most historic producer in Campania. It was smoky, with a faint taste of honey, yet fresh and lively with that gripping texture that I found so intriguing. Only Gabrio raised a hint of an objection to this wine, saying it reminded him a little too much of a Meursault. I could think of worse things, I suppose.

If the Radici has the depth of flavor to improve with a few years of aging, its sibling, Mastroberardino’s straightforward 2009 Fiano di Avellino, our No. 4 bottle, is best consumed young, when its juicy flavors are at their lively peak.

Most fianos come from the inland area around the town of Avellino, hence the appellation Fiano di Avellino. But five in our tasting came from regions closer to the Mediterranean, a warmer climate where the wines tend to be richer and rounder, like our No. 2 bottle, the 2008 Kràtos from Luigi Maffini. This comes from Paestum, an ancient Greco-Roman city south of the Amalfi coast. The wine was bright and tangy, with a rich texture and an attractive waxy, mineral aroma. Incidentally, wines from Paestum are not eligible for higher-status appellations, and so generally are labeled I.G.T., for Indicazione Geografica Tipica, or typical of its place of origin.

The only other bottle from outside the Avellino zone to make our top 10 was the most unusual wine in the tasting, the 2004 Antece from De Conciliis, also from Paestum. Aside from being an older wine, the Antece, indicating it is made in the style of the ancestors, is fermented with the grape skins, as would be the case with a red wine, and then is aged in big barrels with the lees. The result is a spicy golden wine with aromas of coconut and honey and a pleasing, raspy texture, not at all typical of fiano but enjoyable nonetheless.

Other top wines that the panel enjoyed include the 2009 Fiano di Avellino from Feudi di San Gregorio, a very ripe yet refreshing style; the robust 2008 Fiano di Avellino from Terredora, and the tangy and complex 2009 Fiano di Avellino from Clelia Romano.

You can be sure that other worthy Italian whites will appear here and there, and if you retain any lingering prejudice against them I urge you to overcome those feelings. If a fiano doesn’t do it, might I suggest one of my new favorite wines, made from the kerner grape in Alto Adige? My friends, we have a great deal of pleasure ahead of us.

BEST VALUE

 Mastroberardino Fiano di Avellino, $22, *** ½

 Radici 2007

 Fresh, lively, textured and balanced with flavors of nuts, smoke and minerals. (Winebow, New York)

Luigi Maffini IGT Paestum, $20, ***

 Kràtos 2008

 Rich yet bright and tangy with waxy, mineral aromas and lingering flavors of citrus and herbs. (Panebianco, New York)

Feudi di San Gregorio, $21, ***

 Fiano di Avellino 2009

 Ripe yet refreshing with rich flavors of citrus, nuts and herbs. (Palm Bay International, Boca Raton, Fla.)

Mastroberardino, $19, ** ½

 Fiano di Avellino 2009

 Lively and juicy with a burst of fruit, flower and mineral flavors. (Winebow, New York)

Terredora Fiano di Avellino, $25, ** ½

 Terre di Dora 2008

 Robust style, with plenty of fruit, smoke and mineral flavors. (Vias, New York)

Clelia Romano Fiano di Avellino, $24, ** ½

 Colli di Lapio 2009

 Tangy and energetic, with fresh flavors of fruit, minerals and smoke. (Marc de Grazia Selection/Michael Skurnik Wines, Syosset, N.Y.)

Rocca del Principe, $19, **

 Fiano di Avellino 2008

 Ripe and perfumed with straightforward fruit flavors and a touch of heat. (Indigenous Selections, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.))

De Conciliis I.G.T. Paestum, $35, **

 Antece 2004

 Atypical: rich and golden from skin maceration and barrel aging, spicy, coconut flavors (Vignaioli Selection, New York)

Vesevo, $16, **

 Fiano di Avellino 2007

 Rich and creamy with flavors of minerals and citrus, and a touch of sweetness. (Vin Divino, Chicago)
659 2011-05-25 WASHINGTON — With the approval of Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., federal prosecutors are trying to force the author of a book on the C.I.A. to testify at a criminal trial about who leaked information to him about the agency’s effort to sabotage the Iranian nuclear program at the end of the Clinton administration.

The writer, James Risen, a reporter at The New York Times, was served with a subpoena on Monday, ordering him to testify at the trial of Jeffrey Sterling, a former Central Intelligence Agency officer. Mr. Sterling was charged this year as part of a wider Obama administration crackdown on officials accused of disclosing restricted information to journalists.

The subpoena tells Mr. Risen that “you are commanded” to appear at federal district court in Alexandria, Va., on Sept. 12 to testify in the case. A federal district judge, Leonie M. Brinkema, quashed a similar subpoena to Mr. Risen last year, when prosecutors were trying to persuade a grand jury to indict Mr. Sterling.

Mr. Risen said he would ask the judge to quash the new subpoena, too.

“I am going to fight this subpoena,” he said. “I will always protect my sources, and I think this is a fight about the First Amendment and the freedom of the press.”

In a 30-page motion that prosecutors filed on Monday, they argued that the First Amendment did not give Mr. Risen the right to avoid testifying about his confidential sources in a criminal proceeding. The Justice Department argued that Mr. Risen was a witness and should be compelled to provide information to a jury “like any other citizen,” contending that there was no basis to conclude “that the reporter is being harassed in order to disrupt his relationship with confidential news sources.”
660 2011-05-25 “The Chinese electricity companies are firing a shot across the bow, and essentially saying they’re not going to just sit there and take massive losses,” said Jeremy C. Carl, a researcher on Chinese energy issues. “It’s almost the equivalent of a corporate sick-out.”

The official Xinhua news agency reported late Monday that the country’s main electricity distribution company, the State Grid, had warned that power shortages this year could be worse than in 2004, when China had its worst blackouts in decades. That year, the problem involved railroad bottlenecks in getting coal to power plants — an issue largely resolved with the subsequent in more rail lines.

This time, the impasse between government and industry is not the only cause of China’s electricity shortages. Surging electricity demand is also a factor.

China’s 700 million rural residents have been on a two-year buying spree of electric devices, purchasing hundreds of millions of air-conditioners and other energy-hungry appliances with government subsidies aimed at narrowing the gap in living standards between cities and rural areas.

In a little-noticed milestone, the latest data from Beijing and shows that China passed the last year as the world’s largest consumer of electricity.

Since March, responding to the power shortages, government officials in six provinces have begun rationing electricity, including here in Hunan province. At least five more provinces are preparing to do so, according to official reports.

In Yiyang, a town of 360,000 in south-central China, electricity shortages are so severe this spring that many homes and businesses receive power only one day in three. Even gasoline stations in this region are silent more days than not, because the pumps lack electricity.

Meanwhile, blackouts are starting to slow the nation’s torrid growth of energy-intensive industries like steel, cement and chemicals. Unlike garment makers and other small manufacturers, the big factories cannot easily switch to backyard diesel generators.

To accommodate businesses that do use diesel back-ups, China last week banned exports of diesel fuel to conserve scarce supplies.

The power cuts are a reason the year-on-year growth rate of China’s industrial production dipped last month — to 13.4 percent in April, down from 14.8 percent in March — and seems to be continuing to fall.

The lower productivity of factories, plus high diesel costs for those using generators, is likely to further raise average prices of American imports from China. Prices of Chinese exports are already up 2.8 percent in the last 12 months, after years of gradual decline that helped restrain inflation in the United States.

As power-deprived factories in China have less demand for raw materials, the impact has rippled around the world among China’s suppliers as well, contributing to 10 percent declines in global prices for commodities like iron ore and copper. That is impinging on the economies of countries like and , for which China is a big customer of natural resources.

Looking ahead, China has placed big bets on for generating electricity. And despite ’s recent nuclear travails, China is also cautiously proceeding with plans to lead the world in the construction of nuclear power plants in the coming decade.

But coal is still king in China. The country has nearly half of the world’s total coal-fired capacity, and coal plants currently represent 73 percent of this nation’s total generating capacity.

Hydroelectric power, at 22 percent, is a distant second and has been hampered by droughts this year.

If Beijing and the utilities can resolve their differences, China plans to build even more coal-powered plants. Doing so would produce another big surge in emissions of greenhouse gases, of which China is already the world’s largest emitter.

“Only coal can provide new capacity in the time and scale needed,” said David Fridley, a China energy expert at the .

The idea of recalcitrant utilities balking at Beijing’s dictates might seem to contradict the popular perception of China’s government-guided economy. But while the electric utilities are majority-owned by the government, they are also profit-motivated companies accountable to the other holders of their publicly traded stock. So the power companies’ incentives are not necessarily aligned with those of central planners in Beijing.

The government, for its part, has imposed an array of price controls, including on electricity rates, as it struggles to insulate the Chinese public from inflation. Consumer prices are rising 5.3 percent a year according to official figures, and Chinese and Western economists say the true rate may be nearly double that.

But coal prices, which the government deregulated in 2008, are rising even faster in China, which is a net importer of coal despite having its own extensive mining operations.

Huaneng, China’s biggest electric utility, said last month that electricity rates it charges customers should have been 13 percent higher last year to match the increase in coal prices. But regulators held utility rates essentially flat.

coal prices in China have surged an additional 20 percent this year — to a record $125 a metric ton for top grades — partly because of floods in Australia’s and ’s coal fields and partly because Japan is buying more from the global market to offset its lower nuclear power output.

But Chinese regulators have let electricity prices climb only 2.5 percent this spring. Residential users in China’s cities pay 8.2 cents a kilowatt-hour. That compares to a national average of 11 cents in the United States and 15 cents in the heavily urban mid-Atlantic region. Chinese industrial users in cities are supposed to pay 12 cents a kilowatt-hour, although politically connected businesses receive discounts; the average industrial rate in the United States is 7 cents, and 9 cents in the mid-Atlantic region.

Big power generators like Huaneng buy nearly half their coal on the spot market and the rest on long-term contracts with prices that rise more slowly.

The government has put pressure on China’s coal mines, also largely state-owned, to continue supplying power companies with coal at below-market prices under long-term contracts. But the mines, which are also profit-oriented operations, have responded with their own form of passive resistance — by sending their cheapest, lowest-quality coal with the most polluting sulfur.

As a result, many power plants are now paying penalties to yet another arm of the government — environmental regulators — for burning the sulfur-spewing coal. That has further added to the utilities’ cost of doing business, said Howard Au, the chief executive of Petrocom Energy, a company that builds coal-blending facilities.

Trying to help utilities reduce those environmentally and financially costly emissions, Petrocom has built a series of gray silos and red conveyor belts at Lianyungang port in northern China to dilute high-sulfur Chinese coal with low-sulfur imported coal.

Blackouts appear to be the worst in smaller towns like Yiyang here in Hunan, one of China’s largest and most populous provinces. The power shortages are threatening to curb the explosive growth the province has experienced since the opening in late 2009 of a high-speed electric train link to prosperous Guangdong province to the south, which helped companies tap Hunan’s cheaper land and labor force.

In rationing electricity, Hunan officials have given priority to big cities like Changsha, the provincial capital. Even there, though, industrial districts are blacked out one day in three.

In Yiyang, meanwhile, multiday blackouts have ruined a tiny restaurant run by Xu Zhanyun, 48, who now must cook meals over lumps of coal instead of his electric stove. “I have so much food in my refrigerators that all went bad,” he said.

There is running water only every other day because the pumping station requires electricity. And so he must haul water from a well — as he did as a boy, before China’s economy surged.

In other cities, factories require employees to work at odd hours when electricity is available.

“They shut down the electricity for a day every three days,” said Jin Jianping, manager of an umbrella factory in Ningbo, in east-central China. “We just arrange night shifts for everyone.”
661 2011-05-25 Mr. and Mrs. Obama met with the newlyweds, giving them a wedding present of six donated MacBook notebook computers to a charity supported by Prince William.

Mr. Obama’s state visit — only the second for a president since the queen took the throne (George W. Bush made one in 2003) — is meant to underline Britain’s “special relationship” with the United States, even if that phrase has sometimes suggested more warmth and solidarity than actually exists between two strong-minded allies.

Mr. Obama and Prime Minister prefer to call it an “essential relationship,” a phrase road-tested in a joint op-ed article published Tuesday in The Times of London. Shared national interests, they wrote, unite the United States and Britain.

“We can honestly say that despite being two leaders from two different political traditions, we see eye to eye,” Mr. Obama and Mr. Cameron wrote. “We look at the world in a similar way, share the same concerns and see the same strategic possibilities.”

Some British commentators argue that Mr. Obama, the community organizer from , and Mr. Cameron, the conservative leader from a privileged background, have little natural affinity. Yet officials on both sides say the two men get along well.

Speaking with American reporters on Monday, Mr. Cameron insisted there were no substantive disagreements between him and Mr. Obama on Libya, the or Afghanistan.

Yet experts said the British had been dismayed at what they saw as America’s reluctance to commit itself fully to toppling Libya’s leader, Col. . Some feel the United States mishandled its decision to withdraw planes from front-line missions early last month.

“The British are disappointed that the U.S. seems only to be half-committed to this battle,” said Charles Grant, director of the Center for European Reform in . “The view goes that even if the U.S. felt it had to make withdrawals, to say so in public would allow Qaddafi to relax and think that the U.S. didn’t really want to get rid of him.”

Britain has also parted company with the United States on statehood, telling that it might support a Palestinian declaration of independence if there were no credible peace talks. The United States opposes any unilateral declaration.

Mr. Obama hopes to persuade Mr. Cameron not to take that path, casting his latest proposal for breaking the impasse in peace talks as a viable alternative. Mr. Obama has formally endorsed Israel’s pre-1967 borders, adjusted to account for Jewish settlements in the , as the starting point for negotiations over the contours of a Palestinian state.

“All that is part of investing in a credible alternative to efforts that we don’t believe will resolve the conflict,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser.
662 2011-05-25 The Joplin tornado damaged nearly a third of the city. But workers were particularly concerned about a busy strip of big-box stores and densely populated apartment complexes that included Hampshire Terrace, where Becky Carithers returned Tuesday morning to the wreckage of her apartment. The site was now a bare slab of concrete and wood, and she found that the winds had stripped her of nearly all her possessions.

Ms. Carithers screamed in astonishment and joy when a man emerged from a car down the street. Her neighbor was alive. She cried aloud to him — “You lived!” — then repeated it more softly to her companion. Then she wept.

“I’m so glad he’s O.K.,” she said. She fell into her companion’s arms, her chest heaving against him.

“Oh, my God,” she said.

The sobs deepened and continued for a long time before she spoke again, her voice heavy with revelation: “We lived. We lived.”

Most of the Hampshire Terrace buildings had already been searched once and marked by a spray-painted “ .” But they were now being searched more thoroughly. A crew of 50 firefighters from planned to spend the day sifting through the wreckage in the rubble of the two-story buildings in the horseshoe-shaped complex.

The cadaver-sniffing dogs they requested had not arrived, and high-tech cameras and listening devices could do only so much, so the work was slow and back-breaking as they moved boards and bricks one at a time.

“This is one of the last areas where they don’t have a firm, clear picture of what happened,” said Ed Beirne, an assistant fire chief in charge of the group.

He took pains to manage expectations. “We’re always hopeful, but we briefed the guys to plan for the worst,” he said. “Anyone who was injured in here is probably expired by now.”

The residents of the 100-unit complex used the break in the weather after days of continued rain, hail, lightning and tornado warnings to search for salvageable possessions — a child’s favorite toy, a lost wedding ring, the flag that had been draped over a father’s coffin. Some wondered where they would put these waterlogged keepsakes, pointing out that they needed to find a place to live.

The biggest discoveries were of each other. Neighbors shared tearful embraces and recounted harrowing episodes of riding out the storm.

One elderly woman climbed into her wheelchair when she heard the warning and was pinned under debris until she was rescued by her daughter. A couple hid with their son and grandchild under the staircase. A few doors down, a family fled the complex as soon as they heard the sirens, worried that the building would not withstand the hit.

They wondered about neighbors they had not yet seen or heard from.

“I keep hearing the count go up, and I keep praying it stops,” said Jessica Blackwood, 22, who lived in an apartment with her 2-year-old son and whose grandmother lived in another apartment. Both were away when the tornado struck. “I’m so scared one of these times I’m going to hear a name I know.”

, on a visit to , said that he was monitoring the federal response to the tornado and that he planned to visit on Sunday “to talk with folks who’ve been affected, to talk to local officials about our response effort and hopefully to pray with folks and give them whatever assurance and comfort I can that the entire country is going to be behind them.”

Leaders of the recovery effort here, who have established a perimeter restricting access to the affected area as well as the makeshift morgues, declined to discuss the list of people who remain unaccounted for. Some emphasized that they expected their ranks to include many people who fled the tornado or who have now sought shelter elsewhere.

As the days have passed, those still searching for loved ones adopted a more desperate tone.

“Ok people I’m looking for a JEFF MASSEY,” Lacy Letts wrote on a Facebook page set up by The Joplin Globe. “If anyone knows anything, please let me know asap. We were just told he was dead.”

Another sought information about Will Norton, who was returning from his high school graduation on Sunday with his father when he was sucked through the sunroof of his SUV.

His family said they had heard reports that he was taken to a hospital, but no hospital in the area seems to have a record that he was there. “The family is looking for anyone who has actually SEEN Will,” another Facebook page says. “All prayers are greatly appreciated.”
663 2011-05-25 Foxconn and Apple each declined to say which products were being produced at the Chengdu facility. Foxconn is one of Apple’s biggest suppliers, and the Chengdu complex is a relatively new factory, with 80,000 employees.

IHS iSuppli, a research group, said Monday that the explosion at the Chengdu facility could result in the loss of production of 500,000 Apple iPad 2 tablet computers during the second quarter of this year. IHS iSuppli said that while most of the iPad 2 production was taking place at another Foxconn plant, in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, that factory might not be able to compensate for the disruption in Chengdu.

Foxconn has been moving aggressively over the last year to expand its operations in central and western China to keep up with production demands and to recruit more workers from the poorer inland provinces.

Apple has a longstanding relationship with Foxconn, which struggled last year to cope with a rash of worker suicides. Some labor rights groups say they believe the suicides were the result of harsh working conditions at Foxconn.

Foxconn, however, insists it treats its workers well. After the suicides, it hired counselors and installed large nets on some buildings to prevent suicides.

Apple later praised Foxconn’s efforts, saying the company had “definitely saved lives.” But Apple, like other global companies, has to deal with continuing problems that crop up in China’s huge factory zones. Apple, which has a strict code of conduct for its global suppliers, audits plants every year and publishes its findings.

Last year, Apple said its audits found that nine supplier factories in China had hired workers below the age of 16, the legal working age, and that other plants had falsified audit materials and even coached workers on how to respond to questions from auditors. Apple also said in its report that at a supplier factory in the city of Suzhou, 137 workers were exposed last year to the toxic chemical n-hexane, causing adverse health effects.

The Apple “Supplier Responsibility Report,” however, did not specifically name Foxconn for labor violations.

Some labor rights activists say Foxconn’s working conditions are poor and that Apple and Foxconn have failed to address complaints by workers.

On Monday, a Hong Kong-based labor rights group called Students and & Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior said that it had noted a problem with “aluminum dust” in Foxconn’s Chengdu plant last March, when it issued a report on the company’s working conditions there.

The group said workers at the Chengdu factory had complained this year that “the ventilation of the department is poor. Workers polish the iPad cases to make them shiny. In the process, there is lots of aluminum dust floating in the air. Workers always breathe in aluminum dust even though they put on masks. When workers take off their cotton gloves, their hands are covered with aluminum dust.”

After the statement was released by the group, Foxconn issued its own statement saying it was “unfortunate” that the Hong Kong group was seeking to “capitalize on the tragic accident” with a statement that misrepresented “Foxconn’s commitment to the health and safety of our employees.”
664 2011-05-25 The music executive Clive Davis is giving an additional $5 million gift to the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, allowing the expansion of the Clive Davis Department of Recorded Music into the Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music...
665 2011-05-25 The music executive Clive Davis is giving an additional $5 million gift to the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, allowing the expansion of the Clive Davis Department of Recorded Music into the Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music...
666 2011-05-25 9:32 p.m. | Updated      The United States Treasury wrung a small profit on Tuesday from the first sale of its shares in the American International Group, a major step toward unwinding the government's ownership from a 2008 bailout....
667 2011-05-26 Authorities say Donald L. Johnson used secret corporate information he obtained as a Nasdaq executive to trade illegally, reaping profits of about $750,000....
668 2011-05-26 Finra fined Credit Suisse Securities $4.5 million and Merrill Lynch $3 million, saying they had misled investors about the bad loans in mortgage-backed securities....
669 2011-05-26 Up Next in Video
670 2011-05-26 The page you were looking for does not exist. The link may have been bad or a bad operation was performed. Please conduct a new search or return to the home page.
671 2011-05-26 When Kim Clijsters got the yips late in the second set against Aranxa Rus and began backing off of her forcing groundstrokes, Rus surged in to take control....
672 2011-05-26 The hedge fund manager David Einhorn contends that the chief executive is the biggest overhang on Microsoft’s stock price....
673 2011-05-26 Birreria will have its own craft beers, brewed there....
674 2011-05-26 Sam Querrey again lost early at the French Open, this time dropping a second-round match to Ivan Ljubicic on Thursday....
675 2011-05-26 Raptr, a social network for gamers, thinks it can relieve the clutter of information that overwhelms gamers. The approach could be useful to nongamers too....
676 2011-05-26 Lawyers and other outside advisers working on the ongoing bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers billed for another $27.1 million in April. As The Am Law Daily combed through the latest filings, we noticed that one top legal biller from lead counsel Weil, Gotshal & Manges was no longer at the firm.

Shai Waisman--a former business finance and restructuring partner at Weil who has been identified by more than one media outlet in recent years as one of the New York bankruptcy bar's bright young stars--left the firm last month, a Weil spokeswoman confirmed.

Waisman, 39, was one of the top partners at Weil assigned to the Lehman case. According to a recent interim fee application filed by the firm for the period between February 1 and May 31 of last year, Waisman received more compensation for billable time on the case than even Weil bankruptcy honcho Harvey Miller. (Only five Weil partners were due more in total compensation than Waisman during that period.)

Waisman's last filings in the Lehman case came in early April. It was around that time that he left Weil and joined Claims Recovery Group LLC (CRG), a claims trading operation based in Cresskill, N.J., according to several sources familiar with his move.

An e-mail sent to Waisman at CRG, which buys and sells distressed claims against bankrupt entities, was not immediately returned by the time of this post. A message left at a Manhattan phone number listed under Waisman's name was not returned, nor was a message left for him at CRG.

Waisman, who made partner at Weil at 32 and has handled several major bankruptcy assignments in addition to Lehman, isn't the first Am Law 100 partner to make a move to the business side. In March, we reported that Nick Saggese, a recently retired partner from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, had joined boutique investment bank Moelis & Company as a senior adviser.

Just this week, New York-based private equity firm Blue Wolf Capital Partners announced that it had hired Patton Boggs deputy managing partner and management committee member Charles Miller as a partner. Miller will serve as chief compliance officer for Blue Wolf, which has been a client of Miller's for several years.

Waisman's move to CRG comes at a time when the pace of business bankruptcy filings in the U.S. has slowed down after a busy period that coincided with the country's econcomic downturn. Still, the Lehman bankruptcy churns on.

According to a monthly operating report filed this week with the SEC, Weil took home another $7.9 million in April, bringing its total tab in the Lehman case to $293.8 million. Weil saw gross revenue drop almost 4 percent to roughly $1.2 billion in 2010, while profits per partner fell 2.4 percent to $2.26 million last year, according to the firm's most recent Am Law 100 financial data.
677 2011-05-26 For nearly 20 years, Bill Weinberg was a familiar late-night voice on WBAI-FM, ruminating about radical politics, global turmoil and life in New York City, until the station recently canceled his program....
678 2011-05-26 The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety named six top safety picks in the small-car category on Thursday....
679 2011-05-26 LOS ANGELES—Not much is sacred in Hollywood. Classics are remade; final cuts are subjected to focus groups and re-edited.

But the Hollywood sign? That is sacrosanct.

Plans to erect a “Wellywood” sign mimicking the Hollywood sign in Wellington, New Zealand — part of an effort to promote that city’s growing film industry — have riled Hollywood insiders.

The Hollywood Chamber of Commerce, which holds the trademark to the sign, insists that Wellington Airport needs permission to use the image and is threatening legal action.

“Over the years, we’ve been contacted by a lot of people who want to mimic the sign,” Leron Gubler, president of the chamber, said. “We usually tell them, ‘Do something of your own.’ ”

Since the blockbuster “Lord of the Rings” trilogy was shot in New Zealand, that country’s film industry has proved a boon to tourism, with foreigners eager to climb the peaks that served as Mount Doom.
680 2011-05-26 The Bloomberg administration demoted a high-ranking agency official on Wednesday after she admitted falsifying time sheets and collecting more than $22,000 that she had not earned.

The official, Karen Shaffer, an assistant commissioner of the Department for the Aging, was not only demoted and fined, but will also now have to use a scanner to prove that she is showing up at work. An agency spokesman said she was not fired, for reasons that were not clear.

Ms. Shaffer acknowledged in a signed statement to the city’s Conflicts of Interest Board that between March 2009 and August 2010 she was paid for 290 hours of work that she did not perform. She said she did so by manually entering false information into the CityTime automated payroll system.

Ms. Shaffer was fined $1,000, but did not have to repay the $22,000 in unearned salary. She was demoted to a job in the Department of Homeless Services, at a salary of roughly $112,000 — 20 percent less than the $140,000 she earned as an assistant commissioner. She also agreed to use the hand scanner, a time-tracking device that is ordinarily used for rank-and-file employees but not senior officials.

“By inaccurately claiming she was physically at” the Department for the Aging when she was required to be working there, the Conflicts of Interest Board said in a statement, Ms. Shaffer “violated the City of New York’s conflicts of interest law, which prohibits city employees from engaging in personal activities during hours they are required to be performing services for the city.”
681 2011-05-26 CAIRO — Egypt will permanently open its border with the Gaza Strip on Saturday despite Israeli protests, Egypt’s transitional government confirmed Wednesday, upending the dynamics of regional politics in a bid to shake up the deadlocked peace process and better respond to Egyptian public opinion.

The opening of the border will be the latest geopolitical aftershock of the Egyptian revolution, and it is likely to strengthen the militant group Hamas, while easing life for 1.6 million residents.

The border between Rafah and the Gaza Strip has been officially closed since Hamas took control of Gaza in 2007. At that time, the Egyptian government under President Hosni Mubarak effectively sealed the border at the same time that Israel imposed its own blockade aimed at weakening Hamas.

Egyptian officials at the time said that they wanted to prevent militants from slipping across the border and to pressure Israel to open its crossing. But the move was always extraordinarily unpopular with the Egyptian public, which distrusts Israel and sympathizes with the Palestinians.

Israeli officials have warned repeatedly that they consider any opening of the border a grave threat to their security, noting that Hamas already succeeded in smuggling a steady supply of weapons even when Egypt had ostensibly sealed the crossing.

But after the revolution that toppled Mr. Mubarak two months ago, Egypt’s newly appointed foreign minister, Nabil el-Araby, made clear that he considered the blockade inhumane and shameful. He almost immediately opened talks with Hamas with an eye to end Egypt’s participation in the blockade and reconcile Hamas with the more moderate Palestinian faction Fatah, which controls the West Bank.
682 2011-05-26 The convention, from Tuesday to Thursday, is on a more relaxed schedule than last year, when it was mostly compressed into two days. Attendees squeezed into meeting rooms to listen to once-unthinkable panel discussions like “Twitter Fundamentals for Book Professionals” and “How eBooks Will Save the Book: Putting Storytelling and Creation at the Center of Publishing.” Worries about the future of the industry reached the authors who were there to promote their books with the bookstore employees in attendance.

John Lithgow, the actor and author, strolled the exhibit floor to promote his memoir, “Drama,” which will be released in September. “I worked on my book for three years,” Mr. Lithgow said. “And there was a certain feeling of: ‘I’ve got to finish this fast. There aren’t going to be books anymore.’ ”

Some anxiety over digital publishing was tempered by the fact that while e-book sales are huge in fiction, especially genre fiction like romance, mysteries and thrillers, they have barely registered in children’s books, reference books and a lot of nonfiction categories. And, publishers said, the spread of e-books could make the whole publishing pie bigger.

“People with e-readers buy more books,” said Markus Dohle, chairman and chief executive of Random House. “That’s an opportunity.”

On Tuesday two industry groups released the long-awaited preliminary findings from a survey measuring the size and scope of the book business. The analysis showed growth in both revenues and units sold for publishers of all sizes, despite declines in both hardcover and paperback sales.

Dominique Raccah, the publisher of Sourcebooks, a midsize publisher in Naperville, Ill., said her sales are already up more than 20 percent so far this year over the same period in 2011.

“The industry is beginning to figure it out,” Ms. Raccah said. “A lot of the water-cooler conversation here is negative. But the book industry is actually growing. And it looks like the majority of book publishers are experiencing growth in this environment.”

Foreign sales attracted more interest than usual. David Steinberger, the chief executive of the Perseus Books Group, said he spent part of Tuesday meeting with foreign publishers and retailers to discuss opportunities abroad. (Perseus includes Constellation, a leading digital service for independent publishers.)

“Digital is going global fast, and it’s going to create all sorts of new opportunities,” Mr. Steinberger said. “These devices are going to be everywhere. There’s going to be huge demand for English-language e-books all over the world.”

The battle over e-reader customers continued on Tuesday with dueling announcements by two of the industry’s biggest retailers. Barnes & Noble held a splashy news conference on Tuesday morning to unveil its latest e-reader, a black-and-white touch-screen version of the Nook. Not to be outdone, Amazon elbowed in with its own statement later that day that it has a new e-reader, a $164 Kindle with 3G.

Some attendees focused on the time-honored tradition of scooping up as much swag as possible. A sign proclaimed that luggage and carts were not allowed on the exhibit floor, a rule flouted by at least a few determined people with rolling suitcases packed with free books.

As it is every year the fair is an excuse for publishers to give parties that begin soon after the convention floor clears out at the end of the day.

Random House Children’s Books hosted a party aboard the aircraft carrier Intrepid on the Hudson River on Tuesday night, promising appearances by many of its authors, including Tyra Banks. Also on Tuesday the Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group gave a party at a French bistro in Midtown, where waiters passed around foie gras on toast.

Though there did not appear to be one big breakout book of the convention — as there was in years past, when “The Thirteenth Tale” took off thanks to attention during the fair — publishers said they still believed it was an opportunity to build crucial buzz for their books by introducing authors to booksellers at parties and dinners.

Oren Teicher, the chief executive of the American Booksellers Association, said that while independent bookstores had increased in number in the last year, it was time for booksellers and publishers to “acknowledge that new times and new challenges require new business practices.”

Some booksellers said they were doing just fine. Steve Bercu, the owner of BookPeople in Austin, Tex., said his store had its best year ever in 2010. People in Texas, he joked, “don’t even know e-books are happening.”
683 2011-05-26 7:52 p.m. | Updated      WASHINGTON - A divided Securities and Exchange Commission narrowly approved rules on Wednesday to create a $300 million whistle-blower program....
684 2011-05-26 Weeks after the United States operation that resulted in the killing of Osama bin Laden, the Columbia Pictures division of Sony Pictures Entertainment said it had acquired a new film project by Kathryn Bigelow, the Academy Award-winning director o...
685 2011-05-26 A mystery since the 19th century, the Leather Man will apparently remain that way forever.     From Sunday to Tuesday afternoon, a team of about 20 historians, geneticists, archaeologists, anthropologists and other researchers descended on the Spa...
686 2011-05-26 It hardly seems possible in the current environment where investors are clamoring for newly public companies like LinkedIn and Yandex.      But Freescale Semiconductor Holdings, the chip maker acquired in 2006 in one of the largest technology buyo...
687 2011-05-26 After months of planning, the federal government has sold the first batch of shares that it owns in the American International Group, the most prominent reminder of the wreckage of 2008.     But much hard work remains....
688 2011-05-27 An app to enjoy the music and events of the Woodstock music festival–without the rain, the mud and bad acid....
689 2011-05-27 Is the women’s tour rudderless, adrift in a sea of mediocrity, or is this a time of exciting new players on the cusp of stardom?...
690 2011-05-27 R. A. Dickey partly tore the plantar fascia on his right foot but hopes to avoid the disabled list....
691 2011-05-27 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
692 2011-05-27 Paul Sullivan’s Wealth Matters column lays out the common mistakes employers make in managing household staff....
693 2011-05-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
694 2011-05-27 What we can glean from Friday’s match is that Roger Federer will be looking to attack and come forward more in the second week....
695 2011-05-27 Horse racing is halfway to a Triple Crown rubber match after the trainer of Animal Kingdom said Friday that the Kentucky Derby winner Animal Kingdom would come to New York for the Belmont Stakes....
696 2011-05-27 The historian David McCullough talks about his new book “The Greater Journey: Americans in Paris.”...
697 2011-05-27 Senator Mitch McConnell knows one of the golden rules of politics: when your friends are down, do some punching on their behalf....
698 2011-05-27 The IndyCar and Formula One races have spawned their share of intrigues this week, both on- and off-track....
699 2011-05-27 This year about 40 percent of the new hotels in New York are opening in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island, including the Four Points by Sheraton Long Island City/Queensboro Bridge in Queens and the Hotel Williamsburg in Brooklyn....
700 2011-05-27 As fashion took a giant leap into solid brights this spring, J Brand followed suit, and its colored denim is flying off the shelves....
701 2011-05-27 With the May 5 opening of the St. Pancras Renaissance Hotel, London’s heritage-hotel revival has finally reached a high point....
702 2011-05-27 A meta-moment from the 2008 Obama-McCain debate....
703 2011-05-27 A bill extending the Patriot Act was signed into law by a mechanical autopen....
704 2011-05-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
705 2011-05-27 In a new Minimalist video, Mark Bittman pairs soft, rich scallops with crunchy pickled cucumber....
706 2011-05-27 Jon Hamm, who plays Don Draper on the hit AMC period drama “Mad Men,” said he had been contemplating an opportunity to direct an episode of the show ever since John Slattery did so during the show’s fourth season....
707 2011-05-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
708 2011-05-27 Discussing the story lines ahead of Saturday’s Champions League Final between Barcelona and Manchester United....
709 2011-05-27 Samantha Stosur, seeded sixth and a finalist in last year’s French Open, lost to Gisela Dulko, 6-4, 1-6, 6-3....
710 2011-05-27 Time-saving tip: All the popular web browsers will let you save a group of tabs so that your browser will open them all whenever it starts....
711 2011-05-27 The company’s video-streaming service continues to expand the availability of subtitles in its film and TV library....
712 2011-05-27 A London gallery is hosting the first ever retrospective of the work of the controversial British artist Tracey Emin....
713 2011-05-27 A joint venture between MGM Resorts International and the daughter of a Hong Kong casino mogul raised $1.5 billion in its initial public offering....
714 2011-05-27 Some things the Palins may not know about Scottsdale:

Home to the largest indoor shooting range in the country — the 35,000-square-foot, 32-lane Scottsdale Gun Club; the busiest single-runway airport in the country, and the Parada del Sol, which calls itself the “largest horse-drawn parade in the world.”

Arizona’s Fifth Congressional District was one of Sarah Palin’s “target” districts in 2010. David Schweikert, a Republican, ousted the incumbent Democrat with 52 percent of the vote.

The McCain-Palin presidential ticket won Maricopa County in 2008 with 61.9 percent of the vote.
715 2011-05-27 Mr. Einhorn emphasized that his investment in the Mets was not related to any of the $8 billion or so he manages at Greenlight Capital, his hedge fund. He sent an e-mail to investors to clarify the distinction and acknowledged that he understood that rehabilitating a troubled franchise would not be swift or easy.

“Baseball is a tough sport, and everyone wants to win more games,” said Mr. Einhorn, who would become one of a handful of financial moguls to own a professional sports team. “Over time, there is going to be losing seasons and tough seasons and winning seasons and hopefully championship seasons. I hope to experience all of those.”

Forbes magazine values the Mets at $747 million, 13 percent less than last year. The true value of the team, though, will not be known until it is clear what percentage of the club Einhorn will get for his $200 million.

Despite the team’s problems, Mr. Einhorn’s proposed stake in the Mets — which must be completed with the team and approved by Major League Baseball — fits a pattern. He enjoys making money, and seems to enjoy almost as much crowing about how right his often blunt, often controversial investment analysis typically proves to be.

Indeed, he wrote a book detailing his prescience and some of the ills of the financial industry. It was titled, “Fooling Some of the People All of the Time.”

Mr. Einhorn does not seem to have the makeup of a hard-charging hedge fund manager. Mild-mannered, he speaks deliberately and softly. He was born in Demarest, N.J., and his family moved to Milwaukee when he was 7. He graduated from Cornell with a degree in government, not economics or business.

While many fund managers work well into the night, Mr. Einhorn is known to leave the office early enough to get home to Westchester for his daughter’s Little League games. He is active in several charities and, with his wife, Cheryl, set up a trust whose mission is to help people get along better.

But Mr. Einhorn also grew up in a financially minded home. His father is a banker who helps facilitate mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Einhorn helped found his hedge fund in 1996, when he was in his late 20s — a young age by industry standards — with less than a million dollars, much of which came from his parents.

He is a believer in so-called value investing, a strategy made famous by the likes of Warren E. Buffett (he once paid $250,000 to have lunch with the legendary investor), which holds that the best investments are made in good companies that are cheap. He will spend months reviewing a company’s financial information, searching for hidden value. He can then bet big, sometimes on the order of hundreds of millions.

Mr. Einhorn is fond of quoting Ken Griffey Jr. when talking about his investment style: “I don’t consider myself a home run hitter. But when I’m seeing the ball and hitting it hard, it will go out of the park.”

Like Mr. Buffett, Mr. Einhorn has a shrewd, quick mind, according to several hedge fund managers, skills that undoubtedly came in handy in 2006, when he entered the World Series of Poker as a relative novice in conventional gambling. He finished 18th out of 8,773 contestants.

His brand of poker is something of a metaphor for his style of business. Playing Texas Hold ’em, Mr. Einhorn told New York magazine in 2008, is about waiting for a chance to pounce, then pressing the advantage. “We make bigger bets every day,” he said of his day job. “There’s more at risk in what happens in Microsoft than I could ever bet on a poker table.”

His big bets and the economics of hedge funds help explain why he can afford to spend $200 million on a money-losing team. Hedge funds invest money for the wealthy as well as pension funds and other institutions.

Mr. Einhorn charges investors 1.5 percent to manage their money and 20 percent of any profits generated, investors in the fund say. Since its inception, his fund has returned 19 percent to investors on average per year.

While some hedge funds engage in campaigns to replace executives of the companies they own, Mr. Einhorn is often quiet when dissatisfied. But when he does go public, his words can move the markets. On Wednesday, Mr. Einhorn derided Steve Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, as “stuck in the past” and suggested its board look to replace him. Mr. Einhorn owned about nine million shares of the company as of the end of March, according to a regulatory filing, worth about $200 million.

Since his comments, the shares are trading up about 2 percent.

His investment in the Mets may be more problematic. The team, run as a family business, has not had to acknowledge outsiders in the boardroom. Some smart people on Wall Street looked at the Mets’ books and walked away because the team refused to sell part of its share in SNY, its profitable cable network. Mr. Einhorn has decided to pay only for shares in the team.

The decision has some investors wondering whether he sees an angle no one else discovered.

“He’s a value guy,” said Anthony Scaramucci, a managing partner at the investment firm SkyBridge Capital, who was part of another group that looked to buy part of the Mets. “So you’d have to look at this as a growth opportunity and hold your nose and eyes for 10 years.”
716 2011-05-27 In your May 23 editorial “Breaking Faith,” you claim that I “falsely” accused Goodwin Liu, President Obama’s judicial nominee, of holding the view that the United States Constitution somehow guarantees a European-style welfare state. Yet in a 2006 Yale Law Journal article, Mr. Liu argued:

“On my account of the Constitution’s citizenship guarantee, federal responsibility logically extends to areas beyond education. ... Beyond a minimal safety net, the legislative agenda of equal citizenship should extend to systems of support and opportunity that, like education, provide a foundation for political and economic autonomy and participation. The main pillars of the agenda would include basic employment supports such as expanded health insurance, child care, transportation subsidies, job training and a robust earned income tax credit.”

I believe that the professor’s words speak for themselves, and that my characterization was fair.
717 2011-05-27 But a Finance Ministry official, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said that Mr. Schäuble stood by comments he made days earlier, in which he appeared to entertain stretching Greece’s bond payments.

In an interview published Sunday in the German daily Bild, Mr. Schäuble said an extension of Greek debt payments would be possible only if it could be done without causing private investors to withdraw their money from the country.

Mr. Schäuble and other European leaders have grown impatient with the pace of Greek efforts to sell state assets, improve tax collection and make the economy more competitive. They are trying to maintain pressure on Greek leaders, while acknowledging that they may have to deal with the possibility that Greece cannot meet all its obligations.

In an interview published this week by Der Spiegel, the German magazine, Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, who oversees regular gatherings of euro zone finance and economic ministers, said that a so-called soft restructuring might be considered, but only after Greece had completed a tough overhaul.

“It would be the last step in a very long process,” Mr. Juncker said.

On Thursday, he warned that Greece might not meet requirements to receive the next installment of aid from the International Monetary Fund, Bloomberg News reported. His comments were interpreted as further pressure on Greece to act more boldly.

“I’m skeptical about Greece,” Otmar Issing, a former member of the European Central Bank’s executive board, said on Thursday, according to Bloomberg News. “Greece is not just illiquid, it’s insolvent.”

Peter Bofinger, an economist who advises the German government, said on Wednesday in Hamburg that Greece’s creditors would need to accept a 40 percent cut in the value of the country’s bonds, and swap them for bonds issued jointly by euro zone members.

One idea that has been gaining favor among economics specialists is a pact in which holders of Greek bonds would agree to be paid back more slowly to avoid greater losses if Greece defaulted. Such an agreement would be complicated but possible, legal specialists say.

The European Central Bank, which is the largest holder of Greek debt, has refused to consider such solutions.
718 2011-05-27 The E.U.’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, was visiting Serbia on Thursday and diplomats were divided on whether or not Mr. Mladic’s arrest was a coincidence. The government insisted that it had been actively looking for Mr. Mladic for years.

“We didn’t calculate when we arrested Mladic,” Mr. Tadic said at a press conference in Belgrade, adding that his government had “been cooperating” with the U.N. tribunal.

A decision on whether to open E.U. membership talks with Serbia is scheduled for the autumn, and European leaders are now much more likely to give the green light. Last October, at the insistence of the Netherlands, E.U. foreign ministers declared that new steps would be approved only if all 27 member countries agreed that Belgrade was cooperating fully with war crime investigations.

The issue is particularly sensitive in the Netherlands; lightly armed Dutch peacekeepers failed to prevent the slaughter of some 8,000 Bosnian Muslim men and boys at Srebrenica in 1995.

“This day is a good day for justice and the victims of General Mladic,” the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, said in a statement.

Though the Balkan countries were told eight years ago that they could join the process of European integration, Serbia was prevented from even starting membership talks because of its failure to arrest Mr. Mladic.

Yet, without the prospect of Serbia joining the European family, there was a gaping hole in the West’s strategy for regional reconciliation — one that could begin to close.

In the past, European integration helped France and Germany put aside centuries of enmities after World War II, and eased other historical tensions among neighbors, including issues between Britain and Ireland.

Now, despite a series of continuing problems in the region, that prospect finally opens for the Balkans, too.

“This unlocks the process for the whole region,” said Heather Grabbe, director of the Open Society Foundations in Brussels and a former E.U. official. “If Serbia can start E.U. membership negotiations with Montenegro, that allows others to do so when they are ready.”

With the government in Belgrade on the European track, the troublesome Bosnian Serb leadership is left with less room to pursue a separatist path that threatens to undermine Bosnia-Herzegovina.

“This is a symbol that Serbia is ready to put the past behind it. It rehabilitates Serbia’s reputation as a country that can deliver the rule of international law,” Ms. Grabbe said.

Of course, the Balkans still face numerous obstacles, including the status of Kosovo, the divisions within Bosnia-Herzegovina and political and economic difficulties in Albania and Macedonia.

Croatia has just been through a similar difficult moment in coming to terms with its past with the sentencing of Ante Gotovina, a former Croatian general. He received a 24-year sentence from the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague, the U.N. court that has tried those held responsible for atrocities committed in the Balkan conflicts of the 1990s.

Croatia is in the closing stretch of its lengthy negotiations with the European Union, having reached agreement on 30 of the 35 policy areas required.

And if and when they start, Serbia’s membership talks with the European Union will take years to complete as well.

After years of false leads about the whereabouts of Mr. Mladic and frequent reports that his capture was imminent, many diplomats had given up hope that he would be caught.

“I never believed I would live to see this day,” said one E.U. diplomat who has followed the issue for years but was not authorized to speak publicly. “If followed through correctly, a surge of goodwill should flow to Serbia because finally they have come through, and this was not easy.”

Mr. Rutte, the Dutch prime minister, emphasized that not only was the arrest a vindication of the Dutch pressure, but it also “sends a strong message that leaders directly responsible for crimes against humanity will eventually have to account for their deeds.”
719 2011-05-27 Einhorn is a Mets fan, so far without season tickets. Like Fred Wilpon, he has a long connection to Commissioner . After moving as a child from Demarest, N.J., to , he played softball in the backyard of his best friend’s house, which was adjacent to that of Selig, who at the time owned the .

Selig was a decade into owning the Brewers when Wilpon bought a stake in the Mets; their friendship has grown since. Last November, Selig agreed to have baseball lend the Mets $25 million, a that would now be repaid with part of Einhorn’s cash infusion.

For the Mets, the emergence of Einhorn allowed them to at least momentarily change the subject after a long run of bad news. They have had two straight losing seasons, and two September collapses before that; have watched attendance decline at for the second straight year; and have suffered an unending series of injuries to key players.

In addition, a public relations blitz by Wilpon backfired this week after he criticized several of his top players in a New Yorker article. His apologies the next day prompted a front-page headline in The New York Post that read: “FRED-FACED.”

Finally, and most significantly, Wilpon and the co-owner are battling a $1 billion lawsuit against them by the trustee for the victims of ’s fraud, a confrontation that could potentially cost them ownership of the team and perhaps allow Einhorn to assume control. Even as Einhorn was being unveiled on Thursday, the Mets filed a motion asking that the trustee’s lawsuit be moved from Bankruptcy Court to Federal District Court.

Though announcing that a buyer has entered an exclusive negotiating period to buy all or part of a sports team is not rare, it carries some risk. Several sports bankers said that by identifying a single investor, the Mets had given Einhorn leverage to demand a better deal before it is completed.

And if the talks fall through, the Mets risk embarrassment — and will again be in dire need of cash.

“Rule No. 1 is you never have a press conference unless you have a deal signed,” said a banker who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to affect the business he does with the Mets. “Now Einhorn owns them because they have to do the deal.”

Some hurdles remain during the exclusive negotiating period. Einhorn is likely to want indemnity from any legal settlements involving the Madoff case. Given the Mets’ financial troubles, he may also want protection from future capital calls that owners are often requested to pay when there are cash shortfalls.

Then there is the $200 million. It may take time for Einhorn to organize the financing.

Although Einhorn’s interest in the Mets remained a secret until late Wednesday, he said that he and the Mets decided the time was right to announce it rather than have it leak out as more people were apprised of the talks.

Einhorn emerged from a field of bidders made up mostly of Wall Street financiers, among them , Anthony Scaramucci and Steve Starker. Some looked at the Mets’ books and withdrew; others were seeking what the Mets would not offer — a piece of the profitable SNY channel and a voice in how the team is run.

In the end, the Mets found Einhorn, who wanted neither, at the price they wanted.

Joe Ravitch, a veteran sports banker, said that the $200 million Einhorn had agreed to pay “is an extraordinary statement about the scarcity of great sports franchises in the world and the premium value attached when there’s an opportunity to buy into one.”

Robert Boland, who teaches sports management at , said that even a minority stake in a baseball team would appeal to a hedge fund manager like Einhorn. “They’ve been fairly safe havens in terms of their overall value,” he said. “Even the Mets in turmoil have lost little value.”

But how long Einhorn will be satisfied as a minority owner without real power remains to be seen. He has been a highly visible figure in a hedge fund industry known for its assertive practitioners. If he does not like the way the team is run by the Wilpons, he might grow increasingly frustrated, said Sebastian Mallaby, the author of “More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite.”

“The essence of hedge funds is to apply a highly activist mind-set to investing,” he said. “Therefore, the notion that he can remain passive forever does slightly strain credulity.” Although it might be difficult for Einhorn to gain control of the team if he grows aggrieved, Mallaby said Einhorn would not be silent.

“He’s no shrinking violet,” Mallaby said. “He’s willing to take on entrenched establishments.”
720 2011-05-27 “She’s been found!” the volunteer said. “We have to update the list.”

The five pages of names, addresses and ages are a reminder of the cross-section of possible victims of the tornado, which has been labeled the deadliest in the more than half-century of modern recordkeeping.

There is Hayze Howard, less than 2 years old, among about 10 people on the list whose ages could be counted on fingers. There is Louis Sparks, the oldest person on the list at 94, one of a dozen people on the list who lived at the destroyed Greenbrier Nursing Home. There are the Merritts, whose home at 3107 South Day Road had the unwelcome distinction of sheltering the most missing: Brittany, 28; Allen, 26; Alexandria, 8; Payton, 5; and Nevea, who is 2 or 3.

Also on the list is Dee Ann Haywood, 47, who had gone out to pick up some pizza to celebrate her nephew’s graduation from high school on Sunday. Her family members, who were out on Thursday posting more fliers about her, said they understood the difficulties faced by local officials, but were still frustrated.

“Of course no one has dealt with anything like this,” said Patty Penn, Ms. Haywood’s older sister. “But it’s not really well coordinated.”

That sense led ’s governor, Jay Nixon, to direct the state to assume responsibility from the local authorities for the process of locating people. The list had been kept private to sort through unreliable information, including numerous false reports that someone had been seen alive. But then officials decided that making it public would allow people to remove the names of people who were safe and add the names of others unaccounted for.

The list was whittled to less than a sixth of its original size with records from temporary shelters, hospital logs, a “safe and well” Web site and cellphone records.

Andrea Spillars, deputy director of the Missouri Department of Public Safety, who is in charge of the effort, said it was a top priority to reduce the number of unaccounted for to zero.

“We will dedicate as much state resources as needed around the clock to make sure that those family members that have loved ones that they cannot find are connected,” she said.

But in some ways the announcement confused, rather than clarified. State officials did not say how many of the 232 people listed as missing were also among the 125 people who had been declared dead — a number that officials have not changed for the past two days.

So far, the bodies of tornado victims have not been released for burial because they are being identified only through forensic methods, including DNA and fingerprinting, rather than visually. The efforts have been complicated because many medical records from the local hospital were lost or destroyed. Officials said only one body had been identified as of Thursday morning.

Officials said the process — even though it extended a painful period of uncertainty for some family members — was necessary to ensure that identifications were made with complete accuracy, especially given that many remains were not intact. Those who have gone to the makeshift morgue outside of town seeking to view or recover the bodies of loved ones have been turned away.

Mr. Nixon said that he understood the frustrations but that the process could not be sped up. “It’s a very difficult job,” he said. “We have the best people we have working as hard as they can.”

Later in the day, hundreds of residents gathered at Missouri Southern State University, which has become a staging ground for recovery and relief efforts, to hear state officials talk about types of assistance that would be available.

After brief speeches by the governor and other officials, residents stopped by booths to pick up packets of information and ask about , federal financial aid and other topics.
721 2011-05-27 JOPLIN, Mo. -- The number of people unaccounted for in this tornado-ravaged city was reduced to more than 200 on Thursday from more than 1,500 earlier this week, and officials released their names for the first time to the public.     The list of ...
722 2011-05-27 For nearly 20 years, an East Village journalist named Bill Weinberg has been a familiar late-night voice on the left-leaning radio station WBAI-FM (99.5), ruminating about radical politics, global turmoil and life in New York City.     In mid-Marc...
723 2011-05-28 Animal Kingdom’s trainer, Graham Motion, announced, as definitely as one can two weeks before the race, that Animal Kingdom is headed for the Belmont Stakes....
724 2011-05-28 It turns out Mr. Gingrich has operated at least five companies....
725 2011-05-28 The director of Switzerland’s antidoping laboratory on Friday denied claims that Lance Armstrong tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs at the 2001 Tour de Suisse and that the results were covered up.

Martial Saugy told the Swiss newspaper Neue Zurcher Zeitung that his Lausanne lab did find suspicious levels of the banned blood-booster EPO in four urine samples from the race that Armstrong won, but he did not know if any belonged to Armstrong.

Armstrong’s former teammate Tyler Hamilton said in an interview on “60 Minutes” last Sunday that Armstrong spoke of using EPO to prepare for his third Tour de France win in 2001, and that cycling’s governing body helped him hide a positive test at the Swiss warm-up event.

The report also said that International Cycling Union officials brokered a meeting involving Armstrong and Saugy’s lab, which is accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency and tested the Swiss race samples. Saugy said that he did meet with Armstrong and Johan Bruyneel, then the manager of the U.S. Postal Service team, but not in Lausanne as Hamilton claimed and not about a suspicious test result.
726 2011-05-28 In 1947, President Harry Truman signed a Greek-Turkish aid bill in the Hotel Muehlebach in Kansas City, Mo., after the legislation was “flown to him by courier,” according to a report in The New York Times.

In 2005, President George W. Bush raced to Washington in Air Force One from his Texas ranch to sign a bill to make doctors keep feeding Terri Schiavo, the comatose Florida woman whose husband was fighting to end her life.

Last year, vacationing in Hawaii, Mr. Obama signed into law several bills passed by the lame-duck Democratic Congress, including legislation providing health care benefits to Sept. 11 rescue workers.

This week, the White House had a staff member ready to fly to Europe, but Congress delayed action longer than expected. And so at 5:45 a.m. in France — 15 minutes before the midnight expiration on the East Coast — Mr. Obama was awakened, officials said. He reviewed the final legislation and directed that the autopen be used.

White House officials said that the administration believed it was the first time any president had used an autopen to sign legislation.

Representative Tom Graves, Republican of Georgia, wrote a letter to Mr. Obama on Friday questioning the legal basis for using an autopen. Article 1, Section 7 of the Constitution requires that a bill “be presented to the president of the United States; if he approve he shall sign it.”

White House officials said they based their decision on a 2005 memorandum by the Justice Department, which concluded that “the president need not personally perform the physical act of affixing his signature to a bill to sign it.”

Instead, the president’s lawyers said at the time, “We emphasize that we are not suggesting that the president may delegate the decision to approve and sign a bill, only that, having made this decision, he may direct a subordinate to affix the president’s signature to the bill.”

Despite that opinion, it appears that Mr. Bush never used an autopen to sign a bill.
727 2011-05-28 By now, however, with the legislative season either winding down or over in most states, it seems clear that lawmakers’ decisions on whether to follow Arizona’s lead on police enforcement ultimately had more to do with state politics than with concerns about potential legal challenges and Supreme Court rulings.

Kris Kobach, the constitutional lawyer who has been the intellectual if not the actual author of many of the state immigration enforcement laws, was elated by the court’s recent decision. The ruling “has vindicated our position that states are not pre-empted by federal law from these actions,” said Mr. Kobach, who is now secretary of state of Kansas.

He predicted that many more states would soon “jump on the bandwagon” to impose new responsibilities on employers.

Arizona’s statute includes the most severe penalties of any state hiring law, imposing what employers call a “business death penalty”: on the second offense of knowingly hiring an illegal immigrant, the business loses its license permanently. Arizona also mandated the use by all employers of a federal electronic program for verifying the work authorization of new hires, known as E-Verify.

Only Mississippi and South Carolina followed Arizona in requiring all employers to use the verification system. In the storm of lawmaking this year, Georgia and Utah passed laws requiring larger businesses to use the system (in Georgia, by July 2013). Virginia required employers to use it, but only for state contracts.

Far larger is the number of states where Arizona-style enforcement laws were debated, voted, praised and protested. According to the National Immigration Forum, which opposes such laws, bills like Arizona’s failed after sometimes furious debate in 15 states.

Georgia was the first state to pass a law close to Arizona S.B. 1070, and Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican, signed it into law this month. Georgia growers raised an outcry against the law, saying it would cripple their labor force. But Republicans who control the legislature strongly supported the law, which built on an earlier set of measures against illegal immigration Georgia passed in 2006.

In March, Utah passed an enforcement law that echoed Arizona’s, but tempered it politically with a measure that would create a temporary guest worker program. A federal court has temporarily held up the enforcement law.

With their session in its last days, Alabama lawmakers are close to passing a broad measure that could be even tougher than Arizona’s. In addition to requiring most employers to use the verification system, Alabama’s bill would ban illegal immigrant students in public schools from participating in band, cheerleading and any other extracurricular activity. The bill has faced little organized opposition.

An enforcement measure is also close to passage in South Carolina.

Several states stood down at the last minute. After intense opposition by Florida growers and the tourism industry, legislators let an enforcement measure die in the final hours of their session. On Thursday, Democrats in the Texas Senate blocked a measure that would have stepped up immigration enforcement in cities. Texas police chiefs turned out forcefully against the measure, although Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, had made it a priority.

Finally, Maryland and Connecticut, with small but rapidly growing Latino populations, went a different way entirely, passing laws to allow illegal immigrant students to attend public colleges at in-state rates.
728 2011-05-28 “I was a little disappointed to hear the reaction to Frankie,” Manager Terry Collins said. “He’s only saved 15 in a row and pitched as good as anybody in either league.”

Carlos Ruiz scored from second base on Murphy’s fielding error, and pinch-runner Michael Martinez went to third before scoring on a sacrifice fly by Jimmy Rollins.

The Mets scored a run in the bottom of the ninth to draw to two runs behind as Jose Reyes and Carlos Beltran singled. But Murphy came to the plate with runners on first and third and one out and grounded into a double play.

In describing the at-bat, Murphy used the same expletive that Wilpon used to describe his entire team in the latest edition of The New Yorker. It was in that article that Wilpon said Wright was a very good player, but not a superstar.

Before the game, Wright said: “You play baseball in New York and there’s going to be some negative things said about you. I would obviously prefer the owner not say that. But when it happens, you can either drag it out and get into a dispute with the owner of the team you love playing for, or you can put it past you and chalk it up to a comment that was made, an opinion, and move along and play baseball.”

Wright said he and Wilpon exchanged messages earlier in the week in which Wilpon made an apology and Wright accepted it.

He also said he would not hold a grudge and still wants to play for the Mets.

The Mets have always portrayed Wright as a superstar, despite Wilpon’s comments, but Wright noted he had never said that about himself.

“Do I think I’m a superstar?” he said. “I don’t know. I don’t know what qualifies as a superstar.”

Wright has been on the disabled list since May 16 with a stress fracture in his back. But the latest reports from medical specialists have given the Mets reason to hope that both he and Ike Davis, who is recovering from a sprained ankle, could return by the end of the current 10-game homestand, which began Friday night.

There is also the possibility that R. A. Dickey could make his next scheduled start Tuesday, despite a heel injury he sustained Thursday in Chicago. Dickey was found to have a partial tear of the plantar fascia during an examination at the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan.

Despite the ominous-sounding diagnosis, it was actually good news for the Mets because Dickey was told he might be able to return if he could get through a bullpen session Sunday without difficulty.

Equally encouraging was the return Friday of center fielder Angel Pagan, who had a rib-cage muscle injury that kept him out for more than a month. He went 2 for 4 with a run scored.

“I’m very happy with what I did,” Pagan said. “But we didn’t win.”

To make room for Angel Pagan on the active roster, the Mets sent Fernando Martinez back to Class AAA Buffalo. They also designated the left-handed relief pitcher Pat Misch for assignment and called up the right-handed reliever Dale Thayer. Now in his ninth year of professional baseball, Thayer has pitched in only 12 major league games, all with the Tampa Bay Rays in 2009 and 2010.
729 2011-05-28 But whether Einhorn’s cash would provide the impetus to sign a prominent free agent this November or December is another matter. Last winter, the Mets ignored that option and instead added a dozen players from baseball’s bargain basement for less than $11 million over all. The results, so far, have been decidedly mixed.

Of course, Einhorn’s money would stretch further if the Mets’ payroll drops substantially, and it almost certainly will. Carlos Beltran ($18.5 million) is in the last year of his contract and will not be back and may soon be traded. Jose Reyes ($11 million) is also in the last year of his contract and he, too, is not likely to be a Met in 2012. The same can be said for closer Francisco Rodriguez ($11.5 million). And the $18 million now being paid to the already departed Luis Castillo and Oliver Perez will also be coming off the books.

Vince Gennaro, a marketing consultant to several major league teams, said Einhorn’s $200 million buys the Mets “a significant amount of time, possibly well into next year.” And shedding numerous contracts, he said, “gives them a chance to realistically find pieces in the free-agent market.”

But if the Mets do not, and there is no positive buzz about them through the winter, they may be faced with cutting ticket prices for a third straight season and reducing advertising and sponsorship rates. In addition, the contracts for some of the Mets’ high-priced suites at Citi Field will expire at the end of the season. Some clients may not want to renew unless the team promises to be more appealing than it has been the last few years.

Although Einhorn was introduced Thursday, the Mets will not be receiving any of his cash immediately. If the agreement is completed — the team and Einhorn are in an exclusive negotiating period that could last 30 days or more — it must then be approved by Commissioner Bud Selig. If Einhorn is approved, there is no certainty he will disclose how much of a minority share he is taking on or if he has agreed, beyond his $200 million, to help cover the team’s losses on an ongoing basis.

However, as soon as Einhorn signs his $200 million check to the team, the Mets will become more creditworthy, which means they could borrow more money if they want, a sports banker said. The team has more than $400 million in bank debt. “I get the sense that Morgan would lend again; they want to be helpful, for a bunch of reasons,” the banker said in reference to JPMorgan Chase.

One other factor still looms — the $1 billion lawsuit filed against the team’s owners by the trustee representing victims of Bernard L. Madoff’s fraud. Until that is resolved, everything about the Mets ultimately has an air of uncertainty, even with Einhorn aboard.

“Mets fans need to get hit with a cold dose of reality,” said Marc Ganis, an industry consultant. “In the near term, this team is not going to be able to operate like a big-market team.”
730 2011-05-28 Congressional Republicans could not be clearer about their intent to undermine the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. They’re not helping consumers, so we have to assume that their goal is to protect the bankers.

Senate Republicans told President Obama that they would not confirm any nominee to head the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau unless Democrats first agreed to gut the bureau’s power. House Republicans continued their attack on Elizabeth Warren, the consumer advocate and Harvard law professor who is setting up the bureau, charging last week that the bureau — and Ms. Warren — wield draconian powers.

She does not, nor will the bureau, which by law has significant constraints on its authority. When she rightly pushed back, they accused her of lying about her role. The Republicans will keep pushing. The only question is when Mr. Obama will start pushing back.

It has been nearly a year since Dodd-Frank became law, but the White House has yet to nominate leaders for several agencies that have to oversee the reforms. It says it is working on nominations. There is no time to waste.

At the consumer bureau, only a Senate-confirmed director can write the new rules envisioned in Dodd-Frank. No director has been nominated, though Ms. Warren is the obvious choice for the top job. A successful nomination fight would clearly demonstrate Mr. Obama’s support and could be his only option, since Republicans have blocked his ability to use a recess appointment over the Memorial Day break.

There is no nominee for bank supervisor on the Federal Reserve Board, a post created by Dodd-Frank. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversees national banks, is being run by an acting director, John Walsh, who appears steeped in the pro-bank, anti-consumer ethos that pervaded the agency before the financial crisis. The White House also hasn’t nominated anyone to run the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation when Sheila Bair, a strong reformer, finishes in June.
731 2011-05-28 The leader of Switzerland’s antidoping laboratory on Friday denied claims that Lance Armstrong tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs at the 2001 Tour de Suisse and that the results were covered up.

Martial Saugy told the Swiss newspaper Neue Zurcher Zeitung that his Lausanne lab did find suspicious levels of the banned blood-booster EPO in four urine samples from the race that Armstrong won, but he did not know if any belonged to Armstrong. Armstrong’s former teammate Tyler Hamilton said in an interview on “60 Minutes” last Sunday that Armstrong spoke of using EPO to prepare for his third Tour de France win in 2001, and that cycling’s governing body helped him hide a positive test at the Swiss warm-up event.
732 2011-05-28 An animal rights group bought Michael Vick’s former dogfighting compound in Norfolk, Va., and plans to turn it into a rehabilitation center for chained and penned dogs. Vick served 18 months in prison for running a dogfighting operation, Bad Newz Kennels, from the property. He eventually sold the Surry County property to a developer. The group, Dogs Deserve Better of Tipton, Pa., bought the five-bedroom home for about $600,000.
733 2011-05-28 The medical charity Doctors Without Borders, which successfully pressed for lower AIDS drug prices in Africa a decade ago and has campaigned for the public posting of vaccine prices, declared the move a victory.

“This is going to make a huge difference,” said Daniel Berman, deputy director of the charity’s global access campaign. “As soon as the donors see the differentials, they’re going to insist that Unicef and GAVI get better prices.” GAVI, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, collects billions of dollars from donors to help Unicef pay for vaccines.

Mr. Berman recently quit a GAVI committee to protest its resistance to revealing prices. Officials of several pharmaceutical companies sit on GAVI boards.

GAVI dragged its feet until Unicef forced the issue, he said.

Asked about that, Ms. Hall hesitated, then said: “There may have been doubts, but GAVI is now happy about it. Transparency is hard to argue against.”

Some of the price differences were stark. For example, an important compound vaccine that prevents diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, hepatitis B and haemophilus influenzae type B cost only $2.25 a dose from the Serum Institute of India last year, but $3.20 a dose from Crucell, a Swiss company that was just purchased by Johnson & Johnson.

“Oh my God,” Mr. Berman said when the new price list was read to him. “I had no idea the difference was so extreme. A dollar more? No wonder J & J bought Crucell. It gets 60 percent of its income from GAVI orders.”

Five companies now sell Unicef that vaccine. In earlier years, when GlaxoSmithKline was the lone bidder for the contract, it charged $3.60. (Ideally, every child gets three doses.)

Joan Howe, a Unicef spokeswoman, said the agency made the decision “in the hopes it will lead to a more competitive market and lower prices, especially for newer vaccines.”

While some vaccines, like polio, cost as little as 12 cents and are made by seven companies, the newest, against rotavirus and pneumococcal bacteria, are expensive and made by one or two.

For example, the pneumococcal vaccine is made only by Pfizer and GlaxoSmithKline, each of which gets $3.50 a dose from Unicef. However, under an arrangement called the Advance Market Commitment that was brokered by GAVI to entice vaccine companies to keep supplying poor countries, both companies get an additional $3.50 for the first six million shots. Even if a rival made the vaccine for $2, Mr. Berman said, it would get subsidies to bring it to $7.

The ideal, he said, is prices that are low, but still profitable enough to attract companies that can pass World Health Organization safety standards.

Unicef’s move is likely to push other buyers to ask for the lowest prices it gets. For example, the Pan American Health Organization negotiates the amount that poor and middle-income countries in the Western Hemisphere pay when buying in bulk through it. Like Unicef, it had been posting only average prices.

Unicef has now told all bidders that, in the future, it will publish how much it pays them. Until this week, several companies resisted its requests for permission to post what it paid.

They stalled by saying they had to consult their lawyers about antitrust consequences, Ms. Hall said. Both she and Mr. Berman noted the weak spots in that argument: prices that donors pay for drugs from the same companies were routinely posted, and antitrust complaints were more likely under the old regimen of hidden prices.

Ultimately, almost all the companies came around. The only major supplier still refusing is Novartis. A company spokeswoman said Friday that Novartis “does not disclose pricing information on its vaccines, as this information is competitive.”

Merck and Japan’s BCG Laboratory also refused, but each makes only one vaccine that Unicef buys.
734 2011-05-28 Jaye Cee Whitehead implies that my co-authors and I contribute to dehumanizing lesbian and gay people with our studies showing the positive economic impact of allowing same-sex couples to marry.

Citizens and decision makers offer many arguments in this debate, but I doubt that they base their views solely on the financial bottom line. However, some people argue in courts and legislatures that states can’t afford to use scarce resources for equal rights — at least when it comes to lesbians and gay men. With states struggling to balance budgets, the inaccurate claim that equality is too expensive gains additional power.

As researchers, we could ignore those inaccurate claims. But we believe that democratic debate will be better for drawing on findings from careful research rather than claims rooted in misleading assertions and stereotypes.

The writer is research director for the Williams Institute on Sexual Orientation, U.C.L.A. School of Law, and a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.

Most mornings, while my 10-year-old daughter and her other father are still sleeping, I slip down to our front door to prescreen the morning Times. As a fourth-grade teacher, I quickly determine which articles in my home copy and the 25 copies donated to my class by Times subscribers are fit to share with my pupils and later at home with my own daughter.

Articles detailing the coming out of the president of the Phoenix Suns, Rick Welts, and the CNN anchor Don Lemon, along with the account of Erica Diaz confronting her grandfather, State Senator Rubén Díaz Sr., at his anti-gay marriage rally, ran in the same issue as “The Wrong Reasons for Same-Sex Marriage.”

Such reporting raises the irony of teaching about the causes of the American Revolution, the history of civil rights and gender equality while not discussing the continuing debates around marriage equality. Your reporting, editorials and Op-Ed articles inspire still cautious teachers to come out in our own classrooms.
735 2011-05-28 A federal judge in Virginia has declared unconstitutional a century-old law banning political contributions from corporations, a ruling that, if upheld, could have major implications for the rules governing campaign fund-raising and spending.

But while the ruling addressed one of the biggest issues in the ideological and partisan battle over regulating campaign donations — a question likely to be taken up at some point by the Supreme Court — the circumstances of the case left unclear how much practical and legal effect it would have.

The decision, issued Thursday by Judge James C. Cacheris of Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, did not come in one of the many legal and regulatory challenges now being mounted by proponents of loosening campaign finance restrictions. Instead, it was from the criminal trial of two Virginia businessmen accused of circumventing the law to donate tens of thousands of dollars to the Senate and presidential campaigns of Hillary Rodham Clinton.

“This was definitely something that is almost incidental in terms of the case it was decided in,” said Sean Parnell, president of the Center for Competitive Politics, a group that supports efforts to ease campaign-finance regulations.

Still, the ruling drew from and extended the reasoning in the Supreme Court’s landmark decision last year in the Citizens United case. The justices ruled in that case that the government may not ban political spending by corporations in candidate elections, but did not address the current bans on direct contributions by corporations to candidates.
736 2011-05-28 Rick Ross has old friends, and Rick Ross has new friends.

The old friends are from the neighborhood: Mr. Ross’s first crew was Triple C’s, or Carol City Cartel, named after the rough neighborhood north of Miami that Mr. Ross and the other members — Gunplay, Young Breed, Torch — called home.

Where did Mr. Ross meet his new friends, the members of Maybach Music Group? It’s 2011: he met them on the Internet.

Well, maybe that’s not where he met them, but it’s where they’re from, more or less, where they’ve achieved their greatest notoriety outside their hometowns. The new crew members — Pill, Meek Mill, Wale, among others — with heavy presences on hip-hop blogs, exemplify the modern way of getting attention.

Judging by the composition of Maybach Music Group, the speed with which it was assembled and the subsequent speed with which its album was released, it’s hard not to think that Mr. Ross used rap blogs as a scouting tool, as a virtual farm team, and also as an inspiration. The group’s rollout shows no fear of the Internet as a distribution platform or as a cannibalizer of sales: about half of the songs on “Maybach Music Group Presents: Self Made, Vol. 1” (Maybach Music Group/Warner Brothers) were made available online in the weeks before the album’s release.

“Self Made” arrives via a new label deal with Warner Brothers, signed after Mr. Ross’s breakthrough success with last year’s “Teflon Don” album. Mostly, the new album is true to the sort of bombast he perfected on “Teflon Don.” The choruses here are built of concrete — Mr. Ross sounds insistent whether shouting “Tupac back!” or wheezing “600 Beeeeenz” — and the production, full of king-size ominousness, isn’t from Lex Luger (except for one track), who has trademarked that sound, but from a cadre of would-be Lugers.

But where Triple C’s, on its 2009 debut album, “Custom Cars & Cycles” (Maybach Music/Def Jam), felt like an extension of Mr. Ross, the new group feels haphazard. And “Self Made” is a hilarious name for an album created for the express purpose of coattail riding.
737 2011-05-28 “We will see again a consumer that can keep pace with the economy, but cannot drive the economy forward.”

Recent data including retail sales and industrial output have been soft, prompting economists to lower their growth forecasts for the second quarter. Further cuts are likely next week should May auto sales come in very weak.

Second-quarter forecasts for the rate of growth in gross domestic product are ranging from 2.5 to 3 percent.

The government reported on Thursday that consumer spending — which accounts for about 70 percent of the nation’s economic activity — grew at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the first quarter, slowing from a 4 percent clip in the final three months of 2010.

That contributed to holding back overall economic growth to a 1.8 percent rate during the quarter after a 3.1 percent rate in the October-December period.

With much of the slowdown attributed to what United States policy makers see as temporary factors, like high commodity prices and supply chain disruptions because of the earthquake in Japan, the Federal Reserve is not expected to worry too much about the rate of recovery.

The central bank is expected to keep interest rates low after it wraps up its $600 billion government bond-buying program in June before it starts looking at ways to withdraw some of the stimulus it has lent the economy.

The high gasoline prices swallowed almost all the increase in incomes from tax cuts enacted in December.

Economists worry that stagnant incomes, which have failed to keep up with inflation, will continue to impede spending even though fuel prices are starting to fall.

So far, consumers have resorted to saving less, and some are tapping into their savings to maintain spending. Incomes rose 0.4 percent last month, but disposable incomes adjusted for inflation were flat for a second consecutive month.

Real incomes have not grown this year and the saving rate stayed at a two-and-a-half-year low of 4.9 percent in April. According to the Commerce Department’s chief economist, Mark Doms, Americans saved $82 less over the last four months.

The retreating price for gasoline helped to lift consumer spirits this month and lower their inflation expectations.

The final version of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey showed sentiment among Americans rose this month to 74.3, from 72.4 in the preliminary May reading.

High gasoline prices pushed up the year-on-year inflation rate to 2.2 percent, the biggest rise in a year, after increasing 1.8 percent in March.

Excluding food and energy, prices increased 1 percent, the largest gain since September, after rising 0.9 percent in March.
738 2011-05-28 All over the world, teenage boys and young men are a problem. With their irrepressible energies and strengths, they are always ripe for industrial, military and other kinds of services. But when they are uneducated, unemployed and unsupervised, many of them get into trouble. They join feral gangs and terrorist groups or become freelance criminals, dissipated addicts, deadbeat fathers, suicides.

In stable, wealthy nations, schools and vocational programs provide guidance and protective incubation for many youths during the pre-adult years. But in areas afflicted by war and poverty, they can be exceptionally vulnerable to exploitation and bad luck. Along with other Southeast Asian countries, Thailand — in spite of a development boom in recent decades — has been one such unfortunate place. For most of the 20th century and continuing into the 21st, it has been racked by social and political strife that has consumed the lives of countless young men.

This is the background to keep in mind while viewing “Primitive,” an expansive video installation at the New Museum focusing on teenage boys in Thailand by the Thai filmmaker Apichatpong Weerasethakul. Organized by Massimiliano Gioni, the museum’s associate director, it is by turns beautiful, tedious, opaque and affectingly poetic.

Mr. Weerasethakul, who directed the recent critically celebrated movie “Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives,” was born in Bangkok in 1970 and trained as an architect before going on to study filmmaking at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. In the mid-to-late ’90s, he made short films in the tradition of experimentalist and Structuralist filmmakers of the ’50s and ’60s like Stan Brakhage, Michael Snow and Paul Sharits. The influence of the Relational Aesthetics movement is evident in his penchant for participatory engagement with nonprofessionals in the creation of this exhibition’s films.

Occupying all of the New Museum’s third floor, “Primitive” has the patience-testing, anti-entertainment effect we’ve come to expect of avant-garde moviemaking. Of its seven parts, the most immediately engaging is a single-screen, 11-minute film of some two dozen youths in casual, Western-style attire joyously running on a dirt road to a catchy Thai rock soundtrack. They are recorded by a camera held by someone running along with them. At one point, closeups of jostling bodies blur into a passage of delirious, hallucinogenic abstraction. Then some of the boys get into the back of a moving pickup truck, whip off their shirts and dance exultantly while speeding along past the verdant countryside.

Why they are so happy remains unexplained, but it seems a moment of blessed freedom. In its apparently unpremeditated spontaneity and strikingly attractive subjects, it is also very stylish, like an commercial for Abercrombie & Fitch.
739 2011-05-28 Credit: Jeff Swensen for The New York Times
740 2011-05-28 CAIRO — Tens of thousands of mostly liberal protesters again filled Tahrir Square on Friday to press for an assortment of demands in a demonstration billed as “The Revolution Part II, ” but perhaps most notable for the absence of the Muslim Brotherhood.

The protesters called on the military council now ruling Egypt to end the practice of sending civilians to military trials, to expedite legal action against former President Hosni Mubarak and his associates, and to start governing with some civilian presidential council.

But the rally may have been most significant as a display of the liberal factions’ strength in Egyptian politics. It was the first time since the Jan. 25 day of protests that kicked off the revolution that the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt’s largest and best-organized political force, did not support a major street protest.

In the emerging battle lines of post-revolutionary Egyptian politics, many liberal activists and observers abroad say they fear that the Brotherhood’s organizational strength will give it an edge in the elections for Parliament this fall, which could, in turn, enable Islamists to put their stamp on Egypt’s Constitution when the new Parliament sets out a process for revising it. “Constitution First,” declared a banner at the center of the square on Friday, expressing the liberal demand for the establishment of rules protecting individual freedoms and minority rights before elections begin.

The Brotherhood, aware of its organizational edge, campaigned hard for a referendum setting the election for this fall. The group, outlawed under Mr. Mubarak, has just moved from small and dingy offices to imposing, gleaming headquarters befitting a modern political party, and its satisfaction with the election timetable may have been a reason it did not support Friday’s protest.

“Where is the Brotherhood? Tahrir is here,” went one chant, referring to the square at the center of the revolution, whose name means “liberation” in Arabic.
741 2011-05-28 JERUSALEM — As Egypt prepared to open its border with Gaza on Saturday, Israeli officials said they were worried about weapons and militants flowing into the Hamas-controlled strip and about what the move indicated for Egypt’s future policies. The government did not issue a statement, saying it was in contact with the Egyptian authorities and wanted to see how the change played out in practice before reacting. Others did not wait.

“This is a dangerous development that could lead to the smuggling of weapons, explosives and Al Qaeda agents into Gaza,” Silvan Shalom, a deputy prime minister from the right-wing Likud Party, said on Israel Radio.

But some Israeli officials said the fear was overstated, and that the border opening might provide some benefit: It could ease international pressure on Israel over its treatment of Gaza, while increasing Egypt’s responsibility for the enclave’s 1.6 million residents. Militants and weapons, they added, were imported by Hamas through underground tunnels, not through legal crossings, and the border was being opened only to people, not goods, as it has been in practice since last June, with interruptions.

“Some think this is a good thing,” one official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the policy is still in formation. “Egypt says it will keep an eye on arms smuggling and it will end up taking more responsibility for Gaza. One question is what they will do about cash brought in suitcases.”

The new Egyptian plan will open the border six days a week to everyone except men between the ages of 18 and 40, who will need to pass a security clearance first. This means that thousands of Gazans seeking to study, shop, train or visit relatives abroad should find it much easier to do so than they had for the past four years. The reaction in Gaza was of relief and joy.

“I was born in Gaza and have never left it,” said Abeer Ayoub, 24, a researcher for a human rights group. “I never thought I could. Yesterday, I was thinking about going to Egypt and getting myself ready for a scholarship to the States. That could be the biggest change that could happen to me in my entire life.”
742 2011-05-28 The struggling Swedish automaker Saab restarted production on Friday at its main plant in Trollhattan, more than a month after a cash squeeze led its suppliers to withhold essential parts.

Saab Automobile said on Friday that it was aiming to produce a “first batch of around 100 cars,” which would be the first time since April 6 that the plant had produced vehicles. The company said it hoped to increase output over the next few weeks “in parallel with the full re-establishment of the supply chain.”

“We have gone through a rough patch in recent weeks, but Saab is back in action again,” Victor Muller, the chief executive of Saab and its parent company, the Dutch automaker Spyker Cars, said in a statement.

Spyker bought Saab from General Motors last year, taking on a daunting challenge in trying to restore it to health. But Mr. Muller is aiming to generate cash by selling some of Saab’s real estate holdings to a Russian businessman, Vladimir A. Antonov.

The company’s rebuilding plans are complicated by the fact that it needs financial support from the European Investment Bank and the Swedish government to modernize.

Mr. Muller was joined at the plant by Pang Qinghua, chief executive of Pang Da Automobile, the largest publicly traded car distributor in China. Pang Da stepped in on May 16 and provided crucial aid to get Saab back online after the collapse of a previous deal with Hawtai Motor left the Swedish company scrambling to stay alive.

Saab said that the factory in Trollhattan had outstanding orders for more than 6,500 cars, and that total orders for the company — including for 1,600 Saab 9-4X cars — amounted to more than 8,100 vehicles. Pang Da itself has ordered about 1,300 cars, paying 30 million euros, or $43 million, up front.
743 2011-05-28 It remains to be seen whether the meetings eased the tensions and suspicions that have haunted relations with Pakistan so badly that American officials dared not notify its leaders in advance of the raid against Bin Laden. Many people in Pakistan see that raid less as a victory in fighting than as an affront to the country’s sovereignty and pride.

“They had no idea we could or we would do what we did,” said another senior administration official traveling on Mrs. Clinton’s airplane. “That has changed their perspective in ways that we’re still evaluating, and they’re still trying to come to grips with.”

Friday’s meetings did not appear to go well at first. Mrs. Clinton and Admiral Mullen appeared awkward and unsmiling when they met at the presidential palace with President , Prime Minister and the army chief, Gen. .

In brief remarks directed to Mr. Zardari, Mrs. Clinton said the Obama administration recognized “the sacrifice that is made every single day by the men and women of your military and the citizens of your country,” according to a video of that initial encounter. Mr. Zardari’s response was inaudible because his staff had banned microphones from the room and had strictly limited access for journalists traveling with Mrs. Clinton.

The Americans and the Pakistanis did not otherwise appear together publicly or make a joint statement after the meetings, which also included the chief of Pakistan’s intelligence service, Lt. Gen. , who has denounced the killing of Bin Laden before Parliament as a “sting operation.”

Mr. Zardari’s office issued a brief written statement after Friday’s meeting, saying the two countries agreed to “work together in any future actions against high-value targets in Pakistan,” The Associated Press reported from Islamabad. That appeared to reflect Pakistan’s demand that the United States stop carrying out unilateral missions like the one that killed Bin Laden.

For their part, Mrs. Clinton and her aides played down the initial awkwardness and said that in private both sides discussed their concerns frankly but constructively, displaying an eagerness to cooperate against a threat that afflicts both countries.

She said again on Friday that she had “absolutely no evidence” to suggest that senior Pakistani civilian or military leaders knew Bin Laden was hiding in Abbottabad, north of the capital. But it was not clear whether the Pakistanis shared with Mrs. Clinton the results of the investigation they promised into who else might have known he was there.

Mrs. Clinton had postponed the visit as the Obama administration gauged Pakistan’s reactions to the raid. The delay allowed her to coordinate her visit with Admiral Mullen’s to maximize the impact of the administration’s message. In the end, their visit lasted six and a half hours.

“Now is not the time for retreat or for recrimination,” Admiral Mullen said in remarks with Mrs. Clinton at the embassy. “Now is the time for action and close coordination, for more cooperation, not less.”

Since Bin Laden was killed, Pakistan has taken steps that appeared intended to undercut cooperation, not increase it. In addition to a flurry of anti-American statements from senior government figures, officials in Islamabad leaked the name of the C.I.A.’s station chief, and asked the Pentagon to withdraw some military advisers.

Mrs. Clinton’s advisers decided to proceed with the visit after the Pakistanis allowed officers to interview Bin Laden’s wives and then to scour the walled compound where Bin Laden was found for additional evidence. “We’ve had some positive actions,” another senior administration official aboard the secretary’s plane said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic matters.
744 2011-05-28 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah. His sketches are archived here on the Bucks blog and on his personal Web site, BehaviorGap.com.     Gold is not an investment. It's a speculation....
745 2011-05-28 A joint venture between MGM Resorts International and the daughter of a Hong Kong casino mogul raised $1.5 billion on Friday in its initial public offering, highlighting the strong appetite for stocks that have a large exposure to China.     MGM C...
746 2011-05-28 WEISS--Dorothy (Miller), on May 26. Beloved wife of Philip for 60 years, mother of Adrienne Weiss-Harrison (Andrew), Claudia Weiss (Arthur), grandmother of Mark, Rachel and Alison. Funeral May 29, 11am, Temple Shalom, Aberdeen, NJ. Shiva: Weiss re...
747 2011-05-28 6:40 p.m. | Updated      The dark side of Wall Street's expert network industry was on full display in Federal District Court in Manhattan on Friday....
748 2011-05-29 The Harvard Business Review reinvented itself in 2009, and the editors say it has been a big success....
749 2011-05-29 The way we think about the turmoil in the Middle East and elsewhere is shaped by how we understand human rights....
750 2011-05-29 After a yearlong deployment to Afghanistan, one would think that going home would be the easiest thing troops could do. But the adjustment is not so simple....
751 2011-05-29 Irbit and its dealerships say older bikers represent their core market, but the bike-sidecar combination has also begun to catch on with a younger generation of riders, couples who find its retro look appealing.

“In the Soviet Union, our motorcycle was a workhorse,” said Vladimir N. Kurmachev, Irbit’s factory director. “Now it is an expensive toy.”

David Reich, 65, a retired carpenter in Salem, Ore., bought a white Ural Patrol from a dealership there last year.

“It’s something my wife and I can both enjoy,” he said in a telephone interview. They considered buying two bikes, he said, but decided on the sidecar so his wife, Jeanne, would not have to get a motorcycle license. Also, they could chat while touring.

“I am having a ball!” Jeanne Reich wrote in an e-mail. “I enjoy cruising along a few inches off the road with nothing to do but take in the view.”

Peter terHorst, the spokesman for the American Motorcyclist Association, said the average age of its 230,000 members was 48. As people’s strength and coordination wane, he said, “you see them transitioning to the sidecar.”

“Older couples say it’s just not comfortable to double up,” Mr. Kurmachev said during a tour of the shop floor, where sidecars are polished, painted and installed standard on nearly every bike.

Irbit, known by its Russian acronym IMZ, says it is the only motorcycle manufacturer in the world selling stock sidecars in volume; some BMW and Harley-Davidson dealers have sold them as options, though Harley is discontinuing sidecar production.

Sidecars, while popular with some riders, still account for a fraction of the motorcycle market in the United States, said Ty van Hooydonk, a spokesman for the Motorcycle Industry Council, a trade group. The makers do not disclose sales figures, he said.

Irbit’s factory sits on the rim of a ramshackle town of wooden buildings and rutted dirt roads on the Siberian side of the Urals, with a statue of Lenin still in the main square. It is operating, but at greatly diminished capacity compared with its 1970s heyday, when it produced up to 130,000 vehicles a year. Assembly lines have closed and the motorcycles are now built by hand.

A ride in a sidecar can be either exhilarating or, for those not accustomed to the sensation, terrifying. Set low to the ground, the sidecar tends to rise into the air on right-hand turns. The bike is street legal in all 50 states. But because the entire three-wheel contraption is legally a motorcycle, no seat belt is provided or required. With United States sales rising, Irbit says it is studying an air bag for the sidecar.

The Ural is a heavy, 40-horsepower motorcycle whose two cylinders jut sideways from the frame. It is modeled after a late-1930s BMW sidecar bike called the R71, which Nazi Germany provided to the Soviet Union after the countries signed a nonaggression pact in 1939. When the Nazis broke this pact and invaded, the Russians used the bike to fight them.

Irbit stopped building military models in 1955 and began focusing on a civilian market of hunters, outdoor enthusiasts and owners of summer homes.

With the end of the command economy, subsidized steel and cheap labor, the factory was forced to raise its prices, and sales in Russia fell sharply. Older sidecars can still be seen in Russia carrying hay, heads of lettuce and planks of wood. But Irbit sold only 20 motorcycles in Russia last year, and the owners say that the factory would have died without sales to the United States.

Before the recent recession, Irbit sold 650 Urals a year in the United States, and says it is on track to reach that level again this year, through 48 dealers around the country. A low-end Ural-sidecar combo sells for about $10,000. Over all, the factory plans to build 1,100 units in 2011.

The popularity of the sidecar in America was nurtured by motorcycle enthusiasts in the Pacific Northwest, where the bikes were first imported in 1993 in small numbers.

Bikers were mesmerized by the Ural’s highly retro design, and some got a kick out of the machine gun mount on the model exported to America — a feature that had long since disappeared from the Soviet civilian machines.

“We had customers who put on fake machine guns,” Jim Petitti, the owner of Raceway Services in Salem, Ore., a Ural dealership, said by telephone. “It kind of faded because the cops gave them such a hassle.”

Sales of the Ural picked up as dealers identified the bike’s appeal to older couples no longer happy riding on the same seat.

“Husbands and wives have been riding together for years,” said Mr. Petitti, characterizing typical Ural clients. “Finally, the old solo bike becomes too heavy to hold up. The wife doesn’t want to ride behind the husband. She can’t see. Present her with her own cockpit, and she’s ready to rejoin the adventure.”

Irbit says that while older bikers carried it through a difficult spell, younger American couples are also drawn to it.

“They are good-looking bikes,” Elena Gonzalez, 24, a registered nurse, said in a telephone interview from Miami, where she lives with her new husband, John, a firefighter. The couple rode their Ural to their wedding.

“We were going to get a limo, and then we thought, ‘let’s just go on the motorcycle, it will be fun,’ ” Ms. Gonzalez said.
752 2011-05-29 Gail Doherty believes in healthy eating, but she isn’t preachy about it. At Good Karma Cafe, the Red Bank restaurant and juice bar she owns with Tiffany Betts, vegan food is served with an easygoing air.

“We’re not militant vegan,” said Ms. Doherty, 41, the author with Lacey Sher of “You Won’t Believe It’s Vegan!” (Da Capo Press, 2008 ). ”You can’t judge people by what they eat. But we want to show what vegan can be.”

Ms. Doherty and Ms. Betts met when Ms. Betts worked at Down to Earth, an organic vegan restaurant Ms. Doherty owned with Ms. Sher in town. (It was later sold and subsequently closed.) Good Karma Cafe, a casual, cozy storefront cafe seating 20, opened in July.

The owners’ goal is to have a mostly organic menu that is “familiar and comforting,” said Ms. Doherty, but also has “an ethnic mix of flavors.”

Twists on the familiar include a Philly seitan cheese steak ($12) and an “earth burger” with a tofu, sunflower seed and brown rice patty ($11). As for more exotic choices, an Indian plate combines curried tofu with chana masala (a chickpea recipe), rice and sautéed vegetables and is served with chutney and papadum ($14).

What the menu calls “live” foods are raw, meaning not cooked to more than 108 degrees Fahrenheit. For example, the “live lasagna” is thinly sliced zucchini stuffed with pesto, nut cheese and sun-dried marinara sauce ($14).

The “live” lemonade blends fresh lemon and apple juices with a pinch of ginger over ice ($6). There are also other juices and smoothies, like the Cotton Candy, with strawberries, apple juice, banana, granola and cinnamon. Desserts include a Magic Cookie with coconut, chocolate chips, pecans and shredded carrot ($3). And, of course, the coffee and tea are organic.
753 2011-05-29 MOSCOW — Amid shouts from gangs of men and threats of beatings, police officers arrested more than a dozen gay rights activists, including a few foreigners, who attempted to hold a rally in Moscow on Saturday.

Among the arrested were Dan Choi, an American Iraq war veteran and gay rights campaigner, and Andy Thayer, a Chicago-based activist, who were in Moscow to support the rally. They were later released.

“Right ear ringing, small bleeding,” Mr. Choi wrote in a text message shortly after he was grabbed by several police officers and shoved into a police van. Other activists reported minor injuries from scuffles with the police and other unidentified men.

The Moscow authorities, who rarely tolerate antigovernment demonstrations, have vowed never to allow Russia’s small community of gay rights activists to hold a rally in the capital, though similar events have been permitted in St. Petersburg, Russia’s second-largest city.

Last year, the European Court of Human Rights fined Russia more than $40,000 for its refusal to allow gay rights supporters to hold peaceful demonstrations in Moscow. This year’s rally was banned, nevertheless.
754 2011-05-29 The other children were hiding by the bed.

Ms. Jubeark tried to pull the dog off, but “the dog resists and turns on her a little,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was continuing.

A neighbor, hearing Ms. Jubeark’s screams, called 911. Jayelin was taken to Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead, the police said.

Emergency workers arrived quickly, said Kenneth Risher, the superintendent of the three-story building, but he added it took them about 20 minutes to remove the boy from the apartment.

Officers from the police’s Emergency Service Unit tranquilized the Cane Corso, a mastiff variety. Both the Cane Corso and a second dog, a Husky mixed breed, were taken to a shelter on 110th Street, off First Avenue, on Saturday, said Richard P. Gentles, the spokesman for the animal care agency.

“This was a tragedy waiting to happen,” Mr. Risher, 50, said. He said the boy’s family had lived in the apartment for three years and had several other pets, including dogs, a parrot, turtles and fish. He said Ms. Jubeark had run from her apartment screaming. “She was saying: ‘Help me! Help me! The dog bit my baby!’ ”

Another neighbor, who provided only his first name, Jah, said he had run into Ms. Jubeark’s apartment, where he saw the dog holding the boy by the throat. Jah said he yelled at the dog, but it crouched down as if it were going to attack, so he retreated. When he returned a few minutes later, he said, the child was lying on the floor.

“The right part of his neck was ripped open,” Jah, 29, said. “There was blood all the way from his neck to his abdomen.”

Michael Dorkings, a Fire Department lieutenant from Engine 227, said his men used a Halligan bar and another tool to force the dog back while Firefighter David Kelly grabbed the boy.

Ameer Jamaal-Uddin, 59, Jayelin’s great-grandfather, said the dogs belonged to Ms. Jubeark’s boyfriend. Mr. Risher said the boyfriend was often seen with a protective guard on his arm, training the dogs to bite in front of the building. “Everybody would run when he came out,” Mr. Risher said.

He said one of the dogs killed the family’s pet rabbit a few months ago. “He killed the rabbit and left everything on the floor,” he said. “It was like the Bronx Zoo in there.”

A law enforcement official said someone from the city’s Administration for Children’s Services had gone to the home for “something minor” in the past, but “nothing involving the dog.” Elysia Murphy, a spokeswoman for the agency, declined to say whether it had a history with the family, but said the agency was “investigating the child’s death.”

Jah said that when police officers arrived, a friend of his told them the dog had to be killed. When Jah’s friend took a step toward the officers, a scuffle ensued. The police said several people were issued summonses.
755 2011-05-29 Credit: Holly Pickett for The New York Times
756 2011-05-29 Marissa Lee Heiser and Nicholas Lee Kohn are to be married Sunday at the Highfield Theater in Falmouth, Mass. Officiating will be Judge R. Knox McMahon, who is the bridegroom’s godfather and sits on the 11th Judicial Circuit in Lexington County in South Carolina; he received a one-day solemnization certificate from Massachusetts.

Mrs. Kohn, 30, is a manager of Bikram Yoga NYC in New York. She graduated from Weber State University in Ogden, Utah.

The bride is a daughter of Cindy L. Heiser and Robert W. Heiser of Layton, Utah.

Mr. Kohn, 35, is an actor in New York, now appearing as Brian in the Off Broadway musical “Avenue Q.” He performed the same role on Broadway from 2008 to 2009 and at the Wynn Las Vegas Hotel from 2005 to 2006. In 2007, he appeared in “The Full Monty” at Stage St. Louis in Missouri. He graduated from James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va.

The bridegroom is a son of Barbara Lee Kohn and Henry P. Kohn of Myrtle Beach, S.C.
757 2011-05-29 But back to the issue of toilets. A later work, “Invalid’s Utensil,” from 1930, flattens the divide between abstract modernist sculpture and everyday object even further. To make this image, Weston stood a bedpan on one end and photographed the object in profile.

“It has a stately, aloof dignity,” he wrote — and then, alluding to his earlier photograph of the toilet in Mexico, “Form follows function, again.”

That “Invalid’s Utensil” looks like modernist sculpture is no mistake; Weston made the photograph after seeing sculptures by the Romanian-born artist Constantin Brancusi at the home of Walter and Louise Arensberg in Los Angeles. Thumbnail photographs of Brancusi’s “Princess X,” from 1915-16, and “Maiastra,” from 1912, mounted on the wall at the Heckscher next to “Invalid’s Utensil,” show how he translated an obsession with form — divorced from any narrative or grand allegory — into photography, and how different media cross-pollinated during the modernist era. (Brancusi was similarly invested in Weston’s medium, spending a great amount of time photographing his own sculptures.)

And, yet, Weston’s reputation might better be tied to another humble object rather than to the lowly toilet: the green pepper. “Pepper No. 30,” from 1930, hung in a central location in this show, is considered one of his masterpieces. Photographed in close-up, the pepper’s curving, muscular form looks at one moment like a human back, then like two beings with heads leaning toward each other — then like just a pepper.

Weston wrote with similar levity in his daybook about the green pepper. He believed it was showing “the strain” of being photographed all week, and should be cut up into a salad — which made him feel like a cannibal for eating his models. “But I rather like the idea that they become a part of me, enrich my blood as well as my vision,” he wrote.

Other found objects received the same treatment as the pepper. “Chambered Nautilus - Halved” and “Nautilus,” both from 1927, transform seashells into abstract, Brancusian sculptural forms. “Cabbage Leaf” and “Toadstool,” both from 1931, highlight the expressive, graphic qualities of plants: veins in the cabbage leaf and gills (lamellae) on the underside of the mushroom.

Weston is also famous for his nudes. Included here are photographs of Margrethe Mather from 1914; she was a fellow artist and later a collaborator, whom Weston met in 1913 and who is often credited for inspiring him to photograph mundane objects. There are also photos of Modotti and Charis Wilson, who became his second wife. Weston’s photographs of his son Neil, which framed the boy like a fragment of classical statuary and were later re-photographed for postmodern purposes by the artist Sherrie Levine, are not on view.

Weston’s landscapes hark back to the work of 19th-century Western survey photographers, like Eadweard Muybridge and Carleton Watkins. But they also look forward to Ansel Adams or Aaron Siskind. “Big Sur,” from 1929, shows a series of cliffs, like abstract sculptural forms, receding into the distance. “Surf on Black Sand, Point Lobos,” from 1938, and “Eroded Rocks, South Shore, Point Lobos,” from 1948, perform the same trick of perspective as Weston did on the pepper, collapsing our near and far visions until the landscapes look at one moment like distant views, and at others like close-up abstractions.

But to return once again to that question of toilets: the most famous modern art episode involving a toilet found Marcel Duchamp, the French expatriate artist, anonymously submitting a urinal to a 1917 open-call exhibition in New York. “Fountain,” as he titled it, became a cause célèbre when it was rejected — and later, an example of early conceptual art in which ideas and evocative gestures, rather than handcrafted objects, became the focus of art.

Duchamp and Weston occupied different branches of modernism, with Weston eschewing potty humor and treating the toilet as a serious formalist object. But it was still the same tree. The Arensbergs, in whose home Weston saw those Brancusi sculptures, were Duchamp’s most important patrons; and Alfred Stieglitz, whom Weston looked to as the elder statesman of American modern photography, photographed the original, notorious “Fountain.”

And so, although “Edward Weston: Life Work” offers an idiosyncratic, shorthand version of Weston’s oeuvre rather than a comprehensive survey, it touches on some key moments of 20th-century art and acquaints you with some of its underlying arguments, including the celebration of mundane objects — some edible, some not.
758 2011-05-29 Steve Rutt, an engineer, inventor and artist whose early video animation system made images expand and contract and leap and dance, and in so doing helped propel the video-art revolution of the 1970s, died on May 20 in Manhattan. He was 66.

The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter, Victoria Rutt.

With Bill Etra, Mr. Rutt developed the Rutt/Etra video synthesizer in 1972. An analog device that lets the user manipulate a video signal in real time, it offered a means of producing animated images and special effects long before the advent of digital video technology.

The device was used by some of the most notable video artists of the period, including Nam June Paik, widely described as the father of the medium, and Woody and Steina Vasulka, who had founded the Kitchen, the avant-garde performance space in Manhattan, in 1971.

In an early example of video animation in a Hollywood movie, the Rutt/Etra generated the logo of the fictional Union Broadcasting System in “Network,” Sidney Lumet’s 1976 picture. It was also used in producing many television commercials.

The video camera is a literal creature. In its first incarnation, at midcentury, it was the sole, unwieldy province of television studios and was used strictly to document.
759 2011-05-29 Bob, the first-name-only protagonist of “Toward You,” Jim Krusoe’s unsettling fourth novel, is a man much obsessed with death. A reupholsterer of antiques by trade and a congenital loser by nature, Bob spends his free hours in the (amazingly named) fictional town of St. Nils tinkering with a device he calls the Communicator, whose purpose is to breach the wall separating the living and the dead. Bob’s vanity and his avarice — both seemingly small-time — drive him to this work, and faint dreams of wealth, fame and sexual satisfaction pervade his quotidian existence.

It’s quotidian, anyway, until he finds a dying, car-struck dog “wobbling up the walk” of his front yard and learns that, according to its collar tag, the dog shares his name. The day after Bob the Human buries Bob the Dog beneath a rosebush, a woman in a deerskin dress shows up on his doorstep with her child in tow. The woman is Yvonne, who left Bob years ago for a man he did not know. The child is Dee Dee, that man’s daughter. Dee Dee has been bitten by a dog, Yvonne is searching for the culprit, and Bob — aware of the prize fate has handed him — realizes the romantic possibilities of the situation and begins to scheme. Events veer rapidly out of control, as is usual when feckless dreamers plot.

This irruption of the bizarre and otherworldly into a mundane suburban existence is what most animates “Toward You” and, it is clear, most fascinates its author. It colors almost all of Krusoe’s work, from his 1997 collection “Blood Lake and Other Stories,” in which a literal lake of blood provides the subtly daft background for a dread-laced parody of a ­fishing-buddies story, to his 2008 novel “Girl Factory,” in which the protagonist discovers a secret medical installation where women linger in suspended animation submerged in tanks of yogurt. Krusoe deploys such bizarrerie as a means of psychological and moral inquiry, and as the strangenesses of “Toward You” develop, it becomes clear that Bob the Human is a character far deeper (and far worse) than the moral and mild-mannered failure we initially suspect him to be.

He is, we learn, a romantic obsessive and eventual peeping Tom; he is capable of placing Dee Dee in what proves to be deadly harm’s way for the sake of keeping her mother in his life; by the book’s end, we will see him abandon a policeman to his fate at the hands of an armed and vengeful psychopath.

These events are accompanied by sophisticated attempts at self-justification. When Dee Dee dies from rabies — a direct result of Bob the Human’s professed ignorance about Bob the Dog — he expresses a cautious faked concern: “It’s a little-known fact that only one out of 10 people who are bitten by a rabid animal actually contract the disease, while, on the other hand, a surprisingly high proportion of those victims who receive the antidote suffer serious, life-threatening complications.”
760 2011-05-29 The famous daughter of the famous senator shows off her 1,100-square-foot bachelorette home in West Hollywood.

LEAST-REPUBLICAN PIECE OF CLOTHING: My black studded Christian Louboutin heels. They are hard-core. My friend nicknamed them my dominatrix heels. There’s nothing Republican or political about those shoes.

INDISPENSABLE ITEM: My MacBook. It’s depressing. It’s like my baby. I named it Bambi. My iPhone is named Thumper. How sad am I?

INTERNET DATING? No. I would get slaughtered. My profile would be on Gawker in five seconds.

MATERIAL OBSESSION: I love skulls. I have 10 of them. I love the way they look in my place. I have one on my night stand; one on my desk; crystal ones in my kitchen; one that’s filled with vodka; some with diamond eyes.

HUMAN OBSESSION: I am borderline obsessed with Sofia Coppola. She is unbelievably talented and has a famous father and established herself as a force to be reckoned with in her industry. She’s so much cooler than I am.
761 2011-05-29 Mr. Roche has teamed with Millhouse Properties, a New York developer that specializes in distressed properties. In 2008 the same developers began a similar sales effort, and contracts went out for 10 of the units, Mr. Gray said. But those sales came soon after Lehman Brothers’s collapse, and buyers found it nearly impossible to line up financing. He said that led the developers to default on construction loans, which in turn set off a foreclosure process.

Prices will be about $1,200 a square foot, though the state attorney general’s office has yet to approve the condominium offering plan, said Eric Gray, Millhouse’s managing partner.

At that price the smallest studio, with 560 square feet, will be listed at $672,000; the largest two-bedroom, with 1,600 square feet, at $1.9 million. A two-bedroom duplex penthouse with two levels of terraces — the largest unit — will be about $4.3 million, he said.

From 1917 to 2007, the 1901 building was a parking garage with nearly 300 spaces — and as such had a curb cut, which are generally difficult to obtain permits for. Before that it served as a stable, and horses were transported from floor to floor by elevator.

Intentionally or not, 24th Street has become a sort of locus for unusual parking arrangements.

At No. 148, near Lexington Avenue, a condo called One48 is being co-developed by the American Development Group and Langsam Property Services. Sales start this week for the 15-story, 55-unit condo. It is adjacent to a 64-space garage that the developers have built fully automated — which means machines essentially lift vehicles and ease them into berths.

The garage, which opened in December, is public, but residents have the option of leasing spaces for about $375 a month, said Perry Finkelman, the chief executive of American Development. Studios at the condo start at $399,000.

And at 200 Eleventh Avenue, a corner condominium at West 24th, almost every one of the 16 units comes with a parking spot next to the living room.

“What Bloomberg is trying to do, cutting down on the roads, it will come to a point where it will cost so much money to park in Manhattan that people will have to find alternate places,” said Glauco Lolli-Ghetti, a principal of Urban Muse, which developed 200 Eleventh with Young Woo & Associates.

So far 15 units have sold at $3 million to $17 million. “I think it’s proof,” he said, “that this is a huge amenity that people are willing to pay for.”
762 2011-05-29 The three flights of stairs presented problems for their aging 65-pound dog, Guinness. Ms. Fox, 43, who is food editor of La Cucina Italiana and the author of “A Bird in the Oven and Then Some” — “Bird,” as she calls it — works at home and needed more space to test recipes. Mr. Hoffman is a partner in dbA, a design and construction firm, and his main wish was for a place with an aesthetically pleasing layout.

In October 2005 the couple bought the apartment for $500,000, and in February 2006 they moved in. Three years later Guinness died, but Jasper Lee, a lab-and-coonhound puppy from Texas, joined the family last September.

Even before Mr. Gehry got his hands on the apartment, the space offered such beguiling features as crown moldings and an oversized bay window that faced a Juliet balcony. Other windows open onto a vista worthy of Edward Hopper — a patchwork of water towers, a wedge of the George Washington Bridge, and brick walls laced with fire escapes and topped with rusting television antennas. But it is the Gehry accents, notably the unusual cutouts in two of the walls, that give the apartment an almost sculptural quality and make it seem considerably more spacious than its 1,200 square feet.

The cutout on the wall separating the kitchen and the dining area has folding shutters in which glass panes are set in frames of Douglas fir, a favorite material of Mr. Gehry’s and one that he used in his early houses in California. The shutters make Ms. Fox feel, as she puts it, “like baking several pies and putting them in the ‘window’ to cool.”

The cutout in the wall between the dining area and the living room is even more ingenious, punctuated by five of the original studs that have been exposed and stand like mute soldiers, pockmarked with old nail holes.

Together, the two openings do a great deal to enhance the play of natural light in the apartment. “In the late afternoon,” Ms. Fox said, “these openings just put a glow on the whole space.” Her husband added: “Anyone else would have just left a big opening. But with these pass-throughs, Gehry turned the whole place into a light box, one in which different colors of light are juxtaposed. It’s awesome.”

As an architect, Mr. Hoffman also appreciates how Mr. Gehry used a limited repertoire of gestures to pack considerable aesthetic punch. “It’s simple and wonderful at the same time,” he said. “He has few architectural moves here, but they’re really strong. There’s creativity without being fancy.” Put another way: “There’s no swoony silver stuff. He knows when to rein it in.”

Even more modest design elements reveal the Gehry touch. The bookshelves are made of stacked Douglas fir plywood, the edges exposed to show the organic quality of the wood. Mr. Gehry kept the original elegant height of the doors, which are a foot taller than is commonplace today, and replaced their hearts with translucent white laminated glass panels. Like the pass-throughs, these shimmering panels help create the feeling of an open, airy space.

In terms of square footage, the kitchen is relatively small, especially for a professional cook. But it is also visually lush, with a rich indigo vinyl floor and matching laminate on the counters. Thanks to the generous amount of counter and storage space, Ms. Fox has been able to test thousands of recipes here and to cook extravagant feasts for up to 40 guests. And if she needs items like pigs’ ears and chicken with the feet still on, she can buy them at La Rosa, a neighborhood grocery.

Furnishings come from all over and include an old butterfly chair and matching footstool that Ms. Fox has been carting around since her college days and eventually reupholstered with black-and-white cowhide. In fact, chairs with back stories seem to be a motif.

One chair, bought by Mr. Hoffman in a secondhand store in Alabama, was recovered in a ’60s-era yellow fabric by Ms. Fox’s mother as an anniversary gift. “It’s classic Danish modern, and you can see the good bones,” Mr. Hoffman said. From the Berkshires comes a Danish version of a Cherner chair courtesy of Ms. Fox’s father, who, if he had his way, would bombard the couple with more seating. “He has something of a chair fetish,” his daughter explained. “I tell him, Dad, we don’t need more chairs. We need more closets.”
763 2011-05-29 The number of hotel rooms in New York City has increased by almost 24 percent in the last three years, a growth that has been driven in part by hotels in boroughs beyond Manhattan, according to NYC & Company, the official marketing, tourism and pa...
764 2011-05-29 The other day, Frank Doroff, the vice chairman of Bloomingdale's, called to say he had a winner. Mr. Doroff, an affable, quick-talking executive who answers his own telephone, loves when an item is selling. Well, naturally, every retailer does, bu...
765 2011-05-30 Going down by two sets, Andy Murray steadied his performance and his injured ankle to force a fifth set....
766 2011-05-30 As the global economy recovers so, too, do greenhouse gas emissions....
767 2011-05-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
768 2011-05-30 Animal Kingdom looked terrific in his first gallop since the Preakness Stakes and is schedule to ship early to Belmont....
769 2011-05-30 Bad driving can cause double-digit increases in your auto insurance rates....
770 2011-05-30 Missouri, Baylor and California won super-regional finals to complete the field for the Women’s College World Series. The eight-team tournament begins Thursday in Oklahoma City.

Lisa Simmons hit a two-run homer in a five-run first inning, and host Missouri held off a late rally to defeat Washington, 6-3, and sweep their best-of-three series. Baylor won at Georgia, 9-2, in the decisive third game as Megan Turk hit a three-run homer in a five-run first. California bounced back from an 8-0 loss to host Kentucky in Game 2 as Jolene Henderson pitched a three-hitter to win, 9-0.
771 2011-05-30 Most economists and policy makers predict that the cap-and-trade program will go forward once the judge has accepted a new analysis as sufficiently thorough. For them, the bigger question is what role California’s system will play now that there is no prospect of a similar national initiative.

California’s climate change law, passed in 2006, was once seen as a beta test for a national push to limit greenhouse gases. Cast as a market-driven strategy that was preferable to a tax, cap and trade drew considerable bipartisan support before the nation’s political landscape shifted, climate legislation fizzled in Congress and the economic model became a focus of derision for ascendant Republican conservatives.

Will California keep the cap-and-trade flag flying regardless over the next decade and eventually influence policy in other states? Or will it prove marginally relevant at best to any national policy conversation?

“Now that the big program has gone into abeyance for some time, the pilot project looks pretty isolated,” said Steve Hayward, an economist with the conservative American Enterprise Institute.

Even economists who firmly support cap and trade are not sure whether the California program should be considered the vanguard of a distant revolution or a rebel stronghold facing daunting odds.

“It is sort of like keeping a flame alive during what is politically an exceptionally difficult time,” said Robert Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. “It is now the center of any kind of action.”

The cap-and-trade plan, which calls for reducing California’s greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, sets a ceiling on climate-warming emissions by the industrial, electricity, transportation and other sectors that will gradually be lowered over time. Companies will be allocated emissions allowances, and as they progress in cutting their emissions, they can sell their unneeded credits to other polluters.

Dr. Stavins suggested that California’s program could eventually link up with the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a more limited cap-and-trade program involving electric utilities in the Northeast and Middle Atlantic. That combination would create a larger market for emissions allowances.

But “for the time being, that’s not clear,” he acknowledged. The Regional Greenhouse group suffered its own setback last week when Gov. Chris Christie pulled New Jersey out of the 10-state compact, arguing that cap and trade was ineffective.

And a group of states and Canadian provinces, known as the Western Climate Initiative, has effectively been abandoned for the time being by every state but California. (British Columbia and Quebec are still on track to begin their own emissions-trading programs next year, and Ontario could soon follow.)

In California, optimism remains the regulators’ public position. Mary Nichols, chairwoman of the California Air Resources Board, predicts that the state’s multipronged greenhouse-gas-reduction plan will face more and more friendly competition from other states like New York, Massachusetts and even Texas in areas like creating incentives for development of renewable energy.

Global warming is cited far less frequently as a policy concern these days in the current political climate, Ms. Nichols said, but she maintains that progress is being made in cutting fossil fuel emissions nonetheless. “I think climate itself may be out of favor at the moment as the reason for working on these issues, and energy security and petroleum reduction are in,” she said. “Either way, I see there’s a lot of action going on.”

The Pew Center on Global Climate Change notes that more than 30 states have set mandatory goals for the amount of electricity that utilities get from solar and wind energy and other renewable sources and that 36 states have climate action plans, for example.

All these initiatives together could eventually be woven into the fabric of a national climate policy formed not in Congress but in the context of pragmatic state policy, the optimists’ thinking goes. “What we may be seeing is the bubbling up of climate policies from the bottom up,” Dr. Stavins said.

And California’s vanguard role in that trend is undeniable, said Jon Costantino, a former climate change planner at the California Air Resources Board who is now a senior adviser to the Sacramento law firm Manatt, Phelps & Phillips. The state “has broken the ice,” he said.

Dr. Stavins said that California’s cap and trade experiment could have considerable influence abroad as well, given that its emissions are comparable to those of, say, Italy. “From the perspective of other countries, everyone is watching California,” he said — including China, which surpassed the United States as the greatest emitter of greenhouse gases two years ago.

For now, however, the state government’s most immediate challenge is convincing Judge Goldsmith that the research undergirding its cap-and-trade plan is sufficiently thorough. A spokesman for the California Air Resources Board, which is appealing Judge Goldsmith’s decision, said that its staff was redoing its analysis.

Matthew Kahn, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles, predicts that making difficult economic adjustments, and possibly meeting environmental justice concerns as well, will be partly a matter of trial and error as the cap-and-trade program unfolds.

“A big bet that’s being made on the green economy is that there will be learning by doing,” he said. “We’re providing a free experiment for the rest of the country.”
772 2011-05-30 Chief Justice John Roberts is one vote short of moving the Supreme Court to a position so conservative on states’ rights that it would be to the right of the Tea Party’s idea of limited government. That chilling possibility was evident in the court’s recent ruling in the case of Virginia v. Stewart.

The principle at stake dates back to a 1908 case, Ex parte Young, in which the Supreme Court held that federal courts have a paramount role in stopping a state from violating federal law. Despite the 11th Amendment’s protection of a state from being sued in federal court, all state officials must comply with federal law, which the Constitution calls “the supreme Law of the Land.”

States’ rights has been a politically charged concept for even longer. It was a basis for secession and then for years of Southern defiance on segregation. Now it is used as an excuse for rejecting national immigration policy.

Ex parte Young, however, has long stood above legal politics, recognized by conservatives and liberals as defining an essential rule. Indeed, last month the court relied on it in ruling that a federal court could stop a Virginia agency from violating federal statutes requiring it to provide records of mentally ill or disabled patients who had died or been injured while in its care. It was noteworthy that the opinion was by Justice Antonin Scalia.

But there was a dissent by Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. joined by Justice Samuel Alito Jr. and an opinion concurring with the majority by Justice Anthony Kennedy joined by Justice Clarence Thomas. To these four justices, there is no longer an inviolable principle that federal courts can stop state officials from violating federal law.
773 2011-05-30 “We are well positioned to go after a market opportunity that is sixfold the market opportunity of the Nvidia you knew from the past,” Mr. Huang recently told analysts.

Behind Mr. Huang’s showmanship and bold plans is the Tegra 2, the company’s latest mobile chip. This chip, based on the power-efficient chip architecture from ARM Holdings, has started to appear in a number of smartphones, like the Droid X2, and in tablets like the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 that run on Google’s Android operating system. Mr. Huang envisions Nvidia becoming as essential to Android as Intel has long been to Windows PCs.

Although few people in the chip industry dismiss Mr. Huang’s ideas, the path will be difficult. “There’s a lot of uncertainty about how they are going to outgrow their core graphics business,” said Rajvindra Gill, an analyst with Needham & Company, which recently downgraded Nvidia’s stock to hold from buy.

Still, the shift appears to be a necessary step.

A recent report from Jon Peddie Research shows that Nvidia’s share of the market for graphics processing — including integrated and stand-alone chips — dropped eight percentage points year over year in the first quarter to 20 percent, while A.M.D.’s share of the graphics chip market rose three percentage points and Intel’s rose almost five percentage points.

The PC market, over all, is slowing as well. Gartner, a technology research firm, expects worldwide PC sales to increase only 10.5 percent, to 388 million units, this year, far below the forecast of 15.9 percent it made six months ago. And that number might even be optimistic.

During the first three months of the year, Gartner says, the PC industry shrank by about 1 percent, with some industry analysts saying it contracted more than that.

The problem is a maturing market in the United States, a decline in demand from recession-weary corporations and, increasingly, a growing consumer appetite for tablet computers.

So far, Nvidia’s strategy is working. The company posted $100 million in sales of Tegra 2 during the first quarter, only months after releasing the chip.

Meanwhile, a settlement in January of a patent dispute with Intel is also helping the company’s bottom line. Intel has agreed to pay Nvidia $1.5 billion over five years. Nvidia can expect a payment of about $66 million a quarter from Intel in exchange for Intel’s use of Nvidia’s patents.

To push further into the mobile market, Nvidia this month agreed to pay $367 million for Icera Inc., a British start-up with a collection of baseband technology, which connects mobile devices to cellular networks. Having its own baseband technology will help Nvidia compete with Intel and, even more important, with Qualcomm, the leader in mobile chips.

With Icera’s technology, Nvidia will be able to create products that combine microprocessor and communication technology, potentially bringing down the chip’s price as well as its size.

Nvidia might also find an opportunity in Microsoft’s plans to make a version of its Windows Phone operating system for ARM chips. That opens the market for Nvidia’s Tegra 2 chips in phones and tablets that one day could run Microsoft’s operating system, including Nokia phones.

For now, Nvidia’s fortunes are largely tied to Android devices. Although Apple uses Nvidia chips in the MacBook Air, it uses chips of its own design in iPhones and iPads.

But many of the smartphones using the Tegra 2 chip have been huge sellers, with more customers all the time. At the Consumer Electronics Show in January, Motorola unveiled an Android-equipped Droid Bionic and Atrix 4G phones while LG showed off its Optimus 2x — all based on Nvidia’s Tegra 2 chip, and all to much critical acclaim.

But chips in tablets may be a bit of a slog.

In Mr. Huang’s view, the early tablets using Android, on sale since last year, suffered from high prices, a lack of compelling applications and a shortage of knowledgeable retailers. But he predicted that these issues would not be a problem in the next wave of Android tablets, due this year.

Those new tablets may use the company’s quad-core processor, a chip with four processors in one, he said.

Tegra 2 chips will go into the latest tablet announced — the Eee Pad Transformer TF101, a laptop that turns into a tablet.

Mr. Huang was certain that new Android tablets will help Apple’s competitors unseat the iPad as the reigning king of the tablets.

“In a couple two to three years I can imagine Android operating half the world’s tablets, if not more,” he said.

Others agree; Jefferies, the investment bank and research company, for example, says that by 2014, Android tablets will outsell iPads by about 40 million units.

If Mr. Huang’s plans go accordingly, Nvidia will be in many of them.
774 2011-05-30 It would seem one of the basic tasks of any disk jockey: tell listeners the name of the song they just heard. But last week the head of a major radio company felt compelled to instruct its programmers to start identifying more of the songs played on the air, by title and artist name.

“It just makes sense to do it,” said Dan Mason, the president and chief executive of CBS Radio, which owns 130 stations in the United States. In a memo to CBS Radio employees, Mr. Mason said that the change should take effect immediately at all of the company’s pop, rock, urban and country stations.

In an interview, Mr. Mason explained that at some indeterminate point in history — he and other radio veterans place it at the mid-1980s — song identification began to vanish from the air as programmers struggled to squeeze out anything considered “clutter.”

“You were always conscious about the amount of talk you would put on,” he said. “But the truth is that people tune in and tune out, and it was probably underestimated at the time how much people really wanted that information.”

For record companies, having a song’s title and artist’s name mentioned on the air — especially if new and unfamiliar — is crucial marketing. And for years, the companies reminded D.J.’s of this with prominent stickers on records and CDs saying, “When you play it, say it.”
775 2011-05-30 Advertisers are increasingly experimenting with new ways to learn what consumers think of their products. Click on the images below to hear Malinda Sanna, the founder and strategic planner for Spark, a market research company, explain the findings from a collage-building exercise that her company calls the Sensory Safari. Ms. Sanna explains parts of the collages that a dozen women built to visually represent how they felt about two digital applications for Suave Hair, a Unilever brand.
776 2011-05-30 “We’re savvy, we’re jaded, we’re tired of advertising,” Ms. Sanna said. All of that media saturation means consumers are giving marketers similarly jaded answers to their research questions. So Ms. Sanna and her business partner, Terrie Koles, started the Sensory Safari, a collage-building exercise in which participants create collages based on their feelings about a brand, a product or an advertising concept.

At a recent event for , Ms. Koles artfully decorated four tables with objects representing different senses — touch, smell, sight and taste. Participants were given iPods programmed with pop and asked to visually represent how they felt about the concepts for two Web-based applications for Suave, a Unilever hair care line.

While the women were creating the collages, representatives from Unilever watched from an adjacent room. One montage, which included an upside-down Barbie doll in a pink taffeta dress, her outstretched arms giving the appearance that she was falling from the sky, represented vulnerability and the “ultimate feeling of not being in control,” Ms. Sanna said. Depending on the context, outstretched arms also represented playfulness and openness, and they were a theme in many of the images the women selected for their collages.

Noelle Tate, who contributed the upside-down Barbie, described the experience as “liberating.”

“How often do you get to go through a room with tables full of a beautiful array of objects, scents, textures, plants, flowers, pictures, etc. etc. etc., and just be stimulated through all of your senses to express how you feel?” Ms. Tate said in an e-mail.

David Rubin, the marketing director for hair care at Unilever, said watching the women gave the company deeper insight into how to approach consumers. The collage-building process, he said in an e-mail, helped participants “get out of their comfort zone and talk about emotions they might not even know they had.”

When was testing a new ad campaign, the company used the Sensory Safari to see the reactions consumers had to the company before and after seeing television ads.

Marissa Freeman, the senior vice president for brand strategy and marketing communications for Time Warner Cable, said the collages made before the ads were shown, tinged with negative imagery like tangled ropes and roller coasters, were “not surprising.” After seeing the ads, participants created collages with more positive images, including the word “Technology” with a heart drawn around it.

“There’s no better way than nonverbal communication to understand how people feel,” Ms. Freeman said.

The use of traditional focus groups has sometimes been fraught with pitfalls for marketers. One of the biggest focus group debacles came with the invention of New Coke, which briefly replaced the traditional formula in 1985. The company spent millions of dollars on market research, taste tests and focus groups in an effort to thwart its growing competitor, , only to find a public enraged by the decision.

“People have feelings about Coke and about brands like this that are incredibly deep,” said Michael I. Norton, an associate professor in the marketing unit at Harvard Business School.

Ravi Dhar, a professor of management and marketing and the director of the Center for Customer Insights at the Yale School of Management, said traditional focus groups can still be useful in certain situations, like generating ideas in the early stages of a product’s life. They are not good, however, when it comes to testing products or concepts. “You don’t want consumers to be scientists, you want consumers to be consumers,” he said.

Tom Denari, the president of Young & Laramore, says one of his passions is to “kill” the traditional focus group.

Mr. Denari’s agency takes a different tack, interviewing consumers in their homes and leaving them with journals called “Little Truth Books” for a week or two. “It forces people to think a little more deeply than they normally would,” Mr. Denari said.

When Ugly Mug Coffee wanted to retool its brand, Mr. Denari’s agency asked consumers to use the journals to draw family trees showing which family members were coffee drinkers. They were also asked to list some of the worst things about coffee, what their coffee “cut-off time” was and why they drank it at all.

“The whole goal is the get to the heart,” Mr. Denari said. The research helped Ugly Mug create new packaging and expand distribution from just a few stores to more than 1,500 grocery stores around the country, he said.

Marketers are even turning to to run focus groups. The advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather, part of WPP, recently used the Facebook Groups feature for virtual focus groups they held on behalf of clients like Gap and , and for larger brands like Unilever and .

Tim Maleeny, the head of strategic planning for Ogilvy & Mather, said Facebook was a quick, affordable and natural place for a focus group. “They are already there,” Mr. Maleeny said of the Facebook users in the group.

Cellphones can also be a place where marketers can peek into their consumers’ buying habits. A new mobile application called Over the Shoulder, created by the market research company Egg Strategy, allows participants to respond to marketers’ questions by posting photos, videos, audio or using text message. Marketers can also follow a consumer’s exact location using mobile technology.

Tom Trenta, the president of Egg Strategy , said the app helps marketers gain access to consumers in situations deemed too personal for a traditional focus group. Mr. Trenta said the company had been approached by the makers of feminine hygiene products, and .

A recent and less intimate example of a marketer using the app was the brewer MillerCoors. The company, hoping to understand why men buy certain beer brands, followed 40 men for 20 nights at bars in Chicago and during February and March.

The instant feedback helped the brand answer questions like, “At 8 o’clock you were drinking a Miller Lite, at 10 o’clock you were drinking . What happened?” The researchers tallied thousands of choices made in real time and found that men were “choosing brands that they don’t like the taste of simply because the brand says the right things about them,” Mr. Trenta said.

“We heard guys tell us things we’d simply never heard in traditional research,” Sarah Ross, the marketing director for innovation at MillerCoors, said in a statement. “We’re considering a whole new brand to fill a need that we’d never quite seen before.”
777 2011-05-30 Differences between the Central Bank and the presidential commission underpinned the report, which tried to shift the blame for the fiasco to the Central Bank, as well as to international auditors paid for by American aid programs, for what often amounted to looting of the bank’s deposits.

Mr. Ludin was particularly critical of Mr. Fitrat, the Central Bank governor.

“It’s very easy to be national hero in Afghanistan,” Mr. Ludin said Sunday, clearly referring to Mr. Fitrat. “Some officials of the Central Bank are involved in this issue, and those who were guilty in this case are now in charge of the affairs in Kabul Bank.”

After news of the scandal threatened to destroy the bank, Afghanistan’s largest, destabilize the country’s financial system and drive away foreign aid, President Karzai vowed last year that the government would stand by the bank and prevent it from failing. Last month, the government announced its plan to overhaul the bank, splitting it in two. One entity, the New Kabul Bank, would take over the bank’s branches, deposits and good loans, and the other would be a receivership office set up to try to collect on the bad loans.

Mr. Ludin did not release the text of the report, which he said was the president’s prerogative. He said the president would decide whether any criminal or other action would be taken based on its recommendations.

He did, however, quote liberally from the report, and took care to absolve the bank’s two most politically prominent borrowers, Mahmoud Karzai and Abdul Hassin Fahim, the brother of the powerful first vice president. Officials had previously said that Mr. Fahim’s loans totaled as much as $100 million, but Mr. Ludin said that his commission had been assured by him that he had agreed to pledge enough property to cover his obligations.

On Mr. Karzai, a businessman with dual Afghan-American nationality, the commission accepted his view that he had paid off all of his obligations to the bank, $4.2 million. “He is not guilty,” Mr. Ludin said. “He has no problem.” The other $18 million charged to Mr. Karzai comprised an $8 million loan to buy a villa on Palm Island in Dubai, a $6 million loan to buy shares in the bank, and accumulated interest of about $4 million.

Mr. Karzai maintains that the deed to that villa was in the name of the bank’s chairman, Sherkhan Farnood, and that he was only a tenant there. And he says that since the bank has been in effect taken over by the government, his obligations to pay for shares in the bank have been erased.

Reached by telephone, he reiterated his claim that he had paid off his Kabul Bank loans, and said the report had exonerated him. He said Mr. Fitrat, the Central Bank governor, had apologized to him for publicly saying he owed $22 million, and that Mr. Fitrat had accepted Mr. Karzai’s accounting. “He told me I’m clean,” Mr. Karzai said. But a spokesman for Mr. Fitrat denied that he had apologized. “It’s not true and we reject this allegation,” said the spokesman, Emal Ashur. As to whether Mr. Karzai still owed the bank money, Mr. Ashur referred questions to the bank’s Receivership Office.

A spokesman for that office, Nesar Ahmad Yousefzai, said the receivers were not yet able to divulge how much any individuals owed the bank.

Informed of Mr. Fitrat’s denial, Mahmoud Karzai lashed out. “The incompetency in this government is beyond comprehension, from my brother on down,” he said. “Basically my brother has licensed 600,000 people to rob the rest of the population,” he added, referring to the estimated number of government employees.

Mr. Ludin said the commission discovered that Kabul Bank had $925 million in questionable loans, including $338 million in accumulated interest. Of those loans, $467 million were made without any guarantees or even paperwork or documentation. Only $49 million of the bank’s loans were considered good loans that were properly performing.

The scandal, which led to a brief run on the bank last year, threatened to damage the entire economy and scared off the foreign aid that keeps the government running. Without that aid, Afghanistan has only $1 billion in annual revenues, so it was unclear how its government could cover the bank’s obligations.

International donors made it clear they were unwilling to bail out the bank, and the International Monetary Fund made addressing the bank’s problems a condition before foreign aid money could resume. No one has been charged or prosecuted in connection with the bank so far.

The State Department has canceled a contract with Deloitte, the international accounting firm, in Afghanistan, after the department’s inspector general reported that it had ignored signals of trouble at the bank for two years.

Mr. Ludin said the bank’s problems were caused by inadequacies in international accounting practices, as well as by the Central Bank’s failure to heed warnings made to it a year ago by Afghanistan’s intelligence service.

Mr. Ludin was previously appointed by Mr. Karzai to head the Independent Electoral Commission during the 2009 presidential race. Mr. Ludin was widely criticized for claiming that the race was free and fair, despite condemnation from the international community.
778 2011-05-30 Shortly after editors at the Harvard Business Review tore up their magazine in 2009, adding pictures to the cover, reader comments to their signature case studies and colorful illustrations - the horror! - cranky reader comments started coming in....
779 2011-05-30 Microsoft showed off the next version of its smartphone operating system, code-named Mango, at an event in downtown Manhattan on Tuesday morning.     The presentation comes seven months after the release of Windows Phone 7, when it became clear th...
780 2011-05-30 When an idea gets hot in Silicon Valley, scores of entrepreneurs come up with me-too ideas to try to get some of the money sloshing around. Why else are there so many photo-sharing apps, geolocation services and social networks?     Raptr might se...
781 2011-05-31 Winifred Jiau, a former consultant at an expert network firm, is set to go on trial on charges that she helped pass secret corporate information to her hedge fund clients....
782 2011-05-31 The danger of investing in Internet companies in emerging markets is not only that these companies may be part of a bubble, but that they have risks particular to foreign companies....
783 2011-05-31 Broadway had another billion-dollar season between late May 2010 and Sunday....
784 2011-05-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
785 2011-05-31 In the span of 20 minutes, Francesca Schiavone transformed herself from inconsistent and tentative to confident and bold against Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova....
786 2011-05-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
787 2011-05-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
788 2011-05-31 Three Americans have reached the women’s doubles semifinals of the French Open championships, to be played on Wednesday at Roland Garros....
789 2011-05-31 Much the same as with the housing bubble....
790 2011-05-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
791 2011-05-31 A controversy erupts after veterans tell a Phoenix TV station that they were ordered to dump the herbicide at Camp Carroll, in southeastern South Korea, in the late 1970s....
792 2011-05-31 Marion Bartoli defeated Svetlana Kuznetsova, 7-6 (4), 6-4, to advance to the semifinals of the French Open....
793 2011-05-31 Apple is usually ultrasecretive about coming product announcements, but on Tuesday the company pre-announced a number of new software plans a week before a presentation that will be led by Steve Jobs....
794 2011-05-31 Did you think stocks were more risky in early 2009 than you do today? If so, your emotions may be getting in the way....
795 2011-05-31 The announcement, involving a cloud computing application and new versions of mobile and computer operating systems, will be made Monday at a developers conference....
796 2011-05-31 The political roots of bubble denial....
797 2011-05-31 What happens to bullies? Some of them become old bullies....
798 2011-05-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
799 2011-05-31 The possible presidential candidate has apparently decided that she can treat the media any way she wants — and they will be there anyway....
800 2011-05-31 Plus, do you feel confident that you know what you’re doing?...
801 2011-05-31 “The Copts are the crucial test case,” said Heba Morayef, a researcher with here, adding that facing off against “societal pressures” may in some ways be ever harder than criticizing a dictator. “It is the next big battle.”

But so far, there is little encouragement in the debate over how to address the sectarian strife. Instead of searching for common ground, all sides are pointing fingers of blame while almost no one is addressing the underlying reasons for the strife, including a legal framework that treats Muslims and Christians differently.

Christians, who make up about 10 percent of the 80 million Egyptians, say the revolution has plunged them into uncharted territory. Suppressed or marginalized for six decades here, Islamists entering politics have rushed to defend an article of the Egyptian Constitution that declares Egypt a Muslim country that derives its laws from Islam. Christians and liberals say privately they abhor the provision, which was first added as a populist gesture by President . But the article is so popular among Muslims — and the meaning so vague — that even many liberals and Christians entering politics are reluctant to speak out against it, asking at most for slight modifications.

“Our position is that it should stay, but a clause should be added so that in personal issues non-Muslims are subject to the rules of their own religion,” said Naguib Sawiris, a secular-minded Christian tycoon who has started his own liberal party.

He would prefer to remove religion from the laws entirely the way Western separation of church and state does, he said, but that idea could not prevail in Egypt. “Islam doesn’t separate them,” he said.

The most common sparks for sectarian violence, however, come from Egyptian laws dating from the end of the colonial era. One imposes stricter regulations on building churches than on mosques. Christians often look to get around the restrictions by constructing “community centers” with altars and steeples — sometimes provoking Muslim accusations of deceit and Christian charges of discrimination.

The other statute is one the church supports, although not all its parishioners agree: it enforces the Coptic Church’s near-total ban on divorce, even while Egyptian laws on Muslim divorce have grown increasingly liberal.

Often, Christians who want to divorce convert to Islam — and try, after the divorce, to convert back. The law has spawned many rumors of sectarian “kidnappings” to abet or prevent such a conversion for some Coptic women. The rumors ignite most outbreaks of Muslim-Christian violence, including at least three riots since the revolution, and many other controversies. In Ms. Abdel Fattah’s case, the Cairo police said the account was fabricated, while Ms. Abdel Fattah’s mother said her daughter was too traumatized to speak to reporters.

But despite widespread recognition of the law’s role as a catalyst of sectarian violence, the idea that civic law should enforce religious morals is so deeply embedded here that almost no one is proposing to alter the rule.

“It is explosive,” said Hossam Bahgat, founder of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, one of the few groups that advocate changing the law to at least allow the choice of a civil, nonreligious marriage.

When Copts held a weeklong sit-in to demand equal legal treatment, many who attended nonetheless insisted on the preservation of separate, binding laws on Christian marriages. “So no one will be able to get around the religion,” said Yusef George, a 30-year-old businessman. A spokesman for the , Egypt’s largest Islamist group, said it, too, supported the rule.

Some blame their own church for depending too much on Mr. Mubarak. In a pattern common to Syria, and elsewhere, Coptic leaders cultivated the patronage of Egypt’s secular dictator, with Coptic Pope Shenouda III trading political support for favors and protection. As in Iraq, with the leader deposed, the Christians felt exposed.

“Coptic rights were reserved to be discussed between Mubarak and the pope,” said Mona Makram Ebeid, a Coptic scholar and former lawmaker who suspended her membership in the liberal Wafd party because its newspaper published the headline about Ms. Abdel Fattah, “and the Copts were left out of it completely.”

Church leaders, in turn, blame Islamic fundamentalists they say the revolution has emboldened. “They don’t want any Copts present in Egypt,” said Father Armia Adly, a spokesman for the church.

The Muslim Brotherhood, meanwhile, has named a Christian as deputy leader of its new political party. “We are calling for a civil state,” said Essam el-Erian, a prominent leader of the Brotherhood, adding that the group hoped to promote laws derived from the elements of Islamic law common to other great religions, like “freedom of worship and faith, equality between people, and human rights and human dignity.”

Still, many liberals argue the sectarian conflicts prove Egypt should establish a permanent “bill of rights” to protect religious and personal freedoms before holding elections that could give power to an Islamist majority. It would “remove the sense of angst that exists today in Egypt,” said a spokeswoman for , a liberal presidential contender.
802 2011-05-31 The European Union is racing to draft a second bailout package for Greece to release vital loans next month and avert the risk that the euro zone country will default, officials said on Monday.

“I am quite optimistic,” the chairman of euro zone finance ministers, Jean-Claude Juncker, said after discussing further aid for Athens with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Paris.

A total restructuring of Greece’s debt was not an option, he said, leaving the door open to some tweaking of Greece’s debt profile that might involve the private sector, as Mr. Sarkozy advocated last week.

Greece’s conservative opposition, meanwhile, demanded lower taxes as a condition for reaching a political consensus with the Socialist government on further austerity measures, which Brussels says are essential to secure any further assistance.

“You want to raise taxes and raise consensus with us, who have set reducing taxes as a priority? Don’t even think about it,” said Antonis Samaras, leader of the opposition New Democracy party.
803 2011-05-31 The ratings agency Standard & Poor’s cut its credit rating on the Tokyo Electric Power Company, saying the utility’s bank lenders were likely to be required to write off debt as part of a restructuring plan to compensate victims of a nuclear crisis. S.& P. said it had lowered the long-term credit rating of Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco, to B+ from BBB. It also cut the rating on the utility’s secured bonds to BB+ from BBB. The ratings agency said it viewed a default on the utility’s 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) in corporate bonds as less likely than a restructuring of its bank debt.
804 2011-05-31 Much of what Alderson said about the circumstances regarding his father’s death could thus be applied to the daunting work ahead. “You simply have to deal with it as it is, that’s the best approach,” he said. “Try to make the best of what you have. That’s the way my dad approached things, and that’s the way I do.”

Alderson brought three Mets to the Intrepid ceremony — pitchers Jason Isringhausen and Mike Pelfrey and infielder Justin Turner. The appearance began a week of events by the Mets to honor the military by an organization that could use all the regimentation it can get given the disorderliness of recent years.

On this first Memorial Day without the father who was still playing in a seniors softball league at the time of his death, you got the feeling that Alderson would not deviate from his life’s lessons or baseball’s conventions, would not let emotions guide him as he rides out the ownership storm.

He was clear-eyed and firm of voice — pausing only to clear his throat — as he spoke of the passion he and his father shared for baseball, the doubleheader John Alderson had taken him to as an 8-year-old at the old Comiskey Park in Chicago.

As an Army brat steadily on the move, there weren’t many more opportunities although two were special, practically bookends.

When the itinerant life took the family to Japan, father and son watched the Yankees play a series of exhibitions in Japan in 1955 and then again when they opened the 2004 season in Tokyo against Tampa Bay.

“He took me to the game in ’55 and I took him to the game in 2004, when he was long retired,” Alderson said. “I told him, ‘We’ve got to be the only two people in the ballpark who’d seen the Yankees play the last time they were in Japan.’ ”

Alderson recalled how his father loved to join the Oakland Athletics in spring training when he was the architect of the Tony La Russa-managed teams that won the World Series in 1989. John Alderson would shag fly balls and bond with the clubhouse man, a military man himself.

When John Alderson took interest in his son’s work, he was just returning the favor. As a college student at Dartmouth in 1967, Sandy Alderson finagled a correspondent’s visa to get into the Philippines, where his father would train after flying missions in Vietnam.

“I went on a test op, sat in the back seat while he flew,” Alderson said. “Highly irregular.” He left out the best part, or at least the part his father delighted in telling. John Alderson was skilled and playful enough as a pilot to leave the contents of his son’s stomach in the rear seat.

“He was a very gregarious soul,” Sandy Alderson said, admitting to the vacuum created by the accident. His mother, Gwenny, died in 1997, and “when you lose one parent, you realize how important they are and the surviving parent becomes all that more important. So my dad and I shared everything, baseball wise. He was excited about this chapter of my career and was looking forward to spring training.”

Then came that “certain randomness,” and the man who flew bomber planes in World War II, Korea and had two tours in Vietnam — one of them after Sandy Alderson had served there — was struck down taking a walk. He was wearing a Mets cap and the 1989 World Series ring his son had given him 20 years ago.
805 2011-05-31 In 1944 Mr. Nascimento founded the Black Experimental Theater in Rio de Janeiro, a troupe that celebrated Brazil’s African-influenced culture. It trained black citizens as actors in defiance of the custom of casting white actors in blackface.

As an actor, he performed in “Orfeu da Conceição,” the play by Vinicius de Moraes that became the basis of the 1959 film “Black Orpheus,” directed by Marcel Camus. The troupe also sponsored civil rights events, including the first Congress of Brazilian Blacks, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1950.

In 1945, Mr. Nascimento helped found the Afro-Brazilian Democratic Committee to fight for the release of political prisoners. After a military coup d’état in 1964, he lived in self-imposed exile in the United States and Nigeria until the early 1980s. While in exile he began painting strikingly colorful works featuring human and natural images in juxtaposition with geometric shapes, suggestive of Afro-Brazilian cultural and religious themes. His work has been exhibited in the United States, Brazil and elsewhere.

In the late 1970s, as the military continued to hold power (and would until 1985), Mr. Nascimento, still in exile, helped found the Democratic Labor Party of Brazil, seeing to it that the issue of racial discrimination was a part of its platform. He served in the Brazilian Legislature as a congressman and senator. He also helped found the Afro-Brazilian Studies and Research Institute, known as Ipeafro, in Rio de Janeiro.

“There was no more important Brazilian than Nascimento since the abolition of slavery in 1888,” said Ollie A. Johnson, a professor of Africana Studies at Wayne State University in Detroit and the author of “Brazilian Party Politics and the Coup of 1964.” “No other Brazilian fought harder and longer against white supremacy and racism in Brazil in the post-slavery era. For Americans to understand him and his contribution, you’d have to say he was a little bit of Marcus Garvey, a little of W. E. B. DuBois, a little bit of Langston Hughes and a little bit of Adam Clayton Powell.”

Mr. Nascimento was born in March 1914 in Franca, in the Brazilian state of São Paulo. His father was a cobbler; his mother made candies and sold them on the street. His grandparents had been slaves.

“He grew up around people who experienced the last days of slavery,” Mr. Dzidzienyo said, adding that keeping that experience alive through the 20th century “was one of his most important contributions.”

Mr. Nascimento studied accounting and earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from the University of Rio de Janeiro. He joined the Brazilian civil rights movement, known as the Brazilian Black Front, as a teenager.

During his exile, he taught at the State University of New York at Buffalo, where he founded the chair of African cultures in the university’s Puerto Rican studies program. He also lectured at Yale and Wesleyan.

His survivors include his third wife, Elisa Larkin Nascimento, who is the current director of Ipeafro; three sons, Henrique Christophe, Bida and Osiris; and a daughter, Yemanja.

An activist until virtually the end of his days, Mr. Nascimento gave his final interview to the American scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr. for a PBS series, “Black in Latin America,” which was broadcast this spring.

“Has Brazil ever truly had a racial democracy?” Mr. Gates asked.

“The black people feel in their flesh the lie which is racial democracy in this country,” Mr. Nascimento said. “You just have to look at a black family. Where do they live? The black children, how are they educated? You’ll see that it’s all a lie. You must understand that I’m saying this with profound hatred, profound bitterness at the way black people are treated in Brazil.”

Mr. Gates asked if, nonetheless, there was reason for optimism.

“If I weren’t an optimist I would have hanged myself,” Mr. Nascimento said.
806 2011-05-31 SUDAN, for now the vastest country in Africa, is once again on the verge of civil war. A 2005 peace agreement, brokered with American assistance, was supposed to resolve the issues that led to 22 years of fighting between the Arab-dominated North and secessionists in the South. But it has not.

In a January referendum, the South Sudanese overwhelmingly voted for independence. But the North’s occupation of the contested border region of Abyei this month could reignite the conflict between North and South — unless foreign powers, especially China, use their leverage to stop it.

The international community — particularly the United Nations and the United States — have been spectacularly ineffective in getting the Sudanese government to honor its own agreements. United Nations peacekeeping forces in Abyei have failed to protect civilians from attacks and keep the two sides apart. After 2005, the Bush administration concentrated mostly on the western region of Darfur and ignored the South. The Obama administration refocused its attention on the North-South conflict, but put all its energy into the independence referendum, at the expense of Abyei.

Abyei’s fertile grazing lands are used by both the Ngok Dinka people, the area’s permanent residents, and Misseriya Arabs, seasonal migrants from the North. A referendum held simultaneously with South Sudan’s independence vote was supposed to resolve the status of Abyei. But Sudan’s president, Omar al-Bashir, has obstructed a resolution: first by refusing to accept the borders recommended by the Abyei Boundaries Commission, on which I served; then by blocking the enforcement of a ruling issued by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague; and finally by preventing the Abyei referendum.

Mr. Bashir believes that transferring Abyei to the South would set a dangerous precedent for other disaffected areas, including Darfur, that are already seeking greater autonomy from Khartoum. American officials have unwittingly encouraged the Bashir regime to take a hard line by supporting successive compromise proposals rather than insisting that Khartoum adhere to the peace agreement and abide by the court ruling. Confident that it would face no concerted opposition, the North has now made the final, violent, push.
807 2011-05-31 Scott Sinclair scored three goals as Swansea beat Reading, 4-2, in a League Championship playoff final to become the first Welsh team to earn a place in the English Premier League. The Swans will be joined in the Premier League by Queens Park Rangers and Norwich, which finished first and second at the end of the League Championship’s regular season to earn automatic promotion.

¶ The struggling Vancouver Whitecaps fired Coach Teitur Thordarson and replaced him for the rest of the season with Tom Soehn, their director of soccer operations. The Whitecaps also fired the goalkeeper coach Mike Salmon. Vancouver is 1-5-6 in Major League Soccer and has not won since its opener March 19.

¶ Midfielder Alejandro Bedoya joined the United States national team’s training camp for the Gold Cup after Benny Feilhaber sustained an ankle injury during an M.L.S. game Saturday. Bedoya has made seven appearances for the United States. He has spent the last two years in Sweden with Orebro, scoring four goals in nine matches.
808 2011-05-31 The finding came as a surprise to all the scientists involved. Researchers at Pfizer were investigating virus outbreaks in dogs in shelters across the United States. They swabbed the noses of dogs sick with respiratory diseases and searched for viruses. In some cases they could not isolate a known virus, so they sent samples to the Center for Infection and Immunity at Columbia University, where researchers specialize in finding new viruses.

The Columbia center found that six of nine dogs in one outbreak and three of five in another shared the same unknown virus. Nasal swabs from 60 healthy dogs showed no sign of it.

Amit Kapoor, a Columbia virologist, compared the genetic material of the new virus to known ones. His analysis revealed it was closely related to the hepatitis C virus (HCV for short). “I was not expecting anything like HCV,” Dr. Kapoor said. Like many other researchers, he assumed that it had evolved from a primate virus, because chimpanzees can be experimentally infected with hepatitis C.

But as Dr. Kapoor and Peter Simmonds of the University of Edinburgh analyzed more genetic data, the link continued to hold. Dr. Kapoor and his colleagues have called the new virus canine hepacivirus, or CHV for short.

The Columbia researchers collaborated with hepatitis C experts at Rockefeller University in New York to compare the two viruses. Canine hepacivirus infects the airways of dogs and is present at low levels in the liver.

Based on the genetic similarity of the two viruses, the scientists estimate that they share a common ancestor that lived 500 to 1,000 years ago. “It’s really quite rough,” said W. Ian Lipkin, the director of the Center for Infection and Immunity and an author of the journal article. “This is not something that happened recently, but it didn’t happen hundreds of thousands of years ago.”

The researchers see three possibilities for the origin of the viruses. The least likely is that dogs acquired hepatitis C from humans. Another possibility is that dogs and humans both acquired the virus from an unknown animal. This is the sort of evolution that gave rise to the 2004 outbreak of SARS. At first scientists found the virus in the catlike palm civet of Southeast Asia. But later research revealed that the virus actually started out in bats and then spread to palm civets and humans.

A third possibility — one favored by Dr. Kapoor — is that the virus started in dogs, and then evolved into a liver-infecting disease in humans.

“The evidence we have favors an origin in dogs,” Dr. Kapoor said.

To test these alternatives, Dr. Kapoor and his colleagues plan to search for hepatitis C-like viruses in dogs from other countries, as well as in foxes and other species of carnivorous mammals.

Even before that mystery is resolved, however, researchers expect to see some benefits from the discovery of canine hepacivirus. In the current issue of the journal Nature, Dr. Edlin argues that much more needs to be done to fight the hepatitis C epidemic. Along with better surveillance, he sees a need for research into antiviral drugs as well as vaccines. (Currently there is no commercially available hepatitis C vaccine.) Researchers may now be able to study CHV in dogs to get insights into hepatitis C in humans.

“I’m sure this will be helpful,” Dr. Edlin said.
809 2011-05-31 Trulia, a real estate search engine for buyers and renters that is based here, is a hive of renters, including Mr. Flint. “I’m in no rush at all to buy,” he said. He expects homeownership to decline further to about 63 percent, a level the country first achieved in the mid-1960s.

Tim Hebb, a systems engineer, expertly called the real estate bubble. He sold his bungalow in August 2006, then leased it back for a year. Since then, the 61-year-old single father has rented a succession of apartments.

“I have flirted with buying again many times over the past few years,” said Mr. Hebb. “Let’s face it, people are not rational creatures.”

But he always resists, figuring housing is still overpriced and even when it stops declining it will stumble along the bottom for years and years. He says there is plenty of time to get back in if he should ever want to.

The market signaled further trouble on Friday when the April index of pending deals was released by the . Analysts had predicted the index, which anticipates sales that will be completed in the next two months, would be down 1 percent from March. Instead, it plunged 11.6 percent.

Many of those in the business of building and selling houses believe the current disaffection with real estate will pass. After every giddy boom comes the hangover, they acknowledge, but that deep-rooted desire for a castle of one’s own quickly reasserts itself.

“There’s no question that people are reticent to own,” said Douglas C. Yearley Jr., chief executive of , the builder of high-end homes. “They’re renting and they’re happy renting because they’re scared.”

Yet those fears will fade, he predicted.

“Most people still want the big house with the big lot in the desirable school district in the suburbs. No one ever renovated the kitchen or redid a room for the kids in a rental,” Mr. Yearley said. “I think — I hope — we’ll be O.K.”

The market’s persistent weakness, however, runs the risk of feeding on itself. Buyers are staying away despite the lowest interest rates and the highest affordability levels in many years, which in turn prompts others to hesitate.

Trulia and another real estate site, RealtyTrac, commissioned to take a poll last November about when people thought the market would recover. A third of the respondents chose 2014 or later. But in a new poll, released this month, the percentage giving that answer rose to 54 percent.

The sharp decline in prices since 2006 has meant a lost decade for many owners. But what may prove even more discouraging to potential buyers is academic research showing that the financial rewards of ownership were uncertain even before the crash.

In a recent paper, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City found that the notion that homeownership builds more wealth than investing was true only about half the time.

“For many households in many years, renting and investing the saved cash flow has built more wealth than homeownership,” the economist, Jordan Rappaport, concluded.

Economics affects potential owners in other ways. A house is a long-term commitment that many are loath to make in uncertain times like these.

“What I’m hearing from people is that they don’t want to be tied to a particular geography, which inclines them to renting,” said Mr. Flint of Trulia.

is one of the country’s most expensive cities, so renting has a natural appeal here. But the , which owns 13,000 apartments in , , and other Midwest and Southeast states, also is seeing more people deciding to rent.

“We have more of what we call ‘renters by choice’ than I’ve seen in the 40 years I’ve been in the apartment business,” said Jeffrey I. Friedman, chief executive of Associated Estates.

For decades, the company has asked former tenants why they were moving out. During the housing boom, as many as a quarter of those moving on said they were buying a house. In 2009, the percentage of new owners fell in the first quarter to 13.7 percent, the lowest ever.

Last year, as the economy improved, the number rebounded. This year, it fell back again, to 14 percent.

Builders clearly believe that the future includes many more renters. So far this year, construction of multiunit buildings is up 21 percent compared with 2010, while single family-homes are down 22 percent. Sales of new single-family homes are lower than at any time since the data was first kept in 1963.

Susan Lindsey, a software programmer, was once eagerly waiting for the housing market to crash. She said she would have no guilt about swooping in on some foreclosed owner who had bought a place he could not afford.

With prices now down by a third, however, she is content to stay in her $2,500-a-month rented house. She prefers to invest in gold, which she has been buying since 2003.

“I could afford a median-priced house, no problem,” said Ms. Lindsey, 48, as she headed off for a holiday weekend in . “But I would be paying more to live in a place I like less.”
810 2011-05-31 “We can help each other now — we now have the ability,” she said after being asked how people outside of Myanmar could an engage with her and other pro-democracy activists inside her country.

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi would not specify when or where she would travel, or even the purpose of her trips. But she pointedly noted on Monday that the government had not provided assurances of her safety and that she had made it clear that she expected the authorities to ensure her security.

“It is the duty of the government to provide assurances,” she said.

Some Burmese dissidents have been hoping that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi would take a more active political role.

Her supporters, while acknowledging the range of opinions within the democracy movement in Myanmar, described her decision to travel around the country as a natural progression.

“She is the leader of the democracy network, and that includes addressing issues such as social welfare, political prisoners, farmers’ rights and civil rights lawyers,” said Aung Din, executive director of the United States Campaign for Burma, a lobbying group. “She is the leader of a broader civil society movement.”

The military has ruled Myanmar since 1962, and the elections in November were advertised as a “road map to democracy.” In March, a civilian government was installed under President Thein Sein, but analysts say little has changed inside Myanmar since the elections.

The new government has done little to end abuses across Myanmar, said Tomás Ojea Quintana, the U.N. special rapporteur on human rights in Myanmar.

Speaking by telephone, Mr. Quintana listed several areas in which the new government failed to make any significant progress, noting land confiscation, forced labor, internal displacement of people, extrajudicial killings and sexual violence against women.

“These problems remain widespread and unaddressed,” said Mr. Quintana, who in May visited Thailand for a week to speak with refugees from Myanmar.

The Myanmar government has refused entry to Mr. Quintana.

He said he was preparing a report to present to the U.N. General Assembly this year.

Likewise, little progress has been made to confront what has been described as rampant corruption of the Myanmar economy.

It has been “a little disappointing,” Sean Turnell, professor of economics at Macquarie University in Sydney, said of the new government’s response to initiating economic reforms. The military remains by far the largest expenditure in Myanmar, at about 25 percent of the budget, he said.

“That is causing all sorts of distortion to the economy, and creating a very serious budget deficit,” he said. “But the government’s response to budget deficits has been to print more money, which has led to the highest rate of inflation in Southeast Asia.”

Mr. Turnell said, for example, that he had expected the government to address the gap between the official exchange and market rates of Myanmar’s currency, the largest such gap in the world. The official exchange rate is 6 kyat to the U.S. dollar, while on the market, a dollar exchanges for 350 kyat, Mr. Turnell said. No action has been taken, he said.

“Economic reform is really going to run up against vested interests,“ he said, pointing to a relatively few number of oligarchs who command most of the business enterprises in Myanmar.

The address on Monday by Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was preceded by a videotaped speech from her. In it, she emphasized the need for education and described people as “learners and nonlearners.”

When asked later how she would describe the military establishment in Myanmar, she said, “I would say they are not very fast learners.”

When asked by a student how she has managed to maintain her conviction in principles, she was blunt: “Discipline. That’s how I managed to live in isolation and keep my faith.”

Under house arrest for 15 of 21 years before her release in November, she spoke on Monday of maintaining simplicity in her daily life.

“I’ve learned to be happy with small things,” she said. “You have to learn to be happy with small things.”

When asked by a female student at Hong Kong University about the role of women in politics in Myanmar, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi said many women were playing roles inside her party, the National League for Democracy.

Then she smiled, adding “sometimes I think they are more helpful than men.”
811 2011-05-31 A new study finds that nearly one in five young adults has high blood pressure, a startling estimate much higher than any previously reported.

Researchers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill analyzed data on more than 14,000 adults, ages 24 to 32, who have been followed since 1995 in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health, known as Add Health. The researchers found that 19 percent of the young adults had blood pressure readings of 140/90 millimeters of mercury or higher, which is defined as high blood pressure. Only about one-quarter of them had been informed of their condition.

Earlier estimates from the much smaller National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey had suggested a far lower number of young adults — just 4 percent — had hypertension.

“We find it rather surprising, and we think the obesity epidemic is behind it,” said Kathleen Mullan Harris, principal investigator of Add Health and interim director of the U.N.C. Carolina Population Center, who is a co-author of the paper, published online on Wednesday in the journal Epidemiology.

While the number could prove to be less than 19 percent in further testing, Dr. Harris said, “we really need to get the message out to young adults to get their blood pressure screened.”
812 2011-05-31 Late last year, researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology used high-speed photography to describe the elegant way in which cats lap up liquid with the tip of the tongue, seemingly defying gravity. Dogs, on the other hand, form a cup with the tongue and scoop up liquid, the researchers said, spilling quite a bit of it.

Not so, according to Alfred Crompton, a zoologist at Harvard, and Catherine Musinsky, his assistant, who used high-speed light videos and X-ray videos to demonstrate that dogs and cats actually use the same mechanism to drink. They report their findings in the current issue of the journal Biology Letters.

“Dogs are just a little more exuberant and messy in their drinking, so it looks like it’s being scooped up,” Dr. Crompton said. “But they do it the same way as cats.”

Both animals reach into liquids with the tips of their tongues, pulling up a long column. Before the liquid drops back down, they open their mouths and pull it in.

But the dog tongue tip penetrates the liquid a little more deeply than the cat tongue, causing a messy spray around the tongue during withdrawal, Dr. Crompton said. This gives the false impression that dogs use a scooping motion.

“The video shows that all the liquid that was so-called being ‘scooped up’ falls right back out,” he said.

The test subject in the study was Dr. Crompton’s dog, Mathilda. Once the liquid was in her mouth, they saw that it was held in ridges called rugae on the roof of the mouth before it continued down her throat. This intermediate location for the liquid allows Mathilda, and other dogs, to lap continuously and pull in another column of liquid without losing the previous one.