1 2007-06-01 The focus shifts from Iraq to that other I-issue, immigration....
2 2007-06-01 Should there be a minimum wage for nannies, housekeepers, cooks and baby sitters, well above the $7.15 statewide minimum? A coalition of immigrant and labor groups and their allies is pushing for a bill that would establish a minimum wage of $14 a...
3 2007-06-01 Bank of America said Friday that it promoted Thomas G. White to head of global markets and that Mark Werner, who became chief executive of its investment banking arm less than two years ago, is leaving the company "to pursue other opportunities." ...
4 2007-06-01 What prompted prominent historians across the country - including some at Columbia University and the University of Virginia - to come to the defense of Andrew S. Trees, a history teacher at the Horace Mann School? It's not quite the Dreyfus Affai...
5 2007-06-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
6 2007-06-01 Jazz Pharmaceuticals, a biopharmaceutical company, priced its initial public offering below the forecast range, which had already been reduced. The 6-million-share offering raised $108 million, providing sorely needed cash for the money-losing dru...
7 2007-06-01 As the subprime mortgage business finds itself in tatters - loan volume is plummeting, defaults are rising and some of the biggest lenders have cut back or shut down - private equity, hedge funds and investment banks are swooping in and taking ove...
8 2007-06-01 A New York hedge fund, Crescendo Partners, on Thursday alleged that certain Topps board members have conflicts of interest that prevent the trading card and confection company from negotiating in good faith with its rival, Upper Deck, on a potenti...
9 2007-06-01 Bally Total Fitness, the health-club chain, said Thursday it would file for bankruptcy protection as part of a plan to reduce its debt. The proposed restructuring would make Phil Anschutz, a Denver financier, a major shareholder. Tennenbaum Capita...
10 2007-06-01 WellPoint, the biggest American health insurer, ousted its chief financial officer on Thursday after an external investigation found that he violated the company code of conduct. The board named its chief accounting officer, Wayne S. DeVeydt, to s...
11 2007-06-01 Shares of Northwest Airlines, newly emerged from bankruptcy protection, began trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday after the airline's chief executive, Douglas M. Steenland, and other employees rang the opening bell. Northwest is the l...
12 2007-06-01 Eton Park Capital Management, the hedge-fund firm founded by Eric Mindich, a former Goldman Sachs Group partner, raised $518.5 million for a private-equity fund to invest in developing countries. Eton Park, which manages $6.2 billion, has made inv...
13 2007-06-01 Navteq shares hit a 10-month high after an analyst said a buyout firm may be interested in acquiring the company, which makes maps used in car navigation systems. William Benton of William Blair & Company wrote in a research note that a private eq...
14 2007-06-01 While the Bancroft family's announcement Thursday that it would consider selling Dow Jones & Company represents a remarkable about-face for both the company and Rupert Murdoch's $5 billion bid, it does not necessarily mean that Mr. Murdoch will ca...
15 2007-06-01 This second — and final — season of “Hex” finds the former lead, Cassie Hughes (Christina Cole), no longer among the living or the reincarnated or the undead or the otherwise around. Cassie died last season in a showdown with Ella (Laura Pyper). This is a loss to the inventory of faces here: Ms. Cole is not only a serious beauty, she’s also odd-looking, with the uncannily still features that some actresses lately have. Her face, and Stockholm-blond hair, defined the first season of “Hex.”

However, for a goth-inflected series about a misfit teenager in a stormy English boarding school, Ms. Cole wasn’t quite right: she seemed more Gabor than Eyre.

Now we have Ella, who, as the season opens, is stuck in a madhouse. And what a madhouse. For connoisseurs of movie loony bins, this is an austere wonderland of wooden floors, pale daylight filtered through glass bricks, flasks that seem designed by Limoges and brisk nurses in vintage uniforms out of Ian McEwan’s “Atonement.” Ella’s straitjacket, furthermore, might be fashioned of Chinese linen.

Having been found insane by her school for ranting Cassandra-like about witches — the school, Medenham Hall, is possessed, in short, and various student witches seem to have been chosen to save it — Ella is now strapped down until she starts accepting injections from a robotic nurse who is actually an evil faerie (Katrine De Candole). Their interaction is kind of cool and sexy.

But the efforts in “Hex” to build relationships and pay off suspense mostly falter, and there’s a reason this series lasted only two seasons in Britain. Its mythology doesn’t cast a spell, and its dialogue relies patronizingly on clichés. With such feeble writing, the camera, and the faces of the actors, are asked to do too much storytelling. The haunting close-ups stop being suggestive after a while, and start being enervating: Just what is supposed to happen here? You can’t live in suspense forever.

Let me put it plainly: if you care about goth-horror stuff at all, you begin to want to see the faces wrecked. Alas, the special effects at Medenham are not exactly Industrial Light and Magic. When Nurse Faerie sustains a gash to the arm, it becomes clear that the “Hex” makeup team can hardly pull off simple gore, and the computer-imaging blokes are not much better with the magically-healing-wound stunt that is the stock-in-trade of American television.

That’s too bad because all this white skin is meant to be bruised, ruptured, slashed. Real witches, ghosts and ghouls — the “Buffy” kind, the Bram Stoker kind — could have pulled this off, and gotten us to weep, gasp and squeal with glee.

Directed by Andy Goddard; Julian Murphy, producer; Johnny Capps, Dean Hargrove, Sara Johnson, Elisabeth Murdoch and Elaine Pyke, executive producers; Lucy Watkins, writer; Julian Jones, story consultant; Sam McCurdy, director of photography; Paul Cripps, production designer; edited by Belina Cottrell; music by James Brett; costume design by Julian Day.

WITH: Laura Pyper (Ella Dee), Jemima Rooper (Thelma Bates), Jamie Davis (Leon), Joseph Beattie (Malachi), Sam Troughton (Jez Heriot/Ramiel), Michael Fassbender (Azazeal), Antole Taubman (Archangel Raphael) and Katrine De Candole (Perie the Faerie).
16 2007-06-01 Who knew that serial killing is an addiction that sufferers hope to overcome by attending A.A. meetings and murmuring the serenity prayer? That, at least, is how the buttoned-up title character of “Mr. Brooks,” a nutty variation of “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” deals with such inconvenient urges. “I’m an addict,” he announces at a 12-step meeting while withholding the true nature of his cravings.

This preposterous character, played by Kevin Costner, is one of several afflicted with thrill-killing compulsions in a movie in which half the population of Portland, Ore., seems to suffer from homicidal dementia.

Earl Brooks, a successful box manufacturer, is the Portland Chamber of Commerce’s man of the year. A model citizen, ideal husband to his wife, Emma (Marg Helgenberger), and devoted father to his daughter, Jane (Danielle Panabaker), Earl leads a lurid double life.

As the notorious Thumbprint Killer, he is also a maniac whose specialty is slaughtering young lovers, arranging their bodies into amorous poses, meticulously vacuuming the crime scene and signing it with the victims’ thumbprints. Earl’s fiendish alter ego, Marshall (William Hurt) — an imaginary figure who leans over Earl’s shoulder while he’s driving — flashes an evil grin and tempts him with descriptions of the fun they could have if only Earl would give in to his darkest impulses.

“Mr. Brooks,” alas, is not a comedy. A werewolf movie masquerading as a thriller, it looks like a canny attempt by Bruce A. Evans, its director and screenwriter (with Raynold Gideon), to establish a “Saw”-like franchise using the names of fading ’80s stars to lend the project a semblance of respectability. If it is not as sadistic as the “Saw” and “Hostel” movies, it is as malignant in its insistence on the omnipresence of evil.
17 2007-06-01 BANGKOK, May 31 — About 1,000 die-hard supporters of Thailand’s ousted prime minister demonstrated Thursday against a court ruling that banned his party and barred its entire leadership from politics for five years.

Some 150 policemen, bomb squads and police dogs were deployed in the area near the Royal Plaza, a large square in the heart of Bangkok. The plaza itself, where the demonstrators had initially hoped to rally, was blocked off by security officials.

Wearing yellow headbands that read “Coup leaders, get out,” the group shouted and cheered every time the name of the former prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, was mentioned.

“This is a fight by the people who are rejecting the judiciary’s power,” said Veera Musigapong, a former deputy leader of Mr. Thaksin’s Thai Rak Thai party and one of the 111 leading party members, including Mr. Thaksin, banned from politics by Wednesday’s ruling.

“As someone who was personally affected, I am not accepting the decision of the tribunal which was set up by the coup leaders and their illegitimate power,” he said.
18 2007-06-01 The federal Education Department released new rules for federal student loan programs today that would require universities to include at least three lenders on any list recommended to students and that would ban many of the incentives loan companies have been offering colleges and university officials to win student business.

The action represented a change in direction for the department which for years had failed to respond to calls by its inspector general, Democratic lawmakers and even some loan-industry officials for it to be more aggressive in policing the $85 billion student loan industry and defining what practices are banned.

Education Secretary Margaret Spellings created a task force in April to draw up the regulations after the collapse of an effort in the winter to win consensus on new rules among representatives of students, lenders and academic institutions in a process known as “negotiated rule making.”

“The secretary is amending these regulations to strengthen and improve the administration of the loan programs,” states the proposal which the department announced today.

The proposed regulations, which were sent to the federal register on Thursday, come on the heels of investigations in the states and in Congress, led by the New York State’s attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, that turned up an array of undisclosed relationships between universities and lenders as well as conflicts of interest on the part of financial aid officers. Some university officials who were promoting particular lenders had received stock on favorable terms, consulting payments or gifts from loan companies.
19 2007-06-01 The biopharmaceutical company Jazz Pharmaceuticals raised $108 million yesterday in an initial public offering that priced below a reduced forecast range.

The six-million-share offering priced at $18 compared with a forecast range of $20 to $21, according to the underwriter.

The forecast range was initially $24 to $26 before being cut earlier on Thursday, according to an amended regulatory filing.

The company plans to list on the Nasdaq under the symbol “JAZZ.”
20 2007-06-01 Some critics accused Mr. Bush of trying to hijack continuing environmental talks like those under the Kyoto treaty by substituting his own program, which even if successful would not bear fruit until he is about to leave office in 2009.

And, they said, the president delivered no clear statement on what steps the United States would take to limit emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while he was working on long-term goals for the next 50 years and beyond.

Even those goals, said James L. Connaughton, the president’s top environmental adviser, are “aspirational.” They would not be binding unless individual nations chose to bind themselves.

“There is no more time for longwinded talks about unenforceable long-term goals,” said David Doniger, climate policy director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group in Washington. “We need to get a serious commitment to cut emissions now and in the G-8.”

The speech on Thursday was the latest in a series of shifts on climate change by Mr. Bush. In July 2005, he offered his first explicit acknowledgment that humans were contributing to the problem of global warming. This year, for the first time, he mentioned climate change in his State of the Union address.

In one sense, the change in tack has been forced on Mr. Bush by scientific advances in the understanding of how greenhouse gas emissions contribute to global warming. But it is also an example of the kind of policy adjustment that is becoming increasingly common in the second half of his second term. Another example is the announcement this week of economic sanctions to prod Sudan on Darfur.

The White House seems determined to alter the president’s image on climate change before he leaves office in January 2009. The issue is a high priority for two of Mr. Bush’s closest European allies — Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany — and with Democrats now controlling Congress, the president also faces domestic pressure to act.

Mr. Bush promised to convene a series of meetings, beginning in the fall, with 10 to 15 countries that produce the most greenhouse gas emissions, including China and India. Each country would establish midterm national targets for reducing emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while working together to set a longer-term goal.

The talks also would bring together industry leaders, Mr. Bush said, so that the countries could work with them to pool their knowledge and promote investment in energy-efficient technologies, including solar and wind energy, clean coal and nuclear power. But each country would be free to set its own goals, and there would be no binding international framework for enforcement.

“The United States is taking the lead, and that’s the message I’m going to take to the G-8,” Mr. Bush said.

But how well that message will be received remains to be seen. Germany, backed by Britain and now Japan, has already proposed cutting global greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2050. Mrs. Merkel, who holds the presidency of the European Union and will be the host of the Group of 8 meeting in the Baltic Sea resort of Heiligendamm, has been pressing the group to adopt the plan, but the United States has rejected it.

Speaking to reporters in Berlin, Mrs. Merkel called Mr. Bush’s speech “common ground on which to act,” echoing a recent comment she made while visiting him in Washington. “What is positive,” she said, “is that we can see from the speech that the president made earlier today that nobody can ignore the question of climate change.”

But beneath the faint praise there was caution. The second phase of the Kyoto Protocol talks is set to take place in Bali at the end of this year, and Mr. Bush’s alternative forum risks being seen as an attempt to circumvent or even derail those talks.

Mr. Connaughton said the White House envisioned its negotiations taking place in parallel with those talks.

Involving all the parties to the existing Kyoto Protocol and an underlying 1992 climate treaty that the United States is bound by, the Bali negotiations are aimed at deciding what to do next about a problem that international scientific advisers acknowledge will take decades to bring under control and will require intensive policy responses running far beyond Kyoto’s timetables, which expire in 2012.

One German official, speaking privately, said the Europeans would resist any plan that would throw the Bali talks off course. “The holistic global approach to climate change is very important to us,” he said.

Environmental advocates have been pressing for cuts in greenhouse gas emissions for more than a decade. In 1992, when Mr. Bush’s father was president, the United States signed the first climate change treaty, the Framework Convention on Climate Change, which committed the world to avoiding dangerous human interference with the climate system but did not mandate any specific steps. The Kyoto Protocol was drafted five years later.

Two independent experts — William K. Reilly, who represented the first President Bush in the 1992 negotiations, and David G. Victor, a Stanford University law professor whose writings helped provide the underpinnings for Thursday’s speech — said that Mr. Bush’s plan had merit. But they said it would not gain much ground unless the United States adopted limits on domestic emissions, something the president has been loath to do.

“If you take all of this at face value, and you imagine that they go off and actually do it, then it could be a radically different way of organizing the global effort to control these emissions,” Professor Victor said. But he said it would be “very difficult for this to be taken as seriously as it should be taken in the rest of the world without some kind of a clear game plan domestically in the U.S.”
21 2007-06-01 The centers said that the strain of tuberculosis that Mr. Speaker has does not match any of the strains in its laboratories. And Dr. Cooksey said, “My son-in-law’s TB did not originate from myself or the C.D.C.’s labs, which operate under the highest levels of biosecurity.”

The form of tuberculosis Mr. Speaker has is extremely resistant to standard antibiotics.

Although health officials said there was a low risk of Mr. Speaker’s transmitting tuberculosis to his fellow passengers, the case raised troubling new questions about the nation’s ability to defend its borders against the entry of dangerous infectious diseases and about the C.D.C.’s ability to handle such threats, despite extensive training exercises. Mr. Speaker’s odyssey has also set off an international hunt for his fellow passengers.

Mr. Speaker came back into the United States at Champlain, N.Y., at 6:18 p.m. on May 24 in a car he had rented at Pierre Trudeau International Airport in Montreal after flying there from Prague on Czech Air.

A day earlier, on May 23, the disease control centers alerted the Atlanta office of Customs and Border Protection, a part of the Homeland Security Department, that a man with a serious medical condition might try to enter the United States and the information was entered in the department’s computer system.

The department instructed any border control agents who encountered the man to “isolate, detain and contact the Public Health Service,” Mr. Knocke said.

If Canadian officials had known about the detention order, a quarantine officer would have isolated Mr. Speaker, escorted him to a hospital and arranged his secure transport back to the United States, said Jean Riverin, a spokesman for the Public Health Agency of Canada.

Also, Italian officials said that they did not learn about the case until Mr. Speaker had left Italy. Cesare Fasari, a spokesman for Italy’s Health Ministry, said that had the Italian health officials been notified in time, they would have “intercepted the man and invited him to be treated in a hospital” with his permission.

Early yesterday morning, the disease control centers flew Mr. Speaker, who wore a mask, in a chartered plane to Denver, where he was taken by ambulance to National Jewish Medical and Research Center for definitive treatment of his infection.

Dr. Gwen A. Huitt, an infectious-disease expert at the centers, described Mr. Speaker as tired, cooperative, emotional and concerned about the publicity his case was receiving. He was not coughing, had no fever and was “very relieved to be in Denver” for definitive treatment. If tests determine that the infection is confined to one area of a lung, doctors may perform major surgery to remove a part or lobe.

Whatever drug treatment Mr. Speaker receives is expected to continue for years and will involve risks of side effects that could damage his kidneys and liver, Dr. Huitt said.

Mr. Speaker is being confined to a standard two-bed hospital room that is equipped with special ventilation to suck out air and then pass it through ultraviolet light and a filter that kills microbes. He is likely to be confined to the room for several weeks.

After examining Mr. Speaker yesterday, Dr. Huitt said she was “very optimistic” about his future because he was young and athletic.

At a news conference, Dr. Huitt said her initial impression was that Mr. Speaker contracted the dangerous strain from someone else and did not develop resistance from anti-tuberculosis treatment that C.D.C. officials said he took earlier. Treatment in Denver will probably start today, she said.

Dr. Huitt said Mr. Speaker had traveled extensively over the last six years to countries where tuberculosis is more common than in this country, but she declined to say where.

At the time of the news conference early afternoon, Denver time, she said few tests had been performed.

One key test was encouraging. It indicated that Mr. Speaker was at low risk of transmitting the infection to others. The test involved collecting sputum from induced coughing. Dr. Huitt and others added chemical stains to a smear of the sputum on a glass slide and examined it under a microscope. They saw no tuberculosis bacteria. The same findings came from tests performed in Atlanta earlier in the year and at Bellevue Hospital and Grady Memorial Hospital in recent days.

Dr. Huitt said her team would repeat the test over the next two days, for a total of three times, as is standard practice.

In 17 percent of tuberculosis cases the source is a patient whose smear is negative, according to studies from Vancouver, British Columbia, and San Francisco.

Mr. Speaker’s wife is with him. A skin test performed earlier in the year showed that she was not infected.

“We have not done any new tests on her,” Dr. Huitt said. Exactly what Mr. Speaker was told about traveling, and when, remains uncertain.

Mr. Speaker’s father, Ted, told CNN that Fulton County health officials knew of the travel plans for the wedding. The groom-to-be asked if he was barred from going. Health officials said that they told him they “preferred” that he not go, but did not tell him not to go.

Ted Speaker said he and his family had tested negative for tuberculosis.

Andrew Speaker flew to Paris from Atlanta on Air France Flight 385 (Delta co-share 8517) on May 12 for his wedding in Greece, and planned to return from a honeymoon on June 5.

Jason Vik, 21, a passenger on the outgoing flight who just graduated from the University of South Carolina, Aiken, is now waiting for results of a TB skin test.

Mr. Vik spoke angrily about Mr. Speaker’s behavior. “He stepped on a plane with 487 people, one of the largest aircraft that Boeing makes, and he put us all at risk, just so he could go get married,” he said.

Dr. Mario Raviglione, who directs the World Health Organization tuberculosis department, said that despite technology and communication technology “we’re not there yet, and there is the possibility for infectious people to cross borders without the knowledge of authorities.”
22 2007-06-01 A woman whose dogs fatally mauled a neighbor could get more prison time, after the California Supreme Court ordered a trial judge to consider convicting her of second-degree murder rather than involuntary manslaughter. A jury had first found the woman, Marjorie Knoller, guilty of second-degree murder in the 2001 death of her neighbor, Diane Whipple, 33. But the presiding judge ruled that Ms. Knoller was not aware that her two leashed Presa Canario dogs would escape her and kill Ms. Whipple and lowered the conviction to involuntary manslaughter. An appeals court reinstated the second-degree murder conviction. The State Supreme Court said the trial judge had set too lenient a standard, while the appeals court had set too harsh a standard.
23 2007-06-01 A Border Patrol agent shot and killed a man who tried to grab his gun in a remote dirt lot, the authorities said. The agent and the victim scuffled in a parking lot in Escondido, about 30 miles north of San Diego, and again in an adjacent lot after the victim tried to run away, said Sheriff’s Sgt. Roy Frank of San Diego County. The agent had tried to handcuff the man, believed to be in his 30s, after a records search identified him as an illegal immigrant. The Sheriff’s Department is investigating. It did not identify the agent or the victim.
24 2007-06-01 SAN FRANCISCO, May 31 (Reuters) — YouTube, the Google video-sharing site, has agreed to a deal with the EMI Group to give YouTube users broad access to music videos by EMI artists.

The companies said Thursday that YouTube users would be allowed not only to watch and play authorized videos and recordings from EMI artists like Coldplay, Norah Jones and David Bowie, but also to incorporate elements of the videos in their own “user-generated content.” No financial terms were disclosed.

“With this deal, all four of the world’s major music companies are now official YouTube partners,” said Chad Hurley, chief executive and a founder of YouTube.

Last year, the Warner Music Group, the Universal Music Group and Sony BMG Entertainment each signed content deals with YouTube.

Google’s shares fell 0.1 percent, to $497.91, in regular trading. EMI shares were little changed, down 0.09 percent, to 275 pence.
25 2007-06-01 CHICAGO, May 31 (Reuters) — WellPoint, the biggest American health insurer, ousted its chief financial officer on Thursday after an external investigation found that he violated the company code of conduct.

The board named its chief accounting officer, Wayne S. DeVeydt, to succeed the finance chief, David C. Colby, effective immediately. Angela F. Braly is to become chief executive and president on Friday, succeeding Larry C. Glasscock, who is retiring.

WellPoint, which insures one in 10 Americans, said that the investigation did not find illegal conduct and that the violations were not related to WellPoint’s business. It declined to comment on the nature of the violations.

Turbulence in the executive suite could disrupt business, and will probably weigh on the stock in the short term, analysts said. WellPoint’s shares fell $2.99, or 3.5 percent, to $81.41 yesterday.

“When Dave Colby wasn’t appointed the new C.E.O. of WellPoint, we were concerned it could result in his leaving the company,” a CIBC World Markets analyst, Carl McDonald, said. “We didn’t envision it happening quite like this. It’s hard to argue that the sudden change in both the C.E.O. and C.F.O. in a three-month period won’t be disruptive to operations.”
26 2007-06-01 “I read it. I read it,” Mr. Edwards said. “But the idea that somehow we had so much more information — having the information turned out to be bad, not good.”

“I know this is intelligence information, but I think it’s a very unhealthy thing for the democracy to have — the notion that we’ve got people in Washington who are in the know, and we should just trust them to do the right thing without us knowing. Why does America not know?” Mr. Edwards continued.

The Edwards spokesman, Mark Kornblau, noted that Mr. Edwards had often said he read intelligence documents that were summarized in the classified report.

“He simply misunderstood the question,” Mr. Kornblau said. “As Senator Edwards has said many times before, he read the declassified version of the N.I.E.,” not the full report.

Other presidential candidates, including Senators Clinton and Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, were briefed on the estimate only by aides or administration officials, their advisers say.

Another presidential candidate, Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, sought Thursday to further burnish his national security credentials by announcing his endorsement by Louis J. Freeh, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation appointed by President Bill Clinton.

Mr. Freeh, who fell out with Mr. Clinton over antiterrorism efforts and the Monica Lewinsky scandal, said in a brief interview that he agreed with Mr. Giuliani’s call to stay on the “offense” against terrorists. He also echoed Mr. Giuliani’s comments that American troops should remain in Iraq until some level of stability was achieved there.

Mr. Giuliani used the endorsement event to announce an ambitious proposal to set up a system to monitor and measure the success of nearly every federal agency. The effort, he said, would closely track what New York City did to monitor the effectiveness of the Police Department through the Compstat program.

Mr. Giuliani said he met yesterday in Los Angeles with Chief William J. Bratton of the Police Department, who was police commissioner when Mr. Giuliani was mayor of New York and an originator of the Compstat program, to discuss how its basic concepts could be applied to government agencies. The two men had been estranged since Mr. Bratton left the Giuliani administration, and their rapprochement is a signal that Mr. Giuliani is mending fences as he mounts his presidential bid.

Compstat provided the Police Department with real-time information to detect crime patterns in New York City, and was used to hold police commanders responsible for upticks in crime under their commands.

Mr. Giuliani said he could envision similar systems for improvements in controlling immigration, fighting terrorism, maintaining domestic security and reducing the size of government.

“You can take the Compstat principles and apply them to almost any agency in government,” he said.
27 2007-06-01 The conflicting allegations exploited and underscored the deepening suspicions between Russia and the West, even as they brought new twists to a case that has fascinated the public on each side of the old cold war divide. They also elevated the case to a new level of public theater, combining elements of a bungled espionage thriller with claims of innocence reminiscent of the O. J. Simpson case.

“They have found a Russian James Bond, who penetrated nuclear centers and poisoned his friend in cold blood and along with this contaminated himself, his children and his wife,” Mr. Lugovoi said. “And all of it has been done by the lone terrorist, Lugovoi.”

“They thought I would be silent,” he added. “But this is not going to happen.”

Mr. Litvinenko died an excruciating death on Nov. 23, 2006, after being poisoned by polonium 210, a rare radioactive isotope that investigators said had been slipped into his drink during a meeting with Mr. Lugovoi at a bar in a London hotel three weeks earlier. From his deathbed, he accused Mr. Putin of having a hand in the crime.

The Kremlin has denied playing any role, and condemned suggestions that Mr. Putin was involved as intended to discredit Russia.

Last week, Britain’s Crown Prosecution Service accused Mr. Lugovoi of murder, saying it had evidence that he had poisoned Mr. Litvinenko. The two men had worked for the K.G.B., although in different departments. This week, Britain asked Russia to extradite Mr. Lugovoi to stand trial. Russia has not formally replied to the request but has made clear that it will refuse.

At the briefing on Thursday, Mr. Lugovoi, whose travels through London last fall left a trail of polomium 210 traces in offices, hotel rooms, restaurants and bars, jabbed his finger at the crowd and declared himself a victim.

He spoke swiftly and often excitedly. At times his allegations contradicted one another, as when he suggested that Mr. Litvinenko had been killed by a Spanish arm of the Russian mafia, or on orders from Mr. Berezovsky in revenge for a failed blackmail attempt.

He was consistent on one matter: his claims of innocence. He said he could not even remember whether Mr. Litvinenko had ordered a drink at the time he was suspected of being poisoned, because he and another associate from former Soviet intelligence circles, Dmitri V, Kovtun, “were going to football and had a good dose of alcohol.”

“What kind of idiot poisoner one would be, to act so primitively,” he said.

Mr. Lugovoi also described the supposed advances of British intelligence officers and agents, saying that through Mr. Berezovsky and Mr. Litvinenko he was lured to meetings in 2005 with RISC Management Ltd. of London.

After the meetings, he said, he was suspiciously overpaid through a company in Cyprus to gather information about business risks in Russia. Later, he said, “The Brits became interested in everything: my connections, financial potential, existence of direct access to the president of Russia as well as contacts with employees” of Russian intelligence agencies.

He called the escalation a “banal recruitment” that contained “specific political and intelligence tasks dealing with Russia and its president.”

RISC Management is a private consultancy that says it offers clients risk assessment, corporate intelligence and security services. Traces of polonium were found in its offices after Mr. Litvinenko died.

Cliff Knuckey, the company’s managing director, said it would not comment on Mr. Lugovoi’s allegation but had cooperated with the British police in the case. “We have provided evidence to Scotland Yard, and we are not going to compromise any investigations they are pursuing,” he said in a brief telephone interview.

Mr. Lugovoi also said that Mr. Litvinenko, who made his name in part by stridently criticizing Mr. Putin and Russia’s intelligence services, had proposed a racket to secure asylum for Russians who would publicly criticize Russian authorities.

This allegation aligned neatly with assertions in recent years by the Kremlin and the Federal Security Service, a successor of the K.G.B., that domestic political opponents in Russia received foreign support, including from intelligence agents.

Mr. Lugovoi also said Mr. Litvinenko and Mr. Berezovsky worked for the British foreign intelligence agency, MI6, and accused the British government of spreading traces of polonium along his and Mr. Kovtun’s routes to try to frame them. “We were marked by polonium on purpose for the future use in a political scandal,” he said.

Mr. Berezovsky issued a statement describing Mr. Lugovoi’s appearance as a spectacle choreographed by the Kremlin. “It is now clearer than ever that the Kremlin is behind the murder of Alexander Litvinenko,” it read. “Everything about Mr. Lugovoi’s words and presentation made it obvious that he is acting on Kremlin instruction.”

He challenged Mr. Lugovoi to demonstrate his innocence in British court. Mr. Lugovoi said that he would not go to Britain, but that he had retained British lawyers.

The British government, which avoids comment on operational intelligence matters, did not respond to Mr. Lugovoi’s accusations that Mr. Litvinenko and Mr. Berezovsky had worked for MI6. It suggested that by accusing the secret service, Mr. Lugovoi sought to distract attention from a central issue — its demand for his appearance in court. “We are still seeking his extradition,” the British official said.
28 2007-06-01 Shares of Northwest Airlines, newly emerged from bankruptcy protection, began trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday after the airline’s chief executive, Douglas M. Steenland, and other employees rang the opening bell.

Northwest is the last carrier to exit bankruptcy since a wave of airline bankruptcies began after the Sept. 11 attacks. The shares traded at $25.25 after being offered to unsecured creditors at $27.

Northwest has cut debt by $4.2 billion, trimmed $400 million a year in fleet costs and eliminated unprofitable routes. It also cut $1.4 billion a year in labor costs.

The result is a slightly smaller, more efficient airline with some of the lowest costs among the major carriers.

“Today is a landmark day in the 81-year history of Northwest Airlines,” Mr. Steenland said. “We have successfully repositioned the company as a stronger, globally focused airline with a great route network, a revitalized fleet, a competitive cost structure and a recapitalized balance sheet.
29 2007-06-01 Cerberus acquired control of the subprime lender Residential Capital last year, when it led an investment consortium that bought a 51 percent stake in G.M.A.C., the finance arm of General Motors. And in April, Cerberus, which also owns Aegis Mortgage, a subprime lender based in Houston, announced plans to acquire Option One, the troubled mortgage subsidiary of H&R Block.

Taken together, these acquisitions would make Cerberus the biggest subprime lender in the country, far ahead of large mortgage giants like Countrywide, Wells Fargo and others, according to first-quarter lending statistics from Inside Mortgage Finance.

It is unclear whether Cerberus will combine its mortgage operations into one company or operate them autonomously. Consolidating the businesses would offer streamlining and cost-cutting advantages, analysts say. Executives at Cerberus, which closely guards details about its strategy and investments, declined to be interviewed for this article and did not respond to written questions.

“They have certainly double-downed and have bought some extremely attractive operations — companies that have dominated their space,” said Brenda B. White, a managing director with Deloitte & Touche Corporate Finance. “But now they’re faced with executing on a plan, whatever that plan might be.”

This year, when rising mortgage defaults and a credit squeeze on Wall Street have forced many subprime mortgage companies into bankruptcy, some analysts predict that the industry might shrink by a third or more. Many industry officials acknowledged that a shakeout was necessary to cull the industry of the lenders that led in making risky loans and forcing rivals to match them or lose business.

In the last several months, however, private equity firms and others have acquired, taken stakes in or provided fresh capital to companies that wrote nearly 20 percent of last year’s $600 billion in subprime loans. It is, analysts and industry officials suggest, an unusually quick and substantial bet on a distressed business that by most indications is in the early phases of a long-term retrenchment.

With billions in capital available to them, investors like Cerberus, Ellington Capital and the Citadel Investment Group see an ideal buying opportunity. Yet trying to time the bottom of a sliding market has been tricky, even for smart-money investors like Cerberus. For instance, rising defaults and the cost of buying back poorly performing loans from investors left Residential Capital with more than $1.5 billion in losses in the six months that ended in March and the losses are expected to continue. (In March, General Motors, which still owns 49 percent of G.M.A.C., was forced to put an additional $1 billion into the unit because of the division’s mortgage woes.)

Cerberus has insisted on a number of terms and conditions in its deal to buy Option One, suggesting that the firm has become more vigilant about not paying too much. As announced, Cerberus agreed to pay slightly less than $1 billion, but the final amount could range from as little as $400 million to $800 million, depending on how well Option One’s business fares from now to the transaction’s closing in October, according to estimates prepared by Kelly Flynn, an analyst with UBS.

That is a far cry from the $1.3 billion H&R Block executives said earlier this year that they expected to get for the unit. H&R Block could get more money from Cerberus if Option One turns a profit within 18 months after the deal closes. Barrett Burns, who has run lending businesses for Citibank and Ford Credit, says that Cerberus and the other investors in the mortgage business are being far more prudent in their purchases than big Wall Street firms like Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley were when they paid hundreds of millions of dollars for subprime companies last year.

“The investment banks that were buying last year were buying at the high,” said Mr. Burns, who is now chief executive of Vantage Score, a company that provides credit scores that lenders use to evaluate borrowers.

Astute buyers, Mr. Burns noted, are picking up loan servicing businesses, which earn a predictable stream of fees for handling collections and dealing with defaults, and retail branch networks, which are difficult to build and tend to produce better-quality loans than wholesale channels like mortgage brokers.

Even so, industry officials say new entrants to the subprime business may be in for nasty surprises if they think the current difficult stretch represents a bottom. Making money in the business, they say, is difficult and getting harder.

Investors who buy subprime mortgages are demanding higher-quality loans after being burned by high rates of defaults and fraud in loans written during 2005 and 2006. That is forcing mortgage companies to tighten lending standards by demanding that borrowers make bigger down payments and have better credit histories, changes that have significantly reduced the pool of qualified borrowers.

“The reality is that the mortgage business for the foreseeable future is not a growth business,” said Jeffrey Kirsch, president of American Residential Equities, which buys defaulted mortgages. “So, it is surprising to see things frankly where they are.”

Mr. Kirsch and others say buyers like Cerberus will have to be willing to lose money and invest in the companies they are acquiring for some time before things pick up.

“They’re taking enormous risks here in hoping that they’ll be able to stabilize these businesses, keep them going, and get the types of regulatory approval they need to originate and service mortgages,” said Rick Antonoff, a partner in the bankruptcy and restructuring practice at the law firm of Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman. “They have put a lot of capital in already, and it’s going to take additional capital to keep these businesses going for a while.”

Those concerns are a major reason other subprime lenders have not succeeded at selling assets. New Century Financial, which was one of the biggest subprime lenders in the nation before it filed for bankruptcy protection in April, failed to attract bids for its loan origination unit in a bankruptcy auction because regulators in several states including California had restricted it from making more loans. (Cerberus had briefly considered acquiring New Century before it filed for bankruptcy, according to industry officials who asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to speak about the matter.)

In other instances, investors have put more capital into subprime after securing concessions that would have been unthinkable even six months ago.

In April, Accredited Home Lender, a San Diego-based lender, raised $230 million in loans from Farallon Capital, an investment firm based in San Francisco. The mortgage company agreed to pay a 13 percent interest rate and penalties if it sought to pay off the debt ahead of time. The company also gave Farallon warrants that would allow it to increase its stake in Accredited to 19 percent, from 7 percent. The warrants allow Farallon to buy the company’s shares for $10 apiece, a discount to the stock’s $13.99 closing price yesterday.

Another hedge fund, Second Curve Capital, that bought an 8.5 percent stake in Accredited in early February when the stock was trading at $25 to $30, has increased its stake in the company to 11.2 percent as the stock has fallen.

Citadel, an aspiring financial conglomerate based in Chicago, picked up the lending business of ResMae for just $22 million. Ellington Management, a hedge fund based in Greenwich, Conn., that specializes in mortgage-backed securities, has agreed to pay an undisclosed sum for the lending business of Fremont General, which has not made a subprime loan in almost three months and has cut 2,400 jobs in its lending business.

It is unclear how these investors will operate their new subprime businesses — most declined to discuss their plans or did not return calls for comment — but at least one mortgage company said it was concerned about lending standards weakening again.

“There is a lot of fear that expansion starts again because liquidity is coming in,” said Stephanie Christie, a senior vice president in charge of nonprime lending at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. “The industry needs to be very serious about prudent underwriting and make sure we don’t go back to making bad loans.”

At the same time, however, analysts note that the new capital could help alleviate the credit squeeze many regulators and housing advocates feared would impede borrowers who want to buy homes or need to refinance out of onerous mortgages.

“No one wants to see subprime lending dry up altogether,” said Kathleen Shanley, an analyst with Gimme Credit, a research firm, “because of the potential implications for growth in the housing market and the hardship for existing borrowers who may need to refinance their loans.”
30 2007-06-01 “These workers play a very important role in the state economy,” said Ai-jen Poo, the founder of Domestic Workers United, a Bronx-based advocacy group. “They work for the state’s professional class — lawyers, doctors, financial people, media people — and their work makes it possible for all these people to go to work every day.”

Because of behind-the-scenes work by Domestic Workers United, the bill has strong support among labor and immigrant groups; more than 95 percent of domestic workers in New York State are immigrants. The bill has 15 sponsors in the State Assembly, but even some supporters acknowledge that it might face rough going because the $14 minimum wage for domestic workers is much higher than the $7.15-an-hour statewide minimum wage.

The bill would also require employers to either provide health insurance or to pay domestic workers an additional $2 an hour.

Denis M. Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., has lobbied for the bill, saying that domestic workers warrant special protection because they do not have the right to unionize under federal or state law. Domestic workers are also not covered by employment discrimination laws, occupational safety laws or the Family and Medical Leave Act.

“It is incumbent upon those in power to help those who have the least because they need our help the most,” Mr. Hughes said.

Marc Violette, a spokesman for Gov. Eliot Spitzer, declined to comment this week about the bill, citing the governor’s policy of commenting on legislation only after the Assembly and the Senate have passed it.

State officials say they have made clear to the bill’s supporters their discomfort with legislation that singles out a specific group for a higher minimum wage, especially one so much higher than the statewide minimum. (The bill initially calls for a $12 minimum, climbing to $14 in 2010.)

Ms. Poo said that many households already pay their nannies and housekeepers $14 an hour, although a survey of 547 domestic workers that her group conducted last year found that the median wage for domestic workers was $10 an hour. About one in six households paid more than $13.46 an hour, according to the survey.

Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a Manhattan Democrat, said he decided to introduce the bill partly because he was the grandson of domestic workers. He said he believed that a somewhat amended bill had a realistic chance of passage.

“We have to get into some legislative practicalities,” he said, “but some of those in the domestic workers’ movement don’t want to hear it.”

One problem the bill faces is finding a sponsor in the Senate. Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester Republican, introduced the bill in the last session, but he failed to win re-election last November.

“I don’t think this bill is a good idea,” said E. J. McMahon, executive director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, an arm of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group. “Any attempt like this to mandate wages, benefits and working conditions for a large number of entry-level workers can only have one result: fewer such jobs for people who need them.”

Mr. McMahon said the bill seemed to make assumptions about those who hire domestic workers. “The people who need to hire domestic workers are not only hedge-fund bonus babies who roll their cigars with $100 bills,” he said. “This bill could create a lot of stress for people who currently pay these workers fair wages.”

The bill would require that domestic workers receive nine paid holidays, five paid sick days, five paid personal days, two weeks of vacation after six months on the job and four weeks of vacation after five years of service — with the workers able to choose when to go on vacation.

Barbara Young, a nanny from Barbados who cares for a 5-year-old on the Upper West Side, said that in her previous job as a nanny on Long Island, her pay was low and it was very hard to support her children. She said that not having sick days or personal days was a big problem.

“Any time we have to take time off to go to a doctor, there is a threat of losing your job, and there’s no pay for the day you’re off from work,” she said. “I think domestic workers need protection. This job needs to be respected. There are a lot of abuses in the industry.”

Some workers complain of being forced to work seven days a week and not being paid time and a half for overtime.

“These folks are the invisible cogs that make the economic engines of New York work,” Assemblyman Wright said.
31 2007-06-01 Conrad Hewitt, the S.E.C.’s chief accountant, said the commission had not yet received all the needed information from Zions, but would not comment further.

The Zions auction valued the options as being worth much less than the models indicated. If the S.E.C. goes along, that would mean that Zions would report lower expenses from options it issues. Zions hopes to build a profitable business from organizing auctions of similar securities for other companies.

Why, you might ask, would anyone want to auction something in a way that is expected to produce a low price? Wouldn’t the seller prefer to receive a high price?

The answer is no. The auctions for what Zions calls Esoars are likely to be small, raising little money for companies, and thus costing them little if they are underpriced. But the result would be that each company could report higher profits by reducing the reported expense from the far larger number of employee stock options that it issues.

One expert on options pricing, Stephen A. Ross, the chief executive of Compensation Valuation Inc. and a professor of financial economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says that he thinks the commission should refuse to accept the Zions value, even though the design of the Esoars security is generally acceptable.

A major problem, he said, is that the market for Esoars is likely to be illiquid, with a large spread between the price at which one could easily sell the security (the bid price) and the price at which it could easily be bought (the asked price). A true market price would be between those two and, he thinks, close to what the models say it should be.

Mr. Ross has an idea how that number could be discovered. “The natural thing to do is not to issue more of these options,” he said. “It is to go into the market and buy some of them back.”

If Zions did that, investors would be agreeing to pay Zions what the options ended up costing the company, and would be bidding just what price they would charge to take on that obligation. That would be the “asked price” for the security, just as the Zions auction produced a “bid price.”

If the Zions auction is accepted by the S.E.C., it will be hailed by some companies as proof that option pricing models produce values that are too high, and it will help them to minimize the values on their income statements. That, in turn, will encourage companies to issue more options rather than use other forms of compensation, such as cash or restricted stock.

There is another way to get companies to search for fair values, even if they are high, and it will be the subject of a hearing before a Senate subcommittee headed by Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, on Tuesday.

That would be to give companies a tax deduction for their expense when they issue options. Under current law, the company gets a deduction later, when employees exercise the options. That deduction may be far larger, or much smaller, than the expense the company reports to investors.

If the valuation that companies put on options affected both reported profits and taxes, the companies would have offsetting incentives.

As it is now, argued Jeff Mahoney, the general counsel of the Council of Institutional Investors, which is asking the S.E.C. not to approve the Zions auction as a way of setting valuation (and which retained Mr. Ross to evaluate it), “Zions wants the low price as much as the bidders do.”

“How,” he asked, “can this produce a market price? It just can’t.”
32 2007-06-01 TALKS OVER SELLING DOW JONES -- The Bancroft family, which controls Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, agreed to meet with Rupert Murdoch just weeks after the family rejected an initial $5 billion takeover offer from Mr...
33 2007-06-01 WEISS--Dr. G. Woldemar, 95, of Stuart, FL, died May 29. He was born in Canada. A Memorial Service and inurnment will be at a later date on Chebeaague Island, ME. Services by Aycock Funeral Home. Visit www.mem.com...
34 2007-06-01 The vibrations are somewhere on the brink between good and bad in the songs of Animal Collective, a group formed in New York seven years ago by old friends from Baltimore whose songs are as joyous are they are eerie. Building on loose improvisatio...
35 2007-06-01 Former Senator John Edwards, a Democratic presidential candidate, told an interviewer on Wednesday that he had read the classified October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate before voting to authorize force in Iraq, but his campaign retracted the...
36 2007-06-02 The Yankees will not start Roger Clemens on Monday in Chicago, after all. Clemens hurt his groin during his last minor league start for Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre on Monday and has been unable to shake the discomfort. He will miss the Chicago...
37 2007-06-02 A rail worker in a coma since he was hit by a train in 1988 has woken up, the television channel Polsat reported as it ran an interview with him. A father of four at the time, he is now making the acquaintance of 11 grandchildren and adapting to a country where the Communists are no longer in power. “What amazes me today is all these people who walk around with their mobile phones and never stop moaning,” he said in the interview. “I’ve got nothing to complain about.”
38 2007-06-02 The governor signed new fire safety requirements for the state’s long-term care facilities in response to a deadly fire at a group home for the mentally ill and disabled. The governor, Matt Blunt, a Republican, signed the bill at the site of the fire, the former Anderson Guest House in southwest Missouri, where 11 people died in the blaze on Nov. 27. The legislation requires complete fire alarms and heat detector systems by the end of 2008. It also requires sprinkler systems by the end of 2012, though lawmakers concerned about the costs exempted many residential care and assisted-living facilities from that requirement. Of the state’s 616 long-term care facilities, about half lack sprinkler systems.
39 2007-06-02 Unlike the art collector who might see an advantage in befriending an artist whose rare work he covets, Mr. Rosenkranz’s goal is entirely experiential: he stands to gain nothing besides a good time. For him that means upgrading the caliber of what those around him at any given moment have to say. And it comes at a time when market forces have made it ever more difficult for genuine bohemians in New York City to even inhabit the same borough as the rich.

In addition to the debates, his efforts include informal dinners and parties for influence-makers at his apartment in River House, near Sutton Place, and his oceanfront estate in East Hampton. Some of his guests are writers and thinkers with whom he struck up friendships after extending cold-call invitations. (Guests at his various functions have run the gamut from the charity-circuit regulars Georgette Mosbacher and Shelby White to the writer Andrew Solomon and Thomas Struth, the German photographer.)

“I’d never heard of the guy, but he wanted me to come to his apartment and talk to a few friends about my book ‘Terror and Liberalism,’ ” recalled Paul Berman, who received such a call a couple of years back. “I was skeptical, but the person who called persuaded me that this was something not to miss. Eventually, the anthropologist in me was stirred.”

The two of them quickly became friends, despite Mr. Berman’s liberal politics and Mr. Rosenkranz’s decades-long support of conservative organizations like the Manhattan Institute.

“At dinner, it was a lot of conservatives, people in finance, and Bob put a wrenchingly difficult question to me,” Mr. Berman said. “Basically, he said my ideological analyses of terrorism were all very fine and good, but couldn’t Al Qaeda be explained as a rational power move in Saudi Arabia? We ended up having the sort of frank but open-minded discussion that is amazingly difficult to have nowadays.”

Many who have been on the receiving end of Mr. Rosenkranz’s invitations consider it refreshing that he is willing to embrace people from across both an ideological aisle and perhaps a socioeconomic — or at least occupational — divide.

“He’s a very engaging and interesting man who obviously derives real pleasure in being able to put people together to talk about really interesting things,” said Philip Gourevitch, an author and the editor of The Paris Review, who, in addition to participating in one of Mr. Rosenkranz’s debates, went to his holiday party at River House last year and has stayed in touch with him.

On a weekend visit to Mr. Rosenkranz’s house on Long Island, Mr. Berman said, he initiated a philosophical conversation about his car — a 1981 Toyota — and how, despite the financial impracticality of owning it in the city, he was reluctant to give up the convenience it represented psychologically.

“Bob said he had exactly the same feelings in regard to his private jet share,” Mr. Berman said.

From his offices high above Madison Avenue, Mr. Rosenkranz oversees Delphi, two investment funds and the Rosenkranz Foundation. Lunch is prepared by his private chef, whom he summons from the office kitchen with a silent, cordless plastic button that resembles a garage door opener. He is 64 and has a reticent, self-effacing manner that recalls professional beginnings in the think-tank world.

He grew up middle class on the Upper West Side and graduated from Yale and Harvard Law, then worked for the right-leaning RAND Corporation during its cold war heyday. In 1969 he embarked on what he called his “real career” pioneering leveraged buyouts for the Oppenheimer Group.

“I felt the level of civility in public life had just gotten dreadful,” Mr. Rosenkranz said of his decision to start the debate series. “And when I suggested some kind of oppositional debates to people at the Manhattan Institute and at the American Enterprise Institute, the response was always, ‘It’s not our mission in life to give them a forum, and there’s nobody smart on the other side.’ ”

As a birthday present to him two years ago, his wife hired a consultant to put together a detailed report on debate programs in the United States and in Europe and recommend a course of action.

This led to a couple of trips to London to witness a popular debate series, Intelligence Squared (often called IQ2), which Mr. Rosenkranz liked so much he decided to simply start an American version of it, IQ2 U.S. Though it is very much a hobby for Mr. Rosenkranz, and is a nonprofit initiative of his foundation, he approached it as a professional venture and left little to chance.

“We’ve just done everything first class,” Mr. Rosenkranz said. “I mean, the dinners are nice, the brochures are beautiful, the production values on the radio” — podcasts are available on NPR’s Web site — “are first class, the crowd brings the kind of buzz we intended.”

Subject matters have included free speech, global warming and whether America is too religious. It costs $40 to attend, and all but one of the eight debates so far were sold out.

“It’s struck me ever since I’ve been here that this is exactly what our own system is lacking,” said Mr. Hitchens, an Oxford alumnus. “Congress says they have debates, but they’re really speeches seriatim. Discourse on TV is boring; it’s either vulgar or too polite. The presidential debate here is more like a joint press conference.”

Mr. Crichton said that he, too, had long hungered for a forum like IQ2 U.S., “and I hope it has some sort of viral effect.”

April’s debate, which focused on domestic surveillance, was vigorous and sporting. Mr. Rosenkranz said a few words at the outset, then, for the rest of the evening, vanished from the view of everybody in the audience of about 300 who was not making a point of looking for him. Such, perhaps, is the role of the perfect host: to get the party started, then watch from the wings as everybody else has a good time.

In preparation, however, he is said to obsess over his own contributions to the program — from deciding on the language that frames the one-line debate question, to having a salaried researcher pull articles from the Internet so that he can brush up on the appropriate topics before the dinners, to meticulously arranging the seating charts for those dinners.

IQ2 U.S. brochures classify donors, depending on their level of generosity, as “bright,” “brilliant” or “genius.” Mr. Hitchens surmised that the preoccupation with intellect had something to do with the notion that people who have made a lot of money by working with money have a need for the world to understand the candlepower required.

“I think there’s a big incentive among people in finance to prove to themselves that they aren’t just bean counters or whatever,” he said, adding that he had recently been paid to attend a small dinner party with a group of strangers from the hedge fund industry. “They don’t want to just be the fat guy with a cigar in the New Yorker cartoon.”
40 2007-06-02 BOGOTÁ, Colombia, June 1 (AP) — The government transferred jailed leftist rebels to a holding center on Friday as part of President Álvaro Uribe’s bid to win freedom for 60 rebel-held hostages, including three American defense contractors and a former presidential candidate, Ingrid Betancourt.

Mr. Uribe said the prisoners must demobilize, promise not to return to crime and be under the supervision of a foreign government or the Roman Catholic Church to qualify for release on Thursday.

“This is advancing the national government’s goal of freeing all the kidnapped people who are in the power of illegal armed groups,” Mr. Uribe’s office said in a statement. The government hopes its “humanitarian gesture” will prompt an in-kind response from the guerrillas.

A spokeswoman for the national penitentiary institute said about 190 rebels from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, would be moved to a center in Boyacá Province while their release applications were reviewed.

Around 1,000 rebel prisoners applied for release, but only 200 — mainly those imprisoned on minor offenses — would be eligible, said Gen. Eduardo Morales, head of Colombia’s prison system.

Many jailed rebels have rejected the release, however, saying they will accept it only through negotiations between the FARC and the government.

“We are not prepared to negotiate our principles,” FARC members in Girón prison in northeast Colombia said in a statement. Talks between the sides over a possible exchange of imprisoned rebels for the hostages have ground to a halt.
41 2007-06-02 Just recently, the F.C.C. made news because it fined Univision, the Spanish-language broadcaster, a record-breaking $24 million. Univision claimed that its stations offered three hours of children’s educational programming per week — one of the few public interest rules still on the books — in part by showing a soap opera involving 11-year-old twins.

That was the right decision. But, viewed closely, it also illustrates just how slipshod our renewal process has become.

The fine was not levied at the ordinary time. In fact, the license term for one of the two stations initially at issue had expired 18 months earlier. This is typical — applications opposed by watchdog groups often languish for years while the broadcaster is permitted to continue business as usual. Then infractions are commonly disposed of with a small fine.

The commission paid attention to the Univision complaint because the station was part of a chain of 114 TV and radio stations being transferred from a public corporation to private equity firms. Without that, it is unclear when, if ever, the violations would have been acted upon. This even though scholars believe that one-fifth of what is billed as children’s programming has “little or no educational value” and only one-third can be called “highly educational.” Our children deserve better.

It wasn’t always like this. Before the deregulatory mania in the 1980s — when an F.C.C. chairman described television as a “toaster with pictures” — the commission gave license renewals a hard look every three years, with specific criteria for making a public interest finding. Indeed, broadcasters’ respect for the renewal process encouraged them to pay for hard-hitting news operations. That was then.

Nowadays, a lot of people claim that because of the Internet, traditional broadcast outlets are an endangered species and there’s no point in worrying about them. That’s a mistake.

First, broadcast licenses continue to be very valuable. Univision’s assets — many in small markets — were sold for more than $12 billion. A single station in Sacramento, owned by Sinclair Broadcasting, went for $285 million in 2004. A station in a megamarket like New York or Los Angeles could easily fetch half a billion dollars or more.

Second, broadcast outlets are still primary, critical sources of information for the American public. Nearly 60 percent of adults watch local TV news each day — it remains the nation’s most popular information source. And so it’s imperative that broadcasters continue to provide high-quality coverage of local and national issues.

But ensuring they do so means putting teeth back into the renewal process. To begin with, shorten the license term. Eight years is too long to go without an accounting — we ought to return to the three-year model.

Let’s also actually review a station’s record before renewing its license. Here are just some of the criteria for renewal the F.C.C. considered in the 1990s but never put into place:

Did the station show programs on local civic affairs (apart from the nightly news), or set aside airtime for local community groups?

Did it broadcast political conventions, and local as well as national candidate debates? Did it devote at least five minutes each night to covering politics in the month before an election?

In an era when owners may live thousands of miles from their stations, have they met with local community leaders and the public to receive feedback?

Is the station’s so-called children’s programming actually, in the view of experts, educational?

All of this information ought to be available on the Web so people can see how their airwaves are being used.

These issues are even more pressing today: broadcasters are making the transition to digital technology that permits them to send several television and radio channels into our homes instead of the single channel they’ve had up to now. The F.C.C.’s next step after reforming the licensing process should be to address how this new digital capacity can increase local programs and also improve the generally shoddy coverage of minority and other underserved communities. New benefits for broadcasters should translate into public benefits, too.

If you need convincing that something needs to be done, consider that only about 8 percent of local TV newscasts in the month before the last presidential election contained any coverage whatsoever of local races, including those for the House of Representatives.

This low number is just one example of how poorly stations are serving their viewers. Do stations that make so much money using the public airwaves, but so plainly fail to educate viewers on the issues facing them, really deserve to have their renewals rubber-stamped?
42 2007-06-02 HARTFORD, June 1 —The leading Republican of the Connecticut State Senate, Louis C. DeLuca, was arrested on Friday and charged with conspiring to threaten a man he believed was abusing a young female relative.

According to state and federal authorities, Mr. DeLuca contacted James Galante, a Danbury-based trash hauler who has been indicted on charges that he has ties to organized crime.

Senator DeLuca, who has represented the area surrounding his town of Woodbury for 16 years, issued a long statement on Friday defending his actions.

“I tried to protect a family member who was vulnerable, who was in a physically abusive domestic relationship, and who needed help,” Mr. DeLuca said. “My family and I went to the police three times to get help for my relative, but the police said that they couldn’t help because the victim wouldn’t file a complaint.”

He added, “It was a terrible decision on my part to seek Mr. Galante’s involvement.”

Mr. DeLuca said that while he would rather his “family situation stay out of the public eye,” he believed that “constituents and fellow legislators deserve an explanation.”
43 2007-06-02 Most performers are pleased when people in the crowd stop what they’re doing to watch and applaud. But for a D.J. that kind of tribute might inspire mixed emotions. If a dance party ends up feeling more like a concert, is that success or failure?

Not that anyone seemed too worried on Thursday night at Cielo, a nightclub in the meatpacking district. The two headliners were Michael Mayer, the veteran German producer and D.J., and Gui Boratto, a Brazilian who released his debut album, “Chromophobia” (Kompakt), earlier this year. The night was mainly devoted to stripped-down dance tracks. You can call this stuff minimalist, but you can’t call it severe — not anymore.

In earlier years, minimalist German techno provided a stern rebuke to the kitchen-sink populism of mainstream dance music. (In Europe, “mainstream dance music” isn’t a contradiction in terms.) Kompakt, the Cologne-based label partly owned by Mr. Mayer, nurtured a warmer strain of minimalism; Mr. Mayer’s excellent and influential 2002 mix CD, “Immer” (Kompakt), felt like a grayscale dream.

Since then, Mr. Mayer has proved himself a resourceful and versatile D.J., equally capable of assembling a furious techno barrage or a woozy electronic reverie or a crowd-

pleasing house set. No matter what, he makes small gestures sound big, and on Thursday night the revelers applauded each one-note bassline, each slow buildup, each rubbery thwack. For this crowd, Mr. Mayer is a superstar D.J., and that’s how he was treated.
44 2007-06-02 NEWARK, June 1 (AP) — Four suspects in several bank robberies will not face federal charges in the death of an F.B.I. agent who was fatally shot during the arrest of two of the suspects outside a Readington Township, N.J., bank in April, the authorities said on Friday.

A bank robbery indictment was handed up on Friday against three of the four suspects. None of the charges in the 11-count federal indictment relate to the death of the special agent, Barry Lee Bush, who was part of a stakeout trying to catch the men believed responsible for four armed bank robberies in central New Jersey.

The F.B.I., which is still investigating the shooting, has said it appears Mr. Bush was shot when another agent’s weapon discharged accidentally. There is no federal law that would allow the men to face indictment in connection to the agent’s death, in part, because the death did not take place on federal property, said Michael Drewniak, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Newark.

All three men indicted, Wilfredo Berrios, 28, Francisco Herrera-Genao, 22, and Efrain Lynn, 21, face a single conspiracy count, four bank robbery charges and four weapons charges. Mr. Berrios and Mr. Herrera-Genao also face an attempted bank robbery and weapons charge. The fourth suspect, Michael Cruz, was not indicted.
45 2007-06-02 And so many of the authors offer an analysis of why liberalism, which once defined America’s political life, lost support, and they identify a list of larger theoretical and policy issues that split the liberal camp, including national security, globalization and immigration, and tension between communal interests and individual rights, as well as liberalism’s recent arms-length relationship with religion and traditional values.

If there is a common thread linking the various books, though, it is an adjustment to President Bill Clinton’s famous campaign mantra: “It’s more than the economy, stupid.” Many aren’t satisfied with talking just about paychecks and changing the subject when values are raised, as some liberal and centrist Democrats have suggested. Indeed, they want to adopt the tactics of the Republican strategist Karl Rove and challenge their opponents’ greatest strengths on their own ground.

Liberals often dismiss or ridicule religious and traditional values, Amy Sullivan writes in the essay collection, but they misunderstand that some Republican voters “are not choosing one moral view over another.”

“They are choosing the political party that talks about morality and religion over the party that doesn’t,” she wrote.

Such silence isn’t necessary. “American liberalism is, at its core, a set of moral commitments rooted in practical reason,” E. J. Dionne Jr. declares in the introduction to “Liberalism for a New Century.” In “Freedom’s Power: The True Force of Liberalism,” an unabashedly laudatory history by Paul Starr, a Pulitzer Prize winner and Princeton sociologist, he argues that liberals “cannot allow themselves to become merely defensive and oppositional.”

They need, he writes, to “make the case for liberalism’s first principles, to renew the work of liberal innovation and to convince their fellow citizens to make the American project a liberal project once again.”

Those principles also include the decidedly unfashionable idea that government can be a force for good. Todd Gitlin, whose book “The Bulldozer and the Big Tent: Blind Republicans, Lame Democrats, and the Recovery of American Ideals,” is due out this fall, and Eric Alterman, whose “Why We’re Liberals: A Political Handbook for Post-Bush America,” is due out this winter, reverse Ronald Reagan’s potent slogan to argue essentially that government is not the problem, it’s the solution.

In “The Conscience of a Liberal” (out in October), Paul Krugman, the Princeton economist and New York Times columnist, makes the case for a new “New Deal.” He and others note that an overwhelming majority of Americans, even those who don’t call themselves liberals, hold liberal views, in the sense that they want the government to take action on providing health insurance, helping the poorest members of society and protecting the environment.

Of course, polls show that what most Americans want at the moment is to bring the Iraq war to a conclusion. While liberals and other Democrats (including centrists and progressives who still wince at the word “liberal”) may agree on that goal, there is a vigorous debate over what kind of overarching vision should govern foreign policy.

To noninterventionists the Iraq war provides sorrowful evidence of the dangers of exercising American power around the globe. The liberal internationalism that guided America through the cold war, however, linked security at home with the promotion of democracy abroad, and relied on international institutions and nonmilitary programs to win hearts and minds.

In his essay Mr. Tomasky (who is also editor of Guardian America, the London newspaper’s Web edition in the United States) offers a six-point program in which liberal hawks admit that the Iraq war was a mistake, and liberal doves acknowledge that their dislike of the Bush administration colored their judgment of the war and affirm that “we are not realists,” in the sense that tough-minded realpolitik should not necessarily override moral and humanitarian concerns.

Other elements of America’s foreign policy, like globalization, trade and immigration, continue to split liberal free traders from liberal populists and labor unions. In a debate on American Prospect online (prospect.org), for example, Jeff Faux, a founder of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington, argues that free-trade advocates have abandoned American workers, failing to push for strong labor and environmental standards in trade agreements that might help insulate Americans from corporations trolling the globe for the cheapest labor.

James K. Galbraith, a professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, counters that despite its many imperfections, globalization is a locomotive that can’t be stopped. There are benefits like lower inflation and cheap imports, he said, and such standards, while worthwhile, won’t have any effect on American jobs, while tariffs will invite retaliation against American exports.

Of course, even broad theoretical agreement won’t mean an end to tactical divides, like how best to protect legalized abortion and gay rights or seek social justice for minorities, without alienating a majority of the electorate.

Yet, as Mr. Tomasky said in an interview, “One good thing about the last six and a half years is everyone’s been united most of the time.”

“I don’t want to oversell it, but people feel engaged in a way that they haven’t in a while,” he said. “It was just so relentlessly depressing, but things have gotten better. These debates — even between the left and center — are done in a more generous spirit because we’re not losing quite so badly.”
46 2007-06-02 Your May 31 editorial “Injustice 5, Justice 4” is correct. The Supreme Court’s Ledbetter v. Goodyear opinion flies in the face of precedent and clear Congressional intent to reduce discrimination by facilitating employees’ civil suits, while it fails to recognize the pragmatic realities of the modern workplace.

Thus, Congress must expeditiously pass legislation that corrects this opinion and restores workers’ rights.

The writer is a professor of law at the University of Richmond.
47 2007-06-02 “Type A personalities and high achievers wouldn’t live in this area if it weren’t important to us to compete and achieve,” one friend of mine who lives in an affluent suburb of New York City told me. “You’re constantly measuring yourself: how much do you make, what do you own, where do you vacation, how do you look to others?”

There are two problems with our routine comparisons. First, even within our peer groups, we naturally tend to compare ourselves with those better-off than we are. Probably because, especially as Americans, we are usually headed up the ladder and so look where we’re going. But that can skew our perspective so that we feel like we’re never keeping up.

What we need in that case are reality checks about how far we’ve come and how well we are doing. We get that by looking at the big picture rather than concentrating on the few cohorts we admire and strive to match. For example, the median net worth of American families is $93,100 as of 2004, according to Federal Reserve survey data. The highest net worth is for families with a head of household between 55 and 64, on the cusp of retirement presumably, with a median of less than $250,000 — and much of that is home equity.

The second problem is that we are usually sizing ourselves up based on nonscientific, random hits of information. A friend spoke of his habit of trying to figure out someone’s financial situation as a kind of reverse engineering from known financial data, conversational hints and old-fashioned observation.

As long as we are going to compare ourselves, it is more helpful for us to tap into much deeper, more rigorous stores of data. Armchair detectives can get a more realistic feel for how they fit in using the following resources. When you find something interesting, do your colleagues a favor and pass it along at the water cooler.

Here you can find median household and family income by state and local area. A factoid to get you started: median family income for the country as of 2005 was $55,832.

You’re looking for the most recent (2004) Survey of Consumer Finances. It is cumbersome to locate this report and open it, but it’s worth it to see detailed self-reported data on income, debts, savings and investments, by age group and percentile.

The Consumer Expenditure Survey gives detailed data about what we spend in a year on everything, like postage and stationery, property taxes and eating out. You can break it down by age, education, income, occupation, region and other characteristics.

Go to the Tax Stats section and then Individual Tax Statistics for a wealth of data on income, as reported to the I.R.S. Also search SOI Bulletin, which stands for Statistics on Income and breaks down articles by topic and year. An article on estate tax, for example, reports the aggregate details of those returns, by size of estate, down to how much the funeral cost, how much was given to the spouse and how much was given to charity.
48 2007-06-02 Later, Jankovic wondered why so many players looked solemn during their matches. “Why go to the court like you are going to a cemetery?” she said, grinning wide. “It doesn’t make any sense to me.”

For Williams, there was not much reason to smile. With her wrists taped, she remained stoic throughout the match, although she shrieked several times when her shots flew wide or long.

Her stinging first serve, which reached a Grand Slam-record 128 miles an hour earlier this week, did not rattle Jankovic. Neither did her powerful shots that landed in nearly every spot on the court.

With grace and ease, Jankovic returned those shots, skillfully — and joyfully — hitting on the lines or into the corners. Without much resistance from Williams, Jankovic won the first set. Williams recovered, taking a 3-0 lead in the second set before winning it, 6-4.

The third set flew by for Williams, who was worn down by long rallies and Jankovic’s ability to stay peppy on the clay. Jankovic broke her serve three times. Williams double-faulted twice. Her shots, particularly her forehands, often floated long. She hit a backhand into the net to end the match.

“I’m disappointed that I lost, but I feel like I’m playing well,” Williams said. “I think I just got a little bit tired at the end, too. It’s tough on clay.”

Williams, who turns 27 this month, had played the 22-year-old Jankovic four times before. Jankovic now has a 3-2 edge, having won their past three matches.

In April, Jankovic beat Williams in the semifinals of the clay-court event in Charleston, S.C. Jankovic also eliminated Williams in the third round at Wimbledon last year, preventing Williams from successfully defending her title.

Williams said that those previous losses did not affect the way she played Friday.

Considering how much tennis she has missed in the past year because of wrist problems, Williams said that she was happy with how she played at Roland Garros. Her father, Richard Williams, said he thought she looked intimidated.

“Venus played with fear because she lost to that girl a couple of times now,” he said, shaking his head. “I’ve never ever seen her play like that before. She has never been that scared of hitting the ball.

“If I was her and I kept playing like that, I would just quit. I’d just retire.”

Zina Garrison, Venus Williams’s coach on the United States Fed Cup team, said she thought Williams looked strong, but that she lacked the energy to keep up with Jankovic. Williams lost a few pounds recently, Garrison said, and that may have weakened her.

Garrison seemed impressed with every part of Jankovic’s game, saying, “It’s been a long time since I’ve seen anyone who moves as easily as her.”

It has also been a long time since there has been a player as bubbly as Jankovic, whose upbeat attitude seems irrepressible. Her mother, Snezana, takes credit for that.

Snezana Jankovic, an economist in Belgrade, Serbia’s capital, said she made a point of reminding Jelena to stay happy.

She added: “I tell her, ‘Don’t ever cry about tennis because I don’t want to see your tears. When you cry, it hurts me, too. If you lose, just stay happy and forget it. If you are good enough, the results will come.’ ”

Both No. 1 seeds won matches Friday to reach the fourth round. Roger Federer, the world’s No. 1, beat Potito Starace without breaking a sweat, 6-2, 6-3, 6-0. Justine Henin, the two-time defending French Open champion, only looked as if she had broken a sweat because it rained during her match. On her 25th birthday, Henin defeated Mara Santangelo, 6-2, 6-3, while fighting through stomach cramps. “No, it was nothing to do with my being 25, although I’m aging, that’s true,” she said. She said that the cramps were probably a result of stress as she waited for her match to begin.
49 2007-06-02 To the Editor:      Your May 31 editorial ''Injustice 5, Justice 4'' is correct. The Supreme Court's Ledbetter v. Goodyear opinion flies in the face of precedent and clear Congressional intent to reduce discrimination by facilitating employees' ci...
50 2007-06-03 A look at the 2007 Tony Award nominees for best actor in a play....
51 2007-06-03 The test case represented by Jackie Robinson was one of towering importance to the country. Here was a chance for one person to prove the bigots and white supremacists wrong, and to say to the nation's fourteen million black Americans that the time had come for them to compete as equals. But it would happen only if a long list of "ifs" worked out just so: if the Brooklyn Dodgers gave Robinson the opportunity to play; if he played well; if he won the acceptance of teammates and fans; if no race riots erupted; if no one put a bullet through his head. The "ifs" alone were enough to agitate a man's stomach. Then came the matter of Robinson himself. He perceived racism in every glare, every murmur, every called third strike. He was not the most talented black ballplayer in the country. He had a weak throwing arm and a creaky ankle. He had only one year of experience in the minor leagues, and, at twenty-eight, he was a little bit old for a first-year player. But he loved a fight. His greatest assets were tenacity and a knack for getting under an opponent's skin. He would slash a line drive to left field, run pigeon-toed down the line, take a big turn at first base, slam on the brakes, and skitter back to the bag. Then, as the pitcher prepared to go to work on the next batter, Robinson would take his lead from first base, bouncing on tiptoes like a dropped rubber ball, bouncing, bouncing, bouncing, taunting the pitcher, and daring everyone in the park to guess when he would take off running again. While other men made it a point to avoid danger on the base paths, Robinson put himself in harm's way every chance he got. His speed and guile broke down the game's natural order and left opponents cursing and hurling their gloves. When chaos erupted, that's when he knew he was at his best.

On that April 10 morning, as he rode the subway from Manhattan to Brooklyn, Robinson understood exactly what he was getting into. One prominent black journalist had written that the ballplayer had more power than Congress to help break the chains that bound the descendants of slavery to lives lived in inequity and despair. Before he'd even swung a bat in the big leagues, Robinson was being compared to Frederick Douglass, George Washington Carver, and Joe Louis, with some writers concluding that this man would do more for his people than any of the others. The time had come, they said, for black Americans to stake their claim to the justice and equal rights they so richly deserved, and now a baseball player had arrived to show them the way. Robinson absorbed the newspaper articles. He felt the weight on his shoulders and decided there was nothing to do but carry it as fast and as far as he could.

A cold wind met him as he climbed out of the subway onto the busy streets of Brooklyn. He walked to 215 Montague Street. Waiting for him there was Branch Rickey, a potato-shaped man in a wrinkled suit. The office was dark and cluttered. Rickey got straight to business, offering Robinson a standard contract for five-thousand dollars, the league's minimum annual salary.

"Simple, wasn't it?" Robinson recalled later. "It could have happened to you. The telephone rings. You answer it ... and you're in the Big Leagues.... Just like a fairy tale.... I went to bed one night wearing pajamas and woke up wearing a Brooklyn Dodgers' uniform."

He knew it was no fairy tale, of course. He knew that a happy ending was far from assured. Most big-leaguers in 1947 had never been on the same field as a black man, had never shared a locker room, a shower, a taxi, a train car, or a dining-room table with one. Big-league culture was so thoroughly dominated by white southerners that even rough Italian kids from northern cities experienced shock and isolation upon arrival. There was no telling how Robinson would be received. He was not yet a member of the Brooklyn Dodgers, and already half a dozen or more of his prospective teammates promised they would quit or demand a trade before they would play with him. Elsewhere, players spoke of a league-wide strike. They were willing to destroy the game they loved rather than see it stained by integration. Others said it would be simpler to take Robinson out with a well-aimed fastball to the head, or with a set of metal cleats driven through his Achilles tendon on a close play at first base - something that would look like an accident.

Rickey made only one demand of Robinson. He asked the ballplayer to promise that he would never respond to the racist attacks that would surely come his way. When Rickey quoted a passage from Giovanni Papini's Life of Christ - "But whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also" - Robinson sought clarification. Did Rickey want a player who didn't have the guts to fight back? No, the boss answered, "I want a ballplayer with guts enough not to fight back."

Rickey turned and walked away while Robinson thought about it for a moment. Though the request would require Robinson to subdue his most basic instincts, and though he had no idea, honestly, whether he could compete without an outlet for his seething sense of indignation, he said he would try. With that, the season's storyline was set.

Robinson became baseball's biggest attraction in 1947. According to one survey, he was the second most famous man in America, trailing only Bing Crosby. Americans yearned for a sense of normalcy in the aftermath of the war, yet everything around them was in flux. Robinson, a human whirlwind, captured the spirit of the time better than anyone. When the Dodgers went on the road, thousands of black men and women traveled great distances to get a glimpse of him, as if to see for themselves that he was real, to share his dignity and glory, to watch this proud, defiant man, the grandson of slaves, stake a claim on their behalf to what Langston Hughes called "the dream deferred." Railroad companies scheduled special runs. Black parents named their children, boys and girls, after him. White kids from small towns in the Midwest sat surrounded by black men and women at the ballpark and wondered why their parents seemed anxious. Jewish families in Brooklyn gathered around their dining-room tables for Passover Seders and discussed what Moses had in common with a fleet-footed, right-hand-hitting infielder with the number 42 on his back. White business owners integrated their factory floors and wrote to Robinson to thank him for opening their eyes. Young ballplayers of every color imitated his style, wiping their hands on their trousers between pitches, swinging with arms outstretched, and running helter-skelter around makeshift bases.

Jackie Robinson showed that talent mattered more than skin color, supplying a blueprint for the integration of a nation. He led the Dodgers to the greatest season the team's fans had yet seen, to a World Series showdown with the New York Yankees, the outcome in doubt until the final inning of the seventh and final game.

But it was something else, something more personal, that captured the American imagination that summer.

It was the story of a man filled with fear and fury. It was Jackie Robinson, all alone, taking his lead from the base, bouncing, bouncing, bouncing ... and a nation waiting to see what he would do next. . . .
52 2007-06-03 No dog has ever said a word, but that doesn't mean they live outside the world of speech. They listen acutely. They wait to hear a term-biscuit, walk-and an inflection they know. What a stream of incomprehensible signs passes over them as they wait, patiently, for one of a few familiar words! Because they do not speak, except in the most limited fashion, we are always trying to figure them out. The expression is telling: to "figure out" is to make figures of speech, to invent metaphors to help us understand the world. To choose to live with a dog is to agree to participate in a long process of interpretation-a mutual agreement, though the human being holds most of the cards.

What the interpreter must do is tell stories-sometimes to the dog in question. Who hasn't heard a dog walker chattering away to her pet, as if she were serving as a kind of linguistic mirror: "You are scared of that police horse," "Lola loves that ball!" Some people speak for their dogs in the first person, as though the dog were ventriloquizing his owner. There's inevitably something embarrassing about this; a kind of silly intimacy that might seem sweet at home becomes a source of eye-rolling discomfort to strangers.

But most stories about dogs are narrated to other people, as we go on articulating the tales of our animals' lives, in order to bring their otherwise incomprehensible experience into the more orderly world of speech. Taking pictures of your pet serves much the same function; it isn't just about memory and the desire to record, but a way to bring something of the inchoate into the world of the represented. This is a part of the pet owner's work. In order to live within the domestic world, the dog must be named, read, and in some way understood.

Of course, listening to stories about other people's pets is perilous, like listening to the recitation of dreams. Such reports may be full of charm for the dreamer, but for the poor listener they're usually fatally dull. The dreamer has no distance from the spell of the dream, and cannot say just how it mattered so, and language mostly fails to capture the deeply interior character of dreams anyway. We listen with an appreciation for the speaker's intent, but without much interest in the actual story.

Love itself is a bit like that: you can describe your beloved until the tongue tires and still, in truth, fail to get at the particular quality that has captured you. We give up, finally, and distill such feelings into single images: the bronzy warmth of one of his glances, or that way of turning the head she has when she's thinking and momentarily stops being aware of other people. That, we tell ourselves, stands for what we love. But it's perfectly clear that such images explain nothing. They serve as signposts for some incommunicable thing. Being in love is our most common version of the unsayable; everyone seems to recognize that you can't experience it from the outside, not quite-you have to feel it from the inside in order to know what it is.
53 2007-06-03 NAIROBI, Kenya, June 3 — A suicide bomber narrowly missed killing Somalia’s transitional prime minister on Sunday afternoon after he rammed a pickup truck packed with explosives into the gates of the prime minister’s house in Mogadishu, the capital.

The prime minister, Ali Mohamed Gedi, who was inside at the time, was unhurt. However, the explosion killed six of his bodyguards, along with a student at a Koranic school across the street.

Witnesses said that the pickup sped through a roadblock outside Mr. Gedi’s house and that bodyguards opened fire as the truck hurtled onward. It then slammed into a set of gates just feet away from the residence and exploded in a fireball that flattened several buildings and scattered debris for blocks.

Afterward, Ugandan peacekeepers shuttled Mr. Gedi from his house to an undisclosed location. Speaking on national radio, he blamed Islamist militants for the violence.

“These cowards, they’re trying to sabotage our government,” he said. “But we won’t stop our mission to stabilize this country and defeat them.”
54 2007-06-03 But there is also wariness among the human rights organizations that have traditionally brought these kinds of suits.

“It’s a bad thing that the class-action firms are getting into this area,” said William S. Dodge, who teaches international law at Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco. “They don’t know as much about international law, and they don’t pick their battles as carefully. They’re motivated not just by a concern to promote human rights but also by money and a desire to use these kinds of suits to get a settlement.”

At the other end of the political spectrum, Richard A. Samp, a lawyer with the Washington Legal Foundation, a pro-business group, said the developments were a symptom of a larger problem.

“The large-scale entry of class-action lawyers into this field,” Mr. Samp said, “is an indication that this has gone beyond the hopes of a few human rights groups to create publicity for their causes and into an area where there is money to be made.”

John M. Eubanks, a lawyer with Motley Rice who represents the former jockeys, disputed both points.

“We’re trying to right wrongs that have been committed,” Mr. Eubanks said. “It’s not about money. It’s about exacting some form of justice.”

Pressed, Mr. Eubanks conceded that the case was at least partly about money. “There is a contingency fee,” he said. “These cases do cost a lot of money. We don’t get paid unless we collect.”

The case, like scores of other human rights suits in recent years, was brought under a 1789 law, the Alien Tort Statute, that allows federal courts to hear claims by foreigners who say they were injured “in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.” Business groups and the State Department have urged the courts to interpret the law narrowly, saying that allowing such suits is a form of judicial imperialism that can interfere with American foreign policy.

In 2004, the United States Supreme Court imposed some restrictions on the suits in Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain. It limited claims to classic violations of international norms like piracy, torture and slavery. And it cautioned lower courts to avoid interfering with American diplomacy.

But the decision has not slowed the pace of litigation.

Beth Stephens, a law professor at Rutgers and an authority on the Alien Tort Statute, said there had been activity in about 50 or 60 suits since the Sosa decision, with perhaps a third of the pending cases filed against corporate defendants and many filed against the United States government.

Professor Stephens added that the raw numbers could be misleading. “Only a few cases actually survive — legally sound cases involving egregious, well-documented abuses, where plaintiffs have no other means to seek redress,” she said. “The rest are dismissed.”

There is little dispute that the former jockeys represented by Motley Rice endured wretched abuse. The State Department reported in 2005 that thousands of children, some as young as 3 or 4, were trafficked from Bangladesh, Pakistan and countries in East Africa and sold into slavery as camel jockeys.

“Child camel jockeys are often sexually and physically abused,” a State Department report that year said. “Most are physically and mentally stunted, as they are deliberately starved to prevent weight gain.”

More recently, State Department officials have said that the United Arab Emirates are making progress. “The United Arab Emirates freed almost 1,000 victims of child camel jockey slavery and helped repatriate those victim-survivors to South Asian countries, worked with Unicef in setting up a shelter for victims,” John R. Miller, ambassador at large on international slavery, said at a briefing last June. Lightweight robot jockeys have taken the place of the boys who used to race camels.

Lawyers for the defendants — Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai and the vice president and prime minister of the United Arab Emirates, and Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid al Maktoum, the country’s finance minister — denied wrongdoing.

“The allegations against the leaders of the U.A.E. are baseless,” said Habib Al Mulla, a spokesman for the Dubai government. “In fact, the leaders of the U.A.E., working with Unicef and all four of the affected home countries, have put in place a comprehensive program that Unicef calls a model for the region. Diplomacy has worked, and there is no need for courts to intervene.”

The plaintiffs say American courts have jurisdiction over the two sheikhs because they own property, including racehorses, in Florida and Kentucky. The defendants say they do not have enough connections with the United States to allow the courts here to assume jurisdiction over them.

At a conference in April in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates agreed to increase its contribution for social services and compensation for the former jockeys to about $11 million. Claims tribunals in Bangladesh, Mauritania, Pakistan and Sudan, the home countries of most of the boys, will determine what they are to receive. Most will get $1,000 to $5,000.

“That’s not a lot of money for a stolen childhood,” Professor Stephens said. “If you think about a country that’s rolling in billions of dollars, it may not be enough.”

Joseph G. Finnerty III, a lawyer for the defendants in the jockey suit, said American courts should have no role in judging the conduct of his clients.

“Imagine how we would feel if courts in another part of the world decided they had jurisdiction over alleged actions by Americans, in America, against other Americans,” Mr. Finnerty said. “We would be affronted, and rightly so.”

Judge Cecilia M. Altonaga of the Federal District Court in Miami will hear arguments next month on whether to allow the case to proceed.
55 2007-06-03 Some might think it had. It was not so long ago that Mr. Watkins would not have been picked for a Dallas County jury, much less be the person picking one.

“Do not take Jews, Negroes, Dagos, Mexicans or members of any minority race on a jury, no matter how rich or well educated,” a treatise from 1963 advised prosecutors here. The directive, unearthed by The Dallas Morning News in 1986, was cited by the United States Supreme Court that year in a celebrated decision barring peremptory challenges to remove black jurors.

Mr. Watkins said he was not looking back. “I don’t like to disparage the dead,” he said of the longtime district attorney and most recent Democrat to hold the job, Henry Wade, who reigned from 1951 to 1986. “Jim Crow was the law of the day, and he enforced it.”

Now, he said he was focusing on programs to educate prisoners and provide drug treatment in custody.

“I encounter resistance every day,” Mr. Watkins said. “It’s part of my job. It doesn’t make any difference. Let them be on the wrong side of history.” But, he said, his critics “are just waiting for me to make a mistake.”

The dean of Texas’s district attorneys and a fellow Democrat, Ronnie Earle of Travis County, praised Mr. Watkins as an innovator. “He brings a contemporary perspective to the ancient problem of how to make punishment a positive result for the community,” Mr. Earle said.

But Mr. Watkins acknowledged the skeptics, some of whom, he said, painted him as soft on crime, citing comments like one he made to the public television station KERA in April that for those wrongfully convicted, “we will be the first to raise the white flag and get you out.”

In what Mr. Watkins denounced as a scheme to ‘“set up the D.A.,” a police captain in suburban DeSoto recently taped a conversation that the captain said showed favoritism by Mr. Watkins toward an officer accused of a misdemeanor whose lawyer had worked on his transition team. Mr. Watkins denied the accusation and has barred the captain from testifying in court cases.

He has bristled at criticism — “the rules are different for us,” he said of blacks — and can turn distant at times. Between questions as he was being driven back from Fort Worth, Mr. Watkins put his head on the seat back and napped.

Toby Shook, former chief of the felony trial bureau and a 23-year veteran prosecutor who lost to Mr. Watkins in November, said no one could protest the freeing of the wrongfully convicted “as long as you do it under the guidance of law and facts.”

After taking office, Mr. Watkins wasted little time before making changes in what he called the conviction-at-all-costs mentality, supposedly for the victims’ sake.

“A person wrongfully convicted is a victim, and the person who did it is still out there,” he said.

Mr. Watkins said he had ended the practice of destroying death penalty files after a conviction, arguing that the files were vital in establishing or dismissing later claims of innocence.

To install his own loyal team, he fired 10 senior prosecutors of the 234 assistant district attorneys, and 7 others resigned, including Mr. Shook.

He tightened procedures in eyewitness identifications of criminal suspects, instituting a double-blind system requiring that lineups or photo displays be administered by prosecutors with no knowledge of the case so that they could not influence the outcome.

And he announced a partnership with the Innocence Project of Texas, a consortium of law clinics at five universities, to examine many other claims of wrongful conviction under a 2001 Texas law granting prisoners the right to petition for DNA testing.

With nearly $360,000 appropriated by the Dallas County commissioners, Mr. Watkins set up a division under a special assistant, Michael Ware, an adjunct professor at Texas Wesleyan School of Law in Fort Worth, where Mr. Watkins was in the first graduating class in 1994. Mr. Ware will head a team of 20 student volunteers to work with the Innocence Project.

Of 35 cases studied since 2001, 13 ended with exonerations based on DNA tests. The latest prisoner freed, James Curtis Giles, had been convicted of raping a Dallas woman with two other men in 1983 and served 10 years before being released on parole. It turned out that the police had confused him with another man, James Earl Giles, who lived across the street from the victim and was implicated in other evidence not turned over to the defense.

“We’re getting ready to make history, not only in Dallas County and Texas but the rest of the country,” said Jeff Blackburn of the West Texas Innocence Project at Texas Tech University School of Law in Lubbock. “We have what no other county or state has — a D.A. determined that innocent people don’t get convicted.”

“You don’t have to be bloodthirsty to be elected,” Mr. Blackburn said. “People are not as crazy as prosecutors and judges think.”
56 2007-06-03 Now, most cadaver organs go to those on the UNOS waiting lists, with matches made on the basis of medical factors like the size of the organ and blood type, the urgency of the patient’s need, the length of time spent on the list and the distance between donor and recipient.

But since the supply of organs is much smaller than the demand, thousands of patients die each year, waiting.

Since 2001, however, organ transplants from live donors, who usually pick their recipients, have outpaced those from cadavers; organs from live donors tend to do better, too. Increasingly, desperate patients are seeking live donors — through the Internet, creative advertising, or, even on television, a development that has made some bioethicists squeamish.

“I find this kind of show tawdry, turning a serious medical decision into a sideshow, based entirely on entertainment value,” said Paul Root Wolpe, a bioethicist at the University of Pennsylvania and president of the American Society of Bioethics and Humanities, who was interviewed before the hoax was revealed.

At the same time, some transplant experts noted that “The Big Donor Show” (“De Grote Donorshow,” with the O in “show” shaped like a kidney) was in some ways similar to competitions — not hoaxes — that take place quietly, off camera.

“It’s not all that different from what’s happening on the Internet, on sites like MatchingDonors.com, where people looking for organs post their pictures and their stories, hoping a potential donor will choose them,” said Jeffrey Kahn, director of the University of Minnesota’s Center for Bioethics. “Or there was a guy in Houston who bought a billboard saying he needed a liver, and a family called after their daughter was in a car accident and said they wanted to donate to him.”

On MatchingDonors.com, which warns potential donors that it is illegal to receive payment for their organs, patients looking for a live organ donor pay $295 a month, or $595 for the lifetime of the site, to register.

In one posting last week, labeled “Grace Needs a Healthy Active Dad,” the patient describes himself as a 41-year-old self-employed geologist, “caring husband and father of a beloved 11-year-old girl,” who loves “Labrador retrievers, camping and hunting, water-skiing and Nascar racing” and does not smoke or drink.

Online or on camera, such approaches to organ donation raise concerns.

“I think we’d reject as a matter of morality and equity that the prettiest people, the people with the best story, or the ones who can pay the most, should get access to this very scarce resource,” Mr. Kahn said.

In a handful of developing nations, kidney selling is not so uncommon, and there are those in the United States who argue that such transactions should be legalized, as mutually useful exchanges between rich and poor.

Most living donors donate when a loved one is in need. “It’s traditionally viewed as acceptable for a living organ donor to designate a relative or friend as the recipient,” said Dr. Mark Siegler, director of the MacLean Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago. “That’s been true since the first successful transplant in 1954. Then 15 years ago, we broadened the category to include not just those related by blood, but those with an emotional relationship. Some programs now let people donate an organ to a particular stranger.”

And some transplant programs help arrange family swaps, in which a member of one family donates an organ to a medically matched member of another family, and vice versa.

The vast majority of cadaver organs, however, are given anonymously to those on official waiting lists: in the United States, there are almost 100,000 people waiting for organs, the vast majority for kidneys. But even in America, that doesn’t mean that families never direct who should get an organ from a dead relative.

“You’re not supposed to be able to, but it happens all the time,” said Mr. Wolpe, adding that while he had no problem with a family directing a cadaver donation to a sick relative, there was a very real danger that extending directed donation to strangers could distort the system. “We don’t want a system where families can say, ‘I want to donate to a white person, or a Jewish person.’ ”

Or, for that matter, a telegenic person: adding considerations of entertainment value to an already murky area ratcheted up the concerns.

Those behind “The Big Donor Show” said from the start that their goal was to highlight the Netherlands’ acute shortage of donors and prod the government to encourage more donations. BNN, the company that broadcast the show, scheduled it for the fifth anniversary of the death of Bart de Graeff, a former BNN director. Mr. de Graeff died of kidney failure at 35, after spending years on a waiting list.

“We know that this program is super-controversial and some people will think it’s tasteless,” said Laurens Drillich, the chairman of BNN. “But we think the reality is even more shocking and tasteless.”

The shortage of donors is less acute in the European countries that have “presumed consent” to transplant organs from a cadaver, unless the deceased specifically forbade it. In the United States, though, as in the Netherlands, donors or their families must consent to organs being harvested for transplant.

Endemol, the company behind “The Big Donor Show,” has produced reality TV hits like “Big Brother,” in which contestants are recorded living together in a house, and “Fear Factor,” which features bug-eating contests and rat-filled pits.

Some people who have been live donors or have received organs from live donors said last week that a touch of that sensationalism might not be a bad thing, if it put a human face on the need for organs and on those willing to make a relatively low-risk kidney donation.

Tom Simon, a Chicago F.B.I. agent whose blog, The Kidney Chronicles, tracks his recent kidney donation to Brenda Lagrimas, a woman he found on MatchingDonors.com, wrote: “The game show thing has a certain perverse appeal to me. How many centipedes do you think I could have gotten Brenda to eat on television for her to win my kidney?”
57 2007-06-03 Susan Endersbe, a schizophrenic who lived in Minneapolis, battled depression all her life. When her illness worsened, she usually checked into a hospital, which she did for the last time on May 7, 1994. On that occasion, doctors gave her an antidepressant, and three weeks later she said she felt ready to leave soon, according to nurses’ notes.

The next day, she was referred to Dr. Faruk Abuzzahab and agreed to participate in a drug study he was being paid to conduct, although her suicidal tendencies should have excluded her. Dr. Abuzzahab stopped giving her the antidepressant, and she was forced to wait nearly two weeks before receiving either an experimental drug or a placebo.

Throughout those weeks, Dr. Abuzzahab recorded Ms. Endersbe’s adverse effects as “0,” but nurses documented a steady decline. Ms. Endersbe expressed reservations about being part of a study. “I guess I didn’t understand that I would be going off all my other medications,” she told a hospital worker, according to records.

She spoke repeatedly of killing herself, even telling a nurse in a late-night talk on June 8 that she planned to jump off the Franklin Avenue Bridge, “but says she is safe in the hospital,” a hospital worker wrote.

On June 10, Dr. Abuzzahab wrote in her chart that Ms. Endersbe was “medically improving.” He gave her permission to visit her apartment alone, although leaving the hospital violated the study’s rules and she had spoken of suicide only the night before.
58 2007-06-03 So here’s the playbook: Mr. Murdoch has already offered up the prospect of creating “an independent, autonomous editorial board exactly along the lines of what was established at The Times of London” — ostensibly to protect The Journal from his penchant for meddling.

That sounds nice, but the Bancrofts are going to want a board that acts like a cop on the beat and is able to withstand any efforts by Mr. Murdoch to become a puppeteer. After all, as Harold Evans, the former editor of The Times of London, wrote in his book, “Good Times, Bad Times,” he once challenged Mr. Murdoch about violating his pledge of editorial autonomy. And what, according to Mr. Evans, was Mr. Murdoch’s reply about that promise? “They’re not worth the paper they’re written on."

The Bancrofts are expected to raise the possibility of structuring any sale so that it resembles Thomson’s recent acquisition of Reuters, people close to the family said. In that transaction, Thomson will maintain a board of independent outside trustees. That board will oversee both the editorial integrity of its news products and play a role in business affairs (including having the ability to block a takeover and influence the company’s corporate board.)

Advisers are toying with a possible mechanism that might keep Mr. Murdoch from getting too much ink on his fingers, according to people involved in the talks. He and his executives could pledge that they would have no interaction with the newsroom without being chaperoned by an ombudsman, who could also write in the pages of The Journal if Mr. Murdoch or anyone from the News Corporation tried to influence news coverage. It may sound silly and perhaps a bit overboard, but it would go a long way toward assuring the Bancrofts — and maybe even the public — about Mr. Murdoch’s pledge to be truly hands-off.

Peter A. Chernin, the president of the News Corporation, said at a conference sponsored by The Journal on Wednesday that “it’s easy and glib and fun to sort of point to Page Six and say we want to Page Six-ify The Wall Street Journal.” But, he said, “the notion that we want to somehow buy it to change it is completely counterintuitive.” Mr. Chenin contended that the reason the News Corporation is willing to pay such a high premium for Dow Jones is that it values the paper’s editorial integrity.

MR. MURDOCH clearly wants Dow Jones, and he is likely to be willing to jump through any number of hoops to get it, a fact that the Bancrofts can leverage to their advantage. But the family can’t impose so many conditions that it would be impossible for the News Corporation to run Dow Jones as it sees fit — a prospect that could cause Mr. Murdoch to walk away.

If the family and Mr. Murdoch can resolve outstanding “social issues,” then negotiations will return to haggling over the price of the takeover. While the Bancrofts have said they are open to other bidders, and may want to ignite a bidding war, let’s be honest: It is unlikely any economically rational company or individual can top Mr. Murdoch’s offer.

That doesn’t mean he won’t have to raise his bid, however. “You have to tip the waiter,” is an old phrase among Wall Street bankers and lawyers, and a sweetened offer may be necessary to win over the family. Sometimes an 11th-hour increase in a bid is called a “kiss.” And it’s now quite clear that the Bancrofts have moved away from spurning Mr. Murdoch’s advances and may be wetting their lips.
59 2007-06-03 Now city officials, a private developer and leaders of the Big Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Atlanta are trying to reverse that downward trend by building housing and commercial space on one block of Auburn Avenue, hoping that it will inspire change in the neighborhood.

In a joint venture of the church, located on Auburn Avenue since 1847, and the Integral Group, a local development company, the partners are building Renaissance Walk at Sweet Auburn. On three acres, it will include 30,000 square feet of retail space and condominiums and lofts selling for $250,000 to $600,000, all scheduled to open this fall.

Since its inception, the church — where President William Howard Taft spoke in 1911 and Nelson Mandela appeared in 1990 — has played a significant role in the social, political and economic life of its congregation, said the Rev. Gregory V. Eason Sr., the current pastor. Even though some congregants moved to other parts of Atlanta, many return on Sundays to the church, which also runs a high-rise housing project in the neighborhood and housing for recovering addicts.

The church began buying parcels as they came up for sale in the years after desegregation. Its goal with Renaissance Walk, Pastor Eason said, is to bring the middle class back to live in Sweet Auburn.

About $9 million in private equity for the project has come from the Integral Group, with the remainder being financed through Bank of America, said Egbert L. J. Perry, chief executive of the Integral Group. The company was a developer of Centennial Place, which was nationally recognized as a model for urban mixed-income, mixed-use neighborhood revitalization.

Two-thirds of the one- and two-bedroom condos at Renaissance Walk have been sold, Mr. Perry said, noting that the buyers are mainly young African-American professionals and empty nesters, some of whom work in downtown Atlanta, which is within walking distance.

Rodney Lee, an African-American businessman, bought a one-bedroom condo at Renaissance Walk and is moving from College Park, an Atlanta suburb, with his wife, Tyesha, and two sons. “We want to be part of everything that’s going on there in terms of reclaiming the spirit of this place,” said Mr. Lee, who is reopening a floral shop that had gone out of business in the neighborhood.

David M. Hamilton, an architect for the project, said his Atlanta company, Praxis3, designed Renaissance Walk around the shells of several one- and two-story buildings, including that of the former Mutual Federal Savings Bank of Atlanta, one of the first black-owned banks in the nation. The older structures, dating from the first half of the 20th century, will include most of the retail space and some of the lofts. Although gutted and renovated, their exteriors remain essentially unchanged, Mr. Hamilton said.

A new seven-story structure, which includes most of the condos and is designed to harmonize with the existing architecture, “blends in but doesn’t mimic what is there,” said Stuart Romm, another principal of Praxis3.

J. W. Robinson, who renovated Dr. King’s birthplace home and is the lead architect for his family-owned architectural firm, J. W. Robinson & Associates in Atlanta, has overseen construction of a six-level parking garage and replacement of the old sewer system, which was built in the late 1800s.

“It’s been a most complex site to build on, mostly because of the very high water table in the area and the poor soil,” he said. “And while we put in the new sewer system, we had to keep the old one functioning.”

The city, Fulton County and the Atlanta Public Schools district created a special tax district and issued about $50 million in bonds for a variety of projects — including the new sewage system in Sweet Auburn — in several economically depressed areas of the city. Traditionally, the amount of such bonds is based on how much a project will generate in taxes over a longer-term period, in this case 25 years, said A. J. Robinson of Central Atlanta Progress. The project is the “largest and most significant investment in terms of private capital in the Auburn Avenue district in three decades,” according to Mr. Robinson.

Kwanza Hall, a city councilman whose district includes Auburn Avenue and whose late father, Leon Hall, worked with Dr. King, said that since construction began on Renaissance Walk, Georgia State University began building a 2,000-bed dormitory in the Sweet Auburn district. The dormitory project, Mr. Hall said, will most likely lead to a big increase in the number of people using the businesses along the avenue.

Some community activists, however, are concerned that the area will become out of the reach of many working-class African-Americans, even though 20 percent of the units have been designated as affordable and are selling for less than $200,000.

At the Historic District Development Corporation, Joan P. Garner, the president and chief executive, explained that preservation and affordability are two main goals of her nonprofit group. “We’re glad to see development happening in the area,” she said, “but we were concerned to see some old buildings torn down in the process.”

Mr. Perry of the Integral Group defended the 20 percent set-aside of below-market-rate units, saying: “If that percent of all new residential construction was affordable, so many cities wouldn’t be seeing such a severe crisis of work-force housing. Renaissance Walk should serve as a good model for others to follow.”
60 2007-06-03 While P/E is the most important factor in evaluating a stock for value, it isn’t everything, Mr. Stovall said. Investors should put that number into context.

He pointed out that many industries historically have sold at discounts to the broader stock market. Energy and mining stocks, for example, have usually had lower P/E’s than the rest of the market because of the cyclical nature of their businesses.

And even when an industry has a bigger-than-usual discount, Mr. Stovall said, there is sometimes a good reason for that. He pointed to the energy stocks in the S.& P. 500 index, which are selling at discount of about 27 percent, compared with the average P/E for the index.

Historically, the energy stocks have sold for about 16 percent less than the index. Just looking at the P/E ratios, “you might think energy stocks are cheap now,” Mr. Stovall said.

But S.& P. has a “neutral” rating on the energy industry because it expects earnings growth to come to a halt. The profits of the energy companies in the S.& P. 500 grew 44 percent in 2005 and by 25 percent in 2006; this year, S.& P. estimates that their earnings will actually fall, by 4 percent.

At the moment, Mr. Stovall says, he thinks that a lot of the best value stocks are in financial services. He particularly favors insurance stocks — whether the companies sell property and casualty insurance, or life and health insurance.

Insurance stocks have been “beaten up” lately, he said, because of concerns about this year’s hurricane season. “That wasn’t necessarily the case before Katrina,” Mr. Stovall said.

He said that this period, before the heart of the hurricane season, might be a good buying opportunity for insurance stocks. Allstate and Chubb are among S.& P.’s top picks in the sector.

In financial services, Mr. Stovall also recommended Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. “Those are all three large blue-chip companies that primarily pay shareholders through dividends, and some of them have yields that rival the 10-year note now,” he said.

Mr. Rogers, the manager of T. Rowe Price Equity Income, also favors financial stocks now. In fact, JPMorgan Chase is the fund’s second-largest holding.

“Their profitability has improved a lot, and it is one of very few companies in America with a triple-A balance sheet,” he said. The fund’s top holdings also include Citigroup and the American International Group, the big insurer.

But Mr. Rogers said that many traditional value stocks were now too pricey for him to hold in a value fund. He said the most extreme examples were electric utility stocks — which were once considered the bedrock of many value funds. Such stocks now make up just 3 percent of the portfolio he manages.

On the other hand, G.E. is the largest holding in the portfolio. When the domestic stock market last peaked earlier in the decade, many growth funds owned G.E. stock. Now it is increasingly viewed as a value pick. Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist of Oppenheimer & Company said the main reason for this was that hedge funds and private equity funds were driving the recent run-up in domestic stocks, “and they don’t buy General Electric.”

In fact, while the stock market has been climbing at home, individual American investors have been sending money overseas at a record pace.

In the 12 months ended in April, Americans poured a net $128 billion into foreign stock funds but only $13.6 billion into domestic stock funds, according to AMG Data Services.

Mr. Metz said he thought that this was one reason that larger stocks — like those in the S.& P. 500 — still had relatively low P/E ratios compared with those of smaller stocks, or compared with their own historical averages.

The S.& P. 500 now has an average P/E of around 18, compared with a record high of 46.5 at the end of 2001. (The highest P/E came long after the stock market’s peak, because earnings fell much faster than share prices.) In the last 20 years, the S.& P. 500 index has had an average P/E ratio of 22.7.

BUT Mr. Metz said that when American households turned back to domestic stocks, they would favor large well-known companies like Procter & Gamble and Johnson & Johnson.

He recommended that investors who were looking for a quick, inexpensive way to hold such large stocks consider an exchange-traded fund like the iShares S.& P. 100 Index fund, which owns the 100 largest stocks in the S.& P. 500 index.

Like many other strategists, Mr. Metz said that investing in companies like these was similar to buying foreign stocks, because so much of their profit comes from overseas. This is another way for investors to benefit from the relatively weak dollar and rapid economic growth in developing markets, he said.

“If you buy General Electric or Johnson & Johnson,” he said, “you almost don’t need a foreign stock fund.”
61 2007-06-03 Having failed for years to outhandle and outfinesse the BMW, the competition has been trying to hammer it into submission. The best of the budget alternatives is Infiniti and its recently redesigned G35. A more powerful G37 coupe — on sale in August, with a sedan version to follow — will develop a class-leading 330 horsepower from a 3.7-liter V-6.

Such V-6 engines take up less space than in-line sixes of the same displacement. And BMW could no longer stretch its smaller, 3-liter in-line 6 and still fit it under the 3 Series hood. So to keep the sport-sedan stalkers at bay, it had to whip out the automotive version of pepper spray: a pair of quick-spooling turbochargers boost the direct-injection 6 to a nice round 300 horsepower and 300 pound-feet of torque. Even the burly new M3 with the V-8 will produce 5 less pound-feet of torque (295) than the turbo models.

That makes the 335i the first turbocharged gasoline-powered BMW sold in the United States. The engine makes a vocal argument to being the best turbo powerplant this side of a $130,000 Porsche. Free-spinning and seamless, it evinces none of the power lag or spiky peaks you expect from turbochargers, achieving peak torque at a low 1,400 r.p.m.

The result is a 3 Series that feels roughly as quick, but less high-strung, than the current-generation M3 (rated at 333 horsepower). For the new convertible, BMW cites a snappy 5.5-second run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. when equipped with the terrific six-speed manual transmission — only two-tenths of a second behind the 335i coupe. If you don’t want to pump a clutch pedal, the $1,275 six-speed Steptronic is among the fastest and smoothest automatics around; don’t forget to throw in $100 for paddle shifters.

Trusty brakes feature every imaginable technology, including a self-drying feature that ensures that they are always ready for action on a puddly day. The brakes automatically keep the car from rolling backward when you’re starting off on an uphill slope, a feature every luxury car should consider.

Blessedly, the 3 Series can be ordered without the iDrive systems interface and its dreaded rotary control knob. And the Active Steering — which adjusts steering ratios to make for easier parking and supposedly better handling — is another option whose price, $1,400, isn’t justified by the benefits.

For style, speed and handling you can see and feel, choose instead the $1,300 sport package. It adds a firmer suspension, sport seats with power adjustable side bolsters and handsome 18-inch wheels with sticky run-flat performance tires. It also raises the top speed limitation to 150 m.p.h., compared with just 130 m.p.h. without the package.

During my blast north of New York along the Hudson River, the BMW’s mad turbocharged rush was a new thrill. More familiar was the unity of power, steering, shifter and brakes that no other car in this class can quite reproduce. The suspension is supple when you want it, firm when you need it, and the car will cruise or command any road, depending on your mood.

With the day warming and my hair whipping, I tried and failed to think of a hotter combination of four seats, open roof and excellent performance at this price. The 3 Series defies the stereotype of convertibles as fair-weather toys, and that real men and enthusiasts must do their serious road hunting from inside a closed-roof cave.

The 3 Series also addresses a longstanding bane of convertibles: the combination of tender thighs and searing-hot seats. The seats, armrests and shift knob feature BMW’s so-called sun-reflective technology. The leather is treated with pigments that BMW claims will reduce surface temperatures of dark-leather seats by up to 36 degrees on sunny days or 27 degrees for lighter-colored leathers.

Count the power hardtop as another first on a BMW. On the plus side, the top powers down in a fleet 22 seconds, and it takes just one second longer to click shut. The side and rear glass areas are together more than 30 percent larger than those of the prior cloth-top convertible, minimizing blind spots, letting in light and greatly improving visibility, including the view from the back seat.

But as with most folding hardtops, the roof adds weight and complexity, and seriously reduces the trunk space when stowed. At 3,946 pounds, the Bimmer weighs about 400 pounds more than the coupe. About 300 of that is because of the top, the rest from the stiffened structure that convertibles require to keep tremors at bay. Watching the top’s stacking, origami action is breathtaking, but so is the thought of how much it might cost to fix after a decade of use.

With the top down, trunk space drops from 12.3 cubic feet to 7.4, though it seemed smaller. With the roof open, I tried and failed to stow two wheeled carry-ons. A clever $500 Comfort Access option lets you open or close the top with the key fob, or to partly raise the roof for easier access to luggage.

As ever with BMW, the phrase “You get what you pay for” is both a compliment and caveat. My beautiful bright-blue 335i checked in at $54,540. Worth every penny, I’d say, but that’s still a whole lot of pennies.

So allow a word of praise for the 328i versions, whether sedan, coupe or convertible. (The 328i convertible starts at $43,975.) The starter Bimmers used to feel like something you settled for, with smaller engines and well under 200 horsepower. But the latest 328i models get a robust 230 horsepower from a 3-liter aluminum-magnesium 6, and the engine is so flexible that you’d swear it had 30 more horses in reserve.

Yes, a twin-turbo 300-horsepower BMW convertible is the stuff of summer dreams. The 328i model helps to keep that dream more attainable.
62 2007-06-03 Bill Yuengling, who grew up in Westwood, spent many hours of his childhood, he says, driving around the state with his father in search of the best hot dog they could find. It was all groundwork for Hot Dog Heaven in Emerson, the shop he opened six years ago.

His hot dog fans are pretty evenly divided into two camps. Some like their Sabrett’s steamed “pushcart style” for a modest $2.09, but others go for the Thumann’s deep-fried “rippers” for $2.79. Add 10 cents for a topping like chili, cheese, sauerkraut, red onion sauce, sautéed or raw onions, jalapenos, B&G relish, hot chopped cherry peppers or sautéed onions and peppers. The Sabrett’s “all the way” with mustard, chili and raw onion is $2.29; a Texas Thumann with the same trimmings is $2.99.

Mr. Yuengling’s slogan is “We’re not just hot dogs,” and each week he serves 50 pounds of pulled pork, roasted for 15 hours with his mother’s recipe for barbecue sauce, which has just a hint of sweetness. A pulled pork hero is $7.29 and can be dressed up with sautéed onions and melted mozzarella. Pulled pork on a hamburger bun is $4.39.

Also popular is the Philly cheese steak, chopped on the grill with peppers and onions and finished in the oven, letting the cheese melt throughout the sandwich. Mr. Yuengling uses Black Angus beef for his burgers and sandwiches. Quarter-pound burgers start at $3.49, and can be topped with cheeses and sauces. Salads, heroes, wraps, wings, fried chicken and homemade soups fill out the menu.

There’s a scattering of chairs and tables inside and out, with umbrellas for the al fresco diners. “I’ve gained 50 pounds in the six years I’ve been here,” Mr. Yuengling said. That’s a lot of dogs.

Hot Dog Heaven, 176 Kinderkamack Road, Emerson; (201) 261-0073. Open Monday through Saturday from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.
63 2007-06-03 Aimee Elizabeth Bartol, a daughter of Christine Bartol and Ernest T. Bartol of Syosset, N.Y., was married on Monday to Jacob Royal Zissu, the son of Patricia J. Murphy of New York and Michael J. Zissu of Largo, Fla. C. Raymond Radigan, a retired judge of the Surrogate’s Court of Nassau County, in Mineola, N.Y., officiated at the Woodbury Country Club in Woodbury, N.Y.

The bride, 34, will continue to use her name professionally. She is the senior copy editor at Esquire magazine in New York. She graduated from Boston University.

Her father is a partner in Murphy, Bartol & O’Brien, a law firm in Mineola. Her mother is a director of senior citizens affairs for the town of Oyster Bay, N.Y.

Mr. Zissu, 33, is an associate in the New York office of Clausen Miller, a Chicago law firm. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy and received a law degree from Catholic University. From 1992 to 2007, he served in the Navy, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander and serving as a strategic planner at the Pentagon in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations.

His mother is a partner in Murphy & Zissu, a law firm in New York; his father retired as a partner in the firm.
64 2007-06-03 Jessica Lynn Antonellis, a daughter of Bunny Antonellis of Needham, Mass., and Paul Antonellis of Newton, Mass., was married last evening to Alexis A. Casano, a daughter of Maryanne Casano of Albany and A. Andrew Casano of Loudonville, N.Y. Nancy Gagnon, a Massachusetts justice of the peace, officiated at the Granite Links Golf Club in Quincy, Mass.

The couple changed their surname to Casano-Antonellis.

Jessica Casano-Antonellis (above, left) is 28. She works in New York as an account executive at Text 100 Public Relations Consultancy. She graduated from San Francisco State University.

Alexis Casano-Antonellis, 29, teaches kindergarten at the Village Community School in New York. She graduated from Berklee College of Music and is pursuing a master’s degree in early childhood education at Bank Street College.
65 2007-06-03 He paused. “The last thing we want to do,” he said, “is create a suburban, corridor-ridden space.”

Mr. Howell was born in New Zealand and first traveled to the United States in 1992 on a Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council Grant. He fell in love with Manhattan and now has a staff of 14 in his office, in an old building next to Barnes & Noble on Union Square.

One week later, Mr. Howell produced his finished renderings, and they combined elements of old and new, even though the “old” — the addition of dozens of ceiling beams placed close together — was jazzy and contemporary. In the ceiling, strip lighting is concealed behind the beams, placed randomly and creating patterns.

What had been a bland, predictable arrangement was turned on its head. The existing kitchen, visible the second that one walked in the door, has been swiveled around to face into the main living space. A huge table, which appears to flip down from the kitchen wall, is suspended from the ceiling by a series of bronze rods.

The bathroom, formerly hidden in a back corner, has been placed just to the left of the entrance hall and has been encased in a milky glass box. “You’ll be able to see people moving around in there,” Mr. Howell said, “but not much more than that.”

That gave the “hidden” spot — as much as anything in a loft is hidden — to the bedroom, which now becomes the most private part of the space.

Mr. Howell has completely camouflaged the old wooden floor, covering it with epoxied concrete. It runs down the right side of the space and into the bedroom and bath. This wide space, clear most of the time, could double as a long dining room, full of round tables, for a dinner party.

The rest of the living space, up to the width of three of the four windows, is to be covered in a continuous roll of reclaimed oak planks, stained dark. The wood starts at the top of the windows, flowing downward in separate horizontal pieces, a take on old-fashioned Venetian blinds. A bench sits across the front wall, covering the bottoms of the three windows. Then the wood becomes the living room floor, continuing under both the bench and the suspended table and eventually sweeping up to form the back of a sloping kitchen wall.

Finally, the wood wraps over the bathroom, suspended by the same type of bronze rods, to create a ceiling or even a floor for a second-level guest bed.

The design, if carried out, would render the loft sleek and stylish.

“A lot of people who came to see it have been scared of renovations,” said Mr. Gonsalves, the agent. “Mom and Dad are going to pay, but how much would it cost?” Now they know. If they like Mr. Howell’s ultra-modern scheme: about $250,000, plus his fee.

For those who still have money left, there are even more possibilities. Mr. Gonsalves said a small room at the back of the loft — reached by a door in the hallway — might be available for sale. Put a bathroom there, perhaps?

And not only that. An entire apartment adjoining this one, facing the back, is also for sale. It is listed at $625,000 and could give the buyer a floor-through.

The great expanse of dark wood that Mr. Howell envisions — creating “shutters” filtering light from the windows, rolling down across the living room and up to make the rear kitchen wall — makes sense.

“To insert a continuous object is smoother and sleeker than to break the space up into pieces,” he said. “The furnishings add storage and seating and a place to show off the art.”

He could have left the existing wood floor, though. It had a charm of its own.

“Yes, I know,” he said. “But it’s so much more fun to design absolutely everything.”
66 2007-06-03 “I know my place,” was all Westie said.

Influenced (retrospectively) by Banksy, and spurred on by his experience with the Warholesque Irn-Bru bottle, Westie’s specialty was pastiche. He would copy a Constable landscape but add just the tiniest idiosyncrasy: a crushed beer can (almost his signature, fellow students said) or a scrap of windblown rubbish. A Stubbs painting of a proud stallion might feature a small aircraft in the distant sky. In Westie’s version of Raeburn’s “Reverend Walker Skating,” the only perceptible difference was that the man of the cloth now found himself sporting a black eye. One of his tutors had gone on at length about “anachronism in art,” seeming to think it a good thing, but others had accused him of simple copying — “which is by no means the same as art, merely good draftsmanship.”

All Westie knew was that he had a marketable-sounding nickname and only a few more weeks to go before the end of term. Which meant he should either be applying for postgraduate places or else looking for a job. His girlfriend wanted him to become a graphic artist, meaning comic books. She worked front-of-house at a cinema and reckoned the way for Westie to become a top Hollywood director was for him to start drawing cartoons. The problem being (as he’d pointed out more than once) that he had no interest in directing films — she was the one who wanted it.

“But you’re the one with the talent,” she’d responded, stamping a foot.

Another day, he told her about a screen academy that was setting up in the city. Her excitement had lasted until a trawl of the net explained the financial outlay.

“So I only need to work another 10 years and I can afford it,” she’d said.

“If I bump up my prices at the degree show. . . . ” Westie began to speculate, but his voice died away. They both knew he was going to sell very little. No matter how good his “draftsmanship.” In terms of actual artistry he was still that same “narrow pass,” at least in the eyes of the people whose marks counted most.

When the doorbell sounded, he got to his feet slowly, realizing he’d been staring into space the past half-hour or more. He was meant to be working . . . putting finishing touches . . . surfing the junk shops for cheap gilt frames into which to place his Stubbs, his Constable, his Raeburn. . . .

Instead of which, he found himself opening the door to one of those people whose marks counted most: Prof. Robert Gissing, asking to come in.

The professor wasn’t alone. He’d brought two friends, introduced them as exactly that: “two friends.” No names, and Westie didn’t know the faces. Dealers perhaps, here to make a pre-emptive bid on his degree show? He didn’t think so. Gissing took charge and gestured for them to sit. One of the visitors made to remove the covering-sheet from the sofa.

“I wouldn’t if I were you,” Westie warned. “Got it from a Dumpster . . . a few interesting stains.”

“To cover the more interesting smells,” Westie apologized. There were smiles all round at this, but then a silence descended. Westie wasn’t sure why. “I’d offer tea or something,” he apologized, “but there’s no milk. . . .”

Gissing waved this aside, then rubbed his hands together, making eye contact with the more handsome visitor. It was this visitor who eventually spoke.

“What we’d like to do,” he said, “is help you buy yourself a new sofa. And maybe a few other bits and pieces besides.”

“You’re in the market for a painting?” Westie shifted a little. “I didn’t think the professor was my biggest fan.”

“I’m a fan,” Gissing said with a thin smile. “Enough of a fan that I could see to it you pass the course with distinction.”

“There’d be a cash incentive, too, of course,” the talkative visitor said.

“Well, I’d be happy to show you some of my work.”

“We already have Professor Gissing’s word that your work is up to scratch, Westie.” The visitor paused. “Is it O.K. to call you that?”

“But we’re not buying ‘off the peg,’ so to speak.”

“A commission?” Westie was almost bouncing on the spot.

But now the handsome visitor was looking at the professor. “Thing is, Robert,” he interrupted, “I can see Westie’s not stupid. And the project’s hardly going to stay secret, is it? We need Westie to be part of it, and that means trusting him.” Turning his attention back to the young artist: “The professor tells me you’ve got an anarchic streak; you like to poke fun at the art establishment. Is that right?”

Westie didn’t know which answer would be best received, so just shrugged instead.

“You want me to copy a painting?” he asked into the silence.

“Half a dozen, actually,” the other visitor piped up. “All of them from the National Collection.”

“And it’s to be done in secret. . . . ” Westie broke off, eyes widening. “Has somebody stolen them, is that it? And the gallery doesn’t want anyone to know?”

“I told you he was smart,” the handsome visitor stated, rising to his feet. “Come on, Westie, let’s show you what we’re talking about.”

The four of them sat at individual desks in Robert Gissing’s office. Allan and Mike had introduced themselves to Westie by their first names. Mike wasn’t sure why Allan said so little back in Westie’s flat — cold feet perhaps, or maybe it was because Mike had already said that he’d be happy to bankroll the operation. Stood to reason they’d need funds, and he was the one with cash to spare. For a start, he was sure Westie would need paying — paying for his silence, as well as his expertise.

“And I hope I’ll still be getting a masterpiece on the cheap.”

“Not that we’re doing it for the money,” Gissing had growled.

Now, as they sat in semidarkness, Gissing was showing them slides from the collection of the National Gallery, everything from the old masters to Cubism and beyond. On the way over, they explained a little more of the plan to Westie, who slapped his knees, laughing with glee.

“If I can help, count me in,” he said between gulps of air.

Now, as they looked at the slides, he seemed at his ease: one leg crossed over the other, seated so low in his chair he was almost horizontal.

“I could do that,” was his refrain.

Gissing, Allan and Mike had already pored over a number of the exhibits, the ones held in the overflow warehouse. Each had chosen two favorites, but they had to be sure the young artist could cope with the different styles.

“Shouldn’t be too hard,” Westie said when pressed.

“You need special paints and brushes? The right age of canvas?”

Westie shrugged. “Look, if an expert comes along, they’ll spot it eventually. Even an exact copy isn’t an exact copy.”

“Yet some forgers get away with it for years,” Mike offered.

Westie nodded. “But once you bring in the forensic equipment, the carbon-dating, all that stuff . . . well. . . . ” Another shrug.

“Thing is,” Allan said quietly, “the works aren’t going to go missing.”

“Because you’re switching them for my copies.” Westie gave a chuckle. “You’re not really serious, are you? I mean, no disrespect, but you’re three establishment guys of a certain age. You’re not master-criminal material, and you can’t pull off something like this without a bit more firepower.”

“Meaning I want in — not just doing you a few copies. I’m on the team. You want to steal six paintings, might as well make it seven.” He folded his arms.

“You understand we’re not selling them on? They’re never going to hit the open market?”

“And if it ever got out that we’d. . . . ”

“I’m not going to grass you up,” Westie said with another laugh. “I totally agree with the whole crazy setup. It’s just that I want to be more than a ‘brush for hire.’ ”

“And in return for your services, we hand you a painting?” Mike asked.

“I’ll earn my painting, Mr. M. I’ll also earn the cash you’re going to pay me.”

Westie sat forward in his chair. “Enough to see my girlfriend through film school,” he said.

When Westie had gone, there was silence in Gissing’s office for a couple of minutes, until Allan cleared his throat.

“Something we’d do well to remember,” Gissing muttered. He had switched off the projector and was opening the blinds. “Worst-case scenario: we all go to jail, our lives ruined.”

“For the sake of art,” Allan said with a snort.

“You bailing out on us, Allan?” Mike asked quietly.

“We need to be sure in our own minds why we’re prepared to go through with it,” Gissing added.

“That’s easy,” Allan countered. “I want something at home the bank could never have.”

Gissing gave a soft smile. “When I retire to Spain, my two go with me. I could be happy all day just looking at them. . . . ”

Mike studied his two friends but said nothing himself. Didn’t think they’d want to hear him say he was bored to high heaven and looking to be challenged for the first time in a long time. And then, of course, there was the Monboddo. . . .

“Young Westie had a point,” he said at last. “Even if there are four of us, it’s not going to be easy.” He looked at Gissing. “Had a chance to draw up that plan yet?”

Gissing nodded and reached into his desk drawer. The three men stood over the sheet of paper, holding its corners flat against the table. As a professor and an art historian, Gissing had visited the warehouse dozens of times. Problem was, this made him a known face; dangerous for him to be part of the actual heist. He had, however, drawn a beautifully rendered plan of the site, including guard room, security cameras and alarm buttons.

“You did this from memory?” Mike asked, duly impressed.

“They may have made some changes since my last visit.”

“But you’ll do another recce before we hit the place?” Allan asked.

Gissing nodded. “After which I’ll be useful only as the getaway driver.”

Nods from both the younger men; they’d already been through this.

“You’ve been to the Doors Open Day before?” Mike prompted. Gissing started running his finger along a dotted line on the plan.

“The route they take,” he explained. “Same this year as previous ones, hopefully. Limited to a dozen visitors every hour. Three staff inside, one manning the gatehouse.”

Mike shared a glance with Allan, the same thought running through their minds: We need more bodies.

Alice Rule was late getting home from the cinema. She was trying to set up a Sunday-evening film club and had been finalizing the direct-mail letter. It would have been nice to walk into the flat and smell supper on the stove, but she knew better than to expect anything like that. No aroma of fresh paint either, and no sign that Westie had collected any frames from the junk shops he’d told her he would be visiting. But as she walked into the living room (even after all these months, she refused to bow to pressure and call it “the studio”), there was a popping sound, then a spume of foam from the neck of a Champagne bottle.

“And what exactly are we celebrating?” Alice asked, aware that it would have been her salary paying for the bubbly Westie was busy pouring into two wineglasses; they didn’t look as if he’d bothered to rinse them from the previous night.

“Some businessmen came to see me,” he was explaining. “They want a few of my originals for their offices.”

Westie proffered a huge wink, which told her he’d already had a few drinks. “All very hush-hush,” he confided in a stage whisper.

“Hush-hush?” she echoed, accepting her glass. Had a little smile to herself. Westie was terrible at keeping secrets, always blurted out the identity of her birthday and Christmas gifts weeks in advance. She didn’t see why this should be any different.

Especially when she was so intrigued. . . .
67 2007-06-03 “In America, when you talk about films about musicians, we have reached a point where there’s almost a formula you plug in,” said Todd Boyd, professor of critical studies at the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts. “Somebody who came from humble beginnings, who is innovative, who’s a visionary, who has exceptional talent. They succeed against the odds, then once they succeed, oftentimes the pathology and dysfunction from their childhood comes back and takes over their life. In some cases they get redeemed, in other cases not. Oftentimes there will be a spouse or a partner through whom the story is told. And if you’ve seen one of these, you’ve seen a million.”

The director of “La Vie en Rose,” Olivier Dahan, doesn’t flinch from tackling such all-too-familiar terrain; he embraces it in his film, which gives a largely American genre an impressionistic feel. He explicitly draws a parallel between Piaf and her spiritual double, Billie Holiday, when Ms. Cotillard’s Piaf proudly proclaims that they were born the same year.

The mirror images are clear: Piaf and Holiday endured poverty growing up, spending part of their youth in brothels; both were untrained singers with distinctive voices borne of pain and suffering; and both died prematurely, aged beyond their years from drug and alcohol abuse.

“I don’t believe that to be a great artist you have to be tormented,” Mr. Dahan said. But, he added, the very qualities that help musicians as artists may also render them vulnerable.

“Maybe there is something about being fragile,” he said. “And to be fragile is to also be very receptive. You can’t be a great artist and not be fragile, so when you are fragile everything kind of hits you, the good and the bad for sure.” Sometimes context is all. Leon Ichaso, the director of “El Cantante” — about Hector Lavoe, a Puerto Rican transplant who gained fame as a salsa singer in New York — said his protagonist’s heroin addiction must be viewed as something more than the price of fame.

“Music has always been linked to drugs,” he said, “but in the case of Hector there’s the element of displacement, which is very painful at times — the experience of leaving it all behind, being a total fish out of water.”

For Peter Newman, the producer of “The Gospel According to Janis,” the Joplin story — competing versions of which have been linked over the years to Lili Taylor, Lindsay Lohan, Melissa Etheridge and Pink — represents a chance to undo previous cinematic fictions. As a Joplinesque singer in “The Rose” Bette Midler so embodies the sex, drugs and rock ’n’ roll lifestyle that her character overdoses onstage in front of thousands of fans. “The Rose” “was really a vehicle for Bette Midler to vamp,” Mr. Newman said, adding that “it really did not resemble Janis at all.”

“Over 10 years I have yet to meet any two people who agree who Janis was or what motivated her or what they meant to her,” Mr. Newman said. “The especially unique thing about Janis is that everyone seems to have a completely different point of view as to what she was about.”

Todd Haynes wrestles with that problem in “I’m Not There,” by having several actors (including Heath Ledger, Richard Gere and Cate Blanchett) play Mr. Dylan at different stages of his career. Mr. Haynes described the movie as “almost like a psychic debate between different selves.” Like his fictional paean to glam rock, “Velvet Goldmine,” he views the Dylan story as being about “self-invention at every level.”

“As soon as he became the epitome of anything, he’d have to run from it,” Mr. Haynes said. The challenge has been avoiding what Peter Guralnick, the author of the Elvis Presley biography “Last Train to Memphis,” calls “the whole hagiographic approach”: stringing together the best-known moments from an artist’s career like so many Life magazine snapshots. “You lose any sense of character and you end up having these tableaus of familiar scenes which never have the same impact as the actual moments,” he said.

As for fulfilling fans’ expectations, or that of the historians, Mr. Guralnick doesn’t consider that an issue. “For example, the picture of Johnny Cash in ‘Walk the Line’ is much diminished from the picture not only that fans might have but from the real Johnny Cash,” he said. “And yet it certainly didn’t keep people away.”
68 2007-06-03 Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the artist Sigmar Polke misidentified the country that took control of his birthplace, Oels, Silesia, in 1945. It was Poland, not East Germany. (Mr. Polke’s family moved from Silesia to East Germany at the end of World War II.)
69 2007-06-03 The neon frankfurter on the front window, nestled neatly in a bun, would seem to say all you need to know regarding Capitol Lunch. It’s true, hot dogs are the primary business of this barebones place, which grills thousands of them every week.

Talk to a local, though, and you’ll probably hear that in New Britain, at least, a hot dog is about more than just a wiener. Indeed, Cappie dogs, as they are known at Capitol Lunch, are also about the Famous Sauce. For $1.50, you can have your crispy-skinned frank draped in a thick, brown, clove-accented meat sauce, which, along with chopped onions and a lather of mustard and ketchup, makes for quite a satisfying bite.

Capitol Lunch was established in 1929 as an offshoot of a shoeshine shop that used hot dogs to attract business, according to company lore, and the recipe for the sauce has changed little since then, said Gus Ververis, the owner.

The same might be said of the clean, brightly lighted establishment, except that Capitol Lunch has moved twice over the years. This location, its largest, seats 60, mostly at Formica-topped tables.

Patrons line up to place their orders at the counter, where a five-person team assembles and distributes them on cafeteria trays. The menu board, positioned behind the grill, also lists hamburgers ($1.65) and cheeseburgers ($1.85), French fries and onion rings ($1.09 each), chocolate chip cookies and slices of pie ($1.95 for apple, banana cream or chocolate cream), and a variety of soft drinks.

Then there’s the Famous Sauce: Pints to go ($6) will keep in your refrigerator for about a week, Mr. Ververis says.
70 2007-06-03 Critics seemed to be in an unusually bilious mood when poor “Coram Boy” came caroling at the tail end of the season, after its fellow British imports — “The Coast of Utopia,” “Frost/Nixon” and “Journey’s End” — had received reviews ranging from respectable to ecstatic. Jacques le Sourd, who writes for the Gannett newspaper chain and is, granted, not known for his temperate views, screeched that “Coram Boy” “leaves you feeling like a goose that has been force-fed to make foie gras” in the first line of his pan. “In other words, it’s torture,” he helpfully clarified.

In The New York Post the more sedate Clive Barnes sniffed, “Absurdity chases absurdity in a not particularly well-acted melodrama.” (And Mr. Barnes happens to be British.)

“Coram Boy” did not excite me, I’ll admit, but it didn’t excite me to effusions of dispraise either. And yet it did seem unnecessary: an innocuous, old-fashioned melodrama neither interesting enough nor entertaining enough to warrant the lavish expenditure of bringing it to Broadway, with its large cast and Handel-singing chorus.

But much of the London-originated product seen in New York this season left me disappointed in one way or another. The cumulative effect has left me wondering whether this was simply an off season, or whether all the money being lavished on plays and productions from across the ocean is bringing much in the way of lasting rewards to the Broadway environment.

“Frost/Nixon” was an enjoyable but lightweight docudrama notable primarily for a majestically good performance by Frank Langella. In terms of insight into the workings of a mind much analyzed in the last quarter-century, it was less revealing than “Nixon’s Nixon,” Russell Lees’s play revived by the MCC Theater last fall, or “Secret Honor,” the play by Donald Freed and Arnold M. Stone that was filmed in 1984 by Robert Altman. In terms of insight into the workings of David Frost’s mind — well, who in the audience really cares about the workings of Mr. Frost’s mind?

The World War I drama “Journey’s End” was a beautifully restored relic that seemed oddly out of step with the current climate, given its predictable depiction of the horrors of war. (And like “Coram Boy” it failed to find an audience this season, despite a far more enthusiastic critical response.) The British playwright David Hare made two appearances on Broadway, but neither one was among his better efforts. His play “The Vertical Hour,” a dramatically limp tussle between an American woman (Julianne Moore) and a British man (Bill Nighy) over the ethics of the Iraq war, received tepid reviews and closed early. As a director Mr. Hare must take his share of the responsibility for the theatrical nonevent that was “The Year of Magical Thinking,” the uninvolving stage adaptation of Joan Didion’s memoir. And the most egregiously unnecessary Brit import was surely the coarse comedy “Losing Louie” by Simon Mendes da Costa presented by the Manhattan Theater Club at its Broadway home, the Biltmore.

You may have noticed I’ve left out the mother of all this season’s British imports, Tom Stoppard’s trilogy, “The Coast of Utopia,” produced by Lincoln Center Theater and unquestionably the must-have ticket for serious theatergoers. Although Mr. Stoppard’s play itself seemed to me a dramatically flaccid slab of aesthetic and political history, the production, directed by Jack O’Brien, revealed how the intimate alliance between the New York and London theater can, at its best, benefit both. Mr. O’Brien’s production was, in my view and that of many others who saw them both, far superior to the original at (where else?) the National Theater. It had a warmer pulse than the London version, as Mr. O’Brien’s flair for colorful stagecraft helped smooth over the longueurs.

It also had a vibrant cast of mostly American actors, which brings up another obvious benefit to the New York theater of the rich traffic in British plays on Broadway. In addition to “The Coast of Utopia,” with its ample cast of 38 adult actors, “Coram Boy” was recast with American actors for its Broadway stand — some 40, including the chorus. As was, for the most part, “Journey’s End.” That’s a lot of gainful employment for a lot of talented actors in New York.

But I wonder if the city’s playwrights and directors are as enthusiastic about Broadway’s continuing infatuation with the British. Three of the four nominees in the play directing category are British: Michael Grandage for “Frost/Nixon,” David Grindley for “Journey’s End” and Melly Still for “Coram Boy.” The fourth is Mr. O’Brien, for the British “Coast of U.” That production was without doubt the best of the season’s imports — and a pretty safe bet to take the best-play prize at the Tony ceremonies next Sunday. But it did monopolize the resources of one of the city’s (indeed the country’s) leading nonprofit theaters for a whole season, while two adventurous new plays from young American playwrights, “The Clean House” by Sarah Ruhl and “Dying City” by Christopher Shinn, played at the company’s smaller stage downstairs. (Neither would have filled the Vivian Beaumont, but the company regularly produces at other Broadway houses too.)

You have to wonder what the many millions of dollars spent on all these productions might have brought in the way of benefits to American writers and artists if such sums were not so regularly channeled east. The lack of important young American playwrights on Broadway is often bemoaned, but an aspiring playwright could well be discouraged that the country’s premiere showcase for theater seems to be colonized by the British in such large numbers, season after season.

If the work being presented was of an unquestionably high caliber, it would be hard to argue that Americans are being relegated to second-class status on Broadway. But it seems lately that the city’s most active producers are bringing over some of these productions simply because they are the hot shows in London and Broadway has a few empty theaters that need filling. (Bob Boyett and Bill Haber, lead producers on both “Coram Boy” and “Journey’s End,” have a contract with the National Theater giving them first dibs on transferring its productions to Broadway, although “Journey’s End” did not originate there.) The questions of intrinsic quality or appeal to American audiences don’t always seem to enter into the conversation.

One of the best things I saw in the last year was Robert Falls’s revelatory “King Lear” at the Goodman Theater in Chicago, starring Stacy Keach, in the fall. Given that the Public Theater was already scheduled to produce its own “King Lear,” with Kevin Kline this spring, chances are that a Broadway transfer of Mr. Falls’s production would be a long shot. But I wonder if any of the New York producers racking up all those frequent-flyer miles on scouting trips to London even bothered to check it out. (Unsurprising postscript: Ian McKellen arrives in yet another “Lear,” from the Royal Shakespeare Company, at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in September.)

Broadway is above all a business. Producers can’t be expected to support worthy American plays merely for charitable purposes. (And I suppose that those who regularly lose money bringing the work of August Wilson to Broadway would point out that they already do.) But the indiscriminate appetite for bringing all things British to Broadway could eventually sour producers on the British theater as a whole at the same time that it closes off potential opportunities for the development of American artists. A few seasons of flops like “Coram Boy” and “Journey’s End” could be dangerous, leaving disgruntled investors ready to throw out the baby with the bath water, and disgruntled critics ready to pounce the next time a fluty British accent comes wafting across the footlights.
71 2007-06-03 Juan Pablo Montoya has made quite an impression on Nascar’s top drivers since he decided last summer to forgo the Eurofabulous world of Formula One. Few drivers are as suited to changing disciplines as Montoya, a 31-year-old Colombian who won a CART title at 24, the Indy 500 on his first attempt and seven Formula One races. The talented, sometimes irascible driver has lodged himself in the top half of Nascar’s Nextel Cup rankings and, in March, won the Mexico City race in the Busch Series, Nascar’s second-highest level, before rankling officials by raising his middle finger to a TV camera in April. (He was later fined.) Here he talks about leaving Europe, aggressive driving and his unexpectedly proletarian tastes.

SO, WERE YOU DISENCHANTED WITH FORMULA ONE, OR DID YOU JUST WANT A NEW CHALLENGE?

The cars were amazing to drive. But the racing wasn’t that exciting. The way the cars are, it’s just so hard to pass people. It’s like a parade.

WAS THERE A MOMENT WHEN YOU KNEW YOU WERE GOING TO LEAVE?

I wasn’t sure what I was going to do. Then I called Chip [Ganassi, his onetime Indy-car boss]. He said, “I’m looking for a driver,” and I said, “I’m looking for a drive!” And we just laughed about it, and yet . . . here I am. Listening to the open-wheel guys, you think you are not welcome [in Nascar]. But no one has done it full time. I think if you commit yourself and say, “This is the path of my career now,” people respect that a lot.

THIS MUST BE BETTER THAN YOUR FIRST YEAR IN EUROPE.

It was horrible. I lived in a little town in Austria, but I didn’t speak any German. It’s like moving to Tennessee and trying to speak only Spanish.

IS THERE ANY CHANCE NASCAR CAN BE AS POPULAR AS FORMULA ONE AROUND THE WORLD?

They’re completely different things. Here, who watches Formula One? I mean, I don’t even watch it, and I was there.
72 2007-06-03 Furyk says that leaving yourself an uphill putt will be a must. “The thing that sticks out to me more than anything else is that a lot of . . . the greens are running away from the player,” he says. He cites hole Nos. 1, 3, 6 (shown directly above), 10 and 12 as the most prominent examples. “It’s not that you can’t make putts from above the pin, but there will be times when you have to be defensive-minded,” he says. If that fails, there are always drastic measures a player can take — say, missing the green on purpose. “You might try to get it over those greens and chip back uphill,” Furyk says. “From what I remember, Ben Hogan had a quote where he tried to knock it over No. 1 a couple of days so he could pitch back on and make par.”

¶In setting up his first Open last year at Winged Foot, Mike Davis introduced a graduated system for the rough that he plans to reprise at Oakmont. It’s simple and devilishly effective: the farther off the fairway a tee shot travels, the thicker the rough a golfer will have to play out of. A year ago, an intermediate cut of rough nearest the fairway stood about 1.5 inches high in a strip 6 feet wide. The next 20 feet of rough stood about 4 inches. Balls that veered even farther off line found a swath of deadly 6-inch grass. Davis says that Oakmont’s rough should be almost the same but that the exact height depends on the weather — a wet course means softer greens and easier play. “If we anticipate soft conditions, we’ll let the rough get a little longer,” he says. “If we get firm conditions, [it] will be a little less.”

Different roughs pose different problems. In the light stuff, a player can have a hard time controlling the ball and determining how high or far it will fly, whereas in thicker grass, a club can twist, spraying shots wildly off target. “The worst thing you can do,” Furyk says, “is try to hit a heroic shot and end up in the rough again.”

With that in mind, Furyk sometimes hits a wedge out of the deepest rough, just to get his ball back on the fairway. If he thinks he can advance the ball to the green, then he makes a swing adjustment (illustrated at right). “I’ll play it slightly back in my stance and push my hands slightly forward,” he says. “That will get me hitting down on the ball a little more on a descending blow. I’m trying to make solid contact, and the ball is not going to have a lot of spin. I want the ball to land short, start tumbling, and try to run it up on the greens. Rarely in a U.S. Open do you see guys flying balls on the green and stopping them out of that rough.”

¶If there’s one hole to watch at this year’s tournament, it’s the eighth (depicted above). At 288 yards — it can be stretched to 300 if the conditions are right — Oakmont’s notorious par 3 will be the most discussed hole of the championship. That’s how Davis wants it. “I can’t wait to hear what the players and media say,” he says. “ ‘The U.S.G.A. has lost their marbles on this one.’ ” The slightly downhill hole was lengthened from 250 yards because its day-to-day length is just too easy for today’s pros, who are not only stronger but also wield more technologically advanced (and thus longer-hitting) equipment than yesterday’s players.

In the 1960s, players needed 3-woods and drivers to reach the green (though Jack Nicklaus could get there with a 1-iron). At the 2003 United States Amateur championship, also played at Oakmont, they were hitting 4- and 5-irons. At the hole’s new length, Jim Furyk says, golfers will stand on the tee not even thinking about birdies; he figures that a par each day will leave you ahead of the field. “If you happen to make 2, more power to you,” he says. “If you make a 4, a lot of people in the field will make 4. You’re trying to set the hole up so you make a bunch of 3’s.” Furyk says no one will purposely lay up, as Billy Casper famously did all four days on the long par-3 third at Winged Foot in winning the 1959 United States Open. “But I think some guys will have to because they can’t get there.”

In the weeks leading up to the Open, opinion among Furyk’s touring peers was mixed. “I think it’s too long for a par 3,” opined Adam Scott, who hit a 3-wood on the hole during a recent practice round. As for last year’s champion, Geoff Ogilvy, 288 yards is only a number: “It doesn’t really matter because par is irrelevant.” His point could apply to any of the Open’s frustrating quirks. At the end of the day, everyone is playing the same course.
73 2007-06-03 To surf, a small verb lacking filigree or urgency, belongs to magical realism as much as to sport. Hawaiians, who were perhaps the first surfers, prayed for good conditions and venerated those who could truly harness a wave. Mark Twain wrote rapturously of his first encounter with surfing, watching a native Hawaiian “face the shore and wait for a particularly prodigious billow to come along; at the right moment he would fling his board upon its foamy crest and himself upon the board, and here he would come whizzing by like a bombshell!” When people started to explore the Internet, which promised endless possibility to anyone with a computer, they called it surfing.

The magic and the promise aren’t quite so sunny in the newest series from HBO, “John From Cincinnati,” which makes its debut on June 10, right after the final episode of “The Sopranos.” Despite being set in the Southern California surfing scene, the show is less about mastering the waves than surviving amid them. The first episode is filled with conflicts, scams, addiction and corruption, all familiar concerns to anyone who knows the work of its executive producer, David Milch, who created “NYPD Blue” and, more recently, “Deadwood.” And there are the usual compelling sidebars and memorable characters — a lawyer named Dickstein, a retired cop who looks after birds and humans, gangsters in beach casual.

The surfers in “John From Cincinnati” are an obsessive, emotionally gimped bunch whose only good choices seem to be made in the water. The rest of life baffles them. The family of famous, world-class surfers at the heart of the show, the Yosts, seems to have a gene for dysfunction — along with one for truly heavy surfing skills — that it passes down from generation to generation. The first three episodes suggest that the show will echo the weave of sacred and profane that made “Deadwood” so hard to look away from. In that series, set in a gold-rush-era Deadwood, in the Dakota Territory, an ad hoc tribe formed around the pursuit of gold and sorted itself over three seasons through power plays, intrigue and, when those didn’t do the trick, gunfire and a trip to an omnivorous hog pen. The people in “John” are at the end of that Western expansion, at the final frontier where the land meets the water in this instance, the compromised and polluted ocean waters off the grubby border town of present-day Imperial Beach. And where Butchie Yost (Brian Van Holt), who once dominated the waves, is now a loser slamming dope in a decrepit motel, his former greatness serving as little more than an indictment of his current circumstances.

Near the end of the first episode, there’s a moment when the land recedes as Butchie and his son, Shaun (Greyson Fletcher), paddle out with John (Austin Nichols), who is probably not from Cincinnati. He was found wandering along the border with Mexico, but he seems to come from points beyond. He is something of an idiot, prone to simply repeating what is said to him. But as the waves and the Killers swell on the soundtrack (“I got soul, but I’m not a soldier”), John shows that he’s a physical savant as well as an idiot. He duck-dives through the incoming surf on the way out, then grabs a wave and makes sure-footed pumps up to the crest before leaving its grasp against a brilliant setting sun, only to land gracefully and begin riding anew. A sense of possibility, of the limitless horizon you can only see from the top of the wave, gives the dark proceedings a hopeful lilt.

Milch is an intellectual descendant of Robert Penn Warren’s; he lectured in English literature at Yale, from which he had graduated Phi Beta Kappa and summa cum laude. He has also played the horses and conducted extensive personal research into illicit pharmacology — he has talked repeatedly about his experiences as an addict. All of Milch’s endeavors reflect waves in one form or another, and are deepened by the expansive, complicated life that created them. You can see where he might find similarities — and the stuff of drama — in the pursuits of getting high and catching a wave. “I’ve learned making this show that the essence of surfing is so compelling that it makes other parts of life pale by comparison,” Milch told me in April. “You end up chasing that first experience, a devil’s bargain that is all part of the wave.”
74 2007-06-03 She was still semi-ignoring Mr. Schwimmer when he told her he was vacationing alone for the first time since his 20-year marriage had ended in divorce. But when the lopsided conversation turned to business, Ms. Openshaw perked up.

Mr. Schwimmer, 50, an investment banker known as Randy, is the senior managing director for Churchill Financial in New York. He is as unflappable as he is creative. He plays guitar, sings and writes poetry. Ms. Openshaw mentioned financial products for consumers she was developing and Mr. Schwimmer offered catchy names for them.

The gelato and ham sandwich were long gone, and to thank him for his ideas, Ms. Openshaw, who was now not so put off, invited him for drinks later.

Mr. Schwimmer, who hadn’t had a date in more than two decades, was unprepared. “I did not go to Italy looking for romance,” he said. But he quickly went shopping for a cashmere sweater and cologne.

That evening they met in a piazza near a replica of Michelangelo’s “David.” As Ms. Openshaw, now wearing a slinky brown dress, strolled toward Mr. Schwimmer, he was stunned.

“I’m like, ‘Oh, my God, this is a very attractive woman,’ ” he said. He asked another tourist to snap their photograph.

They lingered over dinner. “We just had a very platonic date, but it was a lovely romantic evening,” Mr. Schwimmer recalled. He thought she was vivacious and worldly, yet innocent, but quickly brushed away the possibility of seeing her again. He was leaving for Tuscany the next morning; she was heading to Rome and Paris. And the biggest wrinkle? Ms. Openshaw lived in Los Angeles.

The next morning, Ms. Openshaw decided she was curious to know more about Mr. Schwimmer, who exuded wholesomeness and had a gentlemanly manner (even if he did quirkily order German wine in Italy). “There was a quiet beauty to Randy that was tugging at me,” she said. “I like to have everything buttoned up, and I wasn’t about to leave something unfinished.”

They returned home, to their respective coasts, on the same day. Mr. Schwimmer, who said Ms. Openshaw filled his thoughts as he traveled around the romantic Tuscan countryside, planned to wait a few days before contacting her. But she e-mailed him her first day back, and that evening they spoke on the phone for three hours.

“I felt like, ‘Wow, there is a connection here,’ ” Mr. Schwimmer said. “I wasn’t dreaming it.”

The following weekend Mr. Schwimmer flew to Los Angeles to see her. When he returned home, he realized he “wasn’t going to dabble in relationships,” he said. “When you are divorced and middle-aged, the normal thing is to date 50 women half your age. I’m not that kind of guy.”

After a six-month bicoastal courtship, Ms. Openshaw moved east. And, the following October they returned to Italy to vacation. Mr. Schwimmer planned to propose in the cafe in Florence, but when they got there, “dishes were clanking” and the floor was filthy, he said. A week later in Positano he dropped to his knees and asked her to marry him.

On May 12, in front of 150 guests at Christ Church in Greenwich, Conn., they were married by the Rev. Mark L. Fitzhugh, an Episcopal priest. The bridegroom read a poem he wrote after the first time Ms. Openshaw visited him:

All roads cross some bridge, to show

From where we’ve come, where we’ll go.

At a dinner reception at Tappan Hill Mansion in Tarrytown, N.Y., the bride, in evening gloves and a crystal-encrusted mermaid-style gown, recalled how on that first evening in Florence, Mr. Schwimmer had yanked her away from an oncoming car.

In retrospect she realized that act was “a sign.” “This is about being open to the possibilities,” Ms. Openshaw said later. “Even the person sitting next to you in a patisserie can be the person who changes the course of your life forever.”
75 2007-06-03 In class he was smart with a dry wit, asking probing questions, often trying, I thought, to tease his classmates with his breadth of interests or to challenge me. He would quiz me intensely about Western religion, American politics, foreign customs, Western music and esoteric plays. He listened without fail to the BBC and Voice of America. He loved the plays of Edward Albee, appreciating their asymmetry, but he hated Holly Golightly from “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” finding her immoral and foolish. He had spent three years on a tea farm. He had never ridden in a private car.

Eventually he started coming alone to my apartment, not in a flirtatious way, but hungrily curious. I, however, was lonely and found myself fighting romantic feelings for him, knowing they were inappropriate and fearing I would get him into trouble. Little did I know how much trouble.

There was one other American on campus and we were prisoners of privilege in our four-room apartments. We had the only heaters on campus, the only Western mattresses, the only air-conditioners, and a staff of four who lived downstairs and kept close tabs on who came and went. We were never allowed off campus with anyone.

Party leaders began to summon him at night to meet behind closed doors in the Foreign Language Department offices. They would lecture him about the “foreign devil,” her “bourgeois influence,” “the American seductress.” They called in his parents, both party members in a distant town, and told them about his intransigence and his entanglement with a foreigner. I learned this from others. He never spoke of it.

We began to meet clandestinely, taking separate buses to the desolate city library or the music conservatory, where students played poorly tuned pianos. In a city of five million people I thought I would not be noticed. Me, one of only seven foreigners in the city at that time — how foolish I was. Later in the spring we would meet at night on paths between the rice fields behind the dormitories, cuddling awkwardly. I became accustomed to the smell of night soil.

When I returned to the United States in the summer, I managed to arrange for scholarships for two of my students at colleges in this country, the first scholarships any teachers or students from the little, unknown college would have received. My friend, as the star English student, would be a likely candidate if he stayed out of trouble. I fantasized that we could test the depth of our relationship under the far more accepting conditions in America.

And so in the autumn when I returned to China, mindful of gossip and how it might hurt his chances to study abroad, we plotted subterfuge. I lied and told the college leaders that I had married over the summer, fabricating details of a simple wedding and a sad but understanding husband who couldn’t leave his job.

In class, he and I ignored each other and he did not come to my apartment as much. We kept distant so that we could be together in the future. On the weekends we would meet in an orchard far from the college where no one saw us, save for a few peasants, who, as he explained, rarely cared about the rules of the state.

But the cultural gaps between us began to emerge. I wanted to come clean and tell the leaders about our relationship, thinking we could fight the system. He wanted to continue to meet surreptitiously and take our chances.

Because I knew little of the trouble I had already caused, because we were idealistic and knew so little of each other, our relationship began to falter. I feared that his obedience blocked his passion. I worried that the relationship would never endure the freedom of the West. I worried that the passion might be mine alone.

The party leaders allowed him to apply for and accept the scholarship I had arranged, and I left believing that he would come to the United States. But I had not been back in New York more than a few weeks when I began receiving letters from former students, who wrote about how the leaders were criticizing me and my friend publicly at the weekly political study meetings. Then I heard they had refused to grant him permission to apply for a visa, blocking him from the scholarship.

THE following summer I talked my way back into China for 10 days to see my former students and to close the door on China for good.

The college leaders were surely surprised to hear that I was back in town, as foreigners were not allowed to travel to China alone at that time. Through my former interpreter they invited me to the campus one afternoon, insisting on picking me up in the one car the college owned.

As we drove directly to the door of the classroom, I noticed with unease that the campus was empty. I wondered if everyone had been told to stay indoors that day. When I walked into the classroom, the one that had been built specifically for me, I was greeted by a group of high-level college and party officials, who smiled politely but stiffly. The sparse refreshments told the whole story — they were not happy to see me.

Within 10 minutes the side door opened and my friend walked in. The dean, feigning surprise, welcomed him and asked me disingenuously if I remembered him. My friend and I shook hands, exchanged pleasantries without expression, and then he excused himself, saying he had to return to work.

The officials smiled, clearly satisfied with their display of power over us.

I never expected to see him again. Occasionally I heard about him from other students. After he graduated he was assigned to teach English at the college, and he rose through the department ranks. He married and had a son. After 10 years he was granted permission to study in England.

I was married and working in New York when I received a letter from my former interpreter saying that my friend was in prison in England for murdering his wife. Incredulous, I sent him a note, in care of the superintendent of British prisons, and soon I received a letter in response, a garbled missive full of rambling references to anger, guilt, God, confusion and helpful nurses.

MONTHS later, in England on business, I sought him out at a minimum-security prison north of London, and there we were, greeting each other, awkwardly avoiding the one unavoidable topic.

Starting at the beginning, he told me his version of what happened. His Chinese wife, speaking no English, was lost and bored in England. She worried about her lack of permanent papers and schemed that they could divorce, and she could marry the Englishman who lived upstairs, become a citizen, divorce again, remarry him, and all would be fine.

In fact, she was already sleeping with the man from upstairs, and she mocked my friend when he found out, taunting him with stories of other lovers back in China, laughing at his innocence. They fought, he snapped and he strangled her with the cord he’d used to play cat’s cradle with his son, who was asleep in the room next door.

He was found guilty of a crime of passion and sentenced to three years in prison. In explaining the short sentence, he said, “They don’t care that a Chinese man murdered a Chinese woman.”

“Why would they want to support you in prison?” I asked. “You will be deported and they will be rid of you.”

I was wrong. He served less than two years and was never deported. He wrote me when he was released, thanking me for visiting. I had been the only one.

Today we are in touch by e-mail. He still lives in England, where he works as a cook at a cheap Chinese restaurant. He met and fell in love with a young Chinese woman who knows about his past, and together they had a little girl. His son, now 22, was raised by his maternal grandparents in China and will graduate soon from one of China’s elite universities. They are in touch.

I like hearing from him, and I think at these times about my youthful indiscretion and American naïveté. I think about East and West misunderstandings and endless schisms, the missed cues and the cultural and political divide that drove us apart. I think about how quick I was to love and how little I knew about him.

And I remember saying goodbye that afternoon in prison to the man I wanted to marry, the man I feared wasn’t passionate enough, my friend who murdered his wife.
76 2007-06-03 People admired them, word got out, and she began to sell her sk8bags online at beckycity.com, as well as at boutiques. After Teen magazine wrote that the pop star Ashlee Simpson loved her sk8bag, orders streamed in from teenage girls.

Ms. Hickey, now 36, loved her one-bedroom apartment on Avenue C in the East Village, where she had lived for about three years. “I was convinced I was never moving out of that apartment, ever,” she said. But the dining area, which she used as her office, was filling up with paperwork and, sometimes, bolts of satin and stacks of skateboards.

Her work studio in the garment district, and the $3,000 rent, was shared with a wedding dress designer, but it didn’t allow for any dirty work — cutting and sanding — so she kept those operations in her parents’ garage. It was far from ideal — cold in winter and hot in summer. “And my mom was complaining she couldn’t put the car in the garage anymore,” Ms. Hickey said.

A year ago, her parents announced that they would be retiring to Florida. Her garage workshop, where she had a workbench and a table saw, would vanish. She had to make a move.

She figured she would pare her expenses and eliminate her constant running around by consolidating. But there weren’t many live-work spaces suitable for her equipment. “It wasn’t as though I could sneak a home office in,” she said.

The first plausible place was on South Fifth Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. It was nicely divided, with a storefront workspace in front and living quarters in back. Though it was on a “weird dead end” with little foot traffic, the place was “insanely cheap,” at $1,500 a month for 1,200 square feet.

But it was run-down and had little natural light. “I was afraid of spending days on end there,” Ms. Hickey said. “Sometimes when I am working, I don’t go outside. I could be in this cave and it was sort of depressing.”

She took her father, Steve Hickey, to whom she spoke daily about her hunt, to see the place. “It really worried me,” he said. He envisioned her “coming home at 10 or 11 at night, and there was nobody around,” except maybe for transients beneath the Williamsburg Bridge, he said.

She soon found a 1,700-square-foot place in Washington Heights, with 12-foot ceilings and a wall of north-facing windows, renting for $2,800. The raw space was being fully renovated.

“I said instantly I was taking the place,” Ms. Hickey said. But the agent was discouraging, telling her the landlord wouldn’t want a self-employed tenant. She begged and pleaded, offering her parents as guarantors, but the agent was adamant.

So she figured she would hunt for a cheaper work studio and a cheaper apartment. But nothing was quite right. She found a work space in Williamsburg, but she would be paying $800 a month to share it with two other people.

“I got sucked into apartment hunting thinking there’s something better out there,” she said. “I would get swayed by seeing a cheaper apartment that sounded great, and I would look at it and see it was not that great.”

A nice-looking rental building was going up on East Second Street, but when Ms. Hickey visited, she found that studio apartments started at around $2,000. “I realized that to stay in the East Village and find a place as nice as mine was impossible,” she said.

Meanwhile, she kept encountering the listing for the Washington Heights place. “I was bitter, I was sad, I was definitely still looking, but the fact I kept seeing this place was derailing my hunt,” she said.

She assumed that nobody else was interested, so she was now a more appealing tenant. But her messages to the agent went unanswered.

Fed up, she went to the building to ask the construction workers who their employer was. She tracked down the owner’s phone number. But it took weeks of calling before he answered the phone.

“I said, ‘I am an artist looking for a live-work space,’ and he said, ‘This is perfect for you.’ He was not the least put off by the fact I was self employed,” Ms. Hickey said. Only later did she find out the agent had never passed her application along.

The renovations took longer than expected, and the certificate of occupancy was delayed. “Becky was complaining so much and I didn’t want to hear her complaining,” said her father, who works in the construction field. He helped her navigate through the Department of Buildings, and she prodded the landlord.

Finally, in late fall, the building received its certificate of occupancy. Ms. Hickey, with all her skateboards and equipment, moved into her new apartment, which occupies the entire top floor.

Her friends say she has the nicest apartment they have seen in New York. It has one gigantic room, though the landlord added a wall to partition off the work space. There’s even a washer and dryer.

“It has improved my life and has made my bag business much less stressful,” Ms. Hickey said. She can work around the clock if she likes. After dinner, “I can make a few bags, drink a glass of wine, make more bags,” she said.
77 2007-06-03 Q. Do you have any advice for people who can’t take their pets cross-country by car?

A. My large personal dogs have never traveled on a plane. My small dogs have, and it’s easier because, you know, they’re next to us, right there under the seat, as they request on the airline. So it feels like they’re just doing a different activity. Of course, they’re going to feel the altitude, and so I’m going to be right there to calm them down, just to make them feel relaxed. But until I get my own private plane, my large dogs will not fly.

Q. So you always have them take the R.V. and not a plane?

A. Yes, because it’s not very controlled in the areas where they put the large dogs. I hope the airlines will get smart about it and learn that it’s business, because we do want to bring our dogs with us. But they have to be able to make sure the temperature is ideal, and ideally a human can be there just to provide some kind of comfort to dogs. I think it can be done — it’s just a matter of whether the airlines are willing to do it.

Q. More hotels are trying to appeal to pet owners with special doggy beds and room service. Does it matter what kind of hotel you stay at?

A. They don’t understand if it costs $1 or $300. They can’t make the difference between Bloomingdale’s and Kmart. What they’re going to know is what state of mind they were in when you offered that.

Q. Any tips for traveling by car?

A. Dogs are daytime animals, and my pack is so accustomed to do activities in the daytime that at least every four hours the driver stops and walks them, which is good for the driver and is good for my dogs. It’s important for a dog to know the land because in a way they’re migrating to another place. It’s important for them to see and to smell the environment. Wherever they are, it’s going to be a different temperature, a different scent and a different feeling. You want to be sure they know how to associate themselves with it in a more natural way.

A. Yeah, but again you have to condition the mind to see what the side effects are and what doses work and what medication works. It shouldn’t make them lethargic. It’s just for them to feel thoroughly relaxed. It’s like a glass of wine. It doesn’t have to make you feel angry or frustrated. It’s just to relax you.

Q. How should you choose a kennel?

A. You want to find a place where they immediately know how to adopt a dog and to make a dog really not focused on the fact that you left but really focused on what is there for him. It’s very important that professionals learn it’s a big deal for a dog to detach himself from his pack, and so the new pack has to be just as good or better than the pack he just left.

Q. What about dogs that get nervous when traveling? Is there anything you can do to keep them calm?

A. If a dog is nervous at home, it’s more likely for him to get worse in different environments. You definitely have to work, before you go on the vacation, to start learning about how you can make your dog not nervous at home. Everything starts from home. A lot of people also get frustrated when they’re traveling, and the dog is trembling or whining or drooling. But that’s not going to help the dog either. Your energy influences a lot, and once you recognize and become aware of the energy you share when your dog is under stress, then you realize, oh, O.K., I have to work on myself.

Q. Are some dogs more suited to travel than others?

A. Balanced dogs. It’s not the breed or the size. You can’t generalize that the size or the breed will make it a better travel dog. A balanced dog is always going to be a perfect dog to be around; an unstable dog, regardless of the size, is not going to be comfortable to travel with. So it’s a state of mind, not a breed or a size.

Q. Is there anything else travelers should keep in mind?

A. Once you arrive at your destination, make sure you go for a long walk before you go inside the hotel or the condominium or wherever you’re going because that will give a dog a better understanding of where they are and what the surroundings are, and that the same rules and boundaries or limitations that you might have had in L.A. exist in Florida. That will make him feel so comfortable, so at home, and enjoy his new adventure.
78 2007-06-03 To the Editor: How David Allan in ''36 Hours: Baltimore'' (May 20) can use the phrases ''galleries that specialize in contemporary art'' and ''alternative arts in Baltimore'' and not direct visitors to the American Visionary Art Museum is puzzling...
79 2007-06-03 A bill introduced in the state Legislature last month would create a temporary state commission to explore the financial impact on local governments of the proposed Broadwater Energy liquefied natural gas plant in Long Island Sound.     The sponso...
80 2007-06-03 To surf, a small verb lacking filigree or urgency, belongs to magical realism as much as to sport. Hawaiians, who were perhaps the first surfers, prayed for good conditions and venerated those who could truly harness a wave. Mark Twain wrote raptu...
81 2007-06-03 Once a year, professional golfers are faced with a course that makes them look like mortals. The United States Open is the sport's four-day stress test, a marathon of frayed nerves, gnashed teeth and shocking scores. (Just ask Phil Mickelson.) Mik...
82 2007-06-03 In James Traub's inspired portrait of Al Gore, NASA's James Hansen is quoted as having written that ''Al Gore may have done for global warming what 'Silent Spring' did for pesticides'' (''Al Gore Has Big Plans,'' May 20). And Traub continues that ...
83 2007-06-03 McCORMICK--Dr. Charles G., a psychologist in private practice who taught at The New School for Social Research in New York City for 47 years, died May 11th, at age 93 at his home in Manhattan. He was born in New York City. He is survived by his wi...
84 2007-06-04 Is it time to change the taxation of stock options?...
85 2007-06-04 Even as the Bancroft family finally sat down with Rupert Murdoch on Monday, it appeared other players in the Dow Jones saga were trying to take matters into their own hands - possibly literally. Also on Monday, the Independent Association of Publi...
86 2007-06-04 The troubled mortgage market has been cited as the main culprit in the death of UBS's hedge-fund operation, Dillon Read Capital Management. But according to an article from Bloomberg News, a slew of sour bets on real estate was just the coup de gr...
87 2007-06-04 Joseph L. Bruno, the State Senate majority leader, was cheerfully dismissive today, as always, of recent news reports that the federal investigation into his business dealings has widened to include his purchase of two thoroughbreds from a real es...
88 2007-06-04 The Republican presidential candidate from the border state of Arizona takes up where President Bush left off last week in promoting the immigration compromise....
89 2007-06-04 Among hedge funds, the activists have been in the klieg lights for a while now - and have reaped big returns for themselves and for shareholders. But a new academic study, which Financial News described as the most comprehensive yet produced, has ...
90 2007-06-04 Amp'd Mobile, a niche cellphone startup that raised $360 million from backers including MTV Networks and Universal Music, has filed for bankruptcy protection to restructure its business. Go to Article from The New York Times » Go to Article from ...
91 2007-06-04 The Blackstone Group struck a deal to buy its first insurance broker, saying Sunday it would purchase the privately held Alliant Insurance Services. Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but Reuters said the price tag comes to $1.2 billion. Blacks...
92 2007-06-04 A Dutch financial group, SNS Reaal, is to buy the Dutch insurance operations of France's AXA for 1.75 billion euros ($2.35 billion) to double its domestic market share and cut costs. The bank, which provides retail banking and financial services t...
93 2007-06-04 IAC/InterActive, the New York-based media and e-commerce conglomerate run by the former Hollywood mogul Barry Diller, is starting a venture investing arm called Primal Ventures, The San Jose Mercury News reported. The venture capital arm, which wi...
94 2007-06-04 A British property firm, Segro, has agreed to sell its life sciences real-estate business in the United States to Health Care Property Investors for $2.9 billion as it moves to focus on Britain and continental Europe. Segro, formerly Slough Estate...
95 2007-06-04 “Creature Comforts,” a new stop-motion animation series on CBS, is from the British outfit that has given us the characters of Wallace and Gromit and the clever film “Chicken Run.” In the new show, clay animals with human voices make various observations about attraction, doctors — life. It may seem an odd thing to say, but “Creature Comforts” reminds me in some tiny way of “The Sopranos” because just as it is always unfailingly funny when mob men and their coterie speak of “Moby-Dick” and the “human condition,” it makes you laugh when a fake pig, speaking as a middle-aged woman, talks about losing weight.

Based on a British show, “Creature Comforts” is a feat of audio editing. Its lines are taken from man-on-the-street interviews with hundreds of Americans. A British brain trust. Man-on-the-street-interviews. Ostensibly ordinary Americans. You know where this is going don’t you?

The British continue to view us not with the greatest munificence. Though it displays far less aggression, “Creature Comforts” exists as a sort of affectionate “Borat,” making fun of unsophisticated Americans, as it leaves you feeling not quite as complicit in the exploitation. The animation spares you from all that; you’re not looking at actual people saying silly things, after all. The voices are detached. What you are looking at is a hippopotamus hooked up to an I.V. device and complaining about medical care. (“It’s always skinny girl who is going to weigh you in,” the hippo says in a woman’s voice. “For sure. It’s going to be some Ally McBeal looking girl who is going to weigh you.”)

“Creature Comforts,” which makes its debut tonight, is an unusually snooty show for CBS even as it pretends to be something else. It plays to the knowing and deviously tries to keep you from believing you’re a snob.
96 2007-06-04 The video did not refer by name to the third abducted soldier, Pfc. Joseph J. Anzack Jr., 20, of Torrance, Calif. Private Anzack’s body was pulled from the Euphrates River in Babil Province, south of Baghdad, 11 days after the ambush on May 12.

Videos of kidnapped Westerners and attacks against American troops have frequently been used for propaganda purposes by insurgents. Monday’s video was significant largely because it was less graphic than usual and provided little actual evidence that those who produced the video actually held the two soldiers captive or killed them.

Its limited scope and appearance nearly a month after the ambush seemed to confirm what some American military commanders have suspected all along: that the insurgents are seeking to drag out the process of discovery and deny closure to the families of the missing soldiers and the thousands of American and Iraqi troops who have been searching for them since the day they disappeared.

The undated video was made available to reporters by the Site Institute, which tracks Jihadist Web sites. Of the nearly 11 minutes of footage, the only portion that purportedly corresponds to the attack shows what appears to be a burning Humvee, videotaped from far away at night for a few seconds.

The attack — which occurred before dawn near Yusifiya, a Sunni stronghold about 15 miles south of the capital — did lead to the burning of two Humvees that were attacked, according to military officials. But the video does not show the three soldiers who were abducted nor the five soldiers killed during the ambush, one of whom was an Iraqi.

What the video displays is a group of masked men apparently planning the ambush using a diagram pinned to a tree. Personal items that appear to belong to the soldiers are also shown, including a pistol, credit cards and American and Iraqi money.

At the end, the video shows a still image of both sides of the photo identifications of Specialist Jimenez and Private Fouty.

Above the photos, written in Arabic, was the message, “Bush is the reason for the loss of your sons.”

The video repeatedly mocks the American military for being unable to find the three abducted soldiers.

Citing the American use of helicopters and unmanned aircraft, the video’s narrator said, “They felt arrogant because of their abilities and their technology, which was humiliated by the Islamic State’s soldiers.”

Despite the deployment of 4,000 American troops, the video said, “they failed.”

“No one will be held responsible for what happened to the three soldiers,” the narrator said, “except the American Army and its leaders and politicians who degrade all of mankind and do not care for the feelings of the three soldiers’ mothers.”

The release of the video coincided with the American military’s announcement of an attack on Sunday on soldiers from the same division, which wounded eight American soldiers at a small patrol base southeast of Baghdad.. The assault involved a car bomb, small arms fire and mortar fire, the military’s statement said, and it was repelled by American attack aircraft, ground forces and unmanned aircraft.

That attack — like the May 12 abduction — highlighted the risks that have come with sending soldiers to smaller bases as part of the new counterinsurgency plan for securing Iraq. May was the third worst month for American deaths since the start of the war in March, 2003 and commanders have acknowledged that attacks from insurgents grown more sophisticated.

On Monday, new details emerged about who might have been responsible for one attack in Baghdad last week: the high-profile kidnapping of five Britons from an Iraqi government building.

The American commander in Iraq, General David H. Petraeus, said Monday that gunmen responsible for the attack were most likely part of the same Shiite militant cell whose leader was killed last month by an American special operations unit after he was implicated in the deaths of five American troops in Karbala in January.

The suspected Shiite cell leader, Sheik Azhar al-Duleimi, was killed during a firefight after American troops raided a Baghdad home on May 17, officers said. They described Mr. Duleimi as organizing the attack in Karbala, in which 9 to 12 men wearing American uniforms drove sport utility vehicles into a government compound, where they killed one soldier and abducted four others who were killed a short time later.

In a brief interview, General Petraeus suggested that retaliation for the killing of Mr. Duleimi might have been the motivation for the abduction of the Britons, who were seized from a Finance Ministry compound in Baghdad on May 29 by gunmen dressed as police commandos.

“There is a pretty good chance they are from the cell whose leader Azhar al-Duleimi we killed a few weeks back,” General Petraeus said. “He was the individual who led the raid who killed our soldiers in Karbala.”

He said he believed the cell was one of the many groups that have splintered off from the Mahdi Army, the militia loyal to the anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr. The general said he was unaware of any contacts with the kidnappers, and he said American-led forces were doing all they could to locate the Britons. “There has been a very intense search ongoing for them,” he said.

As the search continued, so did Iraq’s relentless violence. Mortars hit the Green Zone and several neighborhoods of the capital, killing at least one person and wounded at least eight others, an Interior Ministry official said. Three roadside bombs in Baghdad killed at least three people and wounded more than a dozen.

The authorities found 28 dead bodies throughout the city.

South of Baghdad in Diwaniya, Iraqi officials said that at least three separate American patrols came under attack from rocket-propelled grenades, roadside bombs and sniper fire. American casualties remained unknown, but at least seven civilians were wounded.
97 2007-06-04 SHANGHAI, June 4 — China’s stock market tumbled again today in one of the biggest sell-offs in years. It followed the government’s move last week to impose higher taxes on stock trades.

The sell-off today in Shanghai was one of the largest declines in a decade, and was nearly comparable to the sharp drop in February this year when the Shanghai Composite fell 9.9 percent after a phenomenal rise.

The benchmark Shanghai Stock Exchange fell 330 points, or 8.3 percent, to close today at 3,670.40. The country’s other major index, the Shenzhen Composite, dropped 7.9 percent to close at 1,039.89.

Shares in other parts of Asia fared better, including Tokyo and Hong Kong, where stock prices rose modestly.

Analysts and economists have been warning for months about a bubble building in the Chinese stock market. But prices have continued to soar on unprecedented demand for stocks, fueled by the opening of hundreds of thousands of new share accounts every day.

The government has repeatedly warned investors about the risks of a downturn, and even moved to calm the markets.
98 2007-06-04 What brought the two men together, the federal authorities said, was their Islamic extremism and a plot to blow up Kennedy Airport.

Mr. Kadir and Mr. Defreitas are accused of conspiring to use explosives to ignite the airport’s fuel tanks and underground fuel pipeline network. Both were arrested on Friday, Mr. Kadir in Trinidad and Mr. Defreitas in Brooklyn. Efforts to reach their lawyers were not successful yesterday; at a hearing on Saturday, Mr. Defreitas’s lawyer, Drew Carter, said, “There’s a lot more to the story.”

A third suspect, Kareem Ibrahim, 61, was also arrested in Trinidad, and a fourth, Abdel Nur, 57, remained at large. The United States is seeking the extradition of Mr. Kadir and Mr. Ibrahim.

Mr. Kadir’s arrest shocked his political allies and relatives, many of whom said the man they knew and respected was not capable of such a terrible act.

“He’s a genuine gentle giant of a man,” Mortimer Yearwood, who has known Mr. Kadir for 20 years and worked with him at a Guyanese charity called the Linden Fund, said by telephone from his home in Linden. In 2003, when he served on the group’s board in Guyana, Mr. Kadir helped secure an $85 million donation of recycled medical supplies like beds, sutures and intravenous equipment for a Linden hospital.

For Mr. Defreitas, however, the foiled plot, as described by the authorities, was another in a lifetime of missteps: It was Mr. Defreitas who had befriended the informant who helped break the case — the same man who walked with them to the mall in Georgetown, the Guyanese capital.

One friend, Trevor Watts, knew Mr. Defreitas not as a devout Muslim but as a dreadlocked Rastafarian who used to whistle at the girls strolling past the window of his apartment. He made money shipping air-conditioners and refrigerators to Guyana. He had embraced American culture, becoming a naturalized American citizen, registering to vote and acquiring a taste for jazz. Yet he would later boast to the informant about wanting to eclipse the attack on the World Trade Center.

He seemed to struggle financially. Mr. Watts, 65, said Mr. Defreitas had collected welfare payments for a time. Years ago, he had his mail forwarded to Mr. Watts’s house in Queens, and kept a bed and a trunk of clothes there, because he did not have a place of his own.

Mr. Defreitas lived alone for several years in an apartment near the airport, and the daughter of his landlord there described him as a polite man who paid his rent on time.

Recently, Mr. Defreitas had been living in an apartment on Rockaway Avenue in Brooklyn. It is an unlikely place for a man who, the authorities say, tried to tap into an international network of Islamic radicals. The building’s door buzzer was broken on Saturday, and the door of one apartment was plastered with an eviction notice. His neighbors said he kept to himself and spent time in the African herbal store on the ground floor.

A few years ago, Mr. Defreitas made an arrangement with Colin Sam, who runs an import-export business in the city. Mr. Defreitas told Mr. Sam that he would sell some of Mr. Sam’s air-conditioners in Guyana and split the profits with him. Mr. Defreitas took the air-conditioners, but told Mr. Sam later that they did not work and that there was no money to be made from them.

Mr. Sam said yesterday that he believed that Mr. Defreitas had sold the air-conditioners and lied to him. “That’s it,” he said. “What more do you want me to say?”

One of Mr. Defreitas’s brothers lived in Queens and died of cancer years ago, but Mr. Defreitas did not go to the funeral, said Mr. Watts, who attended the service. Relations between the two brothers were strained, Mr. Watts said, as was Mr. Defreitas’s relationship with another brother, who lives in New Jersey.

Mr. Defreitas was arrested at a restaurant in Brooklyn, the Lindenwood Diner, on Friday night. Mr. Watts, an auto mechanic who met Mr. Defreitas when they both lived on Albany Avenue in Brooklyn, said he never suspected his friend of plotting a terrorist attack. On the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, the two men were watching television in Mr. Watts’s living room. “We saw the second plane hit,” Mr. Watts said. “We couldn’t even talk. He was in shock, just like me, just like everybody else.”

Mr. Kadir was born Michael Seaforch in 1952 in Buxton, a seaside village just east of Georgetown. One of his daughters, Sauda Kadir, said he converted to Islam in 1972 and studied Islamic theology in Iran. He had been living with his family in Linden for at least 20 years, and one of his sons, Sheik Salim Bin Abdul Sadir, is a Shiite Muslim leader there.

“He is like any other dad: He’s strict, and he always told us we should respect others if we wanted to be respected,” Ms. Kadir, 31, said in a telephone interview from Guyana. “He taught us to be good people, and he taught us to be good Muslims. He is very serious about his religion.”

Ms. Kadir said her father was not anti-American. “The only thing I think my father did wrong was being a Muslim,” she said.

Mr. Kadir worked for a mining company until 2003, when he and many other workers lost their jobs to downsizing, Ms. Kadir said. After he was laid off, he worked as an independent engineering consultant.

He served as mayor of Linden from 1994 to 1996, and in 2001 he joined the Guyanese Parliament as a member of the opposition People’s National Congress, a seat he held until 2006. Judith David-Blair, a member of Parliament from the same party, said she did not believe Mr. Kadir could be involved in planning an attack on the United States. Members of Parliament would often seek his advice in political and personal matters, she said.

“I never knew him to be that kind of man,” she said of the charges. “He was a very kind man, a very caring father; he is a great provider and a very brilliant man, the kind you can always count on.”

As a board member of the Linden Fund, Mr. Kadir helped to speed up the distribution of money and supplies sent to Guyana by the fund’s supporters in the United States.

Last month, in one of the many conversations recorded by the informant, Mr. Defreitas, Mr. Ibrahim and the informant asked Mr. Kadir whether any money for an attack could be kept in Mr. Kadir’s foundation in Linden, and Mr. Kadir seemed to agree that it could, though it was unclear if the foundation discussed was the Linden Fund.

In a 2004 interview with The Stabroek News, a daily newspaper in Georgetown, Mr. Kadir said he joined the Islamic Party of the Caribbean while he was studying in Trinidad, then returned to Guyana to “foster the teaching of Islam in the hope of bringing about social reform.” He said he was influenced by Malcolm X and Kwame Nkrumah, the founder and first president of Ghana and one of the most influential Pan-Africanists of the 20th century.
99 2007-06-04 Citing his business experience, he urges voters to reject “lifetime politicians” who “have never run a corner store, let alone the largest enterprise in the world.”

Mr. Romney, though, never ran a corner store or a traditional business. Instead, he excelled as a deal maker, a buyer and seller of companies, a master at the art of persuasion that he demonstrated in the talks that led to the forming of Bain Capital.

“Mitt ran a private equity firm, not a cement company,” said Eric A. Kriss, a former Bain Capital partner. “He was not a businessman in the sense of running a company,” Mr. Kriss said, adding, “He was a great presenter, a great spokesman and a great salesman.”

Supporters of Mr. Romney argue that those skills also equip him for public office, whether as governor of Massachusetts, which he was for four years, or as president.

“In private equity and in consulting, a lot of what you rely on is trust and confidence and persuasion,” said Mr. Kriss, who worked in Mr. Romney’s cabinet when he was governor. “It is the same in the public sphere, and over many decades that is what Mitt has proven to be good at.”

But Mr. Romney’s Bain career — a source of money and contacts that he has used to finance his Massachusetts campaigns and to leap ahead of his presidential rivals in early fund-raising — also exposes him to criticism that he enriched himself excessively, sometimes by cutting jobs to increase profits.

He made his money mainly through leveraged buyouts — essentially, mortgaging companies to take them over in the hope of reselling them at big profits in just a few years. It is a bare-knuckle form of investing that is in the spotlight because of the exploding profits of buyout giants like Bain, Blackstone and the Carlyle Group. In Washington, Congress is considering ending a legal quirk that lets fund managers escape much of the income tax on their earnings.

“The amounts of money are so vast that it is truly a matter of time before the taxation of private equity is front and center of the public agenda,” said James E. Post, a Boston University professor who teaches business-government relations. “Increasingly, this world of private equity looks like a world of robber barons, and Romney comes out of that world.”

Mr. Romney learned the perils of campaigning on his business career in his first run for office, when accusations that Bain Capital had fired union workers at an Indiana company it controlled derailed his effort to unseat Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Democrat, in 1994. “Basically, he cut our throats,” a laid-off worker said in a commercial attacking Mr. Romney. (He has said he had nothing to do with the firings.)

Mr. Romney, in an interview, acknowledged that Bain Capital’s acquisitions had sometimes led to layoffs but said that he could explain them to voters.

“Sometimes the medicine is a little bitter but it is necessary to save the life of the patient,” he said. “My job was to try and make the enterprise successful, and in my view the best security a family can have is that the business they work for is strong.”

But he said he did have some second thoughts about elements of his Bain Capital career.

“The experience of the last eight years, running the Olympics and being a governor, would make me take an even more sensitive look at the impact of business decisions on the lives of suppliers and employees and others who are involved,” he said.

Mr. Romney started his early career intending to run a company, not buy and sell them. As a boy, he had accompanied his father, George W. Romney, to work as chief executive of American Motors, where he said they discussed the new models, corporate strategy and even union contract talks.

“He would pretend to be very interested in the things I would say,” Mr. Romney recalled. (His father later became governor of Michigan and ran unsuccessfully in 1968 for the Republican presidential nomination. He died in 1995.)

After graduating from Brigham Young University, Mr. Romney finished near the top of his class at Harvard Business School in 1975 with a law degree as well. He soon joined Bain & Company, a training ground for aspiring corporate chieftains. Among the consultants when he arrived were the future chief executives of American Express, eBay and Dell, for example.

Mr. Romney’s academic credentials were competitive with any of them, but he had something more, Mr. Bain recalled.

“Think of the way he looks now and picture him 30 years younger,” Mr. Bain said. “He was very good looking. He was very comfortable in his body. He moved gracefully. He wasn’t awkward. He had the appearance of confidence of a guy who was maybe 10 years older.”

Like other consulting firms, Bain coached new employees in how to impress older executives. Mr. Bain bought each consultant a copy of the best seller “Dress for Success” and provided a clothing allowance. Clients learned to expect a familiar red tie and monogrammed shirt when the next “Bainiacs” stepped off the elevator. (Most were men.)

Mr. Romney seemed to have been born freshly pressed. And colleagues say he was quick to adapt to each client, an essential skill.

By around 1981, however, Mr. Romney was restless for a company to run. He nearly accepted a job at an electronics conglomerate in hope of eventually running one of its businesses. He stayed when Mr. Bain wrote him a check for $200,000 and promised to get him a better position, Mr. Bain said.

When Mr. Bain proposed starting Bain Capital about two years later, Mr. Romney said, “I loved the idea,” adding that he was cautious at first because “it is my nature to study things extensively before I jump.”

Lawyers advised separating the investing venture from the consulting business to avoid a conflict of interest. To ease Mr. Bain’s concerns about yielding control, Mr. Romney set up a complicated partnership structure that gave Mr. Bain the right to fire him. In the early years, Bain & Company partners received a cut of Bain Capital profits, as well, although Mr. Romney later persuaded Mr. Bain to give that up.

Still, Mr. Bain recalled, “all the risk and investment was basically on my side. I was clearly putting my neck on the line and the company on the line.”

Mr. Bain took the lead in raising money from his partners and rich friends, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the Boston real estate mogul, and Robert K. Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots football team. But he always took Mr. Romney along to help seal the deal. The younger man would stand in front of a string of skeptical multimillionaires, flipping overhead projector slides that highlighted Bain Capital’s plans, honing the knack for opening wallets that would help him become the top Republican presidential fund-raiser this year.

The political fund-raising “was a lot easier than raising some of the first Bain funds, I can assure you,” said Mr. Kriss, the former Bain partner. “Mitt is very, very good at that, and he has done it for a long time.”

When Mr. Romney finally set up shop just across the hall from Bain consulting in 1984, his initial plan centered on providing venture capital — seed money — for ideas spun off by Bain consultants. The first investment, a chain of eye-surgery centers, was a modest success.

A year later, Mr. Romney hit on a big winner: the office supply chain Staples. To evaluate the business plan, he insisted on reading invoices to find out what small businesses were spending on notepads, paper clips and pens — a demonstration of his devotion to data that he brings up often on the stump.

But the investment was primarily a sales job. The founder of Staples, Thomas G. Stemberg, had already sold a successful grocery business. Investors were lining up to get in on his next venture. Mr. Romney’s achievement was persuading Mr. Stemberg to let Bain Capital take the lead.

“Mitt was just really nice, humble, listened, asked questions,” Mr. Stemberg said in an interview. “And he talked about how at Bain, unlike other venture capitalists, they would actually help you run the business.”

On the campaign trail, Mr. Romney still calls Bain a “venture capital” firm, a phrase that evokes innovation and entrepreneurship. But his former colleagues say Bain Capital’s partners increasingly put money into the relatively new business of leveraged buyouts, which involves taking over companies with a relatively small down payment by borrowing against their assets to pay most of the purchase price.

About half of Bain’s deals were buyouts by the close of its first fund and as much as 90 percent by the end of the second, Mr. Romney’s former colleagues said.

Leveraged buyouts are often associated with hostile takeovers to break up companies. But under Mr. Romney, Bain Capital took a smoother approach. It presented itself to corporate management teams as a partner that would help improve performance, sometimes by investing to buy smaller competitors. Its first move was usually trying to persuade management to let Bain take over.

In “Turnaround” (Regnery, 2004), his memoir of running the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City, Mr. Romney wrote of his Bain career: “We had to sell business owners on why they should sell their business to us. We had to sell banks to lend us money, and we had to sell folks on giving us their money to manage.” Selling “is far from my favorite thing,” he wrote, but it was crucial to his career.

Bain invested in more than 150 companies under Mr. Romney. Most were in industries like oil drilling or medical waste, but the firm also acquired household names like Dominos Pizza, Brookstone stores, Mattress Discounters and Artisan Entertainment (in time to cash on its “Blair Witch Project” hit).

By the time Mr. Romney left the firm in 1999, the investments it had sold off had made enough money to deliver an average annual return that amounted to as much as 100 percent before fees, several of its investors said. (Later sales were less lucrative, the investors said.)

By then, the firm had expanded to 18 partners from 5, with $4 billion under management and 115 employees. (A spokesman for Bain Capital declined to comment on its profits.)

Its investors did very well, but not as well as Mr. Romney and the Bain Capital managers. Private equity firms typically keep 2 percent of the total invested in each fund as well as 20 percent of any profits.

Bain was hardly the only private equity firm delivering breathtaking returns in the early years, when there was little competition in the business and the stock market was soaring. But even among its peers, Bain’s results were so remarkable that by 1998 Mr. Romney had persuaded investors to let the Bain partners keep 30 percent of the profits — an arrangement that is still rare.

“Mitt broke the mold there,” said William F. Weld, another former Republican governor of Massachusetts and private equity fund manager.

“The private equity business is a pretty good place to make a lot of money,” Mr. Weld added. “The market rewards people who show they can see value in a company quickly, adjust a few toggle switches and sell it again four or five years later. It is capitalism’s way of picking the fleas off the dog.”

Such astounding profits brought critics as well. Warren E. Buffett, the legendary investor, has derided private equity firms as “deal flippers” who do little to increase the real value of their targets, profiting from rising prices driven in part by their own deals and by charging their acquisitions “fees, fees, fees.”

Others complain that private equity fund managers like Mr. Romney pay only capital gains taxes instead of income taxes on their cuts of investors’ profits. At present tax rates, that means that they pay 15 percent instead of 35 percent on most of their earnings.

“When you look at the amount of money these guys are making,” said Victor Fleischer, a legal scholar who has consulted with the Senate Finance Committee about changing the law, “the effective tax rate is just sort of shocking to the conscience.”

Meanwhile, Democrats and labor unions are stepping up charges that Bain and other buyout firms profit at the expense of workers. Two Bain deals have become particular targets of criticism.

One transaction, involving the medical diagnostics company Dade Behring, took place in 1999 as Mr. Romney was leaving the firm, and the other, involving KB Toys, occurred about two years later. Bain and its co-investors extracted special payments of over $100 million from each company, enabling Bain to make a healthy profit even before re-selling the businesses — a practice known as “getting back your bait.” Lenders say Bain is one of the firms that has taken the most in such payments, which companies usually make by taking on additional debt.

Both Dade Behring and KB Toys soon suffered dips in their business. Unable to meet the burden of their debts, each filed for bankruptcy and laid off thousands of workers. Bain Capital spokesmen have said the company did nothing improper.

Mr. Romney, who remains an investor in Bain Capital, said he had not been involved in those decisions but acknowledged that such payments became part of the buyout business “very early on.”

“It is one thing that if I had a chance to go back I would be more sensitive to,” Mr. Romney said. “It is always a balance. Great care has got to be taken not to take a dividend or a distribution from a company that puts that company at risk.” He added that taking a big payment from a company that later failed “would make me sick, sick at heart.”

Mr. Romney’s rivals in the Republican primary, courting business support, have shown little interest in the casualties of his Bain career. But Mr. Romney acknowledged that Democrats inevitably will. He said he felt confident he could persuade voters to see past such attacks, just as he did when he was elected governor of Massachusetts in 2002.

Running Bain Capital, he said, has more in common with being a candidate, governor or even president than many people realize. The job of a chief executive also involves persuading fractious constituencies — investors, bankers and even “people who want your job” — to pull together, he said.

“There is a popular conception that being a C.E.O. you have no boss and that people just do what you tell them to do, like the captain of a ship,” he said. “Nothing could be further from the truth.”
100 2007-06-04 “So far, so good,” Cashman said. “He’s making the progress we’ve hoped for.”

Clemens reported Sunday to the Yankees’ complex in Tampa, Fla., where he was examined by the team doctor Andrew Miller. Clemens will undergo a magnetic resonance imaging exam on Monday to see if his groin is simply fatigued, as he told the team, or more seriously damaged.

For now, the Yankees and Clemens are projecting his first appearance to be Saturday at home against the Pittsburgh Pirates, a team he defeated five times in six decisions over the past three years.

“Everyone is being optimistic and looking toward the obvious date of next Saturday,” Clemens’s agent, Randy Hendricks, said in an e-mail message. “I think the results of the M.R.I., plus how Roger feels this week, will determine whether he starts next Saturday.”

Clemens does not begin collecting his prorated $28 million salary until the Yankees add him to the major league roster. He is currently on a minor league deal.

“I want to have a healthy Roger Clemens, when he’s ready to assist the team, because we still have a shot,” Cashman said. “We feel he could have a big impact for us. But were there any guarantees or under-the-table promises made? No.”

The loss of Mientkiewicz is bad news for the pitching staff. Mientkiewicz was batting only .226, but he had played much better defense than Josh Phelps, who, Manager Joe Torre said, will become the regular first baseman.

Damon remains the regular designated hitter with Jason Giambi on the disabled list and Melky Cabrera now playing center, but he is taking grounders at first base and has begun learning the position from the bench coach Don Mattingly.

“There will be a lot of stuff we can do,” Mattingly said. “You can’t build it in a day. He’s not going to eat steak right away; we’re going to give him some baby formula first.”

Damon’s weak arm will not be such a liability at first base, and as a left-hander he will have a natural throw to second base, because he will not have to turn his body. He played first base in Little League and once last season. He said his athleticism would help him.

“I just have to look at it as a positive thing that possibly can help extend my career,” said Damon, who is 33. “As a ballplayer you always want to be well-rounded. This gives me an opportunity, gives me a challenge to try to be a better all-around player. I’m actually pretty excited about it.”

Torre said his first option off the bench to replace Phelps during a game was Miguel Cairo, who has played 34 games there in his career. But Cairo is strictly a bench player, and if Phelps does not start — perhaps during the Yankees’ six remaining games in National League parks, where the D.H. is not used — Damon could start at first.

As for outside options, the Yankees appear to have no interest in the massive contract of Todd Helton of the Colorado Rockies. They are more interested in exploring the idea of a trade for Mark Teixeira of the Texas Rangers, but the Rangers want premium pitching prospects and the asking price would seem likely to drop as the July 31 trading deadline approaches.

The Yankees effectively used that strategy last season to land Bobby Abreu from the Philadelphia Phillies on July 30, without trading a significant prospect.
101 2007-06-04 Though it is difficult to measure its effectiveness, the coalition — particularly Mr. Bloomberg — has caught the eye, and fueled the ire, of gun rights groups, many of which contend that the coalition is trying to undermine a constitutionally protected right to bear arms.

In Virginia, a gun rights group has held a Bloomberg Gun Giveaway, a raffle protesting the mayor’s stings. In those operations, the city sent undercover private investigators posing as buyers to out-of-state dealers whose guns had been linked to crimes in New York in an effort to catch the dealers allowing straw purchases — sales of guns clearly intended for someone other than the buyer.

And the National Rifle Association, a lobbying superpower in Washington and many statehouses, has vilified Mr. Bloomberg on its Web site and in its publications, putting him on the cover of a widely distributed magazine.

That article, which labeled Mr. Bloomberg “a billionaire, Boston-grown evangelist for the nanny state,” said, “Beholden to nothing except his own ambitions, the mayor has established himself as a kind of national gun-control vigilante.”

Mr. Bloomberg does not see his cause as such, but rather as a pragmatic response to crime. He declined to be interviewed for this article, but he has consistently said that he supports the right to own a gun and is simply looking to keep firearms out of the hands of criminals.

“We aren’t interested in refighting an ideological battle,” said Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor overseeing the gun effort. “The issues we have taken on are about crime and law enforcement, so that’s the way the debate needs to be framed.”

Mr. Bloomberg’s rise as the bête noire of gun rights advocates comes at a time when many gun control groups have been pushed to the sidelines in Washington and support for sweeping gun control measures seems weak.

In the fight, there is a mutually beneficial political dynamic at work, political analysts say. The N.R.A. gets a clear enemy it can use to excite donors to rally to its cause, and Mr. Bloomberg bolsters his popularity among New Yorkers, who have tended to favor gun control, and strengthens his image as a crusader for the nation’s cities.

Jim Kessler, vice president for policy at Third Way, a center-left policy group in Washington, said that if Mr. Bloomberg makes a third-party presidential run in 2008, as some people are asking him to do, “It probably doesn’t hurt him,” adding, “It certainly helps him at home.”

The pushback has come not just from gun rights groups. The Justice Department has warned the Bloomberg administration about the legality of its sting operations. Virginia has already outlawed them, while Georgia is considering similar legislation. And at least four mayors have dropped out of the coalition, citing discomfort with the group’s tactics and concerns about potential infringement on gun rights.

In Washington, many Democrats still believe the passage of a ban on assault weapons in 1994 was responsible for Republican victories in the Congressional elections later that year and the presidential election of 2000. In recent elections, an increasing number of Democrats have run as opponents of gun control, including some centrist Democrats whose election last year helped their party retake control of Congress.

In this environment, gun control advocates say, there is a leadership vacuum the mayors seem intent on filling. “Washington has abandoned the gun issue, which makes it extremely difficult for localities to fight gun violence, because it’s an interstate problem,” said Richard Aborn, the president of New York’s Citizens Crime Commission, who has consulted on the Bloomberg gun efforts.

New York mayors have traditionally supported gun control measures, even on a national stage. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, allied himself with a Democratic president, Bill Clinton, to support the 1994 assault weapons ban. But Mr. Bloomberg’s approach is much more elaborate and sustained than what his predecessors have attempted.

The most prominent of the coalition’s goals is to undo the Tiahrt Amendment, a provision that has been attached to Congressional spending bills every year since 2003 that restricts the ability of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to release detailed information about the source of illegal guns.

The amendment, named for Representative Todd Tiahrt, the Republican from Kansas who introduced it, keeps federal officials from releasing trace data, which shows the path from manufacturer to retail purchase of a gun recovered in a crime, to authorities other than those investigating that crime.

Some law enforcement officials who support the measure have argued that broader release of the information could jeopardize their investigations. And advocates of the amendment say that cities seeking the data beyond their borders are simply interested in pursuing lawsuits against gun manufacturers.

But other law enforcement officials say that the restrictions hinder their ability to see how guns move through their communities.

“We’d like to know information about where guns are coming from, say, in Newark or in Atlantic City or someplace like that,” said the New York City police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, who oversaw the A.T.F. as an undersecretary in the Clinton Treasury Department. “We might be able to watch some people.”

A.T.F. officials in New York counter that there is no prohibition on cities sharing trace data with one another. But Mr. Kelly said that it is not as easy as it might seem. “Traditionally, we haven’t had those relationships with other cities,” he said.

The mayors’ gun coalition lobbied successfully to keep the Tiahrt Amendment from becoming law, rather than an annual attachment, last year and has been pressuring Congress this year to kill the provision. Mr. Bloomberg’s criminal justice coordinator, John Feinblatt, is in Washington every week, lobbying representatives and talking strategy with allies. The mayors also opened a Web site, www.protectpolice.org and created a 30-second television advertisement that has been broadcast in Washington and in the districts of members of Congress involved in the appropriations process.

How the fight in Washington will play out remains to be seen. But there are signs that at the local level, the focus on guns is having some effect.

Of the 27 gun dealers the Bloomberg administration sued, 12 have settled, agreeing to submit to monitoring of their sales practices by a court-appointed master.

At the Police Department, Mr. Kelly has enhanced efforts to take guns off the streets, creating a gun suppression unit that includes officials from the A.T.F. and adding roughly 50 investigators who gather information from people arrested with guns about where they got them. He has also reinvigorated a program called Gunstoppers that pays for information about gun possession that leads to an arrest.

As a result, Mr. Kelly said, gun arrests are up 7 percent this year, and up about 15 percent over the last two years. And homicides by gun are down 22 percent and shootings are down 16 percent this year.

In addition, the city successfully lobbied the state last year to increase penalties for gun possession, and has established a monitoring unit to which people sentenced for gun offenses will have to report after serving their sentences.

But even though the city has been successful in reducing crime, there is still a stubborn knot of violence related to guns, 90 percent of which come from out of state and which account for 60 percent of homicides in the city, Mr. Kelly said.

It is a dynamic at work in other cities. One benefit of participating in the coalition is sharing strategies, several mayors said.

“As a new mayor, I’ve been able to talk to other mayors who have had similar experiences with violent crime,” said Kathy Taylor of Tulsa, Okla., a longtime N.R.A. member who said she does not see a contradiction between her support of gun rights and her work on the gun coalition. She views the coalition as a law enforcement effort to protect her constituents, not as an attempt to diminish the legal right to own a gun.

Ms. Taylor, a Democrat, said she had picked up methods for recognizing and controlling gang activity.

Another new mayor, Byron Brown of Buffalo, said techniques he learned from the coalition are helping Buffalo reduce its homicide rate, which is down 21 percent in 2007. Those include buying back guns and creating a program called Operation Strike Force, which sends highly mobile units into high crime areas. Mr. Brown, a Democrat, said he was also putting in place a camera system after consulting with the mayors of Baltimore and Chicago about their use of camera surveillance.

Still, while some gun rights advocates argue that if more ordinary citizens were armed, they would be safer from violent criminals, gun control advocates say the ultimate solutions lie with the federal government.

Kristen Rand, the legislative director of the Violence Policy Center in Washington, a nonprofit organization dedicated to reducing gun violence, summed up the mayors’ message this way: “We are doing all that we can, but we can’t do it all ourselves.”
102 2007-06-04 Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum’s breeding operation has bought the breeding rights of the Kentucky Derby winner Street Sense and will stand him at a farm in Kentucky when his racing career is over.

Darley America, the United States arm of the breeding operation, also bought the breeding rights to Hard Spun, who finished second in the Derby and third in the Preakness Stakes.

“Street Sense and Hard Spun are the two most thrilling horses of their generation, each blessed with remarkable, exceptional gifts,” Dan Pride, chief executive of Darley America, said in a statement posted on the farm’s Web site.

“They’ve achieved so much, and impressed so much, both in victory and also in defeat. It will be an enormous privilege to take charge of their stud careers. They are both so deeply talented that it’s easy to see how they could each leave a lasting impression on the breed.”

The two colts will join 11 stallions, including Street Sense’s father, Street Cry, at Jonabell Farm in Lexington, Ky. Sheik Mohammed, the ruler of Dubai, has more than 4,000 acres in the bluegrass of Kentucky, where he has aggressively stepped up his breeding operation for many reasons, not the least of which is to win the Derby.
103 2007-06-04 A bill is moving forward in Congress that would take important and much-needed steps to protect Americans from terrorist attacks. But it may not address one of the most glaring vulnerabilities: chemicals traveling by rail. The House has voted to include restrictions on rail transport of deadly chemicals, but the Senate has not.

If Congress is serious about protecting against terrorism, it will include the House provision in the final bill.

If terrorists attacked a chlorine tank as it traveled through downtown Washington, or another city, it could produce a toxic chemical cloud that would put the lives of hundreds of thousands of people at risk. Terrorism experts agree that rail cars filled with chemicals are an easy target. And the recent attacks on trains in Europe, and the use of chemicals in attacks in Iraq, should put America on notice about the seriousness of the threat.

The only real way to avoid that grim possibility — and the frightening likelihood of mass casualties that could come with it — is to require railroads to route dangerous chemicals away from densely populated areas. Representative Edward Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, introduced a good bill that includes reasonable provisions for rerouting hazardous chemicals.

The requirements would not be onerous or expensive. Only a small percentage of shipments would be affected — the ones with the most dangerous chemicals, like chlorine and propane. There are plenty of rail lines that bypass populated areas, and it is not difficult to reroute individual cars. It is an indication of the bill’s moderate, common-sense approach that it passed the House with broad bipartisan support.

Unfortunately, the Senate failed to pass its own version of the Markey bill, which was sponsored by Joseph Biden, Democrat of Delaware. A main reason the Biden provision failed was lobbying by the chemical industry, an enormous contributor to political campaigns. The industry seems to believe that even after Sept. 11 and the recent rail and subway attacks in Europe, it should not be subjected to meaningful new government safety regulations.

Especially when deadly chemicals are involved, rail security is too important to leave to the good will of the businesses involved.
104 2007-06-04 That number, like Spheniscus itself, is plunging. Since 2001, the number of adult penguins in the two largest colonies — the other is on Dassen Island, about 40 miles north — has plummeted by almost 60 percent, to fewer than 18,000 combined.

“At the moment, the penguins are in real trouble,” said Mr. Underhill, a statistics expert at the University of Cape Town and vice president of the International Ornithological Committee. “There have been population movements like this in the past. But this one seems particularly extreme.”

Were Spheniscus a seagoing crow or, say, a chicken, fewer people might care. But the African penguin, the continent’s only native penguin, is adorable — not two feet tall at adulthood, with large eyes set in a field of red and a distinctive black stripe circumnavigating its belly. Its calls range from a delicate trill to a loud nighttime bray, which leads some to call it the “jackass penguin.”

Though the blue crane is South Africa’s national bird, the penguin clearly captures more hearts. Most penguins live on islands, shielded from land predators. But one colony on the Cape of Good Hope peninsula annually lures tens of thousands of gawkers, who revel in walking among throngs of the tolerant creatures.

Environmentalists here have made the birds’ rescue into a public crusade, contending, in effect, that the little penguin is the canary in the coal mine — a barometer of problems besetting other seabirds and the oceanic chain of life.

They could have a point. The penguins’ travails have many mothers, but the biggest one is food. African penguins live mostly on anchovies and sardines, which loitered until recently in huge shoals off western South Africa, where Robben and Dassen Islands are situated.

But starting around 1997, the sardines began to relocate east, closer to Cape Agulhas, Africa’s southernmost point. The effect has been to reduce the penguins’ main course to a few canapés, and their head count shows it: in some years, the adult penguin population on Robben and Dassen has slumped by as much as 25 percent. .

More mobile species might simply follow the fish to a new home. The African penguins are prisoners to their island, though, limited to foraging for food in waters no more than about 25 miles offshore. When the sardines leave, the penguins have scant choice but to hunker down and wait for them to return.

But the fish may not return for decades, if ever. The sardines’ relocation may be part of a worldwide shift that occurs every 50 years or so, scientists say. Commercial fishing, which has depleted sardine stocks in other parts of Africa, could be a factor. So might climate change: this month, for example, several dozen scientists concluded that the sardine movements were related to changes in the Benguela Current, a vast, frigid flow of nutrient-rich ocean water from Antarctica up the southwest African coast.

Some of those changes are cyclical, but others are related to global warming. In some locales, sardines have deserted hotspots to seek the cold waters they prefer. No one knows the long-term effects, said Rob Crawford, a marine scientist at South Africa’s department of marine and coastal management.

“It has to be either fishing or climate or a mixture of both,” he said of the sardine shift, “but my hunch is that it’s environmental.”

If so, it would not be the first time the bird had suffered at the hands of man. The first Europeans here wiped out the Robben Island penguin population in an orgy of egg-stealing by about 1800; the birds were reintroduced in 1983. Early settlers also scooped countless tons of penguin guano from islands to use as fertilizer, destroying the soft soil in which the birds dug their subterranean nests.

Escaped European house cats became feral and feasted on thousands of penguin chicks. Modern man dumped oil in the ocean, killing thousands more; a vast spill off Robben Island in 2000 caused a huge bird-rescue operation, saving perhaps 38,500 penguins.

Moving the penguins to where the food supply has gone is not considered a good option so far, in part because it might be hard to find a new island habitat to move them to.

In June, Mr. Crawford said, experts here plan to meet to decide whether Spheniscus, now classified as a “vulnerable” bird species, should be reclassified as endangered. Meanwhile, the bird’s supporters are trying to do their part, digging holes on Robben and other islands to plant fiberglass “igloos” that penguins turn into homes.

Once covered in soil, the igloos give the birds a cool nesting place and protect their chicks from the penguins’ nemesis, the hulking, aggressive kelp gull. Penguin lovers are seeking donations for more homes, a process explained on the Avian Demography Unit’s Web site, http://web.uct.ac.za/depts/stats/adu/dyerislandconstrust.htm

Mr. Underhill, who has disposed of all but a handful of the 100 or so feral cats on Robben Island, said the igloos are the next big thing in boosting the penguins’ chances. “The harsh reality,” he said, “ is that they have no other defense.”
105 2007-06-04 “I would hope that any candidate for president would not suggest doing nothing,” Mr. McCain plans to say. “And I would hope they wouldn’t play politics for their own interests if the cost of their ambition was to make this problem even harder to solve. To want the office so badly that you would intentionally make our country’s problems worse might prove you can read a poll or take a cheap shot, but it hardly demonstrates presidential leadership.”

“Pandering for votes on this issue, while offering no solution to the problem, amounts to doing nothing,” Mr. McCain plans to say. “And doing nothing is silent amnesty.”

Kevin Madden, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, said that Mr. McCain’s criticism reflected his desperation at holding a position unpopular with Republican primary voters.

“Opponents who favor this flawed approach are going to offer all sorts of distortions based on the fact that they cannot make a case on the substance for the bill they are advocating,” Mr. Madden said. “I think the McCain campaign is lashing out because they are feeling the political pressure and they don’t know what to do.”

The debate over the immigration bill is emerging as one of the most divisive of the campaign. The measure calls for tightening border security, creating a temporary worker program, and giving preference to new immigrants with certain education levels or jobs skills, instead of to those with family ties in the United States.

And it would provide a path for many illegal immigrants to get legal status by allowing them to apply for temporary “Z visas” and to push for more permanent status by paying fines and having the heads of households return to their countries of origin — the provision Mr. Romney and many other Republicans opposed.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor and another Republican presidential candidate, is not supporting the current the legislation either. A strong past supporter of immigration, Mr. Giuliani has developed a nuanced position on the bill, saying that while he favors creating a way for illegal immigrants to become citizens, he cannot support the measure because it does not set as its primary goal registering and tracking the people already here illegally.

But the McCain campaign has focused its criticism on Mr. Romney, arguing that he has given conflicting accounts of how he would handle immigration and even whether the bill truly offers amnesty.

With its criticism, the McCain campaign is seeking to build on the perception that Mr. Romney has changed his position on a number of crucial issues — including going from being a supporter of abortion rights to an opponent — since he stepped down as governor of Massachusetts.

The day after the Senate announced its bipartisan compromise plan, Mr. Romney became the first of the leading Republican candidates for president to condemn it as amnesty.

“One simple rule: no amnesty,” he said to applause at the South Carolina Republican convention last month. He said the current compromise, despite making illegal immigrants pay hefty fines and wait years for citizenship, was not good enough because workers could apply for visas that would allow them to stay indefinitely.

“If that is not a form of amnesty, I don’t know what is,” he said.

But now, Mr. Romney seems to be backing away from that position. While visiting Florida last week, he was asked to clarify his stance, and said he was “not really trying to define what is technically amnesty.”

While Mr. Romney has been consistent on two broad principles — the need for tighter border security and the creation of tamper-proof employee ID cards — he has not defined what he means when he says there should be no “special” pathway to citizenship, or explained exactly what he thinks should be done with the many illegal immigrants who are living and working in the United States.

Mr. Romney has said that he objects to the provision in the bill that calls for “Z visas,” which illegal immigrants would have to apply for as a first step in becoming a citizen, because he said that the visas could be endlessly renewed and there would be no incentive for people to take the next step toward citizenship.

At the same time, Mr. Romney says it is essential that all the people here illegally be registered, without explaining what kind of system he has in mind that would both encourage people to come forward and penalize them for being here illegally.

Mr. Romney’s tough line is in some ways consistent with the positions he took as governor, where he signed an executive order that gave Massachusetts state troopers the authority to arrest illegal immigrants and also to cut state aid to illegal immigrants attending college.

But as recently as 2005, Mr. Romney said he could support immigration legislation similar to what is now being proposed. (His aides say that the measure he offered tentative support to then was quite different from the current bill.)

Mr. Romney confronted Mr. McCain on immigration in the second Republican debate, citing an earlier proposal that Mr. McCain supported with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.

“My fear is that McCain-Kennedy would do to immigration what McCain-Feingold has done to campaign finance and money in politics,” he said, naming a pair of Mr. McCain’s co-sponsors who are not especially beloved by Republicans.

Mr. McCain has been an outspoken champion of the current proposal, even though his aides say he is well aware that that it is unpopular with some Republican primary voters. But Mr. McCain, who often reminds voters that he represents a border state, Arizona, plans to make it clear on Monday that he was not going to back away from the issue.

“It is a hard problem, and I understand that. But the choice is between doing something, imperfect but effective and achievable, and doing nothing,” Mr. McCain plans to say. “To do nothing now would be an unconscionable abrogation of our responsibilities to defend the security, prosperity and values of our country.”
106 2007-06-04 Sometimes a good idea becomes a great one after it is set loose.

Last October, Netflix, the online movie rental service, announced that it would award $1 million to the first person or team who can devise a system that is 10 percent more accurate than the company’s current system for recommending movies that customers would like.

About 18,000 teams from more than 150 countries — using ideas from machine learning, neural networks, collaborative filtering and data mining — have submitted more than 12,000 sets of guesses. And the improvement level to Netflix’s rating system is now at 7.42 percent.

The competition is “three-quarters of the way there in three-quarters of a year,” said Reed Hastings, the chairman and chief executive of Netflix, based in Los Gatos, Calif.

The race is very close, with no consistent front-runner. Each contestant is given a set of data from which three million predictions are made about how certain users rated certain movies. Netflix compares that list with the actual ratings and generates a score.

For several months, a team from the University of Toronto was in the lead, but a group from the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, calling themselves Team Gravity, surpassed the Canadians in January and remains in front.
107 2007-06-04 SAN FRANCISCO, June 3 — Amp’d Mobile, a niche cellphone provider aimed at the young and technologically sophisticated, has filed for bankruptcy protection.

The company said Sunday that it filed for Chapter 11 last week with the intention of revamping the business and finding new financing. It said service would not be interrupted during the process.

In a statement, Amp’d Mobile, based in Aliso Viejo, Calif., said the bankruptcy filing reflected its inability to expand its infrastructure quickly enough to meet demand.

“We are taking this step as a necessary and responsible action to sustain and strengthen our momentum in the marketplace,” it said.

The company is among a relatively new group of small cellphone providers seeking to challenge giants like Verizon Wireless and Cingular by appealing to specific audiences.
108 2007-06-04 Though her columns from Chicago refer to the trial only obliquely, in one of her most recent columns she wrote that a conviction would be a “miscarriage of justice.”

A further complication is that several weeks ago Mr. Whyte, who worked for Mr. Black for 10 years, was called as a defense witness. His testimony started Friday and is scheduled to continue today.

Mark Steyn, a Maclean’s columnist who used to work for some of Mr. Black’s newspapers, has been commenting on the trial.

Mr. Whyte said that readers of Maclean’s were informed of the potential conflicts. “When I decided to answer the subpoena I disclosed to our readers that I would appear as a witness in my capacity as a former Black employee,” Mr. Whyte said. “Ms. Amiel’s relations to the defendant have been abundantly disclosed, as has Mr. Steyn’s former employment in the Black empire.”

Mr. Whyte said that his role in the trial should not affect Maclean’s coverage, adding: “Mr. Steyn has informed me that he plans to prove his journalistic integrity by treating me twice as harshly as other witnesses.”

Mr. Steyn posted online Friday that his boss “seemed unprepared” for the cross-examination.

Maclean’s is owned by Rogers Communications and has a circulation of around 500,000.

Kelly McBride, a journalism ethics specialist at the Poynter Institute, said that this situation was not unusual in the profession, and often drew criticism from nonjournalists.

“As an outsider what you see is a sort of incestuous relationship,” she said. “People have jobs and relationships with each other, they have financial gains based on these relationships, they are all scratching each other’s backs under the guise of journalism.”

On the other hand, she said, these connections are sometimes unavoidable. “A lot of journalists marry other journalists, are children of other journalists, and it looks very suspicious to outsiders.”

She added: “The best way to judge whether one powerful person is scratching the back of another or whether you have powerful editors hiring journalists into positions that are appropriate for their skills and abilities is to look at the work itself.”

Mr. Whyte said that Maclean’s had not given Mr. Black any special treatment. “In the pretrial period,” he said, “Mr. Black sued me and Maclean’s over coverage he considered unfavorable. In fact, he’s sued two of my columnists over our coverage of his affairs.”
109 2007-06-04 In Batson, the court recognized an exception to the general rule that peremptory challenges are completely discretionary. Race, the court said, cannot be the reason.

But all a prosecutor needs to do if challenged by the defense about the rationale for striking a prospective juror is to offer a neutral explanation. That reason, the Supreme Court has said, does not have to be “persuasive, or even plausible.” Here is one reason the court found sufficient: a prosecutor did not care for a potential juror’s long hair, mustache and beard.

That is a very different standard from the one courts use in evaluating requests to remove jurors for cause. If lawyers can persuade a judge that a juror will not be able to hear and weigh the evidence in a case fairly and impartially, that juror ought to be removed.

No one is suggesting changes there. It is peremptory challenges — the ones that do not require a judge’s blessing, the ones that can be based on a hunch — that exist uneasily with the goal of driving racial discrimination from the justice system.

The promise of the Batson case has certainly proved to be an empty one in Jefferson Parish.

According to a 2003 report of the Louisiana Crisis Assistance Center, which studied 390 felony jury trials in the parish from 1994 to 2002, the district attorney’s office used peremptory strikes to remove eligible black jurors three times as often as white ones.

In the two decades since Batson, there have been 20 murder trials in Jefferson Parish that ended in death sentences. Information about the race of the jurors is available in 18 of them.

Because the parish is 23 percent black, according to the 2000 census, you might expect to see about 3 black jurors on each 12-member panel. But of the 18 juries, 10 had no black members. Seven had one. One had two. None had three.

“Not one,” said Richard Bourke, the acting director of the center, “gets to what should be the average.”

From death row, Mr. Snyder has asked the United States Supreme Court to hear his case. It is his second trip to the court, which has already once sent the case back to the Louisiana Supreme Court with the instruction that it take a hard look at how jury selection had been conducted.

The original vote in the Louisiana Supreme Court, in 1999, was 5 to 2 against Mr. Snyder.

The nudge from the United States Supreme Court caused the author of the original decision to switch sides, but the vote in September was still 4 to 3 against Mr. Snyder.

In a brief filed last month, Paul D. Connick Jr., the district attorney of Jefferson Parish, urged the United States Supreme Court to let the latest decision stand. Mr. Connick blandly recited what he called race-neutral reasons for striking every single black potential juror.

The invocation of O. J. Simpson’s acquittal, Mr. Connick wrote of one of the most racially divisive verdicts in the history of American law, “was not racial.”

In 2005, the Supreme Court tried to give Batson some practical force, overturning the conviction of Thomas Miller-El after prosecutors in Texas excluded 91 percent of potential black jurors. “The strikes correlate with no fact as well as they correlate with race,” Justice David H. Souter wrote for the court.

In Mr. Snyder’s case, of course, that number was 100 percent.

In Batson itself, Justice Thurgood Marshall wrote that the decision “will not end the racial discrimination that peremptories inject into the jury selection process.” That goal, he said, “can be accomplished only by eliminating peremptory challenges entirely.”

Two years ago, in the Miller-El case, Justice Stephen G. Breyer appeared to endorse that view, saying that “peremptory challenges seem increasingly anomalous in our judicial system.” Justice Breyer noted that England has eliminated peremptory challenges but “continues to administer fair trials based largely on random jury selection.”

Peremptory strikes are an odd and arbitrary historical artifact. Unlike equal protection, they are not guaranteed by the Constitution, and in capital cases — where race matters most — they would not be missed.
110 2007-06-04 PALM SELLS 25% STAKE -- Palm, the struggling hand-held device company that makes the Treo, reached a deal to sell a quarter of the company to Elevation Partners, a private equity firm, for about $325 million. [Page C1.]    A FRENZY FOR IPHONE -- I...
111 2007-06-04 Senator John McCain is ramping up his counterattack against Mitt Romney by accusing him of ''pandering for votes'' in opposing the immigration bill.   PAGE A14...
112 2007-06-05 Virginia Tech takes another step towards moving on....
113 2007-06-05 For years European industry has fought off the idea that companies should buy permits to pollute under the EU's program for complying with the Kyoto Protocol. Industry seemed to have a strong argument: The European economy was lagging the United S...
114 2007-06-05 Can an American reclaim the Coveted Nathan's Famous Mustard Yellow International Belt?...
115 2007-06-05 Left, Ralph Lauren escorts Oprah Winfrey into the New York Public Library where the awards ceremony was held (Getty Images). Center, Kate Bosworth (AP Photo); right, Claire Danes (AP Photo). Oscar de la Renta looked mildly stunned last night when ...
116 2007-06-05 The Children's Investment Fund, the activist hedge fund whose demands put Dutch bank ABN Amro in play, is scouring Japan for deals but sees its struggle to raise the dividend at Japanese electric power wholesaler J-Power as a test case for further...
117 2007-06-05 American Express is expected to sell its private banking business within a matter of weeks, according to Reuters, in a sale that could fetch between $1 billion to $2 billion for the credit card and travel services company. "The sale of American Ex...
118 2007-06-05 Microstock sites charge far less, and, with few exceptions, buyers pay a flat fee, no matter how large the image is or where it is used.

“Maybe a $300 photo for a pamphlet distributed to 300 people is not worth $300,” said Jon Oringer, the founder of Shutterstock (www.shutterstock.com), a four-year-old microstock agency.

Shutterstock customers, who pay a monthly subscription fee beginning at $199, can download up to 25 pictures a day of the site’s 1.8 million photos, at any resolution. For those who download the maximum, that amounts to 27 cents per shot. Shutterstock photographers are paid 25 cents for a purchased picture; the price rises to 30 cents once $500 worth of their work is bought.

In addition to Shutterstock, other microstock photo agencies include Big Stock Photo (bigstockphoto.com), Fotolia (fotolia.com), Dreamstime (dreamstime.com) and iStockphoto (istockphoto.com).

Each uses a different pricing and payment scheme; photographers have the option to upload the same pictures on multiple sites or, with some of the agencies, become an exclusive supplier for an increased commission. There is no fee to post photos on a microstock site.

Whether the varying approaches matter to customers and photographers is an open question. “The differences to consumers appear to be incremental,” said Bruce Livingstone, who founded an early microstock site, iStockphoto, in 2000.

Microstock sites do not accept all comers or all photographs. Each employs a team of inspectors who check every picture submitted for technical quality, as well as artistic and commercial merit.

Shots of dogs and cats are generally not welcome, while “lifestyle” photographs — pictures of people at work and play — are usually top sellers. Other subjects of interest include food, sports and fashion.

Getting photos accepted for a site is just one part of the battle. Potential buyers can find shots by browsing through a collection and its categories, or by searching using a keyword that describes what they want.

The photographer creates the keywords; most sites have no restrictions on how many, though Fotolia had to stop some photographers who were adding every keyword under the sun in the hopes that someone would stumble upon the shot.

Keeping one’s pictures confined to one site may not be a good idea, if the site attracts few customers, or becomes known for specializing in pictures of sheep while you are hoping to sell shots of toothpaste.

“We did not want to limit the ability of photographers to earn money,” said Tim Donahue, the founder of Big Stock Photo, which does not offer exclusivity.

Some photographers say exclusivity works. The same picture on multiple sites may have different prices. By being exclusive photographers can more easily trace those who might be misusing their work, either by using an image — on, say, a coffee mug — without buying rights to it or by stealing a concept they like, recreating a photograph and selling it as their own.

Those who are doing well selling their work on microstock sites have done their homework: they have figured out what type of photographs a site specializes in, what types of pictures sell and whether the commission is sufficient.

Lise Gagné of Quebec specializes in business shots, one of the most popular genres. Ms. Gagné, who has been shooting commercially for five years, earns more than $100,000 a year selling her work exclusively through iStockphoto.

“I like iStock’s sharing spirit,” Ms. Gagné said, referring to the extensive discussion groups and other client aides the site provides. “It’s a matter of being fair. You don’t have to go elsewhere.”

Because volume matters in microstock sales, a large number of shots must be uploaded. Ms. Gagné currently has 4,900 photographs available for sale on the site and adds 5 to 20 more each week.

Kelly Cline, a Seattle-based food photographer, has uploaded 1,363 images to iStockphoto, and her work has been bought 68,215 times. Significant payments began to arrive once she had 500 to 600 images in her portfolio, Ms. Cline said, adding, “If you upload more, it’s like shooting arrows in the air.”

Ms. Cline, a former food stylist, began shooting food four years ago. At first, she photographed her own work and then began uploading her material to iStockphoto.

Today, she said, she earns about $70,000 a year, 60 percent of her income, from microstock sales, and she remains an exclusive provider to iStockphoto.

But Stephen Coburn, a Web designer at Adobe Systems who began photography a few years ago as a hobby, said he would never use one microstock site exclusively. “I’d feel nervous about putting all my eggs in one basket,” he said.

Mr. Coburn supplies shots to five microstock sites, shooting people, objects and interiors. With 3,500 photos posted to the sites, he earns, on average, $6,000 per month.

Michael Shake, a tool-and-die maker in Toledo, Ohio, uploads pictures to 10 sites and earns $1,000 a month for his work. Specializing in shots of houses and new cars, he sells his work to real estate agents and car dealers looking for appropriate illustrations.

When a tire accessory manufacturer saw his work, he hired Mr. Shake to shoot an advertisement, shipping a tire to his home for the shot. “All I wanted was to earn enough money for new equipment,” Mr. Shake said. “It’s gone way past that.”

Not everyone is enamored with microstock Web sites. Professional photographers see the sites’ growth as diluting their own incomes.

“This is the death of beautiful photography,” said David Skernick, a professional photographer in Los Angeles who does not use the sites. Because of the low prices and large volumes of material, “now clients accept anything.”

Mr. Skernick has seen the value of his own work decrease, from a time when photographs were priced not just on their merit but on their intended use. He said he once sold a photograph that was used on a Brian Wilson album cover for $2,000. “Today I would get $2 for the same use,” he said.

Still, railing against the sites is about as useful as hoping cellphones will go away and phone booths will make a comeback.

“Every month, my income from microstock sales gets better,” Ms. Cline said. “You have to go with it or be left behind. Otherwise you’ll be saying, ‘Woe is me.’ ”
119 2007-06-05 After largely ignoring the Chinese stock market’s troubles through Monday, stock markets began to dip this morning in Hong Kong, South Korea, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and India.

The losses were modest in each case, however. A broad measure of Thailand’s market showed the heaviest loss, down 1 percent by the early afternoon. In Japan, the Nikkei index bucked the trend and eked out a gain of 0.31 percent by early afternoon.

The Chinese government authorized the creation of four funds that will be allowed to raise up to $1.3 billion each from investors for the purchase of stocks, the official China Daily newspaper reported on its Web site today. Other state-controlled newspapers also published articles suggesting that investors focus on potential long-term gains.

By the end of the day, with the Chinese market rising again, most Asian markets were posting gains. Share prices climbed 0.54 percent for the day in Hong Kong, while the Nikkei 225 index rose 0.45 percent in Tokyo.

Investor reaction outside China to the sharp drop and considerable volatility of Chinese shares since last Wednesday — when the government tripled its tax on share transactions — has been fairly muted.

This is in contrast to the declines in markets around the world when Chinese shares suddenly fell 9 percent on Feb. 27.

Jing Ulrich, the chairwoman of China equities at J.P. Morgan, said that the difference was that the Japanese yen was strengthening in late February, so investors were already looking then for holdings to sell so that they could repay money they had borrowed in yen.

For the past week, however, the yen has been fairly weak, so investors have been less eager to sell their assets in response to the Chinese market’s difficulties, Ms. Ulrich said.

The Chinese government is also likely to prevent stocks from falling too far because that could risk antagonizing many citizens already upset by the steep rise in the price of pork and other meats this year, she added.

Most economists and market analysts continue to maintain that the drop in China’s stock market is unlikely to affect the powerful Chinese economy.

If the Chinese economy stays strong and continues to take in a lot of imports from its Asian neighbors then these neighbors’ economies could also prove resilient.

Qu Hongbin, an economist at HSBC, wrote in a research note today that China’s economic growth depends mainly on fixed asset investment, and Chinese companies only depend on the stock market for 6 percent of the outside money they raise to pay for these investments.

Many Chinese companies are so profitable, moreover, that they barely need outside financing and can make investments with the cash they generate from current operations.

The sharp rise in the Chinese stock market this spring also seems to have done little to stimulate consumer spending by families with gains on their share holdings, so a reversal of the market should not be much of a drag on consumer spending, Mr. Qu said.
120 2007-06-05 NEW HAVEN, June 4 — The Board of Aldermen on Monday night made municipal identification cards available to illegal immigrants, in what city officials said was the first such program in the nation. The measure was approved by a vote of 25 to 1.

City officials and immigrant rights advocates said they hoped the cards would give immigrants better access to city services and help the police confirm their identities should they become targets of crime. Last year, a number of illegal immigrants told community service agencies they had been robbed of cash, but said they were worried about telling the authorities for fear of being deported.

The cards, which will include an official photograph and city imprint, will be available to all residents, regardless of immigration status, and the city is placing special emphasis on issuing them to children, college students and people 65 and older, as well as immigrants without green cards. Immigrant rights advocates and city officials began developing plans for the card last year, and New Haven planned to begin issuing them in July.

In an effort to attract residents to the program, the city is placing a magnetic strip on the back of the cards, which, when swiped, would deduct money from a prepaid account to pay for parking at meters, as well as goods at about 50 restaurants and stores in New Haven.

“The last thing we want is to create what will be an easy giveaway about who amongst us has status and who doesn’t,” said Kica Matos, the community affairs director for the city, who spearheaded the effort. “So we had to make sure that we have a card that has wide appeal.”

While the cards have provoked outrage from anti-immigrant groups around the state, few in New Haven have voiced concern. The program has received national attention, and Ms. Matos said lawmakers from New York City and Dutchess County, N.Y., have contacted her about setting up similar programs.
121 2007-06-05 In an interview, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the senior Republican on the Judiciary Committee, said after the first of the two rulings Monday that the decision raised significant issues and could prompt Congress to re-evaluate the legal rights of detainees, including Congress’s decision last year to revoke the rights of detainees to file habeas corpus suits to challenge their detentions.

“The sense I have is that there’s an unease, an uncomfortable sense about the whole Guantánamo milieu,” Mr. Specter said, adding, “There’s just a sense of too many shortcuts in the whole process.”

Whatever the ultimate legal ramifications of Monday’s rulings, they are another in a string of unexpected detours in the government’s five-year effort to establish a special legal system for trying foreign terrorism suspects. The current commission system was approved by Congress after the Supreme Court last June struck down the administration’s first plan for holding war crimes trials.

The military judges said Congress authorized the bringing of war-crimes charges against detainees who had been declared by military tribunals to be “unlawful enemy combatants.” But they said the tribunals held at Guantánamo, known as combatant status review tribunals, or C.S.R.T.’s, had determined only that the detainees were enemy combatants, without making the added determination that their participation was “unlawful.”

The international law of war defines unlawful combatants as fighters who, for example, do not wear military uniforms and conceal their weapons.

Monday’s rulings came in the cases of the only Canadian detainee, Omar Ahmed Khadr, and a Yemeni detainee, Salim Ahmed Hamdan. Mr. Hamdan’s appeal of a prior effort to prosecute him led to a Supreme Court decision last June in which the justices struck down the administration’s first system for war-crimes trials.

The military judge in Mr. Hamdan’s case, Capt. Keith Allred of the Navy, said the Pentagon had failed to obtain the necessary enemy combatant classification of Mr. Hamdan, who is accused of being the Qaeda driver for Osama bin Laden.

Mr. Hamdan’s longtime military lawyer, Lt. Cmdr. Charles Swift said that, though his client was unlikely to obtain freedom because of the decision, “It was once again a victory for the rule of law.”

The judge in Mr. Khadr’s case, Peter E. Brownback III, an Army colonel, said since the detainee had not been declared an unlawful enemy combatant, the military court did not have jurisdiction over the case and the proceedings could not continue. “A person has a right to be tried only by a court which he knows has jurisdiction over him,” Judge Brownback said from the bench in the military courtroom here.

Mr. Khadr, who was 15 when he was captured in Afghanistan, is charged with killing an American soldier, spying, supporting terrorism and other charges.

The White House declined on Monday night to comment on the decisions. Beth G. Kubala, an Army major who is the spokeswoman for the Office of Military Commissions at the Pentagon, said that the day’s ruling demonstrated that the military judges operated independently. But she suggested that the military did not view the double defeat as paralyzing to its prosecutions of war crimes.

“The public should make no assumptions,” Ms. Kubala said, “about the future of military commissions.”

A Pentagon statement said: “We believe that Congress intended to grant jurisdiction under the Military Commissions Act to individuals, like Mr. Khadr, who are being held as enemy combatants under existing C.S.R.T. procedures.”

But Mr. Specter said it was “dead wrong” to assert that Congress intended to permit prosecution of detainees who had not been declared unlawful enemy combatants.

So far, three detainees have been charged with war crimes under the law passed last year, including Mr. Khadr and Mr. Hamdan. The third detainee, David Hicks, pleaded guilty earlier this year and was sent to his native Australia. Prosecutors have said they may file such war crimes charges against about 80 of the 380 detainees here.

Under directives from President Bush and senior Defense Department officials, military officials here have held detainees after finding simply that they were “enemy combatants.”

Those procedures have long drawn criticism, with some opponents of administration policies saying they appeared to ignore principles of the international law of war, which sanctions the violence of battle without classifying it as a war crime.

The military could repair the problem raised by the judges Monday by holding new combatant status review hearings to determine if each of the detainees slated for war-crimes charges was an unlawful combatant.

But the chief military defense lawyer here, Col. Dwight Sullivan of the Marines, said he viewed the decision as having broad impact because it underscored what he and other critics have described as a commission process that lacks international legitimacy and legal authority.

“How much more evidence do we need that the military commission process doesn’t work?” asked Colonel Sullivan.

Some experts on military law said the new tangle of legal challenges would almost certainly cause extensive delays at a time when the administration has been pressing to show that its legal proceedings at Guantánamo were moving forward.

David W. Glazier, a retired Navy commander who is an associate professor at the Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said it would be cumbersome for the military to get new determinations that the detainees were unlawful combatants.

“All the individuals that the government wants to charge will have to go through the C.S.R.T. process again,” Mr. Glazier said.

Some legal experts said subjecting the detainees to new combatant status hearings could create additional problems for the administration. The combatant status panels have been among the most criticized features of the Pentagon’s legal system here, in part because detainees are not permitted lawyers and are not allowed to see much of the evidence against them.

In a recent case in federal appeals court in Washington, the Justice Department acknowledged that in some cases, Pentagon officials disagreed with findings from combatant status panels that detainees were not enemy combatants. In some of those cases new hearings were ordered and those detainees were determined to be enemy combatants after all.
122 2007-06-05 A federal appeals court opened the way for the state to resume executing inmates, ruling that the state’s lethal injection procedure is not cruel and unusual punishment. The case, filed on behalf of a condemned killer, Michael Taylor, had effectively halted executions in the state since early last year. A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit found “no evidence to indicate that any of the last six inmates executed suffered any unnecessary pain,” according to its ruling.
123 2007-06-05 TRENTON, June 4 (AP) — A state ethics panel dismissed complaints against seven Republican lawmakers on Monday, saying that the state budget abuses of which they were accused happened too long ago even to be considered.

The Joint Legislative Committee on Ethical Standards voted 12 to 1 to dismiss the complaints charging four Republican state senators and three assemblymen with violating state ethics rules in 2000 and 2001, far beyond the panel’s two-year statute of limitations.

When complaints are received, they must state a cause of action within the past two years, said Albert Porroni, the executive director of the Office of Legislative Services.

“The committee determined that this was outside the two-year statute, and voted to dismiss,” he said.

The complaints, filed by two Democratic Party county chairmen, charged the Republicans with securing budget grants known as Christmas tree items — items added to the state budget by legislators at the last minute without public review — for hospitals, fire companies and other groups to which they or family members had personal ties.

The Democrats, Richard J. Perr of Burlington County and Elia A. Pelios of Somerset County, expressed outrage that questions raised about state budget grants had not extended to the time before 2004 when Republicans controlled the Legislature.
124 2007-06-05 The post-2012 changes might give the European Commission greater power to impose overall caps on national governments. At present it must approve the allocations that each member country makes for its biggest polluters.

The acknowledgment of a shift comes before a visit by President Bush this week to the Group of 8 summit meeting in the German resort of Heiligendamm, where leaders are expected to debate the systems that nations and businesses should adopt to combat climate change.

Mr. Bush said last week that he would resist adopting a European-style system of allotting and trading pollution permits, a setup framed by the Kyoto climate treaty that aimed to cap the total amount of carbon dioxide released by companies.

But several countries have adopted similar systems, and some big American companies have urged a European-style solution. Additionally, a group of chief executives from large companies in the energy sector called Monday for establishing a global carbon market.

Europeans took an early lead in efforts to curb global warming by championing the Kyoto Protocol and then by establishing the largest carbon management system in the world to meet its requirements. The two-year-old system involves complicated quotas that cap carbon dioxide emissions from thousands of factories across the trade bloc.

Defenders of the European system say that it still is in its infancy.

“What’s important is Europe’s experimental approach,” Tom Wilbanks, a climate scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, said. “Aspects of the European system that work will be exported widely,” he said, adding that European boldness will “help people avoid repeating the same mistakes.”

Others, including Lawrence Summers, the former president of Harvard, argue that Europe has embarked on a project that needs a major overhaul. So far, progress in Europe has been modest when compared with international commitments.

In the 15 European countries that signed up to common Kyoto targets, the overall decline in emissions was about 2 percent by 2005 compared with 1990 levels, said Andreas Barkman, the project manager for greenhouse gases at the European Environment Agency. The Kyoto goal is 8 percent.

Last year, Europe was forced to cut the number of credits it hands out after companies successfully lobbied governments, flooding the market. Certain sectors like steel benefited from over-allocations by selling excess credits.

Electricity producers like E.On and RWE in Germany and Vattenfall, the Swedish energy company, also benefited from free allowances, by passing on costs to their customers, according to Jos Sijm, a senior economist at the Energy Research Center of the Netherlands, who tracks the issue.

“The first phase definitely did not deliver reductions in emissions,” said Mahi Sideridou, the European Union climate policy director for Greenpeace in Brussels.

In the United States, General Motors, Duke Energy and others have lined up in favor of European-style quotas, leading many environmentalists and experts to question whether these companies would be required to do enough to change their business practices in ways that create an effective transition to a cleaner environment.

“The concern in the United States is that the caps would be set too low, and in that case companies would get off easy,” Peter Haas, a professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said.
125 2007-06-05 But government officials deny the claims of interference. Muhammad Saleem, head of public relations and media at the agency that regulates the media, the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority, said the government had nothing to do with stopping transmission of news channels. “There is a dispute between the cable operators and media channels,” Mr. Saleem said. “We have no hand in this. We ourselves don’t know what the issues between them are.”

The moves against the television channels and Monday’s decree appear to be the president’s latest tactics in containing the political fallout from the suspension of the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who has not shied away from challenging the government. The chief justice’s dismissal has added to growing calls for change after seven and a half years of military rule by General Musharraf, who seized power in a coup.

The news media have given prominent coverage to the chief justice and to the lawyers, judges and opposition political parties around the country who have rallied behind him in his refusal to accept dismissal.

But on Friday, the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority reminded all television channels that live coverage of political events was not permitted by law. As a result, private media channels did not provide live coverage of the chief justice’s speech on Sunday in Abbottabad or of the political rallies timed to the visit at which protesters chanted against the president.

The increasing pressure on the news media threatens to undo one of General Musharraf’s accomplishments: allowing some of Pakistan’s media to be free from state control. More than 45 independent television channels have sprung up under his rule. Since the news media have aired growing criticism of his dismissal of the chief justice, he has argued that he supports free media but that news organizations should show responsibility.

The president issued Monday’s decree, it said, because Parliament is not in session and “circumstances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action.”

In an interview on Monday, Imran Aslam, president of GEO TV, called the government’s claims that the transmission blockage was due to disagreements between television channels and cable operators “convenient, to put it mildly.” He said live coverage of political events was becoming unacceptable for the government because it “takes in slogans, fiery speeches and rhetoric.”

“News channels were asked to resort to recorded coverage and self-censorship,” Mr. Aslam said. “It was O.K.; we live in an imperfect world.” But he said that his channel’s coverage had been balanced, and that he thought the government should be able to accept at least some criticism of the type it faced on television talk shows.

Mr. Masood, the GEO talk show host, said in a telephone interview Monday that his show was blocked Sunday evening as soon as it went on the air. He said he also had received anonymous threatening phone calls and that government officials had told his bosses to put him on paid leave to stop his program. In the show that was to be broadcast Sunday night, his guests — who took part by telephone — included a former army chief, a ruling party politician, and a retired judge, all of whom criticized the government of General Musharraf over its handling of the current legal and political crisis.

Mr. Masood said that the Jang Group, which owns GEO TV, refused to bow to the government pressure and that he had no plans to go on a paid leave.

Two other channels, Aaj and ARY-One, have reported intermittent blockage of their transmissions since March 9, when the judge was suspended. Mushtaq Minhas, Aaj’s chief national reporter, said transmission was blocked in most parts of the country starting Friday, except for a brief period on Sunday. ARY-One faced similar transmission blocks over the weekend, according to the Pakistani news media.

On Monday, about 200 journalists, lawyers and opposition politicians protested boisterously outside the office of the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority here in Islamabad, the capital.

“PEMRA and the government are fully behind the ban,” Aroosa Alam, vice president of the Rawalpindi-Islamabad Press Club, was quoted as saying by Agence France-Presse. “We have won our freedom after a long struggle and nobody can take it back.”

As an active justice, Mr. Chaudhry took cases involving “forced disappearances” — people believed to have been taken by intelligence agencies without due process.

In addition, several politically charged cases are likely to come before the high court soon, including one challenging the legality of General Musharraf’s holding the posts of both president and chief of the army, and one on whether the present Parliament can re-elect him president.
126 2007-06-05 Images of kidnapped Westerners and attacks against American troops have frequently been used for propaganda purposes by insurgents. The videotape released Monday was significant largely because it was less graphic than usual and contained little evidence that those who produced it actually held the two soldiers captive or had killed them.

Its limited scope and its appearance nearly a month after the May 12 attack seemed to confirm what some American military commanders have suspected all along: that the insurgents are seeking to drag out the process of discovery, to deny closure to the families of the missing soldiers and the thousands of American and Iraqi troops who have been searching for them since the day they disappeared.

The undated videotape was made available to reporters by the SITE Institute, which tracks jihadist Web sites. Of the nearly 11 minutes of videotape, the only portion that would seem to correspond to the attack shows what appears to be a burning Humvee, videotaped from far away at night for a few seconds.

Military officials said two Humvees were burned in the attack, which occurred before dawn near Yusifiya, a Sunni stronghold about 15 miles south of the capital. But the videotape does not show the three captured soldiers or the five soldiers killed during the ambush, one of whom was an Iraqi.

The body of the third captured soldier, Pfc. Joseph J. Anzack Jr., was found in the Euphrates River on May 23.

What the videotape displays is a group of masked men apparently planning the ambush using a diagram pinned to a tree. Personal items that appear to belong to the soldiers are also shown, including a pistol, credit cards and American and Iraqi money.

At the end, the videotape shows a still image of both sides of the photo identifications of Specialist Jimenez and Private Fouty.

Above the photos, written in Arabic, was the message, “Bush is the reason for the loss of your sons.”

The videotape repeatedly mocks the American military for being unable to find the three soldiers. Despite the deployment of 4,000 American troops, it said, “they failed.”

“No one will be held responsible for what happened to the three soldiers,” the narrator said, “except the American Army and its leaders and politicians, who degrade all of mankind and do not care for the feelings of the three soldiers’ mothers.”

The release of the videotape coincided with the announcement of a complex attack on Sunday on a unit from the same division as the captured soldiers. The assault wounded eight Americans at a small patrol base southeast of Baghdad, the American military said in a statement. It involved a car bomb, small arms fire and mortar fire, the statement said.

That attack — like the one on May 12 — highlighted the risks that have come with sending soldiers to smaller bases as part of the new counterinsurgency plan for securing Iraq. May was the third worst month for American deaths since the start of the war in March 2003, and commanders have acknowledged that attacks from insurgents have grown more sophisticated.

On Monday, new details emerged about the high-profile kidnapping last week of five Britons from a government building in Baghdad.

The American commander in Iraq, Gen. David H. Petraeus, said Monday that gunmen responsible for the attack were most likely part of the same militant Shiite cell whose leader was killed last month by an American Special Operations unit after he was implicated in the deaths of five American soldiers in Karbala in January.

The suspected Shiite cell leader, Sheikh Azhar al-Duleimi, was killed during a firefight in Baghdad on May 17, officers said.

In a brief interview, General Petraeus suggested that retaliation for the killing of Mr. Duleimi may have been the motivation for the abduction of the Britons, who were seized from a Ministry of Finance compound in Baghdad on May 29 by gunmen dressed as police commandos.

“There is a pretty good chance they are from the cell whose leader, Azhar al-Duleimi, we killed a few weeks back,” General Petraeus said. “He was the individual who led the raid who killed our soldiers in Karbala.”

He said he believed that the cell was one of the many splinter groups that have broken away from the Mahdi Army militia of the anti-American cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.

Mortar shells hit the Green Zone and several other neighborhoods of the capital on Monday, killing at least one person, an Interior Ministry official said. Three roadside bombs in Baghdad killed at least three people and wounded more than a dozen.

The authorities collected 28 bodies throughout the city.
127 2007-06-05 warn him he will be electrocuted if he falls

The issue reached a critical point on Monday at a hearing before the County Legislature’s Government Services Committee, a body not previously known as a literary or foreign policy forum.

Members of the Republican minority quickly voiced outrage at the selection of Mr. Wheat, accusing him of attacking American soldiers, a charge he denied.

“He does not represent me, he does not represent veterans,” said Legislator Dennis Dunne, a former marine. “I won’t put up with it. My son left just yesterday for Iraq.”

Paula Camacho, chairwoman of the panel that nominated Mr. Wheat, noted that he was also a former marine, but that did not mollify the critics. She was one of more than a dozen poetry fans at the hearing, who all spoke on Mr. Wheat’s behalf.

Another Republican legislator, Norma Gonsalves, said she was not being political and was not taking a position on the war, “but we want to support our troops.” She said the Legislature wanted a poet to celebrate Long Island’s beauty.

Ms. Camacho said that 90 percent of Mr. Wheat’s poems are about nature and that while he opposes the war, he also supports the troops. “What happened to freedom of speech?” she asked.

Mr. Dunne replied, “He can say whatever he wants, but not to represent me.”

A Democratic legislator, David Denenberg, said that what had started as “a feel-good law to have a poet laureate” had lapsed into “arguments, bickering and divisiveness.”

When Mr. Wheat himself rose to speak, he quoted from his prepared acceptance speech, saying he had intended “to make Nassau County an open classroom for poetry” to explore “the meaning you feel, the meaning you find in the poem.” Inadvertently, he suggested, that had already been accomplished, since “there has been a very serious discussion of poetry” at the hearing.

In the end, the committee voted 6 to 1 against the designation. It is unclear what, if anything, the selection panel would do next, or whether the county would continue its search for a poet laureate.

The only legislator to cast a supporting vote, Wayne Wink, a Democrat, said that although he did not agree with everything Mr. Wheat had written, he had been nominated fair and square.

After all the turmoil, “I apologize to poets everywhere,” Mr. Wink said. “I’m beginning to appreciate why poets are not celebrated till after their deaths.”
128 2007-06-05 President Bush’s latest appeals court nominee, Leslie Southwick, has a disturbing history of insensitivity to blacks and other minority groups. The Senate should reject this nomination and make clear to the White House that it will reject all future nominees who do not meet the high standards of fairness that are essential for such important posts.

A non-negotiable quality for judicial nominees is that they must be committed to equal justice. Judge Southwick, whom President Bush has nominated for a seat on the New Orleans-based United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, repeatedly failed this test as a Mississippi state court judge.

He clearly failed the test when he ruled for a social worker who was rightfully fired for calling a black colleague “a good ole nigger.” Judge Southwick is known for siding with employers over employees — but not in this case. In his ruling, he revealed a thorough lack of understanding of the odious impact of such language when he accepted the social worker’s claim that the use of the slur was “not motivated out of racial hatred or animosity directed toward her co-worker or toward blacks in general.” Judge Southwick did not even vote to direct the state to consider a penalty short of firing, as the Mississippi Supreme Court later did.

And he failed the test when he joined a majority opinion that denied a bisexual mother custody of her child. Adding insult to injury, he joined a concurring opinion that went on to berate the mother for her “decision to participate in a homosexual relationship” and reminded her that one of the consequences of her “exertion of her perceived right” was that she might lose her child.

The Magnolia Bar Association, an association of black Mississippi lawyers founded when the state bar was restricted to whites, has urged the Senate to reject the nomination, saying, “We question whether Judge Southwick will properly enforce the law when it comes to the rights of those who are unpopular and who are marginalized by the political process.” They are right. After his performance as a state court judge, it would be hard for a black person with a discrimination case, or a gay person with a family law issue, to have any confidence that Judge Southwick would treat them fairly.

Judge Southwick’s judicial record also shows the usual pattern of President Bush’s judicial nominees: insensitivity toward workers, consumers and people injured by corporations. The federal appeals courts are already overloaded with judges who hold these biases.
129 2007-06-05 “China is not going to act in any sort of mandatory-control way until the United States does first,” said Joseph Kruger, policy director for the National Commission on Energy Policy, a bipartisan group in Washington.

Along with India and other large developing countries, China has long maintained that the established industrial powers need to act first because they built their wealth largely by burning fossil fuels and adding to the atmosphere’s blanket of greenhouse gases.

“Our general stance is that China will not commit to any quantified emissions reduction targets, but that does not mean we will not assume responsibilities in responding to climate change,” said Ma Kai, head of China’s powerful economic planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission.

The report unveiled by Mr. Ma emphasizes trying to control greenhouse gas emissions by improving energy efficiency by 20 percent by 2010. But, in broad terms, the plan merely restates Beijing’s position that mandatory emissions caps are unfair to China and other developing countries still trying to modernize and improve living standards.

China, with the world’s fastest-growing major economy, had been projected to surpass the United States by 2009 or 2010 as the world’s biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide, which scientists say cause global warming. But China’s coal-based, high-polluting economy is growing so rapidly that the chief economist for the International Energy Agency is now predicting the country could become the global emissions leader as soon as this year.

Fatih Birol, the agency’s chief economist, warned that China must begin curbing its current rate of emissions. If not, he predicted that within 25 years China’s output of carbon dioxide emissions could amount to twice the combined emissions of the world’s richest nations — including the United States, members of the European Union and Japan.

At his news conference on Monday, Mr. Ma applauded Mr. Bush’s proposal but emphasized that any effort in Washington should complement, not replace, the existing framework, including the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, sponsored by the United Nations. Under the Kyoto Protocol, participating industrialized nations are subjected to caps on carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, while developing countries, including China and India, are exempt.

The Bush administration rejected the agreement because of those exemptions, and said the cuts would harm its economy.

Mr. Ma stressed that as a latecomer to industrialization, China had produced only a small fraction of the world’s greenhouse gases, and that its current per capita emissions equaled a small fraction of the rate in the United States.

Mr. Birol, the I.E.A. economist, agreed that the developed world was responsible for the bulk of emissions and should play a leading role in finding a solution. But he said that no plan could succeed without a major role for China and that making distinctions between “total emissions” and “per capita emissions” obscured the larger point.

“The atmosphere does not make a distinction if it is cumulative or a per capita emission,” Mr. Birol said in a telephone interview. “Either way, it is a problem for all of us.”

The centerpiece of China’s approach to controlling emissions is an existing plan that calls for a 20 percent improvement in energy efficiency between 2006 and 2010. Mr. Ma noted that China had passed new laws on environmental protection and energy efficiency, and that factories across the country were beginning to improve. He said fiscal and tax policies were being revised to reward clean industry and punish high-polluting factories.

But given China’s high economic growth rate, the energy efficiency program would, at best, slow increases in emissions rather than reduce them. And it is far from certain that China will be able to meet the 20 percent goal. Under the plan, China should have netted a 4 percent reduction in 2006 in the amount of energy needed to generate each unit of gross domestic product. Instead, environmental officials announced earlier this year that the country had failed to meet that goal.

China is heavily dependent on coal, which currently accounts for about 68 percent of its energy. Under the climate change program, China is planning a major expansion of nuclear power, as well as renewable energy sources. The plan calls for renewable energy to account for 10 percent of the country’s power supply by 2010. China is also in the midst of a nationwide reforestation program to help absorb greenhouse gases.

Jonathan Lash, president of the World Resources Institute, said that while it was clear that China was aware of looming climate risks, the central government lacked the legal structures and institutions to enforce a mandatory emissions cap.

“The central government can’t control what gets built,” he said, noting the example of illegal factories for making coke used by the steel industry that were closed and repeatedly reopened.

James L. Connaughton, the lead White House official on the environment, said last week that a central goal of the Bush administration’s new plan is to reach out to China, India, Korea and other fast-growing Asian countries to help eliminate barriers to emissions cuts, including the high tariffs China now charges on imported pollution-controlling technology.

In return, he said, wealthy countries could offer developing countries new energy technologies created with government research money at a discount.

Mr. Connaughton said that one vital tool, particularly given China’s exploding use of coal, would be the development of systems for capturing carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas from burning fuel, and pumping it underground.

“China will use four times more coal than the United States by the end of 2020,” he said. “We have to accelerate producing power from coal without emissions.”
130 2007-06-05 The war strategies of Mr. Taylor are said to have also caused the deaths of several hundred thousand people in his home country, where he became president in 1997 after leading a guerrilla army, but any crimes in Liberia are not within the mandate of this court. His forces often consisted of child soldiers, who the prosecution said had been indoctrinated and incited through the use of drugs.

Mr. Taylor, the first African head of state to be brought to trial before an international court, faces 11 counts of crimes against humanity and war crimes, committed during the Sierra Leone civil war, which lasted from 1991 to 2002.

The long-awaited start of the trial was briefly taken up by procedural wrangling in which the defense lawyer, Karim Khan, and the presiding judge, Julia Subutinde of Uganda, sparred over Mr. Taylor’s absence. Mr. Khan walked out, saying Mr. Taylor had “terminated” his relations with him, even though the judge repeatedly ordered him to stay.

As the formal session began in a courtroom of the International Criminal Court, the prosecution read a nearly three-hour opening statement before the red-robed judges and two public galleries, packed with diplomats, lawyers, human rights advocates and reporters.

Outlining his case, Stephen Rapp, the chief prosecutor, said he planned to show how Mr. Taylor controlled his men, even killing members of his inner circle when he feared they might expose him, and how he obtained arms and ammunition by illegally selling timber and trading in diamonds, which became known as “blood diamonds.” Mr. Rapp said the prosecution would show “how the diamond trade worked.”

He said he would dwell on the fate of children who were taught to amputate limbs and gouge out eyes and were even ordered to kill their parents and to see the army as their new family.

“The crimes are nothing short of enormous,” Mr. Rapp said. While the suffering could never be erased, he said, he hoped that the trial would give the people of Sierra Leone “some small measure of closure.”

Some observers in the gallery said that by boycotting the court session, Mr. Taylor was evidently trying to draw attention to himself rather than to the prosecution’s graphic accounts. During a break, Abdul Rahim Kamara, a human rights advocate from Sierra Leone, said Mr. Taylor’s absence and other actions were “just stalling tactics.”

“But in the end he can’t gain anything, Mr. Kamara said. “He is locked up.”

Mr. Taylor did attend three earlier hearings. During those, he and his lawyer demanded delays to gain more preparation time, better offices and more financing for the defense. Mr. Taylor has declared himself partly indigent, which means that the court pays all of his legal fees, which thus far add up to $680,000, a court official said.

“Here’s a man who has sucked the life blood out of a whole region, emotionally, physically and financially, and he is playing a smoke and mirrors game over money,” said David Crane, former prosecutor of the Special Sierra Leone Court, who signed the Taylor indictment in 2003 and was in the gallery on Monday.

Mr. Crane said court investigations had estimated Mr. Taylor’s personal fortune at $450 million. Mr. Taylor, he added, may not have ready access to his wealth. The Swiss government has frozen several million dollars of it.

The trial is to resume June 25, when the prosecution will call its first witnesses.
131 2007-06-05 WASHINGTON, June 4 (Reuters) — The Food and Drug Administration said on Monday that it would appoint a panel of outside specialists to advise the agency on how to tell the public about the risks and benefits of medicines and medical devices.

The announcement came ahead of a Congressional hearing at which lawmakers are expected to ask why the agency did not warn patients about a possible heart risk with GlaxoSmithKline’s diabetes drug Avandia. Agency officials say other data conflicted with the finding.

The new advisory committee “will bring together a broad range of experts and views to help improve F.D.A.’s communication of the science-based information about product risks and benefits that the public needs to make informed decisions,” Randall Lutter, the agency’s acting deputy commissioner for policy, said in a statement.

Fifteen voting members will sit on the panel, which the agency said would include experts on risk communication, social marketing, health literacy, journalism, bioethics and other relevant fields. Consumers, patients and health professionals also may be appointed.
132 2007-06-05 And so front-page editorials were published in Chinese financial newspapers calling on investors to act calmly in the wake of the decision, which the editorials argued was intended to promote a healthier development of the stock market.

“Investors should be rational and understand the policy,” The China Securities Journal, one of the government-guided papers, said in its editorial. But markets, as the Chinese are discovering, are not always rational. Indeed, for months officials have been warning investors about the risks of a sharp downturn, trying to calm the markets with official statements. So far, the downturns have been brief.

But the most recent trajectories of the country’s two main stock markets have been unsettling. On Monday, the Shanghai Stock Exchange index plunged 330.34 points, to close at 3,670.40. The other major index, for the Shenzhen exchange, fell 7.9 percent, to 1,039.90.

[The sell-off continued Tuesday morning with shares in Shanghai down almost 6 percent just before midday.]

Monday’s decline, after notable drops two of three days last week, represented one of the largest share price declines in more than a decade and was nearly comparable to the drop late in February, when the Shanghai composite lost 8.8 percent on a single day. That plunge, which came after a huge run-up in prices, touched off a wave of selling around the world, including New York.

The biggest concern this time seems to be how the gyrating stock market may affect ordinary Chinese. For much of this year, the stock market has been a great concern for the government because of reports that retirees, students and factory workers were plowing much of their savings into stocks, threatening to create a speculative bubble that could end in a damaging and politically explosive crash.

Many experts have been warning that stock prices are rising much too fast and that stock valuations are far above historical or global norms. Analysts say the government wants to cool the market, but hopes to do so in an orderly way.

“This is somewhat expected,” said Frank Song, director of the Center for China Financial Research at the University of Hong Kong. “Last week’s policy change is a strong signal that the government will no longer tolerate this rising bubble.”

But many individual investors have been betting on the market’s reaching ever new highs because of an influx of just-opened stock accounts, often as many as 400,000 on a single day.

A lot of Chinese have indicated belief that the government would not do anything drastic to shake up the stock market before 2008, when Beijing is to play host at the Summer Olympics, out of a fear that a plunge could lead to public protests and even social unrest.

Just before the finance ministry’s announcement on the trading tax early last Wednesday, officials said there were no plans to increase it. But then they reversed course. Shares tumbled 6.5 percent on Wednesday, then bounced back slightly on Thursday before falling again Friday.

The reopening of the market after the weekend was a kind of black Monday here, with a further downturn in prices that reversed weeks of huge gains. Few analysts are forecasting a full-scale bear market, but many experts have been warning of more government measures and the end of the boom.

And there are fears among both government officials and private analysts that a severe downturn in prices can lead to a further rout that would wreak havoc with the finances of ordinary Chinese.

Indeed, when the government imposed higher transaction fees on stock trades, investors vented their anger online, and there were reports that several government Web sites, including a finance ministry site, had been hacked into and taken down for a time.
133 2007-06-05 “I love to think of it as editing,” he said of the renovations. “You’re basically taking a building apart as much as possible while it’s still standing.”

He said the exterior was largely intact, except for the cuts and a new cladding in iridescent white terra cotta that will be installed over the summer. All but one of the street-level lollipop shapes have survived, in part because they had to as structural supports for the building.

But the lollipops will now be behind glass, since the lobby will extend toward the sidewalk. And the building’s signature portholes are gone, along with Stone’s Venetian-style loggia.

Preservationists had argued that the redesign would erase the historical importance of the building, which originally housed a supermarket magnate’s art gallery and later, the city’s Department of Cultural Affairs. Mr. Cloepfil said that he did not dismiss the preservationists’ concerns but wished the debate had been framed differently. “It could have been a more fascinating conversation about the nature of preservation,” he said. “The debate never got beyond whether this piece of work merited critical preservation.”

“I think it’s a debate that needs to happen; the old criteria don’t really apply anymore,” he added. “That’s part of the lost opportunity of this building.”

There were larger questions worth considering, he said, like, “Is the iconography the most important thing, or are there other ways to preserve the experience of the building?”

For him, the next question is, “Does it have critical value? And I think the answer is no.”

Mr. Cloepfil also directly took on the project’s most vocal and high-profile critic, the architect Robert A. M. Stern, who is also dean of Yale’s School of Architecture. Mr. Stern had argued that the building was an important example of postwar design. “It was really an attempt at historicism — a desperate gasp at historicism,” Mr. Cloepfil said, as if Mr. Stern were bent on romanticizing the recent past, as opposed to rethinking it.

What Mr. Cloepfil sees as his “primary act of architecture” at 2 Columbus Circle are the two-foot cuts in the walls and floors, which will be filled by barely translucent glass. “By making a two-foot cut, a three-dimensional incision, it completely opens the space up,” he said. “The metaphor I use is, it’s like taking away the seam of the shirt. The shirt is still intact, but you opened it up at all the intersections.”

The floor cuts create a sense of connection, the architect said, so that a museum visitor will always sense “that something is above you and something is below you.” The vertical wall cuts “connect you to the city,” he said, while the horizontal cuts fill the galleries with natural light.

Yet in some ways, the renovation is more noteworthy for what has been taken out than what has been put in. To maximize the available space on four gallery floors, the architects moved the mechanical systems behind the elevator bank and put the restrooms below ground, by the auditorium, and on the sixth floor, which will be home to the museum’s education department. They also took various staircases away. About 300 tons of concrete were hauled off the site, along with 47,000 square feet of surface materials.

“Because we’re working within the existing envelope, part of the quest was to give the museum as much new space as possible,” Mr. Cloepfil said.

The museum, which focuses on crafts, art and design, is struggling to accommodate all of its operations in 17,000 square feet in its current site on West 53rd Street. The square footage will more than triple, to 54,000 — 14,000 of which is gallery space. “One floor of this building is the size of our whole museum now — the two main galleries,” said Holly Hotchner, the museum’s director. “When you imagine how robust the exhibition program will be as a result of this gained space — we’ll probably have one-third of the permanent collection on view.”

Work on the building is slow going. Scaffolding first went up in fall 2005. “It took over a year to take the building apart,” Mr. Cloepfil said. “Essentially what we’ve done is take away as much of the building as possible without totally restructuring it.”

In the lobby, he pointed to where the main entrance will be on the north side of the building, and to the location of a planned store and information desk. Where now there is a gaping chasm, there will be a staircase suspended by cables leading from the first-floor galleries down to the basement auditorium.

From dawn to dusk, the terra-cotta facade will subtly change in color, its sheen varying from purple to orange to gold to green.

But Mr. Cloepfil asserts that the central experience of the building — its quiet solidity — will remain as it was. Even as he was pointing out all the changes to 2 Columbus Circle, the architect kept emphasizing how the building’s role in the city had not really changed.

“All we’ve done is remove things,” he said. “A lot of what holds people’s memory of this place is still intact.”
134 2007-06-05 Re “Will Gentrification Spoil the Birthplace of Hip-Hop?,” by David Gonzalez (Citywide column, May 21):

The situation in the Mitchell-Lama developments state- and citywide is so dire that the governor and the Legislature should convene a task force led by the state’s Housing Finance Agency to draft a comprehensive asset management strategy for preserving them.

The task force should include city and state supervising agencies, affordable housing, and real estate industry professionals and advocates. It should complete its work within 90 days, with recommendations for action by the Legislature in a special session this fall.

Its goal should be a balanced strategy that sustains the physical and financial integrity of the developments; protects the rights of existing tenants; extends the years of affordability; respects the interests of responsible owners; and does not deter future affordable housing development.

Mitchell-Lama developments are one of New York’s most valuable public assets. They should be managed, supervised and preserved to provide affordable housing.

David M. Muchnick

New York, May 21, 2007

The writer is the coordinator of Housing First!, an organization that advocates preserving and developing affordable housing for New Yorkers.
135 2007-06-05 There are now just over 20 million Class B shares outstanding — 82 percent of them controlled by the Bancroft family and an additional 6 percent controlled by members of the Ottaway family, who have been strong opponents of a sale to Mr. Murdoch. There were 63.8 million Class A shares at the end of March, but at least an additional million have been issued since then, as employee stock options were exercised.

The $60-a-share offer from Mr. Murdoch’s company, the News Corporation, has touched off anguish within the family and within the staff of The Wall Street Journal, which Dow Jones owns, because of concerns about how Mr. Murdoch may seek to influence the paper.

The Bancroft family initially said that it rejected Mr. Murdoch’s offer, but then agreed last week to meet with him yesterday. The company’s shares closed yesterday at $60.16, down $1.04 on the day.

The rise in the company’s share price over the $60 offer reflects the expectation that the family will persuade Mr. Murdoch to raise his offer and will then accept it. That could happen, but it appears that Mr. Murdoch could not simply make a tender offer. Buying some Class B shares would simply raise the relative voting power of the remaining Class B shares.

At least theoretically, investors owning just 9.1 percent of the stock, or less than eight million shares, could control the company if those were the only Class B shares left outstanding after the other shares were sold to Mr. Murdoch.

Professor Gordon conceded that it might be possible to structure a transaction as a merger, so that the Bancroft family members who back the deal would maintain their voting rights when the deal was approved, despite disapproval from other family members.

But, he added, “in that case, Murdoch probably wouldn’t get shareholder agreements from family members to vote in favor of the merger, out of concern that such agreements could possibly trigger the conversion.” That, he said, would add a lot of uncertainty while the deal was pending.

The possible complications reflect the differing types of dual-class ownership that have been adopted by companies where the founders — or their successors — wished to maintain control long after they had sold most of the economic ownership in the company.

In some cases — among them the News Corporation itself — the voting shares are freely transferable. Both classes of News Corporation shares trade, with the voting shares fetching a small premium to the nonvoting shares. The News Corporation nonvoting shares closed yesterday at $22.57, while the voting shares were at $24.10.

When founding families can sell control, they can also get a premium for it. Donald J. Trump took control of Resorts International, the first company to build a casino in Atlantic City, by purchasing voting shares for a high price, with the nonvoting shares eventually selling for far less. Both classes had traded for similar amounts.

At Dow Jones, as at some other companies, among them The New York Times Company and The Washington Post Company, the supervoting shares cannot be sold to the public without losing their supervoting status, although they can be inherited. That provision assures public investors that if the company is sold, all shareholders will be treated equally. But it means that a sale can be blocked by the supervoting holders if they wish to keep their stock.

In the case of Dow Jones, the members of the Bancroft family are descendants of Clarence W. Barron, who bought control of the company more than a century ago. Dow Jones did not establish the dual-share system until 1986, when a stock split gave every shareholder one supervoting share for every two shares of ordinary stock, which became Class A stock.

Most shareholders have long since sold their Class B shares, resulting in a conversion into Class A shares. But the Ottaway family — which had sold the Ottaway newspapers, a chain of local papers, to Dow Jones — retained their stake, and thus is the other family with a substantial voting interest in the Class B shares.

Much of the Bancroft family stock is held in a series of trusts, but details of the trusts have not been made public, and it is not clear just how any family disagreements on a possible sale will be sorted out.
136 2007-06-05 First it was named the Museum of Broadcasting, and then, as cable and direct satellite grew, it became the Museum of Television and Radio. Now, in the Internet and cellphone era, that name seems out of date as well, so the museum is renaming itself again, this time as the Paley Center for Media, after the late CBS founder William S. Paley.

The new name, adopted at a March board meeting, is being announced today, effective immediately. It is part of an overhaul intended to make the museum, which was founded by Mr. Paley in 1975, more inviting and its holdings more accessible. Museum officials said they hoped the change would also expand the pool of possible benefactors at a time when the traditional support base is shrinking as radio and television companies merge.

By no longer calling itself a museum, the center, which has buildings on West 52nd Street in Manhattan and in Beverly Hills, Calif., is playing down its archive of TV and radio programs and is recasting itself as a place for industry leaders and the public to discuss the creation of those shows and the role of media in society. The number of panels and interview sessions is being doubled, and online media executives and creators will increasingly be part of those discussions.

Patrons will still be able to watch or listen to old radio and TV programs, many unavailable elsewhere, and the center will continue to serve as a repository for old shows, although the collections policy will be more discriminating. The center is in the process of digitizing its holdings so they can be better preserved and accessed; currently 3,500 hours of the 145,000 hours of old tapes in the collection have been converted to digital form.

Pat Mitchell, the museum’s president and chief executive, said center officials envisioned offering new ways to view the old programs, perhaps at a wireless Intranet cafe at the center’s two locations, or over the Internet. The center recently struck deals with Yahoo and Comcast to offer clips from its collection on their TV Web sites. The center’s own site (mtr.org) is also being enhanced.

Although the board agreed that the museum needed a new name, what to call it was the subject of heated debate. “ ‘Museum’ was not a word that tests really well with the under-30 and 40-year-olds,” especially in the context of radio and television, Ms. Mitchell said. Moreover, the name was somewhat misleading: some patrons would arrive expecting to see, say, Archie Bunker’s chair. In fact, until recently, museumgoers had nothing that they could see, unless they wanted to watch a specific old program. As part of the continuing changes, the West 52nd Street space now offers a rotating display, which now features Middle Eastern media, including a live feed of Al Jazeera’s English television channel.

Most board members liked the idea of renaming the museum as a “center,” but with more than 100 international media centers scattered about, the concept seemed too generic until Mr. Paley’s name was added, to make it “more memorable,” said Frank A. Bennack Jr., the former president and chief executive of Hearst Corporation and the center’s board chairman.
137 2007-06-05 Some recent studies have suggested that lycopene, a chemical in tomatoes and other red fruits, is protective against prostate cancer, but a large prospective study has found that it has no effect.

The study included 28,243 men, 55 to 74 years old, who were recruited as part of a larger cancer screening. The researchers measured blood concentrations of lycopene, beta carotene, lutein and other carotenoids in 692 randomly selected men in the sample who later developed prostate cancer, and 844 men who did not.

After controlling for other variables, the scientists found no link between prostate cancer and blood concentrations of lycopene or other carotenoids, except that men with the highest blood levels of beta carotene were somewhat more likely to suffer from aggressive disease than those with the lowest concentrations.

Richard B. Hayes, a co-author of the paper and a senior investigator at the National Cancer Institute, said the study “provides an important contribution to the debate about the preventive potential of lycopene.”

The study is based on blood samples collected before any diagnosis was made, it has a large number of participants, and it includes details about the severity of the disease. But it used a single blood sample, so it could not examine long-term exposure to carotenoids.

Writing in the May issue of Cancer Epidemiology Biomarkers & Prevention, the authors said, “Simple and inexpensive approaches to prostate cancer prevention would be of great public health significance, and it is unfortunate that the initial results on lycopene and tomato products from well-conducted studies could not be consistently replicated.”
138 2007-06-05 Women who drink moderate amounts of alcohol may reduce their risk for nonfatal heart attack, provided that they do not become drunk, according to a recent study.

Researchers studied 320 women ages 35 to 69 who had had heart attacks, comparing them with 1,565 healthy women matched for age. The scientists also recorded information on smoking, diet, physical activity and other health-related factors. The study was published in the May issue of the journal Addiction.

After adjusting for age, race, education, smoking and body mass index, women who had a daily alcoholic drink had a 31 percent reduced risk of a nonfatal heart attack compared with those who drink less than one drink a day. But among those who drank at all, becoming drunk even once a month — and by that the researchers mean drinking enough to cause slurred speech or unsteady gait — led to an almost sixfold increase in the likelihood of a heart attack.

The authors acknowledge that the participation rate was not optimal, that the information was based on self-reports that could be subject to error and that there might be unknown variables affecting the results. Also, few women in the study were heavy drinkers, limiting the ability to draw conclusions about that group.

“The findings have important implications,” said Joan M. Dorn, the lead author and an associate professor of social and preventive medicine at the State University of New York at Buffalo. “But I wouldn’t interpret these findings as a reason to begin drinking alcohol. The message is that a small amount is O.K., and drinking to intoxication can be harmful.”
139 2007-06-05 With more than 80 percent of Americans consuming it in some form or another every day, caffeine is easily the nation’s most popular drug, far ahead of nicotine and alcohol. So when studies first suggested decades ago that caffeine could increase the risk of miscarriage, it raised alarm. Why exactly it might pose such a risk remains unclear, but numerous studies in recent years have investigated the link.

One of the more unnerving studies was published in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2000. It looked at more than 1,000 pregnant Swedish women and found that those who drank the equivalent of one to three cups of coffee a day had a 30 percent increased risk of miscarriage, while those who had the equivalent of at least five cups had more than double the risk.

But a majority of studies have suggested that any risk might apply only to high levels of caffeine intake. One study carried out by the National Institutes of Health in 1999 looked closely at the blood levels of caffeine in tens of thousands of pregnant women and found that those who consumed the equivalent of more than five cups of coffee a day did have an increased risk, while those who drank one or two cups did not. Other studies have had similar findings.

According to the Department of Health and Human Services, there is now general agreement that low caffeine intake during pregnancy — about 150 milligrams a day, or roughly 1.5 cups of coffee — is safe.

Low caffeine intake during pregnancy appears to be safe, while the risk of high intake is unclear.
140 2007-06-05 To the Editor:     Re ''Will Gentrification Spoil the Birthplace of Hip-Hop?,'' by David Gonzalez (Citywide column, May 21):     The situation in the Mitchell-Lama developments state- and citywide is so dire that the governor and the Legislature s...
141 2007-06-05 APPLEMAN--Mark I loved you then and love you still. Marguerite...
142 2007-06-05 ANTI-PROFANITY RULE STRUCK DOWN A federal appeals panel struck down the government policy that allows television stations and broadcast networks to be fined if they run shows containing profanities. Network executives and officials at the Federal ...
143 2007-06-06 Without Rudy Giuliani in the event, it's less meaningful, the senator's campaign says....
144 2007-06-06 French regulators are examining whether Deutsche Bank enabled hedge funds to trade on inside information, destroying tapes and failing to keep written records of phone conversations when lining up buyers for a 2002 Vivendi Universal securities sal...
145 2007-06-06 Tudor Investment, the hedge-fund firm run by Paul Tudor Jones, is shutting its $550 million small-company stock fund after returns failed to meet expectations. "We have been frustrated with the lack of viable ideas in the small-cap arena," James P...
146 2007-06-06 Hedge funds and private equity funds seem to have a good routine going, with activist funds goading many companies into buyout deals and then buying the debt used to fund them. But Thorold Barker of The Financial Times cautions that this symbiosis...
147 2007-06-06 Inverness Medical Innovations may not be a household name, but the Massachusetts medical-testing company is becoming a force to be reckoned with as it continues one of the biggest shopping sprees in the healthcare industry. After eight acquisition...
148 2007-06-06 The Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday that I.B.M. had settled a case in which it had been accused of misleading investors by overestimating the impact of stock-based compensation expenses on quarterly earnings in 2005. The agency sai...
149 2007-06-06 Stocks slid for a second straight session today after an increase in labor costs stirred concerns about inflation and interest rates and as the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury flirted with 5 percent. The Dow Jones industrials fell more than 150 points.

Data showing unit labor costs rose a higher-than-expected 1.8 percent, raising concerns of inflationary pressures. The Labor Department also as expected reported that productivity waned in the first quarter. The readings did little to alleviate investor concerns that the inflation-wary Federal Reserve might lean toward raising rather than lowering rates later this year.

The inflation jitters came alongside the European Central Bank’s widely expected decision to raise its key interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4 percent. Stocks in Europe fell sharply.

”In the last week or two, the expectation that the Fed was going to lower interest rates in the next six months has been put to the side so the bond market has reacted,” said George Shipp, chief investment officer at investment adviser Scott & Stringfellow.

He said investors shouldn’t read too much into the pullback in stocks.

”The market has come a long way. We’re down for a couple days but we’ve been up for 11 out of the last 12 months. Right now you’d have to call it normal profit taking.”
150 2007-06-06 The Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday that I.B.M. had settled a case in which it had been accused of misleading investors by overestimating the impact of stock-based compensation expenses on quarterly earnings in 2005.

The agency said in a statement that the International Business Machines Corporation had agreed not to commit future disclosure violations.

The S.E.C. did not impose any monetary penalties, and I.B.M., the world’s largest technology services company, did not admit or deny the findings in the settlement announcement.

“I.B.M. misled investors by failing to disclose information that would have allowed them to accurately determine the impact that the company’s decision to expense stock options would have on its financial results,” the agency’s associate director of enforcement, Scott W. Friestad, said in a statement.

“The facts here are particularly troubling because the disclosure decision was driven, in part, by management’s perception of how the news would be interpreted by analysts,” Mr. Friestad said.
151 2007-06-06 The Lowe’s Companies, the home-improvement retailer, will open up to six stores in Canada by the end of January 2008. At least four stores will be in southwestern Ontario, including Toronto, said Doug Robinson, Lowe’s president of Canadian operations.
152 2007-06-06 Goldman Sachs Group donated $2 million to endow a chair at Morehouse College in Atlanta that will oversee the collected writings of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The chair will supervise the compilation of 10,000 pieces of Dr. King’s writings and manuscripts, Goldman Sachs said. Dr. King was a 1948 graduate of the all-male, historically black college. A group of civic leaders, businesses and philanthropists based in Atlanta bought the collection, which includes a draft of Dr. King’s 1963 “I Have a Dream” speech, last year after it was to be auctioned by Sotheby’s for more than $30 million.
153 2007-06-06 A military panel in Kansas City recommended Monday that an Iraq war veteran who wore his uniform at an antiwar protest should lose his honorable discharge status. The veteran, Cpl. Adam Kokesh of the Marines, a member of Iraq Veterans Against the War, argued that he did nothing wrong by participating in the protest in Washington in March because he removed his name tag and military emblems from his uniform.
154 2007-06-06 Gov. Eliot Spitzer yesterday announced three nominees to fill coming vacancies on the State University of New York board. Besides Carl T. Hayden, whom Mr. Spitzer had identified as his choice as SUNY’s chairman, the governor yesterday named H. Carl McCall, a former state comptroller and a former president of New York City’s Board of Education, and Linda S. Sanford, a senior vice president at I.B.M. The governor appoints 15 of SUNY’s 16 board members, subject to State Senate approval. The other seat is held by a student.
155 2007-06-06 An animated display of London’s jigsaw-style 2012 Olympics logo, which has drawn an unfavorable response, was removed from an official Web site yesterday after concern it could trigger epileptic seizures. Epilepsy Action, a British charity, said 10 people had complained about the animation and some had had seizures from watching images that depicted a diver plunging into a pool. The Olympic group said it had taken steps to remove the animation from the Web site and would re-edit the film. The logo was unveiled Monday, and within hours an online petition was established asking for a new design.
156 2007-06-06 The bill comes after six months of sometimes tense negotiations between the mayor’s office and the Council over such issues as who should be included in the “doing business” categories and what the caps on their contributions should be. One concern among council members is that the limitations would make it difficult to run for office in an era of increasingly expensive campaigns

Some government watchdog groups had also lobbied to have unions and political action committees bound by the new caps on those doing business with the city. But the proposal did not gain traction with either the mayor or the Council.

Ms. Quinn said the bill would give New York “the best and the strongest public financing system of any city and probably any other jurisdiction in the country.”

Mr. Bloomberg has pushed for stricter campaign finance limitations since his first term, when he met resistance from the former speaker, Gifford Miller. But the relationship between Ms. Quinn and Mr. Bloomberg has been far more cordial. Last year, after becoming speaker, she helped push through a ban on public matching funds for contributions from lobbyists and their families. This latest bill could help her win Mr. Bloomberg’s support if she runs for mayor in 2009.

In some ways, Mr. Bloomberg seems an unlikely advocate for the restrictions. His record-breaking spending during his election campaigns led to concerns among government watchdogs about the viability of the public financing system, which aims to even the playing field for candidates and decrease their reliance on special-interest money.

“As long as individuals have the ability to self-finance to infinity, the system doesn’t work,” said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor at the Baruch School of Public Affairs.

In response to questions yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg said the Supreme Court had upheld the right of an individual to self-finance a campaign, and added that “being wealthy doesn’t guarantee you get elected.”

While some portions of the legislation have been discussed previously, the bill includes a new provision that aims to give more influence to small donors by revising the formula for public matching funds.

Under the current system, for every $1 a donor gives, $4 in public funds are provided, up to the first $250 of a contribution. The new bill would increase the public contribution to $6 for every $1, but only up to the first $175. The result is that a $250 contribution that would have generated $1,000 in matching funds would now generate $50 more.

“This will increase the value and importance of smaller gifts and encourage candidates to raise more grass-roots money from a greater number of supporters,” said Dick Dadey, executive director of the Citizens Union, one of at least three government watchdog groups that helped shape the bill.

Also, the maximum contribution for people who do business with the city would be reduced to $250 from $2,750 in City Council races; to $320 from $3,850 in borough president races; and to $400 from $4,950 in mayoral and other citywide races.

The overhaul would not apply to contracts obtained through competitive sealed bids, which made up about $3.7 billion of the nearly $11 billion in city contracts in 2006.

The bill also closes a loophole in a 1998 voter referendum that banned corporate donations but allowed limited liability corporations and partnerships to continue giving. Gifts from those sources grew from about 2.5 percent in the 2001 election to 6 percent in the last election. They make up about 11 percent of all money given in the 2009 cycle so far.

While most of the Council’s 51 members publicly applaud the intent of the bill, it met with resistance from many during negotiations. Their objections are likely to carry over into hearings on the bill, the first of which is scheduled for June 14. But with all 26 council members in leadership positions signing on as co-sponsors, it is unlikely to face significant opposition.

The bill could also face legal challenge from lobbyists, among others, who say it may be discriminatory in treating classes of contributors differently. Sid Davidoff, a senior partner of Davidoff & Malito, one of the state’s biggest lobbying firms, said in an interview last week that lawyers would be looking closely at the legislation.

The bill is also likely to face strong opposition from the real estate industry, traditionally a major source of campaign cash for city candidates. Those facing a cap would include people seeking land-use and zoning decisions.

“Clearly, any suggestions that people are giving contributions in expectations of a contract or a special benefit, they ought to be thrown in jail,” said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. “But I don’t think we should be prohibiting legitimate businesses from deciding they want to give a check to a candidate who has principles and beliefs that support the economics of that business doing well in the city.”

Ms. Quinn hopes to have the bill passed by summer. While the legislation calls for the measure to take effect two months after passage, some provisions may take longer to put in place. For instance, the city would be required to build a database to track all those doing business with the city.

With some 30 candidates already raising funds for 2009 races, some say the new restrictions will put those who begin raising money after the bill is made law at a big disadvantage. Opponents are likely to latch on to that possible inequity.

“There are a lot of people who are candidates who have been raising quite a bit of money under the old system,” said Martin J. McLaughlin, a partner of the lobbying firm of Connelly & McLaughlin. “That right there could be grounds for a lawsuit.”
157 2007-06-06 Yields in the bond market moved higher. While the 10-year Treasury note fell 15/32 to 96 6/32 and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.99 percent from 4.93 percent on Monday.

Traders who a month ago were convinced the Fed would lower its target for the overnight lending rate between banks at least once this year now see almost no chance of that happening, the yields on interest-rate futures show.

AT&T lost 41 cents, to $40.49. Exelon, the biggest utility owner by market value, slipped $1.22, to $ 74.27 .

Utilities in the S.& P. 500, which have an average dividend yield of 2.95 percent, dropped 1.5 percent as a group. Telephone shares, also with an average yield of 2.95 percent, slipped 0.9 percent.

Bed Bath & Beyond lost $2.20, to $38.27. Earnings for the three months that ended June 2 will be about 36 cents to 38 cents a share, the retailer said, less than the 39 cents the company forecast in April and 2 cents below analysts’ estimates.

The Ciena Corporation dropped $1.69, to $33.17, as the company, which makes computer network equipment for telephone companies, said it planned to sell as much as $500 million in convertible bonds as it prepares to repay older debt.

Another equipment company, Avaya, which makes computer networking equipment, climbed 31 cents, to $17.03, after it agreed to be acquired by two equity firms, Silver Lake Partners and the Texas Pacific Group, for $8.2 billion, or $17.50 a share. That was 28 percent more than before speculation about a purchase surfaced on May 29.

Whole Foods Market declined $1.21, to $40.48, after the largest natural-foods grocer said that the Federal Trade Commission would file a lawsuit to block its acquisition of a rival, Wild Oats Markets. Wild Oats shares gained 25 cents to $17.16.

Cummins, a maker of high-powered diesel engines, posted the top gain in the S.& P. 500 after JPMorgan said that heavy-truck orders in May climbed more than estimated. The shares added $6.31, or 6.7 percent, to $100.92. Amazon.com surged $3.23, or 4.6 percent, to $73.65, after Banc of America Securities raised its share-price estimate to $79, from $62, citing “strong revenue growth” and the potential for increased profitability from digital media downloads.

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auction for four-week bills:
158 2007-06-06 But they have, which suggests that as skateboarding has grown more mainstream, participants are willing to adopt elements of organized sports that would have been unthinkable a decade ago.

Miki Vuckovich is executive director of the Tony Hawk Foundation, an organization that helps finance public skate parks in low-income communities. He was an adviser to Stern in setting up the league.

“There is a contingent of skaters that aren’t averse to representing their school, that aren’t averse to competition,” Vuckovich said.

“I’m in it for the exposure,” said Kristos Augustus, 16, the team captain for Santa Monica High School, which is in first place after three events. “I know a lot of guys who want to win the prizes, and some don’t even know the prizes.”

The top prize — the most valuable skater will receive two pairs of Nike sneakers a month for a year — has been a major incentive.

“That spoke directly to the kids,” Stern said. “They were like, ‘Nike?’ Their eyes opened up. That got them motivated.”

During 18 months spent organizing the league, Stern learned a lot about communicating with skaters.

Like any good aspiring lawyer, he compiled a 50-page book with the organization’s bylaws and articles of incorporation. Sponsors were impressed, but upon showing it to prospective skaters, Stern said, “They’re looking at that like, ‘Who are you and what are you doing to us?’ ”

As a result, he has de-emphasized the league’s organizational aspects and rules, effectively handing over much of the responsibility for running the competitions to the skaters.

None of the teams have a coach. Instead they are run by team captains. And although there are designated practices, they are optional. This approach has seemed to make all the difference.

Kevin Imamura, marketing manager for Nike Skateboarding, said Nike chose to back the league, in part, because its structure hews to skateboarding tradition.

“It becomes less about being a team and more about being a crew or a group of friends,” Imamura said.

And the skaters have described a strong sense of camaraderie at competitions.

“The cool thing about skaters, even with all the other teams, it’s not really competitive,” said Corey Philips, a senior and team captain for Westlake High School. “It’s all about socializing.”

Still, there was skepticism when he approached his fellow skaters to join.

“It’s for sure been hard because skateboarding has never been a team sport,” Philips said. “People were like, ‘Skateboarding teams! What the heck?’ ”

Stern hatched the idea two years ago after he began taking his son to a skate park. He wanted to combat the stigma that skateboarding is somehow an unseemly activity. He saw an opportunity for team competition, and began researching how to create a league at the high school level.

School districts refused to provide sanction or financial support because of concerns about liability, but otherwise gave their blessing, so the California High School Skateboard Club has been organized as a nonprofit and run like other club-level sports. Each team is composed of five skaters, and competitions are held at Skatelab in Simi Valley.

Despite its somewhat marginalized status, Stern and some of the skaters hope the league can lead to bigger things.

For Stern, running it counts as a law school internship and could dovetail nicely with a career as a sports agent after he graduates from Ventura College of Law in December.

Meanwhile, the skaters have a forum to showcase their skills to potential sponsors. Badillo has attracted other professionals and team managers from prominent skateboard companies to help judge competitions.

“These kids are just ripping high school kids with no platform or voice to be heard by the industry,” Badillo said. “This provides the industry a place to see these local high school kids and what they can do.”

Augustus, of Santa Monica, said that perhaps the league would prevent some skaters from dropping out of school to pursue a professional skateboarding career. He even envisioned a day when skaters could earn college scholarships, like athletes in other team sports.

“I’d like skating to be like that,” Augustus said. “It seems pretty far-fetched right now.”

Sort of like skateboarding as a team sport not all that long ago.
159 2007-06-06 WASHINGTON, June 5 — A day after two military judges ruled against the Bush administration’s system for trying terrorism detainees, Democrats seized on the rulings on Tuesday as evidence that Congress should restore the right of those held at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, to challenge their detentions.

Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat who is the majority leader, said he would be willing to bring such legislation to the floor. The Senate Judiciary Committee is preparing to approve such a plan on Thursday.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said the rulings on Monday in two cases added urgency to the push to restore detainees’ right to file habeas corpus suits. Congress eliminated that right last year while redesigning the military tribunals after the Supreme Court struck down the first plan.

Mr. Leahy criticized the administration for insisting on an approach to the tribunals “which even conservative courts say no to.”

“It just shows what happens when they want to just rush something through arbitrarily without actually listening to the people who actually knew what they are talking about,” he said Tuesday in an interview. “After 9/11, a number of Republicans and Democrats talked to the White House and said we can put together legislation that can legitimately handle questions of military tribunals.
160 2007-06-06 BLACKSBURG, Va., June 5 (AP) — Norris Hall, where a student gunman killed 30 people and himself on the Virginia Tech campus, will be reopened for offices and laboratories, but will never again be used for classrooms, the university announced Tuesday.

The building will open June 18 for two departments: engineering science and mechanics, and civil and environmental engineering. They had been the primary occupants of the building on April 16, when the gunman, Seung-Hui Cho, killed 30 students and faculty members. Two other students were killed in a dormitory a few hours before the rest were attacked inside Norris Hall.

The second-floor classrooms where the victims were gunned down will remain closed.

Bryan Cloyd, a Virginia Tech professor whose 18-year-old daughter, Austin, was killed in Norris, said: “Erasing the building would not erase what happened. I think it would be very difficult for students to have their undivided attention on learning in that building, and so converting it from classroom space is necessary. But I’m happy to hear that the university will have some other productive use for it.”

Norris contains sophisticated laboratories that cannot be moved and are essential to the engineering programs, officials said.

Dick Benson, the engineering dean, said in a university statement that there were “literally dozens of graduate students whose work is frozen in time,” who are unable to move on to jobs or complete their research.

Accommodations will be made for people who have a difficult time re-entering the building, Mr. Benson said.

Officials said they would post security guards in the building and limit access to employees, students and engineering visitors to cut down on sightseers.
161 2007-06-06 The remarkable volatility in the markets underlined again the extent to which stock market investors continue to look to the government for cues on when to buy and when to sell. Many experts have warned that this dependence on the government could bring the wrath of investors on Beijing officials if the market was to suffer a deep and prolonged drop.

But the Chinese government has been wary of letting strictly market forces determine the path of stock prices. “It’s a government that likes to be in control,” said Carl B. Weinberg, an economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y.

The turnaround in the Chinese stock market on Tuesday afternoon seemed to occur in the nick of time for other Asian stock markets. After largely ignoring the Chinese stock market’s troubles through Monday, stock markets began to dip on Tuesday morning in Hong Kong, South Korea, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and India.

The losses were modest in each case, however, with a broad measure of Thailand’s market showing the heaviest loss, down 1 percent in early afternoon. In Japan, the Nikkei index bucked the trend and eked out a gain of 0.31 percent by early afternoon. [Asian markets were stable in trading on Wednesday.]

Chinese stocks began to turn around with the rumor of government intervention and as investors paid more attention to reports in state-controlled newspapers in the morning that the government had authorized the creation of four funds that will be allowed to raise up to $1.3 billion each from investors for the purchase of stocks.

Newspapers also published articles suggesting that investors focus on potential long-term gains.

By the end of the day, with the Chinese market rising again, most Asian markets were posting gains. Share prices climbed 0.54 percent for the day in Hong Kong, while the Nikkei 225 index rose 0.45 percent in Tokyo.

The current calm contrasts with the steep declines in markets around the world when Chinese shares suddenly fell 9 percent on Feb. 27.

Jing Ulrich, the chairwoman of China equities at J. P. Morgan, said the difference was that the Japanese yen was strengthening in late February, so investors were already looking for holdings around the world to sell so that they could repay money they had borrowed in yen. But the yen has been fairly weak for the last week, so investors have been less eager to sell in response to the Chinese market’s difficulties, Ms. Ulrich said.

The Chinese government is also likely to prevent stocks from falling too far because that could risk antagonizing many citizens who are already upset by the steep rise in the price of pork and other meats this year, she added.

Most economists and market analysts continue to maintain that a drop in China’s stock market is unlikely to affect the powerful Chinese economy. If the Chinese economy stays strong and continues buying a lot of imports from its Asian neighbors, then the neighbors’ economies may also prove resilient.

Qu Hongbin, an economist at HSBC, wrote in a research note on Tuesday that China’s economic growth depended mainly on fixed asset investments and exports. Chinese companies depended on the stock market for only 6 percent of the outside money they raised to pay for their investments. Many Chinese companies are so profitable that they barely need outside financing and can make investments with the cash they generate from current operations.

“Any potential crash in the stock market is unlikely to cause a meaningful reduction in the funds available for the corporate sector’s investment and production,” he wrote.

The sharp rise in the Chinese stock market this spring also seems to have done little to stimulate consumer spending by families with gains on their share holdings, so a reversal of the market should not be much of a drag on consumer spending, Mr. Qu added.
162 2007-06-06 Within the first few minutes of her show at the Bowery Ballroom on Monday night, Keren Ann charted a complex constellation of feelings: wistfulness, disdain, self-pity, indignation, whimsy. She was singing a breakup song, naturally — “In Your Back,” from her self-titled fifth album — but making it sound more momentous than most.

“Don’t ever mention the stains that you left on my track,” she sang evenly in the first verse. “How from a beautiful girl I became someone ruined and wrecked.”

Keren Ann has been creeping toward this sort of declarative impact, and the change is palpable. On her previous two Blue Note albums, “Nolita” and “Not Going Anywhere,” she often sounded diffident and distracted, her appealingly airy voice conveying more than a wisp of the cosmopolitanism that is her birthright. (Born Keren Ann Zeidel of Israeli, Dutch and Javanese heritage, she spent her adolescence in Paris, where she still resides part time.) The new album has its share of ethereal vocal overdubs and reflects her fondness for minor-key ruminations. But it’s a grittier proposition all around.

Comparatively speaking, the show was grittier still. Though chicly turned out in a black dress and high heels, Keren Ann behaved more like a lead singer than a chanteuse. For each of her fingerpicked acoustic guitar arpeggios, there was a corresponding round of reverb-heavy electric chugging.

She led her four-piece backing band assertively, ceding the spotlight in measured doses to the trumpeter Avishai Cohen, who fed his sound through various filters and wah-wah striations. The closest thing Keren Ann had to a solo involved a brace-mounted harmonica that inevitably conjured Bob Dylan.

That was in “Lay Your Head Down,” the strongest track on “Keren Ann” and the clearest indication yet of the singer’s attraction to the terse and self-conscious style of the Velvet Underground.
163 2007-06-06 “He had really bad breath,” Mr. Roetheli said. “Judy kept after me to do something about it. But there was nothing on the market that worked.” Over the course of just a few days, he developed a mixture of wheat, chlorophyll, vegetable oil and other edible foods that he served dry (and later molded into a bone with a toothbrush at one end). Ivan was more or less a willing guinea pig, and within days, his teeth were clean and the odor gone.

Mr. Roetheli quit his job and he and his wife threw themselves full-time into marketing their canine halitosis cure. Here is where another entrepreneurial compulsion kicked in: pit-bull tenacity. He worked the phones from morning to night, and the couple made fruitless treks to every single bank within 70 miles of their home — well over 100, pleading for a $250,000 loan.

“We thought they probably laughed their heads off after we left,” Mrs. Roetheli said. “But O.K. We were going to keep going. We refused to give up.”

For three years, they earned nothing. To keep their fledgling enterprise afloat, they begged money from “family, friends and fools,” as Mr. Roetheli put it, and racked up $200,000 in credit card debt.

Even as they were fighting against disillusionment, they displayed another attribute critical to entrepreneurial survival, what the experts call “tolerance for ambiguity” and the rest of us call winging it. “We had no business experience, no sales experience, no marketing experience, no manufacturing experience, no quality-control experience,” Mr. Roetheli told me. “After we got started, we had no budget, no organizational charts, no technical planning, no media advertising.”

Was that a boastful tone I detected? If so, he earned it. Things began falling into place. A raw-materials supplier saw promise in their product and let their debt to him pile up. The Roethelis reeled in a talented staff with the lure of future rewards, not fat salaries. Sales picked up, then soared. Fast-forward: when they sold S&M NuTec to Mars Inc. a year ago for an undisclosed price, it was the eighth-largest pet-food company in the world.

Why did they sell it? Because they were, or had become, entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs like to create businesses (a k a have fun). They tend to shun the details of managing their ventures (think “boring”). The bottom line is they want to run their own show. Once they make their escape from the office, they can’t conceive of reporting to a boss again, not even to a chief executive they themselves hired.

Flush with cash, the Roethelis today are fulfilling yet another entrepreneurial imperative, wading into a hodgepodge of ventures, about 10 in all, from creating a village for homeless people in a developing country, to building a spa in Kansas City with a “floatation room” that they say is the ultimate in relaxation therapy, to acquiring a maker of equipment for smoking and grilling meats, to forming a partnership with a home remodeler to commercialize products he has developed.

“Whenever we describe any of those products to people,” Mr. Roetheli said, “they smack themselves on the forehead and say, ‘Why didn’t I think of that?’ ”

So far, I have discussed half a dozen entrepreneurial patterns. Then again, I’ve written a book that asserts there are eight core attributes. Other people have come up with inventories of anywhere from 2 to 50. Joe Roetheli rattled off seven, starting with, “Have a dream.” A serial entrepreneur in New York City practically shouted in the phone at me, “There’s only one that counts: passion!” Carl Schramm, chief executive of the Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City and author of “The Entrepreneurial Imperative,” puts risk-taking high up on his scale.

Americans are entrepreneurial in their bones, Mr. Schramm says, and there is a reason that 7 out of 10 of us will start a business at some point in our lives. We aren’t afraid of failure, and in fact seem to thrive on it. “Failure in Holland, Germany, France is a disaster,” he said. “But in this country, if your business becomes a shipwreck, nobody holds it against you. Some people value you even more.”

What tops your list? Send me an e-mail, tell me what you think the defining entrepreneurial characteristic is, explain why and tell a story that illustrates it. If your yarn makes me laugh out loud, or fight tears, I’ll quote you in a future column. Your 15 minutes of fame await you.
164 2007-06-06 1. For yogurt dressing, combine yogurt, cumin, and sugar. Slowly whisk in oil. Season to taste with salt and pepper, cover and refrigerate.

2. For mint dressing, combine mint, shallot and vinegar in small bowl. Slowly whisk in oil. Season with salt and pepper to taste, cover and refrigerate.

3. For meatballs, combine bread and milk in a bowl, and stir until bread has absorbed milk.

4. Combine 1 tablespoon of oil and onion in a saucepan over medium heat. Stir until sizzling, then cover, reduce heat to low and cook until onion is softened but not colored. Transfer to food processor, add bread mixture and purée.

5. Combine coriander, cumin, fennel and hot red-pepper flakes in small skillet over medium heat and stir until lightly toasted and fragrant. Remove from heat and grind to a powder in a spice grinder.

6. Mix meat, the bread mixture, spices and salt in a large stand mixer with paddle attachment. Add parsley and oregano, and mix again. With wet hands, roll into 1-inch balls.

7. Place large skillet over medium heat. Add butter and remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil. When butter has melted, reduce heat slightly and begin adding meatballs, allowing them to brown on the bottom, then turning gently to continue browning on all sides. Work in batches, transferring meatballs to a platter when they are cooked. To serve, drizzle with yogurt dressing and sprinkle with mint dressing.

Yield: 50 1-inch meatballs (serves about 12 as an hors d’oeuvre).
165 2007-06-06 ¶A drug raid on a house owned by Falcons quarterback Michael Vick uncovered more than 50 pit bulls on the property as well as evidence of dog fighting that included bloody carpets, pry bars to open canine jaws, a rape stand to force mating, and treadmills designed for dogs.

“The problem is the glamorization of dog fighting, particularly in the gangster rap culture,” said John Goodwin, an animal-fighting expert and investigator with the Humane Society of the United States. “Some athletes are simply taking it with them to the N.F.L.”

A dog once bred for rural dog fighting in the South has morphed into a street figure with every story in the news media about an attack, with every state that lists dog fighting as a felony, with every local ordinance that seeks to ban the pit bull, with every tough guy who walks one using a logging chain as a leash.

“The gangster culture already existed, but the pit bull, through its image, has the same kind of quality: tenacious and dangerous,” Evans said. “It is seen as the outlaw dog in that world.”

Experts agree that the reputation exceeds reality. Many pit bull owners are responsible caretakers of dogs that live a domesticated life without problems.

But in the N.F.L., any rebel dog is a reflection not only of its owner, but also of the league. The recent cases involving pit bulls have opened a peephole into pro football, which is, by uniform design, a raging success when its players are viewed as masked gladiators rather than visible individuals perceived as a threat to the suburban sensibilities of its audience.

You can almost see Goodell, in his deputized form, fighting to ward off the kind of image crises that have undermined the N.B.A. Beyond the Palace fight of Ron Artest infamy and off-court legal issues involving Kobe Bryant, the climate of pit-bull fear has surfaced for the N.B.A. as well.

Jay-Z is not only a hip-hop artist, but also a part-owner of the Nets who recently cast a pit bull in a violent video from his album. A loose pit bull was the source of one neighbor’s complaint that led animal control on visits to the suburban Sacramento home of Artest. And Qyntel Woods was a Portland Trail Blazer when the police suspected him of being involved with dog fighting in 2004.

“I do believe there is a subculture of dog fighting in the N.F.L. and N.B.A.,” Goodwin said. “You hear a lot of rumors, but these guys have layers of protection between themselves and prosecution.”

Innuendo is enough to unsettle a commissioner. The N.B.A.’s response to bad pub has been to lump everything into its urban renewal project: Players have undergone a Pat Boone cleansing with rules banning gang fashions and jewelry on the bench.

Regulating pet choices seems a stretch, though. All leagues can do is categorize the abhorrent dog-fighting underworld as another association for players to avoid. All officials can do is ask players to be vigilant about who and what is surrounding them, from people to pets.

“The dog is going to be a reflection of the owner,” Porter, now with the Dolphins, told The Palm Beach Post, adding, “I don’t too much care for a passive dog.”

The pit bull isn’t merely a breed; it’s the current rallying cry in sports. Michigan State basketball players mentioned the pit bull when describing a playing style before the N.C.A.A. tournament, with Travis Walton telling The Detroit News: “They lock down. They just keep fighting. They show no mercy. That’s how we’ve got to be.”

Dog fighting isn’t only a cruel competition; it’s the new sports metaphor.

But it’s the latest turnoff to the corporate base of the N.F.L., and it’s the latest concern for Goodell, part commissioner, part crime dog.
166 2007-06-06 The supervisor, Dr. Rosemary Johann-Liang, said that in March 2006 she approved a recommendation from a safety reviewer at the agency that the drugs be required to carry the strongest warning, a so-called black box warning, because they posed a risk of unusual swelling that could lead to heart failure.

But after officials at the agency who dealt more closely with Glaxo complained, Dr. Johann-Liang said she was ordered to retract her approval of the warning, lost her power to approve such assessments and no longer supervised reviews of the safety of Avandia and Actos.

“This was a very careful review that came to an inescapable conclusion,” Dr. Johann-Liang said in the interview. “They decided to act like the review never happened and punish me for approving it.”

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, has investigated Dr. Johann-Liang’s accusations. Mr. Grassley sent a letter on Monday to the Food and Drug Commissioner Andrew C. von Eschenbach demanding that he investigate the case.

“I hope you recognized what is wrong with this picture,” Mr. Grassley wrote. “I also sincerely hope that this is not standard practice within the F.D.A.”

A spokeswoman for the agency, Susan Cruzan, said it was investigating the accusations.

Avandia has been awash in controversy since an article in The New England Journal of Medicine on May 21 and an accompanying editorial cited evidence from clinical trials indicating that Avandia, in addition to the risk of heart failure, could raise a patient’s risk of heart attacks.

Since then, Glaxo and the drug agency have cautioned doctors and patients to await the results of a long-term patient trial, the Record, created to test the heart safety.

It was the interim results of that study that Glaxo rushed to submit for publication by yesterday in advance of the hearing today by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The company had intended the study in the prestigious peer-reviewed New England Journal to be part of a news media blitz to counter negative publicity about the drug, which generates annual revenues exceeding $3.2 billion.

Concerns about the drug were raised in the May 21 article, when Dr. Steven E. Nissen and colleagues from the Cleveland Clinic wrote an analysis suggesting that the popular medication increased the risk of heart attacks by 43 percent. Dr. Nissen’s paper was based on a review of more than 40 studies of the drug. It was also published by The New England Journal of Medicine.

Dr. Nissen, chief of cardiovascular medicine at the prominent clinic, is among witnesses scheduled to testify today along with Dr. von Eschenbach.

In a conference call yesterday with reporters, a vice president for clinical development at Glaxo, Dr. Murray Stewart, an endocrinologist, said data did not support Dr. Nissen’s conclusions. “Nissen suggested that there were more cardiovascular deaths,” Dr. Stewart said. “This does not support that. This shows less cardiovascular deaths.”

Since the study, involving 4,447 people, began nearly four years ago, 29 patients in the Avandia group have died from cardiovascular causes. A greater number, 35, have died of cardiovascular problems in the group taking other drugs.

Several doctors who wrote the accompanying editorials published yesterday, including the Journal editors, saw the results less positively than Glaxo did. The editorials questioned the structure of the study and pointed out that although fewer Avandia patients have died, more had heart attacks than in the group taking other drugs, 43 to 37.

Although those heart attacks represented a relatively tiny number in the overall study, one editorial, by the Journal’s editors, struck an anxious tone. “In short, there is continued uncertainty about the cardiovascular safety of rosiglitazone,” they wrote, referring to the generic name of the medicine.

Of the patients in the Record study, which is to continue through late next year, about half take Avandia in combination with other medications and half take two diabetes medications, metformin with sulfonylurea.

The editorials raised questions about the structure of the Record study. In his editorial, Dr. David M. Nathan, a diabetes expert who teaches at Harvard, questioned the high number of patients who dropped out of the study without explanation and further monitoring, as well as the decision by the creators of the study to use a combination of metformin and sulfonylurea as the comparison group. That combination was associated with a 96 percent increase in diabetes-related mortality in another study, Dr. Nathan wrote.

Glaxo said the metformin-sulfonylurea combination was chosen because it is the most common Type 2 diabetes treatment worldwide.

“The interim results of the Record trial do not provide any assurance of the safety of treatment with rosiglitazone,” Dr. Nathan said, suggesting in his editorial that doctors should use medications other than Avandia.

An editorial by Dr. Bruce M. Psaty of the University of Washington and Dr. Curt D. Furberg of Wake Forest University recalculated Dr. Nissen’s analysis using interim results of the Record study in addition to the studies that Dr. Nissen used. They found that Avandia increased a patient’s risk of having a heart attack 33 percent.

“In my mind, it’s not small,” Dr. Furberg said, calculating that such a risk, extrapolated to the millions of patients who have taken Avandia, would translate to thousands of extra heart attacks.

The company’s decision to release interim results of the Record trial were highly unusual and reflected Glaxo’s concern about the controversy and the concerns of patients in the trial. As a result of the negative publicity about the drug, two patients have dropped out, the Glaxo medical director, Dr. Ronald L. Krall, said yesterday.

Dr. Stewart said the telephones of doctors involved in the Record trial throughout Europe, Australia and New Zealand had been ringing with calls from concerned patients, raising questions about whether the trial can continue.
167 2007-06-06 DISPUTE OVER AVANDIA STUDY -- GlaxoSmithKline says that preliminary results of a clinical trial provide reassurance that Avandia, its treatment for diabetes, does not raise the risk of a heart attack. But influential doctors argued that the data d...
168 2007-06-06 PDT  Inside Crif Dogs, 113 St. Marks Place (Avenue A), (212) 614-2728.       It took three centuries, but at last New Yorkers can walk into a bar and order a mint julep with a deep-fried hot dog wrapped in bacon....
169 2007-06-06 A day after two military judges ruled against the Bush administration's system for trying terrorism detainees, Democrats seized on the rulings on Tuesday as evidence that Congress should restore the right of those held at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, to...
170 2007-06-06 WHO would have thought that a middle-age couple who held government jobs and were a tad unsure what an entrepreneur was would make a small fortune from their beloved dog's bad breath?     I'm kicking off my Web column on entrepreneurship with the ...
171 2007-06-06 Gov. Eliot Spitzer yesterday announced three nominees to fill coming vacancies on the State University of New York board. Besides Carl T. Hayden, whom Mr. Spitzer had identified as his choice as SUNY's chairman, the governor yesterday named H. Car...
172 2007-06-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
173 2007-06-07 One of the great pleasures of returning to France on an overnight flight from North America or Asia is arriving in the world's most beautiful city as it wakes. The best place to enjoy it – to my mind – is on rue Montorgueil, the pedestrian str...
174 2007-06-07 Amaranth Advisors has a response for managers of San Diego County's pension fund, who are smarting over big losses they took when the hedge fund collapsed. It goes something like this: We warned you. In a court filing seeking to dismiss the pensio...
175 2007-06-07 The PNC Financial Services Group said Thursday it would pay $403 million to acquire the Yardville National Bancorp a central New Jersey bank....
176 2007-06-07 Evercore Partners, the investment banking boutique, said its chief financial officer, David Wezdenko, was leaving the firm, to be succeeded by Robert Walsh, a senior partner at Deloitte & Touche. Go to Article from Financial News »...
177 2007-06-07 Hedge fund managers are accusing Bear Stearns of trying to manipulate the market in securities based on subprime mortgages, according to press reports. The Wall Street Journal noted that the confrontation provides a rare look into the complex trad...
178 2007-06-07 Sam Zell's agreement to buy Tribune, the publisher of the Los Angeles Times and owner of the Chicago Cubs, prompted three hedge funds to seek profits in the fine print of $1.26 billion of bonds, Bloomberg News said. Andrews Kurth, the law firm rep...
179 2007-06-07 The Biotech giant Amgen said Wednesday it would buy Alantos Pharmaceuticals for $300 million, marking its second acquisition of a private biotech company this week. Alantos' lead drug is a small-molecule treatment for Type 2 diabetes. On Monday Am...
180 2007-06-07 New shows in New York include "Horizon" and "Crazy Mary."...
181 2007-06-07 MIAMI, June 6 (Reuters) - Two goals from midfielder Julian de Guzman helped Canada come from behind to beat Costa Rica 2-1 in the opening game of the CONCACAF Gold Cup on Wednesday.

The victory at a rainy Orange Bowl put Canada on top of Group A on three points with Haiti and Guadeloupe playing out a 1-1 draw in the pool's late match.

Deportivo La Coruna's De Guzman broke the deadlock at 1-1 in the 73rd minute when he stole the ball and sent a 20-yard chip past Costa Rica keeper Jose Francisco Porras.

A scoreless game had come to life shortly after the break.

In the 57th minute, Costa Rica's Walter Centeno took a pass from team mate Leonardo Gonzalez and from outside of the box curved a shot past goalkeeper Pat Onstad.

De Guzman struck back less than a minute later when he hit a 20-yard rocket past Porras to level.

In the evening match, Haiti opened the scoring through Mones Chery's 36th-minute penalty after Michel Alexandre Boucicaut was brought down in the area by Guadeloupe defender Alain Vertot.
182 2007-06-07 With inspiration from "60 Minutes," gadgets too good to pass up in this summer rerun.
183 2007-06-07 Today, in one of the two women’s semifinals, Ivanovic, the seventh seed, found herself on one of the most famous venues in tennis, the main court at Roland Garros. There, on the hallowed red clay, she had made it to her first Grand Slam final, and had just set up a meeting with the world’s top player, Justine Henin.

Henin defeated Jelena Jankovic, 6-2, 6-2, in the other semifinal today. Henin and Ivanovic will meet in the women’s final on Saturday.

“Everything went so fast and it’s very exciting times for me,” Ivanovic said, breathless, after her match was over. “I won a lot of matches lately, so it’s great motivation, great excitement. So it’s a little bit hard to calm down. Probably later today, I’ll be very tired from that.”

While Henin defeated top players like No. 8 Serena Williams and No. 4 Jankovic to make the final, Ivanovic had an easier road. She went through No. 3 Svetlana Kuznetsova and No. 2 Sharapova, but she had beaten both of those players before.

While Ivanovic had only 11 unforced errors in her semifinal match, Sharapova seemed to do nothing right. She made 25 unforced errors, only nine winners and recorded five double faults.

“I had my chances, and when I did, I just made sloppy errors,” said Sharapova, who had been playing with a sore right shoulder. “I made a few swinging volleys in the net and long, which is usually my favorite shot, and also one of my best shots. I didn’t feel like I had the rhythm today.”

Ivanovic was the calm, subdued opposite of Sharapova, who shrieked every time she hit the ball. She was the friendly next-door neighbor to Sharapova, who continued to play the role as a calculating diva.

Earlier in the tournament, a reporter asked Ivanovic if she thought being nice, not cutthroat, had hurt her on the court. She lit up when she heard the question: “Thanks! I think you can never be too nice.”

But ambition is hidden inside the tall, mocha-skinned Ivanovic. She picked up tennis when she was 4, after seeing Monica Seles play on television. During that broadcast, Ivanovic saw a commercial for a local tennis club, then memorized the number.

From then on, she was sure that she wanted to be a tennis player, though Serbia had no tennis tradition to speak of.

“When I was a kid, I never played with the dolls, I always carried some rackets,” she said. “I still have videos when I was 2, with the plastic rackets and a ball. I always was kind of sporty and tennis was the thing.”

She moved to Switzerland when she was 14, after a German businessman sponsored her because her family and her Serbian sponsors ran out of money. There, she began to blossom.

Now, though, she is the newcomer to this French Open final, while Henin is at home. Henin has won three of the four last championships at Roland Garros, and is hoping to win her third in a row. Seles was the last woman to do that, in 1992.

It took Henin 1 hour 20 minutes to dismantle Jankovic, who had been one of the three Serbian players in the semifinals. She beat Jankovic for the sixth time and improved her record against her to 6-0.

At the start of the year, Henin skipped the Australian Open because she was separating with her husband. But with that behind her, she said she has never felt better.

“I had a difficult beginning of the year, and it’s a great pleasure for me to be back at this Grand Slam tournament,” said Henin, 25. “I have far more fun being on the court than in the past. I’m just enjoying every moment of it, and I’d like to go to the end, to get the reward for all the efforts I’ve put into this.”
184 2007-06-07 The unexpected proposal came on a day marked by compromise over climate change and more clashes between protesters and police at the summit meeting. The United States agreed to “seriously consider” a European plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2050, thus averting a potential clash between Mr. Bush and the meeting’s host, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.

But the climate change news paled in comparison to the startling developments on missile defense. With tensions between Washington and Moscow rising over Mr. Bush’s plan, a senior White House official said Thursday that Mr. Putin indicated before the meeting that he wanted to raise an idea directly with the president. But Mr. Bush was not aware of the details.

Experts say that Mr. Putin’s proposal faces a number of daunting, and possibly insurmountable, hurdles. Russia leases but does not own the radar station in Azerbaijan, for instance, and the facility is an early warning system, not the X-band radar that is used to guide anti-missile interceptors, and which the Bush administration wants to build in the Czech Republic.

Trust between the two nations is also an issue. The plan would require the kind of intense cooperation in which only the closest allies can engage. With the two sides already embroiled in disputes over the future of Kosovo, the state of democratic institutions in Russia and how to deal with Iran’s nuclear program, some experts raised questions about whether Mr. Putin was serious — and, if he was, whether the White House would ever accept the offer.

“For that kind of cooperation, to be treated seriously by the United States and NATO, they would have to have more trust than people really do now toward the Russian military,” said Stephen Sestanovich, an expert on Russia at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The question is can you one day have the Russians acting in such a way as to advertise their lack of trust in the United States, and the next day insist that the United States trust them?”

Still, Thursday’s announcement at Heiligendamm was a far cry from what some had expected from the two presidents, given Mr. Putin’s recent harsh statements.

In recent weeks, the Russian president has made a veiled comparison between the United States and the Third Reich, complained of “diktat and imperialism,” and, most recently, threatened to once more aim Russian missiles at Europe if the president went through with his missile defense plan. Earlier this week in Prague, Mr. Bush chided Mr. Putin for backsliding on democratic reforms — an issue that Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, said did not come up at Thursday’s meeting.

On Thursday, however, the two men stood shoulder to shoulder, laughing and smiling as they recounted for reporters what Mr. Bush described as “a very constructive dialogue.”

“I told Vladimir we’re looking forward to having him up to my folks’ place in Maine,” the president said, referring to an invitation he has extended for the Russian leader to visit the Bush family compound in Kennebunkport for further talks in the beginning of July.

Mr. Putin, for his part, praised the president for a “spirit of openness.”

When they were done, Mr. Bush extended his right hand for Mr. Putin, who took it, and then clasped his left hand over the entire handshake.

Under Mr. Bush’s proposal, the United States would build a network of radar defenses in the Czech Republic and missile interceptors in Poland, as a way to defend against possible attacks from what Mr. Bush calls “rogue nations,” particularly Iran. Mr. Putin regards the plan as a threat to Russia’s security, and is especially concerned about the interceptors in Poland. Officials from both sides said Thursday that the Russian president had not dropped his opposition to the Poland component of the plan, even as he put forth his own alternative for the United States to use the radar station in the town of Gabala in northeast Azerbaijan.

Russia uses the station under a lease agreement with Azerbaijan. Mr. Putin said he had spoken on Wednesday to Azerbaijan’s president, Ilham Aliyev, who he said “stressed he will be only glad to contribute to the cause of global security and stability.” Azeri officials were not available for comment on Thursday evening.

The idea that the United States and Russia might share data from early warning satellites is not entirely new. It has been kicked around in the Russian news media recently, and Mr. Hadley said the proposal “has some elements we have heard before,” but Mr. Putin presented it in a far more detailed and specific way.

“I thought this was a master stroke on his part,” said Andrew Kuchins, director of the Russia Eurasia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “The core question is whether he is inclined to seriously cooperate with us, which I think he is, or is he just trying to put a monkey wrench in the works?”

By proposing that the United States and Russia jointly use what Mr. Putin called “the Russian radar at Gabala in Azerbaijan,” the Russian president at once offered Mr. Bush a way to alleviate the Kremlin’s worries about the intentions and possible consequences of missile defense in Europe, and presented his American counterpart with a fresh diplomatic challenge.

One of the Kremlin’s objections to the notion of a missile defense system in Europe is that it could, in theory, intercept a missile launched from Iran as it flew through Russian airspace. Russian officials have pointed out that this would mean two military missiles colliding over Russia, and that the debris from any explosion could endanger Russian people and property. Mr. Putin said that locating the system in Azerbaijan could alleviate this risk, and that interceptors could be fired from Aegis cruisers, rather than from Poland.

American officials reacted cautiously to the offer, though after weeks of trying to tamp down the language coming out of the Kremlin, they said they viewed it as a step in the right direction.

“I think it’s really too soon to say where this heads,” Mr. Hadley said, adding: “I think also President Putin wanted to de-escalate the tensions a little bit on this issue. And I think it was a useful thing that he did.”

Just last week, Mr. Hadley had practically thrown up his hands on the prospect of Russian cooperation on the missile defense issue, saying Democratic and Republican administrations had been trying for 17 years to secure such cooperation, and “I cannot tell you, for the life of me, why they say no.”

A spokesman for Mr. Putin, Dmitri Peskov, told reporters after the meeting that the Russian president had decided to come forth with the offer because “dialogue is better than mutual silence.”

He added, “This offer shows once again that President Putin is ready to find consensus and he’s ready to find solutions, not by confronting, not by threatening anyone — well, he’s never done that, actually — but by working together.”
185 2007-06-07 SEOUL, June 7 — North Korea test-fired short-range missiles off its west coast today, drawing an annoyed reaction from the United States and a dismissive one from South Korea.

“This kind of activity is not constructive,” said Gordon Johndroe, a national-security spokesman for the Bush Administration. “The United States and our allies believe that North Korea should refrain from testing missiles. North Korea should focus on the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.”

But the spokesman for South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said the tests were conducted as part of the North’s regular annual military exercises and were similar to tests conducted in late May to little notice.

The South Korean spokesman declined to give further details about the tests, like the number or type of missiles fired. The national Yonhap news agency reported, citing a military source it did not name, that two antiship missiles with a range of about 63 miles were fired into the sea.

Neighboring countries closely monitor North Korean missiles tests because the country has been trying to develop long-range missiles and nuclear weapons. Tests by the North Koreans last summer of missiles that, at least on paper, could hit Japan, Taiwan or one corner of Alaska, followed by the country’s first test-detonation of a nuclear device, prompted a diplomatic storm of protest.
186 2007-06-07 The Man Group, the largest publicly traded hedge fund in the world, said it would pay £13.8 million ($27 million) to set up a research institute at Oxford University. The funds, to be paid over five years, will create the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance and endow a professorship. The initiative is a way for Man, which uses mathematical models to make investments, to find mathematicians, who have become increasingly scarce as students planning careers in hedge funds study business instead.
187 2007-06-07 The country’s central bank cut the benchmark lending rate to a record low as a rally in Brazil’s currency holds inflation at an eight-year low. Policy makers, led by the bank’s president, Henrique Meirelles, 61, lowered the overnight lending rate by half a percentage point, to 12 percent.
188 2007-06-07 The presidents of nine universities in New York City promised yesterday to cut greenhouse gas emissions from their campuses by 30 percent over the next 10 years. The pledges, made during a news conference at Pratt Institute, came in response to a challenge by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has set the same objectives for all city-owned buildings as part of his environmental sustainability plan for the city. According to a city study, buildings account for nearly 80 percent of the city’s greenhouse gas emissions, which have been linked to global warming. The participating schools are Barnard, Columbia, Cooper Union, all 23 campuses of the City University of New York, Fordham, New York University, Pratt, St. John’s University and the New School. Asked if the retrofits might require tuition increases, the president of one university said it was a possibility; others said they would seek other financing.
189 2007-06-07 Wu Bangguo, the chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, said at a conference in Beijing that Hong Kong had considerable autonomy only because the central government had chosen to authorize that autonomy. Under the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984, China promised Britain that as part of the return of Hong Kong to Chinese rule China would preserve “a high degree of autonomy” for the territory. But Chinese officials focus these days on the Basic Law, a Beijing-drafted document that serves as Hong Kong’s mini-constitution and gives broad powers to the Standing Committee in Beijing to set policy in Hong Kong by interpreting the territory’s laws. Mr. Wu spoke ahead of the 10th anniversary on July 1 of Hong Kong’s return to China.
190 2007-06-07 NEW HAVEN, June 6 (AP) — Federal agents arrested 29 illegal immigrants in a raid on Wednesday, government officials said, two days after the city approved a program to make municipal identification cards available to illegal immigrants.

Paula Grenier, a spokeswoman for the Boston office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the immigrants, who had already been ordered by judges to leave the country, were arrested in a routine fugitive operation and would be deported.

Kica Matos, who oversees the New Haven department that assists immigrants, said most of the arrests were in the city’s Fair Haven section. Officials believe none of the immigrants have criminal records, she said.

Ms. Matos said she believed the raids were related to the Board of Aldermen’s 25-1 vote on Monday to create all-purpose municipal identification cards to give immigrants better access to city services and to help the police confirm their identities should they become targets of crime.

Ms. Grenier said that was not the case. “These are routine fugitive operations,” she said. “We have teams deployed all over the U.S.”

But Mayor John DeStefano Jr. was dubious, saying, “There are in America 11,000 cities, towns and villages, but somehow, by some act of circumstance or coincidence, within 36 hours, the response was in New Haven.”

Supporters say the ID program, believed to be the first of its kind in the nation, will help keep the city’s roughly 15,000 illegal immigrants safe. They say that if they can open bank accounts, they will not need to carry large amounts of cash, which makes them robbery targets.
191 2007-06-07 In his 13 years here, Mr. Botts said, “this is the busiest it’s ever been.” But he and the regional director, Jacqueline Harley-Bell, said the office had been working late nights, Saturdays and holidays to vet applicants and produce 15,000 to 18,000 passports a week, up from the usual 10,000 to 12,000.

The scene was less frantic Wednesday at the Franklin D. Roosevelt Station on Third Avenue and 55th Street in Manhattan, where Manuel Suarez, a postal clerk processing passports, was telling a short line of applicants that the normal wait of four to six weeks was now at least 10 weeks.

Even expedited service, which costs extra, can take two or three weeks, complained Arthur Kuyumchian, 28, a trader who was rushing to replace a lost passport. “I have to travel in two weeks, and if I can’t get that passport I can’t even get on the plane,” Mr. Kuyumchian said.

The problem extends nationwide, said Rob Smith, executive director of the National Association of Passport and Visa Services in Silver Spring, Md., an organization that represents about two dozen of the largest companies registered with the Passport Office to hand-carry or otherwise expedite a limited number of applications for a fee higher than what the government charges.

This year, Smith said, the government is expected to more than double the seven million passports issued in 2002.

Members of Congress have been drawn into the fray as constituents with airline tickets in hand demand to know why their passports have been held up, sometimes after paying the government a $60 expediting fee in addition to the regular charge of $97 for a passport. Private expediting services can charge hundreds of dollars above that.

“Compared to last year, we’re getting three times the number of calls,” said Matt Mackowiak, a spokesman for Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, who has three people on staff handling passport problems.

Much of the spike in applications is attributed to the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, which went into effect Jan. 23 and requires passports, merchant mariner documents or frequent-traveler Nexus cards for air travelers returning from Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda. Next January, the requirement is likely to be extended to ship, rail and road travelers.

But somehow, the government seemed caught by surprise when crowds began besieging passport offices this spring.

Even now, callers to the automated national passport line (1-877-487-2778) are told that because of “unprecedented” volume, appointments can be given only to travelers departing in the next two weeks.

Callers who are leaving within two weeks are then transferred to a 24-hour automated line that often says they cannot be connected because of the volume of calls and urges them to call back during nighttime hours. The line then goes dead.

“We are also experiencing a very high volume of e-mails,” the passport office Web site says. “Responses to e-mails may take 2-4 days.”

Would-be travelers waiting outside the passport offices on Wednesday in Houston voiced varying degrees of resignation and frustration.

“Basically, they’ve taken my money,” said Kevin Owens, 39, an oil industry employee, who sent in an expedited application April 20 and, with a June 14 trip to Jamaica looming, was still passportless. “The whole process is —” he searched for a word — “lacking.”

John DeMers, 54, a Houston writer on food and culture, said he was due to leave Tuesday on a 10-stop lecture tour of Europe and had finally come to the office to see what happened to the passport he applied for in March. “It’s in limbo somewhere,” he said.

Carol McCourt, 45, a kindergarten teacher, flew in from Tulsa, Okla., to check on the passport she needed to meet her 15-year-old son in France. She did not feel like celebrating much, she said, “but today’s my birthday.”

Christopher D. Blinky, a passport office employee, then appeared by her side with a form to fill out for quick action.

A nervous Brianna Pollinger, 35, of suburban Katy, Tex., arrived at the passport office on Tuesday not knowing whether she would be able to leave Friday on a 10-year anniversary trip to Mexico with her husband. But after waiting nearly eight hours, she emerged with a prized blue-covered booklet. Was she mollified? “Oh, no,” she said. “I definitely minded.”
192 2007-06-07 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 0.9 percent, closing at 1,517.38, while the Dow Jones industrial average gave up nearly 1 percent, falling 129.79 points to 13,465.67. The Nasdaq composite fell by a similar amount. Since Tuesday, the S.& P. 500 is down 1.4 percent; the Dow is off 1.5 percent.

I.B.M., Exxon Mobil, Cisco Systems and Pfizer led declines among major stocks, with all 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500 taking hits.

Investors are starting to worry that they can no longer count on low interest rates to provide a benign environment for stocks.

“Already, core inflation has been running above the Fed’s preferred range,” said Dean M. Maki, chief United States economist of Barclays Capital, which has forecast two Fed rate increases before the end of the year. “If wage pressures are intensifying as most recent data indicates they are, that is another reason to be concerned.”

Bond yields retreated slightly yesterday, but the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, the benchmark for longer-term interest rates, flirted again with 5 percent before closing at 4.96 percent. It has not closed above 5 percent since last summer.

Underscoring the Fed’s concern about inflation, two central bank officials said in separate speeches yesterday that the rate of price increases was still running too hot to put them at ease.

Jeffrey M. Lacker, who voted as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond to raise interest rates last year while his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee decided to keep them steady, said: “No statistically significant moderating trend has emerged yet.”

And Sandra Pianalto, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, indicated that because inflation had not yet fallen as the Fed predicted it would, central bankers would remain on watch. “We cannot afford to be complacent,” she said.

The Labor Department report released yesterday — part of a series that the Federal Reserve closely monitors for signs of inflation — found that unit labor costs rose 1.8 percent in the first quarter. The fourth-quarter figures, which were larger because of year-end bonuses, were also revised up, to 8.9 percent, from an earlier estimate of 6.2 percent.

The report also showed that worker productivity grew less than first estimated, and at less than half the rate reported for the fourth quarter of last year. The output of the average American worker increased just 1 percent in the first quarter, compared with an earlier estimate of 1.7 percent.

Productivity growth had been growing relatively rapidly as the economy expanded. But with economic growth only 0.6 percent in the first quarter — compared with 3.3 percent for all of last year — productivity improvements have faltered.

Still, a number of economists said they expect that will change if growth, as expected, accelerates in the second half of the year.

“The bottom line is that productivity growth has slowed down in recent quarters, but has held up surprisingly well,” Brian A. Bethune, an economist with Global Insight, said in a research note. “An expected pickup in real growth in the second quarter and the second half of 2007 will deliver better productivity numbers.”

The White House economists lowered their estimate for growth to 2.3 percent from 2.9 percent, bringing it more in line with Wall Street’s expectations. Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said that the slowdown in the first quarter caused the White House to lower its forecast for the year. But he said that the economy should regain momentum.

“We’re actually expecting a pretty strong quarter right now,” he said.

While stronger economic growth could keep inflation pressures bubbling, it also could help bolster stock prices. Indeed, a number of analysts said that they expected the market to recover quickly from its recent dip.

“Two days does not a trend make,” said Michael P. Ryan, who runs wealth management research for UBS, adding that the S.& P. 500 and the Dow both reached record highs on Monday. “There’s a natural tendency for markets to pull back when that happens.”
193 2007-06-07 He was charged with second-degree unlawful restraint, second-degree reckless endangerment, second-degree custodial interference, interfering with an officer, risk of injury to a minor and second-degree forgery, and was held in $500,000 bond.

Ms. Murphy was charged with conspiracy to commit second-degree reckless endangerment, conspiracy to commit second-degree custodial interference and risk of injury to a minor. She was held in $100,000 bond.

A second woman who lived in the house, Kimberly Cray, 26, was charged with the same crimes that Ms. Murphy is accused of, and was being held in $500,000 bond, said Lt. Dan Coppinger of the West Hartford Police Department.

All three suspects were scheduled to appear in Superior Court in Hartford today.

Captain Blatter described the teenager as a “good student,” but a “child from some troubled circumstances.” He said that she had not been abducted and in fact had “found what she believed to be a friend” in Mr. Gault.

For the past year, she has had no contact with her parents, and the police said there was no evidence that she had been out in public in all that time. Yet investigators said they did not believe that she was holed up in the closet for long; rather, they said, the couple may have hidden the girl there moments before the police moved in to search for DNA and other evidence that they suspected would lead them to her. They said a teenage boy, possibly the son of Mr. Gault or Ms. Murphy, also lived in the house.

It was unclear whether the teenage girl, who was examined by doctors, had been held against her will.

“We just don’t know yet,” Captain Blatter said. “Even if she were to say that she was comfortable in that environment, many of the things we found during the initial search would suggest that any 14-year-old would not have believed that to be a safe, comfortable environment.”

Later, Captain Blatter described the two-story aluminum-sided house as “filthy,” with no sheets on the beds. Investigators also found the “possibility of sex toys,” he said. For now, however, none of the charges relate to sex crimes.

Also at the news conference, Capt. Lori Coppinger of the West Hartford police said the cases of other missing girls were being revisited to determine whether Mr. Gault may have been involved. “We don’t anticipate any girls now missing, but we are familiar with this individual,” Captain Coppinger said. “We’ve had juveniles associated with this individual.”

Early yesterday evening, officers were still moving through the house, in the blue-collar Elmwood section of West Hartford. A plastic play set shared the weedy yard with a dog run.

The police did not reveal the girl’s identity, but her name and photograph were immediately posted on news Web sites. Captain Blatter said that she was in protective custody. Asked whether she had been harmed by the adults, Captain Blatter said it was safe to assume that a teenager “under the influence of a 40-year-old has been harmed in some way.”

It was unclear what kind of life the girl had with her family or why she had run away in the past; Captain Blatter said they were “concerned” and “have been cooperating with us.” He did not elaborate on Mr. Gault’s business relationship with them, but the girl’s mother and stepfather own a dog kennel in Bloomfield.

Dan Milner, a sophomore at Bloomfield High School and a friend of the girl’s older brother, said the two of them used to search for the girl when she disappeared. “She was young and curious,” he said outside the school. “It was always like she’d run away and come back home.”

Another student, Veronica Foster, who said she and the girl had been close in middle school, said, “We all thought something happened to her.”
194 2007-06-07 “I’m not aware, except for The Times of London, of any instance of a major paper granting really mandatory powers over the content of the paper, independent of the owner. And in London, of course, it didn’t work.”

What the Bancrofts are trying is all the more unusual in that they want to prevent Mr. Murdoch from dictating not only to the newsroom, but also to The Journal’s editorial page, whose conservatism mostly matches Mr. Murdoch’s own politics. Editorial pages are typically seen as reflections of the beliefs and interests of the owners of the paper.

After weeks of silence on the Murdoch bid, the Journal editorial page weighed in yesterday — not taking a position on its potential new owner — but arguing in favor of its own continued independence.

The long, lead editorial read in part “our owners have allowed us to speak our mind on behalf of a consistent set of principles.”

“Readers may like, or loathe, those beliefs and our way of defending them. But we like to think this brand of independence is one reason The Journal has attracted such an influential readership.”

Mr. Bagdikian said that in all news media “there is a strong history of owners and publishers dictating the editorial stance, but The Journal is a rarity in having this very conservative editorial page that was quite independent of the rest of the paper and the ownership.”

The family has not yet debated whom they might name to an editorial control board, according to family members — they say it is premature until they have a deal with Mr. Murdoch — but others close to them have.

Family advisers say that the obvious approach would be to choose some of the biggest names in American journalism from outside Dow Jones, or respected figures from within the company, or both — and to focus on retirees who no longer have a financial or competitive stake in the selection.

Some of the names that have been floated by advisers include Paul E. Steiger, the former managing editor who is now The Journal’s editor at large, and Peter R. Kann, the former star reporter who became chief executive and chairman of Dow Jones. Others include former top editors of major newspapers, like John Carroll of The Los Angeles Times and The Baltimore Sun, Benjamin C. Bradlee of The Washington Post and Joseph Lelyveld of The New York Times. Others have suggested editorialists or columnists who would reflect something of The Journal’s editorial page outlook, like the former Times columnist William Safire.

Several top officials of the newspaper, including L. Gordon Crovitz, the publisher; Marcus W. Brauchli, the managing editor; and Paul A. Gigot, the editorial page editor, have drafted a proposal for an editorial control structure, and family advisers outside Dow Jones have made their own suggestions.

Because of his involvement, Mr. Brauchli, who took over just last month as the top newsroom editor, has been recused from overseeing The Journal’s coverage of the Murdoch bid; that task has gone to his predecessor, Mr. Steiger.

Even before the News Corporation bought The Times of London and Sunday Times, their parent company, Times Newspaper Holdings, had “independent national directors” who held some of the seats on the board and who were beyond the control of the company’s ownership.

The board could hire or fire the top editors of the papers. Such action required a vote of the majority of the independent directors, as well. The editors were to have sole control over newsroom management and newspaper content, and the owner was not to make suggestions to any journalists except the top editors.

Mr. Murdoch agreed to preserve that system in London, and to allow the independent directors to name their own successors. But within a year, Mr. Murdoch had managed to force out his top editor, Harold Evans, in part through his control of budgets, and soon he was seen by many newsroom employees as having unfettered control over the selection of editors and considerable influence over the content of the news pages.

Since making his $5 billion offer for Dow Jones, Mr. Murdoch has said he will not spend that kind of money without having true control of the company and all its components. He has offered a system like that he adopted in London, and News Corporation officials say he would want some say over the membership of an editorial control board; the Bancroft family is opposed to that.

The debate among the Bancrofts over the bid has been hampered by rivalries, tensions and mistrust among branches and individual members of the family, particularly after a heated e-mail message from one of them, William C. Cox III, to some of his relatives, was leaked to The Journal several days ago.

“Everyone’s freaked out about putting anything in writing like Bill did because you don’t know who will end up seeing it,” a family member said.
195 2007-06-07 Four public housing duplexes are opening in the devastated Upper Ninth Ward of New Orleans, the secretary of the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development announced at a news conference. The secretary, Alphonso R. Jackson, said that more than 100 housing units would be rebuilt in the neighborhood before the end of the year at the New Desire development, on the site of a city housing project that before Hurricane Katrina was being turned into a mixed-income development. Protesters at the news conference said they were representing thousands of former public-housing residents who have been unable to return to the city because, they said, the federal government refuses to reopen even projects that suffered little damage in the storm.

Correction: June 14, 2007 

 A report in the National Briefing column on June 7 about the opening of four public housing duplexes in New Orleans misidentified their location. It is the Upper Ninth Ward, not the Lower Ninth Ward.
196 2007-06-07 Mr. Erekat said the tax revenues collected by Israel constituted 61 percent of the Palestinian Authority’s revenues and that without them “the Palestinian social fabric and institutions are disintegrating.”

The two leaders had pledged to meet every two weeks at the request of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during her last visit to the region, in late March. Mr. Olmert and Mr. Abbas have held one meeting since then, on April 15 in Jerusalem.

A May meeting was put off after two weeks of fierce violence in Gaza between Palestinian factions and an escalation of hostilities between Palestinians and Israel. Palestinian groups, including Hamas, launched hundreds of rockets at Israel, and the Israeli Air Force retaliated with strikes that it said had been aimed at Hamas military positions and rocket-launching crews.

As a gesture to the Palestinians, Mr. Olmert’s office agreed in principle to hold Thursday’s meeting in Palestinian territory for the first time. The usually sleepy West Bank oasis town of Jericho was selected as a likely venue.

Israeli government officials say the withheld revenues now amount to $566 million.

During his first meeting with Mr. Abbas, in late December, Mr. Olmert agreed to transfer $100 million to Mr. Abbas’s office as a good-will gesture and as part of an effort to strengthen the Palestinian leader, a moderate and the head of the Fatah movement, against the rival Hamas.

That money was transferred in mid-January, but an Israeli government official, who would discuss the details only on condition of anonymity, said last week that Israel was “still trying to figure out what happened to the $100 million.”

The official said Israel wanted Mr. Abbas to create a mechanism that would ensure that the money “won’t be funneled in any way to the Hamas government” before transferring any more funds.

Mr. Erekat pointed to one such mechanism — a Palestine Liberation Organization account recently set up by Salam Fayyad, the Palestinian finance minister in the new unity government. A political independent, Mr. Fayyad enjoys good relations with the West.

In a statement on May 30, the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations — the so-called quartet working for Middle East peace — “commended the excellent work” of another existing arrangement for Palestinian financing. Known as the Temporary International Mechanism, it was set up by the Europeans to bypass the Hamas government.

The quartet encouraged Israel and the Palestinian Authority “to consider resumption” of the tax transfers via the Temporary International Mechanism “to improve the economic and humanitarian conditions in the West Bank and Gaza.”

The Israeli official suggested that the existing arrangements were not satisfactory.

In Gaza on Wednesday, a spokesman for the Palestinian government, Ghazi Hamad, called Israel a “thief, stealing the tax money,” and accused Israel of “political blackmail.”

Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said at his briefing on Wednesday: “We are encouraging both sides to meet. But, in that regard, I think we’re pushing on an open door. They both want to meet. And it’s just a question of making sure that they make maximum use of all of those opportunities.”

No new date has been set for an Olmert-Abbas meeting.

Israeli-Palestinian violence continued Wednesday but at a lower level than in May. A 68-year-old Palestinian man, Yehiya Jabari, was shot dead by Israeli soldiers in his house in the West Bank city of Hebron in the early morning hours, and several family members were wounded, Palestinian officials said.

An Israeli Army spokeswoman said soldiers had visited the house to search for two men and were assaulted by a group of Palestinians, who threw gas balloons and other objects at them. A soldier opened fire after one of the Palestinians tried to grab his weapon, the spokeswoman said. The two wanted men were arrested, she added.

The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, called the killing a war crime and denied that any arrests had been made.

Hamas said a member of its military wing, Kamal Saed, had been killed in northern Gaza by an Israeli shell. The army spokeswoman said that the air force had attacked two armed men who were seen planting an explosive device near Israeli forces inside the Gaza Strip and that one had been reported killed.

The Hamas military claimed responsibility for firing a barrage of mortars at the Erez crossing between Gaza and Israel, saying it was in response to the killing of Mr. Saed. It was the third mortar attack on Erez this week.
197 2007-06-07 The theme of the meeting is “growth and responsibility in the global economy,” but by Wednesday, it was apparent that the biggest rift will revolve around climate change.

After lunch with Mr. Bush, Mrs. Merkel seemed to concede — without explicitly saying so — that her plan was off the table.

“There are a few areas here and there we will continue to work on,” she said, standing side by side with the president outside an elegant white castle on the grounds of the Kempinski Grand Hotel. When Mr. Bush turned to her and said he has “a strong desire to work with you” on the issue, the chancellor pursed her lips.

Specifically, Mrs. Merkel is pressing the Group of 8 to adopt a plan to cut emissions in half by 2050 and to limit the rise in global temperature to two degrees Celsius — terms the president’s chief environmental adviser, James L. Connaughton, said Wednesday the United States was not prepared to accept.

Instead, he said, the final communiqué approved by the Group of 8 nations — the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Russia and Japan — would probably reflect a merging of Mrs. Merkel’s plan with a proposal by Mr. Bush. In a major speech on climate change last week, the president said he intended to convene major polluting nations, including China and India, in a series of meetings aimed at setting long-term goals by the end of 2008.

“Here’s a way to get China and India at the table,” Mr. Bush said Wednesday, in a roundtable with reporters before his lunch with Mrs. Merkel.

He said the United States “can serve as a bridge between some nations who believe that now is the time to come up with a set goal” and “those who are reluctant to participate in the dialogue.”

The climate change issue, though, is a delicate one for Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Bush, who have forged a strong bond since she took office in November 2005. With Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain planning to leave office later this month, and the new French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, an unknown quantity to Mr. Bush, Mrs. Merkel may be the president’s best friend in Europe, and he can ill afford to cause strain to the relationship.

Mrs. Merkel, a former physicist who has made global warming her signature issue, has staked her reputation on making real and significant progress on the problem during this year’s meeting. Experts agree that she has more at stake than Mr. Bush; if she appears to be caving in to the president’s demands, she risks a backlash at home. But neither does she want a public dispute with Mr. Bush.

“She does not want to make this a public spat,” said Julianne Smith, director of the Europe program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “But she was elected in part because she’s a scientist, she has a very strong position on this, and Germans are huge fans of any effort to cope with climate change. So for her own public, she has to show that she’s being a bit forceful with the United States and she’s putting her foot down.”

Mrs. Merkel’s chief adviser on climate issues, Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, said he expected no agreement on long-term targets for reducing emissions. But he said he was even more worried that the leaders would not agree to another part of the German proposal: a pledge to increase energy efficiency 20 percent by 2020.

“It would be very disappointing if the energy efficiency issue is marginalized,” Mr. Schellnhuber said in a telephone interview. “It’s a huge, low-hanging apple, which can be plucked now.”

But Mr. Connaughton said the White House believes efficiency goals should be set by individual nations. He sought to play down the notion of a rift between the United States and Germany, saying that in fact there was more agreement than disagreement, and any assertion to the contrary would be a “gross distortion.”

One question is what role Russia will play; a spokesman for Mr. Putin, Dmitri Peskov, said Wednesday that Mr. Putin found “positive and pragmatic aspects” in both the Bush and Merkel plans. Another question is how hard Mrs. Merkel will push Mr. Bush behind closed doors, and what kind of concessions — if any — she will be able to extract in the language of the final communiqué, to be issued Friday.

“They may try to work out language in the final communiqué that might mention, for example, some targets and some numbers, but leaves it to individual states to decide whether or not to adhere to them,” said Charles Kupchan, an expert on Europe at the Council on Foreign Relations.

“I would think she’s going to push Bush hard for it, and she will have the backing of her European comrades, but I doubt it’s going to be enough to turn Bush on the issue.”
198 2007-06-07 Mrs. Clinton raised $26 million in the first quarter of 2007. According to the data, she has received commitments of at least $23.2 million for the second quarter. Several top donors said yesterday that they would take in more checks than they had predicted, at least one by more than $100,000. And with the campaign expecting to raise at least $4 million through the Internet and direct mail, Mrs. Clinton is poised to raise more than her first-quarter total — perhaps considerably more.

“They were expecting only $325,000 in actual commitments from me because I had promised as much as $500,000, but I’m on track to deliver all $500,000,” said Jay Jacobs, a prominent Democratic fund-raiser and party leader on Long Island, who held a dinner with Mr. Clinton on May 5. “I’m not going to be embarrassed and explain that I tried but didn’t succeed with $500,000.”

Mrs. Clinton’s top fund-raising lieutenants say that the goal of the Clintons — who are described as deeply involved and deeply competitive on the fund-raising front — is to exceed the first quarter’s $26 million by a comfortable margin. Doing so, these donors and her political advisers say, would telegraph to party insiders, the news media and voters that Mrs. Clinton is building political momentum after her performances in two televised debates and her campaign appearances this spring.

“We are on target to have the largest second-quarter fund-raising total in Democratic Party history,” said Howard Wolfson, a Clinton campaign spokesman. “There were many questions raised about whether we would be able to match our first-quarter effort. We will.”

Those questions have stemmed from the Obama threat; potential fatigue among Clinton donors; Mrs. Clinton’s ability to devote more time to fund-raising (which some of her donors said was badly needed); and general uncertainty about her candidacy, given the steady criticism from her political rivals and some voters over her initial support for the war in Iraq (which she now opposes).

The document shows that Mrs. Clinton has stepped up her own activity, usually attending a few fund-raisers each weekend, and has also relied more on her husband, who is scheduled to attend at least 20 fund-raisers this quarter. (He attended 16-odd events in the first quarter.) She is also relying on friends and allies who are close to Mr. Clinton, like the businessmen Ron Burkle and Vernon E. Jordan Jr., who are each organizing fund-raisers this month. (Mr. Burkle is a co-host of a $500,000 dinner in Manhattan tonight, with both Clintons expected.)

Mr. Obama raised nearly $26 million in the first quarter of 2007, almost beating Mrs. Clinton, and he did raise more money than she did for the 2008 primary campaign. (Candidates raise money for both the primary and general elections.) An Obama aide said yesterday that the campaign would be “thrilled” to raise $20 million in the second quarter. But last night, the Huffington Post blog, citing anonymous sources close to both candidates, said Mr. Obama would out-raise Mrs. Clinton in the second quarter. An Obama spokesman denied the report.

The document is the second confidential Clinton campaign file to leak in the last two weeks; the first, which was also provided to The New York Times, was a memorandum by the deputy campaign manager recommending that Mrs. Clinton skip the Iowa caucuses in 2008. Costas Panagopoulos, a political science professor at Fordham University who studies fund-raising, said the Clinton operation was so strategic that it probably leaked the data to influence fund-raising expectations. Recalling that some Clinton donors were surprised by Mr. Obama’s strong first quarter, Mr. Panagopoulos said he believed the campaign would want to have a record-breaking second quarter, as Mr. Wolfson signaled.

“It looks like they’re kicking it up a notch, and I’m sure their initial pie-in-the-sky fund-raising number has been augmented,” Mr. Panagopoulos said.

Mrs. Clinton’s biggest events this quarter, according to the document, are a $1 million fund-raiser by Mr. Corzine on June 18 and another $1 million dinner by her South Asian committee on June 24. Mr. Corzine is in the early stages of rehabilitation from severe injuries suffered in a car accident in April, but he is still aiding Mrs. Clinton, whom he endorsed this spring. Two events by Fujianese-American groups are expected to yield $600,000; and two Indo-American receptions have a total of $450,000 in commitments.
199 2007-06-07 Mitt Romney, who lags far behind Mr. Giuliani in national polls but is doing well in polls in Iowa, will still participate in the straw poll, hoping to use a strong showing both there and in the caucus to propel his candidacy in the primaries that follow.

The Ames straw poll started in 1979, initially conceived as a way to raise money for the caucuses. It has been criticized as a poor test of support because the candidates essentially buy the tickets for the attendees who do the voting. Campaigns are expected to buy thousands of $30 tickets for supporters, provide them transportation and then pamper them during the carnival-like event, which is scheduled to be held on Aug. 11 at Iowa State University.

George W. Bush used a straw poll victory in 1999 as evidence of his campaign’s legitimacy and strength. The poll has also proved important in helping thin out the field, with lesser-known candidates who perform poorly dropping out of the race.

Mr. McCain’s decision to bypass the poll took Iowa Republican Party officials by surprise, because he has been competing aggressively in the state. But party officials said they still intended to hold the event and that the developments did not lessen the importance of the Iowa caucuses, which are tentatively scheduled for Jan. 20, but could be held even earlier as other states move up their primaries.

Mr. Giuliani’s announcement irritated some Iowa Republicans, who for nearly three decades have jealously guarded their tradition of opening the nation’s race for the White House. But it also underscored the reality that advisers to Mr. Giuliani believe that his best prospects for winning the nomination could rest in appealing to moderate voters in the crush of primaries in California, Florida and New York, which will require costly advertising campaigns.

The 2008 political calendar has already been far from orderly, although the basic rituals of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina as early testing grounds have remained. But the decision by Mr. Giuliani, who currently leads in many polls, to downscale in Iowa could have wider repercussions.

His advisers insisted Wednesday that they were in Iowa to win and took great care to explain the decision to bypass the straw poll. First, campaign officials disclosed the news to The Des Moines Register. Then, other Iowa reporters were invited to participate in a conference call with a senior adviser to Mr. Giuliani, former Representative Jim Nussle of Iowa, who ran unsuccessfully for governor last year.

“The straw poll actually could in fact take away Iowa’s significance, if we’re not careful,” Mr. Nussle told reporters. “It’s not a serious event in the grand scheme of picking a nominee. And at this time in our history, with the war on terror and economic challenges facing our country, we need to have a serious conversation about our nominee and not just have, you know, these kind of fund-raising straw polls.”

While Ames has at times been a good barometer, it has also been notably wrong, like in 1995 when Phil Gramm of Texas invested large sums of money and tied for first there, only to see his campaign fizzle.

Steffen W. Schmidt, a professor of political science at Iowa State University, said that the importance of the Iowa straw poll appeared to be fading. While the caucuses will remain important to candidates, Mr. Schmidt said, the compressed schedule does not allow the luxury of spending so much money in one place in August.

“It’s kind of a phony event,” he said. “It diverts energy and resources from the bigger states. It’s a metaphor for the entire way the race is going.”

The Romney campaign, which has already spent hundreds of thousands of dollars advertising in the state and reaffirmed its decision to take part in the straw poll, was quick to criticize the decisions to pull out.

Christopher Rants, the Iowa House Republican leader who is an adviser to the Romney campaign, said, “It sure looks to me that Giuliani is trying to avoid having to compete for conservative votes.”

The Giuliani campaign, hoping to reassure Iowa voters, announced that it would open its official campaign headquarters in the state on Thursday. Mr. Giuliani, however, will not be there. He is campaigning in Michigan that day, before heading off for events in Washington, D.C.; Missouri; and California.
200 2007-06-07 The Bush administration has defended secretly detaining some suspects as a necessity of the fight against terrorism because officials do not want to tip off terrorist groups that their operatives are in custody. They say the comparison with past Latin American regimes is unfair, because those seized by the Americans are not killed and their whereabouts will eventually be revealed.

A Central Intelligence Agency spokesman, Paul Gimigliano, would not comment on the names on the list. But he said “there is no shortage of myth about what the C.I.A. has done to fight terror.”

“The plain truth is that we act in strict accord with American law,” he said, adding that the agency’s actions “have been very effective in disrupting plots and saving lives.”

In a reminder that the handling of captured terrorism suspects remains a pressing issue, Pentagon officials said Wednesday that a courier linking terrorist cells in the Horn of Africa and Al Qaeda officials in Pakistan was captured recently in East Africa and transported this week to Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman, said the detainee, Abdullahi Sudi Arale, was suspected of providing terrorist cells in East Africa with explosives and weapons. He traveled from Pakistan to Somalia in September 2006 and held a leadership role in the Islamic Courts Council, which held power in part of Somalia until earlier this year, according to a Pentagon statement.

“We believe him to be an extremely dangerous member of the Al Qaeda network,” Mr. Whitman said. But he said Mr. Arale, whose age and nationality were not released, would not be part of the “high value” group in the Guantánamo prisoner population of about 385.

Even before the secret detentions were officially confirmed, the practice drew widespread objections, including from within the Bush administration. William H. Taft IV, legal adviser at the State Department from 2001 to 2005, opposed it while in office and on Wednesday said he had not changed his view.

“I believe the United States should always account for people in its custody,” said Mr. Taft, who had not reviewed the human rights groups’ report. “When our own people are missing, we want to be able to insist on an accounting from their captors,” Mr. Taft said. He added that keeping prisoners secret could tempt their jailers to abuse them and to cover up their deaths in custody.

In September, President Bush for the first time officially acknowledged the C.I.A.’s secret overseas detentions, saying that the 14 prisoners then in the agency’s hands had been moved to Guantánamo. A 15th so-called high-level prisoner, an Iraqi Kurd named Abd al-Hadi al-Iraqi, alleged to be a top aide to Osama bin Laden, was moved to Guantánamo in April after being held secretly by the C.I.A. for several months.

Mohammad Khan, 31, a Pakistani banker who was held in secret in Pakistan and questioned by Americans for 56 days in 2003, described the experience in an interview from Karachi on Wednesday. Mr. Khan’s brother, Majid Khan, who was arrested along with him but held in secret C.I.A. custody for the next three years, is among the high-level prisoners at Guantánamo. He is accused of plotting to blow up gas stations in the United States and planning other terrorist acts, charges his brother said he denies.

After their imprisonment, “Our family members had no idea where we were,” Mr. Khan said. He said his brother was questioned by Americans for up to eight hours while confined to a small chair and eventually signed false confessions.

Later, Mr. Khan said, he and other family members, including some who live in the Baltimore area, believed for a time that Majid Khan was dead and learned of his whereabouts only from President Bush’s September speech.

“How can there be any justification for this?” Mr. Khan said. “You can’t kidnap people and hold them somewhere in the world and torture them.”
201 2007-06-07 Steven C. Preston, 46, a former executive vice president at ServiceMaster, became administrator of the Small Business Administration in July 2006. He sat down recently in his Washington office to discuss his efforts and those of Congress to overhaul the agency, which has been hit with budget and staff cuts. Following are excerpts:

Q. There have been some proposals in the Senate and House for reforming various programs at the agency. Do you think those are necessary?

A. I think it’s important to acknowledge that in the absence of progress, Congress is going to feel the need to take action. So I respect the fact that many people on the Hill are working hard to think about how to improve the performance of the S.B.A. On the other side, there are policies that we’re not a fan of. I am not in favor of subsidizing our loan programs. I think we should be focusing on expanding those programs by making them more effective in reaching small business. But frankly, for the amount of fee that they pay, I don’t think that that’s an inhibitor to our getting capital in their hands.

Q. You’ve said that you felt that the agency had the budget to actually fulfill its statutory requirements. And you stand by that?

A. The budget we have allows us to fulfill our mission, and within that budget we are going to be a much more effective and much more efficient agency at performing what we do. So I think we’re going to build capacity to perform our mission that exceeds our growth in the budget. So I think there’s a great opportunity for us to be a lot better at what we do, be much more responsive to customers, improve our turnaround times, improve the quality of what we do.

Q. What are your staff levels at this point?

A. With the passage of the ’07 budget, we have now begun to hire a number of critical positions. We were sort of in a five-month period where we were in this continuing resolution, which means you really don’t know how much money you’re going to have, and so we were hesitant to begin hiring some of those jobs. But we have hired a number — either hired or begun to post — mission-critical jobs in the guaranteed-lending operations, much of which is in the processing center, where we need some people.
202 2007-06-07 Prudential Financial has been trying for years to figure out what to do with its small, struggling equity research and sales business. Yesterday, the company said it had decided to shut the operation.

About 420 people will be laid off, with most of the cuts coming in New York. Offices will also be closing in Zurich, Paris and Tokyo as well as several in the United States.

The unit, the Prudential Equity Group, sold research reports about stocks, the economy and politics and offered securities trading to domestic and international institutional customers.

The company, based in Newark, had been downsizing and restructuring the division for years, dabbling in investment banking and the retail brokerage sector, which could support the research and trading operations. But the division never found its niche, and the company exited investment banking and retail brokerage, leaving research and sales as a corporate orphan.

Last year, it had $260 million in revenue, a small chunk of the $32.49 billion the company had in overall sales.
203 2007-06-07 For the second straight day, Wall Street recoiled today at the prospect that inflation would not settle down enough to suit the Federal Reserve. And investors appeared to worry not only that interest rates will stay where they are, but that the Fed could raise them even higher.

New Labor Department data showed that labor costs during the first three months of the year rose three times as fast as first calculated — a sign that inflationary pressures on American businesses were far greater than economists believed.

Coming just one day after Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, indicated that the central bank was unlikely to lower short-term borrowing rates anytime soon, the report pulled stock prices down enough to produce the worst two-day stretch on Wall Street since March.

Investors have become increasingly convinced in recent days that one of the most powerful drivers of equity market growth — a Fed interest-rate cut — is off the table for at least the rest of the year.

“Already, core inflation has been running above the Fed’s preferred range,” said Dean Maki, managing director of Barclays Capital, which has forecast two Fed rate increases before the end of the year. “If wage pressures are intensifying as most recent data indicates they are, that is another reason to be concerned.”
204 2007-06-07 One look at Nadal at the start of the match showed how much he wanted the victory. He had warmed up so thoroughly he was dripping with sweat, his dark shaggy hair matted to his head. He knew he had to be ready against Moyá, who had practiced with him for many years and knew his moves well.

After the victory, Nadal, seeded second, said he was happy because he had played his best tennis of the tournament. He has not lost a single set here.

“That shows how much better he is to the other guys,” said Moyá, who had 38 unforced errors to Nadal’s 15.

“I think that there are just a few players who can, not just — not beat him, but even get a set from him,” he said.

Novak Djokovic, seeded sixth and one of the three Serbs in the men’s and women’s semifinals, is one of those players.

Djokovic, 20, is next in line to play Nadal at Roland Garros. No. 1 Roger Federer will play No. 4 Nikolay Davydenko in the other semifinal.

In March, Djokovic found a way to beat Nadal at this year’s Masters Series event in Miami, which was played on a hard court. But even here on Roland Garros’s clay, Djokovic said he had a chance of beating Nadal again. Even if it was only a small one.

“He’s the best player in the world on this surface, and everybody knows that,” Djokovic said.

On Wednesday, Djokovic continued to lead the surge of Serbian players here by defeating 125th-ranked Igor Andreev in straight sets, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3. His compatriots — No. 4 Jelena Jankovic and No. 7 Ana Ivanovic — will play in Thursday’s women’s semifinals.

Ivanovic will play No. 2 Maria Sharapova, while Jankovic will meet No. 1 Justine Henin, who has been the French Open champion three of the last four years.

The Serbian cheering section, which is growing by the moment, made itself known during Djokovic’s match Wednesday. About a dozen of Djokovic’s family and friends cheered and clapped in unison while he was on the court. Djokovic was wearing his lucky yellow shirt, and more than a dozen of those fans followed suit.

Glimpsing that sea of yellow made Djokovic laugh as he went on to beat Andreev without too many problems. Andreev had beaten No. 3 Andy Roddick in the first round, but was not surprised that his tournament ended with the match against Djokovic.

“I think his stronger point is that he hits no bad shots,” Andreev said. “He does very good everything. He’s defending very well. He’s serving well on important points.

“So he’s a strong guy,” he said. “I’m surprised, like, mentally, he’s so strong for the young age that he is.”

Later, Nadal called Djokovic a “potential future No. 1” because of his big serve and aggressiveness. Both parts of Djokovic’s game have improved this year, turning him into one of the few players who could challenge Nadal or Federer for the title here.

Djokovic said he could not see himself as a Grand Slam winner — yet — because he would have to beat Nadal to get there. Last year, he lost to Nadal in the quarterfinals after retiring with a back injury. He is bracing himself for another round.

“He plays with a lot of motivation and confidence,” Djokovic said of Nadal. “And physically he is very ready and probably the most prepared player on the Tour.”

Against Moyá, Nadal made sure he was prepared. He loosened up by running and bouncing around the locker room as if he were a child who had ingested too much sugar.

As the days go on, the pressure grows for him to win again at Roland Garros. But this year, more than any other, he said he feels more physically and mentally ready for this tournament.

“I feel better because I can play a little bit different,” he said, comparing his performances with last year’s. “I can play a little bit more aggressive. I can play defense sometimes, but I can attack, too. So that’s a little bit of an advantage.”

At the same time, Federer is feeling good, too, particularly after beating Nadal last month in Hamburg, Germany, to break Nadal’s 81-match winning streak on clay.

“Yes, don’t mention the name Federer again,” Nadal said earlier this week, with a grin.
205 2007-06-07 LONDON, June 6 — AstraZeneca, Britain’s second-largest drug maker after GlaxoSmithKline, said on Wednesday that its chief financial officer was leaving to join to Goldman Sachs just months after it paid $15.2 billion to buy MedImmune.

Jon Symonds, who joined Zeneca from KPMG in 1997 and was instrumental to the $30 billion merger with Astra of Sweden a year later, will step down at the end of July and join Goldman Sachs, one of AstraZeneca’s corporate brokers, as a managing director in London in September.

Mr. Symonds was passed over more than a year ago in a race for chief executive at AstraZeneca, which appointed David Brennan, head of the American unit, to the post instead. His departure nevertheless surprised analysts, some of whom said that whoever succeeds Mr. Symonds would face the challenge of adding products through acquisitions to help the company’s pipeline while avoiding spending too much.

“Investors weren’t happy with what they paid for MedImmune, but they need to bring more products on board,” said Tim Race, a pharmaceutical analyst at ING Markets in London.

The departure of Mr. Symonds comes as AstraZeneca is trying to regain the confidence of investors after some setbacks with experimental medicines and a drop in its stock price. Shares fell because of a debt rating cut in April by Fitch Ratings, related to the debt used to pay for MedImmune.

Goldman Sachs, which advised MedImmune on the sale to AstraZeneca, has counted AstraZeneca among its clients for years.
206 2007-06-07 This is a big week for others as well. Pizzaland, seen in the opening credits, stopped taking orders yesterday so it could ship hundreds of pizzas around the country. The On Location Tour of Sopranos sites (four hours, $40, cannoli included) is sure to sell out Saturday and Sunday.

As she tells it, Ms. Sadik, who is Dutch (“You’re not much if you’re not Dutch”), not Italian, had zero interest in some dopey show about some dopey singers until she happened to see the opening credits and realized that she could recognize almost every sight from her job running her delivery company since 1988. Soon picking out the Carteret tank farms, the Route 1/9 truck route bridge crossing the Hackensack River and the Valley Landscaping water tower, wasn’t enough. She became an expert for others’ Web sites, then her own, then the lady who managed to show up at every shoot.

We get in her blue 2000 Celica for a quick tour, “Sopranos” theme music blaring from the CD player.

“It’s not as prevalent as it was years ago, but organized crime is part of our history,” she says. “Organized crime is much better than disorganized crime. Go down to Camden if you want to see disorganized crime.”

She turns onto Lexington Avenue and stops at the new school, which used to be the construction site where Vito Spatafore was seen committing a homosexual sex act that eventually led to his being whacked. Then it’s the Botany Plaza Pathmark, where Carmela and Dr. Melfi ran into each other. She heads south on Route 21, then onto Passaic Avenue past the dock where Christopher got beat up and Dick Barone’s son later got his kneecaps broken.

Then to Kearny for Satriale’s, the Irish-American club that was turned into an Italian-American club for the show, the Sip ’n’ Dunk, the original Sopranos family church — St. Cecelia’s in real life. And then off to the Bada Bing in Lodi, known to tourists and locals far and wide in real life as Satin Dolls. “Sopranos” mania or not, it was as dead as Richie Aprile, who was a dead man before he was a dead man.

HER phone rings. It’s her husband, who is annoyed that she doesn’t recognize his voice over the music. “I’m at the Bada Bing. I can’t hear,” she says grumpily. “Make your own dinner.”

“The Sopranos” may not be about real people, but it is about a real place, which is why her passion for place and show have a logical intersection. “People here have something real inside them,” she says. “It’s not like California, land of the fruits and the nuts. I was there for my sister’s baby shower. I said ‘Who’s your best caterer?’ and they give me a chain. I mean, who wants to get catered by Applebee’s?”

We get back in the car. The CD player is blasting the “Peter Gunn” theme and “Every Breath You Take” by the Police.

“What kind of animal smokes marijuana at his own confirmation?” she hollers.
207 2007-06-07 The makers of both drugs said that they were discussing the new warnings about heart failure with the drug agency. “This is generally a process that takes weeks to months,” said Dr. Robert Spanheimer, a senior medical director at Takeda.

Democrats on the House panel voiced harsh criticism of the drug agency and Dr. von Eschenbach, whom the Bush administration named commissioner in September 2005.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is chairman of the panel, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, said the agency had “dropped the ball” in its oversight of Avandia’s safety. The agency should have insisted years ago that Glaxo test whether Avandia increased the risks of heart attacks, Mr. Waxman said.

“Avandia is a case study of the need for reform of our drug safety laws,” Mr. Waxman said. “F.D.A. needs the will, the resources and the authority to be a more effective watchdog of drug safety.”

Democrats asked Dr. von Eschenbach if he believed his agency needed more authority from Congress to require drug makers to perform safety studies or correct drug advertisements. Dr. von Eschenbach said his agency required more money, not authority. And he characterized as “more destructive than constructive” proposals by some of the agency’s Congressional critics to separate the F.D.A.’s drug approval and drug safety functions.

Some Republican members of the committee criticized Democrats on the panel for making too much of uncertain information about Avandia, a popular diabetes pill that has been taken by an estimated seven million people worldwide.

Representative Virginia Foxx, Republican of North Carolina, said she was concerned that those studying the drug had spoken to Democrats on the committee but not to anyone at the drug agency.

“I’d like members of the press to investigate what members of Congress knew about this” and whether those members joined some F.D.A. staff members and others “to create maximum embarrassment to the agency,” Ms. Foxx said.

Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, said the committee was coming dangerously close to “politicizing science.” And he closely questioned Dr. Steven E. Nissen, a cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic whose May 21 article in The New England Journal of Medicine questioned the safety of Avandia.

“This does look like in fact that this was a political concoction to anecdotally go after a company, and I object to it,” Mr. Issa said.

As with most hearings involving the F.D.A., members of Congress sometimes seemed bewildered by some of the technical answers given by witnesses on Wednesday, and several lawmakers stumbled over medical terms at the heart of the debate.

The agency officials themselves appeared confused when Representative Stephen F. Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts, asked the three agency witnesses to look at Avandia’s drug label and find its warning about heart attacks.

“Have you found it yet?” Mr. Lynch kept asking.

Dr. von Eschenbach deferred to Dr. John K. Jenkins, head of the F.D.A.’s office of new drugs. Dr. Jenkins eventually referred to a small table in the labeling information.

“That’s it?” Mr. Lynch asked. “You’re not seriously telling me that that’s it.”

Dr. von Eschenbach said that the agency was in the process of improving the readability of all drug labels.

Representative Diane E. Watson, Democrat of California, said she had diabetes and had been taking Avandia until her doctor told her that she had developed a heart murmur.

“My doctor said, ‘Get off of Avandia — there are other options out there,’ ” Ms. Watson said.

She told Dr. von Eschenbach that warnings about such heart problems should be prominently displayed on the drug’s label.

“You ought to have heart attack on the label, and I believe I was heading toward just that when I went to my physician,” Ms. Watson said.

Dr. von Eschenbach said the F.D.A. was studying the data to decide whether to do that.

Dr. John B. Buse, an endocrinologist at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine and the incoming president of the American Diabetes Association, said that when he spoke publicly in 1999 about his fears that Avandia might increase heart risks, he was threatened in phone calls from the drug’s maker.

“During those calls, it was mentioned on two occasions that there were some in the company who felt that my actions were scurrilous enough to attempt to hold me liable for a loss in market capitalization” of $4 billion, Dr. Buse said.

“I was characterized as a liar,” Dr. Buse said. “I was characterized as being for sale.”

Dr. Moncef Slaoui, chairman of research and development for GlaxoSmithKline, said in his own statement that he was “extremely disappointed” by editorials published Tuesday in The New England Journal of Medicine questioning Avandia’s safety. Dr. Slaoui said he and the company “strongly believe that the overall safety of Avandia is comparable to other available oral anti-diabetes medicines.”
208 2007-06-07 AstraZeneca, Britain's second-largest drug maker after GlaxoSmithKline, said on Wednesday that its chief financial officer was leaving to join to Goldman Sachs just months after it paid $15.2 billion to buy MedImmune.     Jon Symonds, who joined Z...
209 2007-06-07 The presidents of nine universities in New York City promised yesterday to cut greenhouse gas emissions from their campuses by 30 percent over the next 10 years. The pledges, made during a news conference at Pratt Institute, came in response to a ...
210 2007-06-07 The Man Group, the largest publicly traded hedge fund in the world, said it would pay £13.8 million ($27 million) to set up a research institute at Oxford University. The funds, to be paid over five years, will create the Oxford-Man Institute of ...
211 2007-06-07 WARNING FOR TWO DIABETES DRUGS -- The Food and Drug Administration has called for the toughest safety warning on two diabetes drugs, Avandia and Actos. The decision comes a year after the agency's safety reviewers strongly recommended just such a ...
212 2007-06-07 Wu Bangguo, the chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, said at a conference in Beijing that Hong Kong had considerable autonomy only because the central government had chosen to authorize that autonomy. Under the Sin...
213 2007-06-08 For three of today's matches, it was dèja vu all over again as the players repeated the openings from the first game of the finals. Peter Leko took a commanding lead in his candidates finals match over Evgeny Bareev and Boris Gelfand won to move ...
214 2007-06-08 How long until Robert Bork's lawsuit against the Yale Club gets borked? Ted Frank, a colleague of Bork's at the American Enterprise Institute, calls the suit "embarrassingly silly" at Overlawyered. New York personal injury attorney Eric Turkewitz ...
215 2007-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
216 2007-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
217 2007-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
218 2007-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
219 2007-06-08 Until Boston's Curt Schilling lost a no-hitter Thursday with two outs in the ninth inning at Oakland, the Yankees' Mike Mussina had the dubious distinction of being the last pitcher to come so close to a no-hitter without getting it. The Yankees w...
220 2007-06-08 Timothy Spall is the quintessential blundering bloke in English movies. You’ve seen him in several Mike Leigh films, playing a portly working-class oaf with a sloping chin and chipmunk teeth, wearing a look of wide-eyed bafflement as he lumbers through life. Usually his characters convey a profound reticence. But when the stored-up indignities visited upon them become too much to bear, they can explode with apoplectic outrage.

In “Pierrepoint — The Last Hangman” Mr. Spall sinks his teeth into one of the juiciest roles of his career: Albert Pierrepoint, a once-celebrated English hangman who the movie says executed more than 600 people from 1933 to 1955. A third of those were Nazi war criminals, including members of the hierarchy that operated the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.

Pierrepoint was handpicked by Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery to demonstrate to the world that British justice (unlike the Nazis’) was fair but firm. Pierrepoint was proud of his work, which he performed with a dispassionate efficiency. The gallows humor is literal in one disquieting scene in which condemned Nazis are disposed of two at a time, assembly-line fashion, to the strains of a Strauss waltz. These mass deaths bring to mind the lethal barbershop of “Sweeney Todd.”

The movie, directed by Adrian Shergold from a screenplay by Jeff Pope and Bob Mills, uses Pierrepoint’s story to address the issue of capital punishment from a shockingly intimate perspective. Many hangings are shown in semi-close-up, observed from both the viewpoint of the executioner and the prisoners facing imminent death. Some of the condemned are bathed in sweat and murmuring desperate prayers for help. Others remain silent and expressionless.

Pierrepoint devised a system of variable lengths of rope, based on a prisoner’s height, weight and girth, to ensure that death was swift and that the head wasn’t snapped off the body. As a white hood is lowered over the head, the noose tightened around the neck and a lever pulled to drop the body from the scaffold, you cannot avert your eyes. Afterward Pierrepoint and an assistant detach the corpse from the rope, clean it and cover it with a shroud.
221 2007-06-08 The decisions by the Republican candidates — Mr. Giuliani went first, followed by Mr. McCain — were to some extent defensive. Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts has invested heavily in Iowa, and the early betting among political types is that he has the best chance of winning the straw poll. By pulling out now, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. McCain diminished the importance of the event, robbing Mr. Romney, or whichever other Republican emerges as the winner, of a big publicity boost in August.

But the decisions also threatened to roil an already tumultuous nominating calendar. While both campaigns insist that they still intend to vigorously compete for the Iowa caucuses, now scheduled for Jan. 14, their plans almost certainly open the door for candidates to begin picking and choosing which states to focus on.

During his first trip here in April, Mr. Giuliani pledged to “run in Iowa the way I ran in New York City.” But since then, he has spent little time in the state, where social conservatives have traditionally dominated the ranks of Republican activists. (Might Mr. Giuliani’s best prospects might rest in appealing to moderate voters, from California to New York, who will have their say during a crush of primary contests on Feb. 5.?)

The announcement by the Giuliani and McCain campaigns irritated Iowa Republican officials, who for nearly three decades have jealously guarded their tradition of opening the presidential nominating season.

“It’s a kick in the shins, or a little higher,” Chuck Laudner, executive director of the state Republican party, told Radio Iowa. He said the names of all candidates, including Mr. Giuliani and Mr. McCain, will remain on the ballot at the straw poll.

It remains an open question whether anyone will be paying attention.

In 1999, Mr. Bush’s convincing win at the Iowa straw poll with 31 percent of the vote began narrowing the field. “I think everybody’s going to have to reassess their positions and find out whether or not they can stay competitive,” a confident Mr. Bush declared. “I feel great. I’m now going home to Texas to get a good night’s sleep.”

Two days later, Lamar Alexander bailed out of the race. Dan Quayle and Elizabeth Dole weren’t far behind.

So with two of the leading Republican hopefuls taking a preemptive pass at this year’s straw poll, the event will surely be viewed as less of a make-or-break event. And that could well be a lifeline for other Republican candidates, who are still scratching for opportunity to break out.

“The second-tier is going to fight a little longer this year,” said Steffen Schmidt, a professor of political science at Iowa State University in Ames, where the straw poll is still scheduled to take place on Saturday, Aug. 11.

Mr. Romney, who was almost certainly broadsided by the decisions of his leading rivals to bail out of the straw poll, decided to claim an early victory.

“Campaigns that have decided to abandon Ames are likely doing so out of a recognition that their organizations are outmatched and their message falls flat with Republican voters in Iowa,” said Kevin Madden, a spokesman for Mr. Romney. “It looks as if we just beat those campaigns in Iowa two months earlier than we had planned on beating them.”

Now, Mr. Romney just has to win. This year, the price of real estate might be a bargain.
222 2007-06-08 Speaking at a news conference in Germany as President Bush was traveling to Poland for more meetings about the planned system, the Russian president insisted that his offer of using the existing radar were only part of the Kremlin’s alternative plan.

“My initiative and my proposals to our American partners are much wider than the establishment of a radar station,” he said.

He also urged the United States not to proceed with its plans until after thorough consultations with Russia on its own ideas, and suggested creating a pool of countries, including from Europe, to evaluate emerging missile threats together through 2012.

The proposal to examine the threats could lead to another impasse, however, as Russia has quarreled with the West on the need for a missile defense system, saying Iran possesses no missiles capable of reaching Europe. The United States insists that Iran could develop the technology for such weapons, and that it needs to keep ahead of that possibility.

There was no immediate reaction from the Bush administration about Mr. Putin’s latest remarks. Mr. Bush, speaking in Gdansk, Poland, after meeting with President Lech Kaczynski, said that he had created a working group to look at Mr. Putin’s Azerbaijan idea.On Thursday, Mr. Bush had described the previous suggestion as “interesting” and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security advisor, had treated Mr. Putin’s shift from criticizing the plans to proposing an alternative as a recognition that missiles from so-called rogue states could become a legitimate threat.

“He has indicated that since it is a common threat to Russia, Europe and the United States, Russia ought to consider cooperating with us,” Mr. Hadley said.

Beyond saying that Russia would “not rule out” accepting American interceptor missiles in Iraq, Turkey or at sea, the new details of the Kremlin’s position were vague and left many issues to be worked out.

Russia and the United States had already agreed to convene meetings of their experts this summer to assess Russia’s proposals, and officials said it would be difficult to assess the proposals or comment about them until the meetings had begun.

Mr. Putin’s new proposals were made shortly after the NATO Secretary General, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, suggested that Azerbaijan was not an ideal location for defensive interceptor missiles, because it was too close to potential launch sites in Iran.

And while Mr. de Hoop Scheffer made clear that he was giving only an initial assessment and that a fuller judgment should be rendered by experts, diplomats and analysts in Russia, the Caucasus, Europe and United States also expressed skepticism about whether Mr. Putin’s radar proposal was technically feasible.

The Azeri radar, located in Gabala and operated by Russia under a lease, is used for early detection of launches, and is a different sort of system from the fire-control radar used to guide interceptor missiles against an incoming target.

“The Gabala radar can only be used as a source of information,” said Aleksandr A. Khramchikhin, a military analyst and missile expert at the Institute of Military and Political Analysis here. “It cannot be used for guiding a missile in the direction of a target.”

“It is incompatible,” he added. “So far this is the biggest problem, and it is hard to say how it can be overcome.”

Mr. Khramchikhin said that Russia’s proposals were still valuable, because the radar could serve as an excellent complement to an American system, providing a highly accurate early-warning capability that could be used in concert with fire-conrtol radars. “Principally, these is a rare case when Russia’s initiative is sensible,” he said.

Mr. Putin made his initial proposal to Mr. Bush at a resort on the Baltic Sea on Thursday, the highlight of a private session between the two presidents during the Group of 8 meeting hosted by Germany.

Whatever the outcome of the eventual technical assessments of the proposal, no one disputed that Mr. Putin’s suggestion had provided a welcome, if temporary, exit from an intensive diplomatic standoff.

The Russian president had threatened to aim nuclear weapons at Europe should the current plans for missile defense go forward. The new Russian proposal and a subsequent agreement to have experts from the two countries discuss the idea this summer, offered the possibility of a less menacing round of negotiations, diplomats said.

“The important thing, the good thing, is that the two presidents are engaging in dialogue,” said a NATO official. “That can only be welcomed.”
223 2007-06-08 The State Supreme Court ruled yesterday that the Historic District Commission of Fairfield has the authority to rule on whether an 80-foot-long sculpture may be installed in front of a house in the town’s Southport Historic District. The homeowner, Andrew J. Hall, had argued that the artwork, by the German sculptor Anselm Kiefer, was not subject to commission approval because it could not legally be considered a structure. The Supreme Court affirmed a lower court’s decision, saying the six-ton concrete and steel work fit within the commission’s jurisdiction. Mr. Hall said the decision meant the town “forfeits a major sculpture by one of the world’s greatest artists.” Compiled by John Sullivan
224 2007-06-08 The mother of an unarmed man killed by an undercover police officer seven years ago called on the Bronx district attorney’s office yesterday to reopen a criminal investigation after a jury awarded her $10.45 million for the wrongful death of her son.

The unarmed man, Malcolm Ferguson, 23, was shot on March 1, 2000, during a struggle with Louis Rivera, the plainclothes officer, who was investigating narcotics sales in the Soundview section of the Bronx.

The shooting, which prompted large protests in the neighborhood, occurred two blocks from the apartment building vestibule where Amadou Diallo was shot at 41 times by undercover police officers in 1999.

After an investigation, the Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, declined to file criminal charges against Officer Rivera. Officer Rivera said he had accidentally fired a gunshot that struck Mr. Ferguson in the head as they wrestled in a stairwell. He remains on active duty.

On Wednesday, a Civil Court jury in the Bronx found Officer Rivera responsible for Mr. Ferguson’s death and awarded Mr. Ferguson’s mother the $10.45 million, including $7 million in punitive damages and $3 million for pain and suffering.
225 2007-06-08 The Taliban released four members of an Afghan medical team kidnapped and held hostage since March after the government handed over the body of the senior Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah, said Qayum Pukhla, the director of the health department in Kandahar. The four, a doctor, two nurses and a driver described as thin and frail, were quickly reunited with their families. Members of the Taliban said that the Afghan government handed over the body of Mullah Dadullah, killed in fighting last month, on Wednesday evening and that was why they released the four hostages. They said they had killed the fifth member of the team, a pharmacist, because the government did not hand over the commander’s body within the ultimatum set earlier this week.
226 2007-06-08 North Korea fired two short-range missiles into its western coastal waters, apparently as part of military drills, South Korean military officials said. The missiles were believed to have a range of about 62 miles, a South Korea Defense Ministry official said Friday. Two weeks ago, North Korea fired at least one short-range missile into its waters.
227 2007-06-08 The unexpected proposal came on a day marked by compromise over climate change and more clashes between protesters and the police at the meeting. The United States agreed to “seriously consider” a European plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2050, thus averting a potential clash between Mr. Bush and the meeting’s host, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.

But the climate change news paled in comparison to the startling developments on missile defense. With tensions between Washington and Moscow rising over Mr. Bush’s plan, a senior White House official said Thursday that Mr. Putin indicated before the meeting that he wanted to raise an idea directly with the president. But Mr. Bush was not aware of the details.

Experts say that Mr. Putin’s proposal faces a number of daunting, and possibly insurmountable, hurdles. Russia leases but does not own the radar station in Azerbaijan, and it is an early warning system, not the X-band radar that is used to guide antimissile interceptors, and which the Bush administration wants to build in the Czech Republic.

Trust between the nations is also an issue. The plan would require the kind of intense cooperation in which only the closest allies could engage. With the two sides already embroiled in disputes over the future of Kosovo, the state of democratic institutions in Russia and how to deal with Iran’s nuclear program, some experts raised questions about whether Mr. Putin was serious — and, if he was, whether the White House would ever accept the offer.

“For that kind of cooperation, to be treated seriously by the United States and NATO, they would have to have more trust than people really do now toward the Russian military,” said Stephen Sestanovich, an expert on Russia at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The question is, can you one day have the Russians acting in such a way as to advertise their lack of trust in the United States, and the next day insist that the United States trust them?”

Still, Thursday’s announcement at Heiligendamm, a few miles west of Rostock, was a far cry from what some had expected from the two presidents, given Mr. Putin’s recent harsh statements.

In recent weeks, the Russian president has made a veiled comparison between the United States and the Third Reich, complained of “diktat and imperialism,” and, most recently, threatened to once more aim Russian missiles at Europe if Mr. Bush went through with his missile defense plan.

Earlier this week in Prague, Mr. Bush chided Mr. Putin for backsliding on democratic reforms — an issue that Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, said did not come up at Thursday’s meeting.

But on Thursday the two men stood shoulder to shoulder, laughing and smiling as they recounted for reporters what Mr. Bush described as “a very constructive dialogue.”

“I told Vladimir we’re looking forward to having him up to my folks’ place in Maine,” the president said, referring to an invitation he has extended for the Russian leader to visit the Bush family compound in Kennebunkport for further talks in the beginning of July.

Mr. Putin, for his part, praised the president for a “spirit of openness.”

When they were done, Mr. Bush extended his right hand for Mr. Putin, who took it, and then clasped his left hand over the entire handshake.

Under Mr. Bush’s proposal, the United States would build a network of radar defenses in the Czech Republic and missile interceptors in Poland, as a way to defend against possible attacks from what Mr. Bush calls “rogue nations,” particularly Iran. Mr. Putin regards the plan as a threat to Russia’s security, and is especially concerned about the interceptors in Poland.

Officials from both sides said Thursday that Mr. Putin had not dropped his opposition to the Poland part of the plan, even as he put forth an alternative, for the United States to use the radar station in the town of Gabala in northeast Azerbaijan.

Russia uses the station under a lease agreement with Azerbaijan. Mr. Putin said he had spoken on Wednesday to Azerbaijan’s president, Ilham Aliyev, who he said “stressed he will be only glad to contribute to the cause of global security and stability.” Azeri officials were not available for comment on Thursday evening.

The idea that the United States and Russia might share data from early warning satellites is not entirely new. It has been kicked around in the Russian news media recently, and Mr. Hadley said the proposal “has some elements we have heard before,” but Mr. Putin presented it in a far more detailed and specific way.

“I thought this was a master stroke on his part,” said Andrew Kuchins, director of the Russia Eurasia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “The core question is whether he is inclined to seriously cooperate with us, which I think he is, or is he just trying to put a monkey wrench in the works?”

By proposing that the United States and Russia jointly use what Mr. Putin called “the Russian radar at Gabala in Azerbaijan,” the Russian president at once offered Mr. Bush a way to alleviate the Kremlin’s worries about the intentions and possible consequences of missile defense in Europe, and presented his American counterpart with a fresh diplomatic challenge.

One of the Kremlin’s objections to the notion of a missile defense system in Europe is that it could, in theory, intercept a missile launched from Iran as it flew through Russian airspace. Russian officials have pointed out that this would mean two military missiles colliding over Russia, and that the debris from any explosion could endanger Russian people and property. Mr. Putin said that locating the system in Azerbaijan could alleviate this risk, and that interceptors could be fired from Aegis cruisers, rather than from Poland.

American officials reacted cautiously to the offer, though after weeks of trying to tamp down the language coming out of the Kremlin, they said they viewed it as a step in the right direction.

“I think it’s really too soon to say where this heads,” Mr. Hadley said, adding: “I think also President Putin wanted to de-escalate the tensions a little bit on this issue. And I think it was a useful thing that he did.”

Just last week, Mr. Hadley had practically thrown up his hands on the prospect of Russian cooperation on the missile defense issue, saying Democratic and Republican administrations had been trying for 17 years to secure such cooperation, and “I cannot tell you, for the life of me, why they say no.”

A spokesman for Mr. Putin, Dmitri Peskov, told reporters after the meeting that the Russian president had decided to make the offer because “dialogue is better than mutual silence.” He added, “This offer shows once again that President Putin is ready to find consensus and he’s ready to find solutions, not by confronting, not by threatening anyone — well, he’s never done that, actually — but by working together.”
228 2007-06-08 The crisis over pork prices in China, like the jolt many Americans feel when gasoline prices jump, offers one example of how prices can suddenly soar. The Chinese government is struggling to cope — including deliberating whether to sell a snuffling, smelly strategic reserve of hundreds of thousands of live pigs kept at special subsidized farms for precisely the shortage the country is now facing.

Chinese officials offer several reasons for the high pig prices. The cost of animal feed has risen by one-quarter in the last year, partly because more corn is being made into ethanol and partly because more prosperous workers are eating more meat, which requires more animal feed.

The cost of pig veterinary medicine has soared. Some pig farms, shut down because of low prices last year, were unprepared for strong demand this spring. And outbreaks of disease have killed many pigs, though no reliable estimates of how many are available.

The most recent statistics from the agriculture ministry show that prices for live pigs rose 71.3 percent in April compared with the same month a year earlier, while pork prices climbed 29.3 percent in April from March. The price of pork followed pig prices higher in May as well, to the dismay of shoppers.

Some consumers showed irritation with pork prices on two recent afternoons at a busy street market in metropolitan Guangzhou, an area of perhaps 12 million in southeast China. A woman walked up to Zhang Hanbiao, a butcher standing behind an unrefrigerated counter of raw pork under the glare of two large light bulbs, and asked him the price of the dark red slab of pig liver.

Told the answer — 7.5 yuan a catty, or 89 U.S. cents a pound, up from 6 yuan a catty — she stalked off in silence without buying.

Her response angered Mr. Zhang, a butcher with a faint mustache who has followed a Chinese tradition of letting his nails grow long on the little finger of each hand.

“No business!” he exclaimed. “I’ve lost 1,000 yuan in three days because the meat goes bad before I can sell it.”

Another woman came to the counter, sniffed some pork suspiciously, then kept walking. “After it turns color, people won’t buy it,” Mr. Zhang said, adding that roadside snack vendors buy unsold meat at a discount each evening.

Wu Lijuan, a Guangzhou resident who bought a small plastic bag of lean pork from Mr. Zhang, said that she was eating less pork and more fish as pork prices rose. But prices for chicken, beef, fish and eggs are also increasing sharply this spring, along with the higher cost of animal and fish feed, although rising not quite as fast as pork prices.

In a move to head off any protests among sometimes volatile student populations, the education ministry has ordered colleges and universities to subsidize pork instead of raising prices on campus. The civil affairs ministry has instructed municipal governments to subsidize pork purchases by low-income families, while the railway ministry has given priority to pig shipments.

Prime Minister Wen Jiabao visited the pork counter at a supermarket in Xian in central China on May 26 and called for local governments to pay pig farmers to increase production. The commerce ministry has raised the possibility of distributing pork from China’s strategic pork reserves.

State-controlled television in Shandong Province in northeastern China carried a detailed report late last month on the reserves. The commerce ministry keeps a national reserve of frozen pork and live pigs, and local governments keep their own reserves as well, constantly selling older supplies and procuring fresh stock. Government agencies pay a pig subsidy to farmers to keep their animals in the program.

“The sties are very roomy, there is heat in the winter and fans in the summer,” the television program said, describing conditions very different from those endured by many other pigs in China, including those here in Gaoyao, 50 miles west of Guangzhou.

Yang Yuanji stood in sweltering heat next to his fetid, crudely built pigpens on a recent afternoon and contended that he needed high prices to pay for costly animal feed and medicine.

“Everyone says pork prices are high — I don’t think so,” he said.

One of his neighbors, Yang Ming, said he did not believe that farmers were withholding pigs from the market — as the state media occasionally hint — in hope that prices will keep rising. “I don’t wait, I sell a pig as soon as it reaches 180 catties,” or 200 pounds, he said.

Pork has been a cornerstone of the Chinese diet for centuries. Rows of 2,100-year-old terra cotta pigs were recently discovered near Xian, a city better known for terra cotta warriors. China’s 1.3 billion people eat more than 92 billion pounds of pork a year — a fifth of a pound a day for every man, woman and child.

And just as higher gasoline prices can lead to a political reaction in the United States, the Chinese government is particularly worried about soaring pork prices because of their impact on household budgets and the way they can exacerbate income inequality.

Pork is a critical source of protein for Chinese of all incomes, but particularly for low-income workers like those who keep American and European families well supplied with $49 DVD players and other popular consumer products.

Broader measures of consumer prices showed just 3 percent inflation in April, but Goldman Sachs now predicts that higher meat prices will help push this above 4 percent “very soon.”

Heavy investments in new factories, roads, rail lines and ports have helped limit inflation until now in manufactured goods, as productivity improvements mostly offset rising wages and higher prices for food, oil and metals. Economists and business executives say that manufacturers face growing pressure to raise prices as well, particularly with the torrent of money pouring into China, which has helped push up the prices of Chinese stocks and real estate.

But the price that many Chinese care about most these days is the price of pork. Not far from Mr. Zhang’s butcher counter is a small shop selling unrefrigerated barbecue. Cherry Zhou, a shop worker, said it had raised prices 25 percent in the last few days.

Blaming pork distributors, she added, “It’s more expensive by the week.”
229 2007-06-08 And when investigators first saw Mr. Izzi, 74, who was declared dead in his bed, they said he seemed like a “beat-up old man,” a far cry from the eccentric, crisply dressed wiseguy whose nickname was “the Cueball,” and whose tangles with the law dated back nearly 40 years.

Mr. Izzi, investigators said, was a, associate of Rosario Gangi, a Genovese captain whose crew long dominated the Fulton Fish Market. Mr. Gangi is currently serving a federal prison term.

In 1968, Mr. Izzi, then 35, surrendered to the Federal Bureau of Investigation after being on the lam for more than a year. The authorities charged him with stealing $2 million worth of I.B.M. stock from a New York brokerage house in 1966.

In 2001, Mr. Izzi was arrested again, after the police responded to reports of gunfire at his Shore Parkway home. Mr. Izzi told the investigators that a gunman had barged into his home and pistol-whipped him, and that the intruder’s gun went off after Mr. Izzi tried to wrestle him to the ground.

The police did not find a gunman. But they found a pipe bomb in Mr. Izzi’s garage, $60,000 in cash and a trove of loan-sharking records.

Mr. Izzi’s lawyer in the 2001 case, Arthur L. Aidala, said his client pleaded guilty to possession of loan-sharking records, a misdemeanor.

“They found the pipe bomb in his garage that was probably from the 1950s,” Mr. Aidala said. “I believe they tried to ignite it and it was a dud and so those charges went by the wayside.”

Mr. Aidala said Mr. Izzi was eccentric but gentlemanly, a natty and meticulous dresser with a penchant for matching clothes. “Everything was coordinated, the shirt matched the belt matched the shoes matched the watch,” Mr. Aidala recalled. “I believe he wanted to pay my legal fee with a case of Cutty Sark.

“He was the last of a dying breed, so to speak,” Mr. Aidala said. “Chivalrous.”

Mr. DeCicco is the son of George DeCicco, 78, a high-ranking Gambino family member, federal authorities said. According to federal charges brought by the Brooklyn United States attorney’s office in January, George DeCicco was secretly recorded telling a federal witness who owed him money, “I’ll burn your eyes out, did you ever screw me. Do you want me to burn your eyes out?”

Yesterday, dozens of investigators descended on Mr. Izzi’s three-story red brick home, some in white evidence collection jumpsuits, and combed the grass outside. They found a 9 millimeter shell in the house, but no gun, they said. The homicide is being investigated by detectives from the 62th Precinct. F.B.I. agents from the Organized Crime Branch were also at the scene.

And neighbors were shocked by Mr. Izzi’s reputed ties to the mob. They also said they were gripped by the fear that a Mafia war might be under way.

“I see him almost every day, sweeping and fixing the garbage pails in front of the house,” said Francine Romeo, who lives nearby. “Looking at him, you’d never think anything.”

But she said Mr. Izzi stopped sunbathing in his driveway after he was attacked in 2001. Ever since then, she said, he sunbathed only on his second-floor balcony.
230 2007-06-08 A three-judge court acquitted 19 executives and consultants accused of fraud in the collapse of Switzerland’s former national carrier, Swissair, and ordered the government to pay them compensation totaling more than $2.5 million. The defendants denied charges that included damaging creditors, mismanagement, making false statements and forging documents. Some have blamed the big Swiss banks and the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks for the airline’s downfall. Swissair was grounded Oct. 2, 2001, after months of financial problems. Prosecutors sought prison for Mario Corti, the last chief executive of the parent SAirGroup, which is now defunct, and a range of suspended sentences for 18 other airline executives, board members and consultants.
231 2007-06-08 John A. Byrne, executive editor of BusinessWeek, was named yesterday to lead the magazine’s Web site.

Mr. Byrne, 54, will coordinate integration of the magazine and BusinessWeek.com, which is owned by McGraw-Hill, the company said yesterday in a statement.

He succeeds Kathy Rebello, who left the company.

Traffic to BusinessWeek.com reached seven million unique visitors in May, a one-third increase from a year earlier, Mr. Byrne said.

Mr. Byrne has worked at BusinessWeek for 20 years. He was made executive editor in 2005, returning after two years as editor of Fast Company magazine. He is the author of eight books, including a collaboration with John F. Welch Jr., former chief executive of General Electric.

Mr. Byrne will continue to carry the title of executive editor at the magazine.

The Web site plans to include more video, audio and user input, Mr. Byrne said.
232 2007-06-08 In general, hedge funds returns should not replicate stock market returns. If they did, investors would be smarter to buy index funds and not pay the steep fees of hedge funds. Because hedge funds can hedge their bets, borrow to increase their bets, tread where others fear to tread and seek out nontraditional assets, they should generate excess returns (alpha), not just reflect market returns (beta).

According to Mr. Dalio’s analysis, over the last 24 months, hedge funds were 60 percent correlated to the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, 67 percent correlated to the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE (for Europe, Australia and the Far East) index of foreign shares, and 87 percent correlated to emerging market equities (unhedged). They were 41 percent correlated to the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index, 52 percent correlated to high-yield, or junk, bonds, and 42 percent correlated to mortgage-backed securities.

The letter also parsed the correlations by strategy, which is a more precise way to think about hedge funds, since different types of funds take different kinds of risks. Short-biased hedge funds have a negative 70 percent correlation to the S.& P. index, while equity long-short, the description applied to what most people think of as a hedge fund strategy (betting that some stocks might go up and others might fall, usually with leverage) had a huge correlation of 84 percent.

Then Mr. Dalio looked at data back to 1994, which showed that historical correlations were in the range of 49 to 54 percent; high, but not as high. So as equity markets have done well, hedge funds have done well — not necessarily because of their genius but because they have the wind of the stock markets at their back and because a lot of them use leverage to magnify their bets.

In a period when volatility is low and credit spreads are tight, it should be difficult for hedge funds to make a lot of money. But many funds appear to be taking the easy way out.

Still, no one cares about correlations, or anything else really, until the markets head down. But a lot of investors like Bridgewater as a part of a diversified group of hedge funds because Mr. Dalio has a contrarian view, and if and when the markets tank, he should — and he had better — trounce his more correlated peers.

And Mr. Dalio clearly has more than his powers of prognostication on the line: Bridgewater returned a meager 3.4 percent last year.

Many people in asset management think the whole correlation thing is overblown: of course hedge funds will take advantage of strong markets to make money. The key is that when the markets turn, these managers can do something about it. The question is whether they are smart enough to know to do it.

Maybe they are. But investors would be smart to try to understand how exposed they might be to the markets when they think they are well protected against them. (Private equity firms, another popular place to dump money these days, are buying highly leveraged large-cap companies.)

Of course, understanding returns may be hard. Mr. Wurth of JPMorgan expressed concern about aspects of hedge fund investing, notably the lack of transparency, which makes it harder to try to monitor trading by fund managers and the lack of influence a single client might have on a big fund. Which is why JPMorgan suggests clients limit themselves to only 35 percent in alternative investments, even though many want their portfolios to look more like those of foundations and endowments, which can have as much as 60 percent of their assets in alternatives.

“You do things that foundations don’t do,” Mr. Wurth joked. “You die and you pay taxes. So don’t get ahead of yourself.”
233 2007-06-08 PARIS, June 7 (AP) — Gen. Alain Le Ray, whose famous escape from a notorious Nazi prison laid the basis for leadership in the French Resistance in World War II and then in the postwar army, died Monday at the age of 96.

His family announced the death but did not give the place or cause.

General Le Ray, a career army officer who later fought in colonial wars in Indochina and Algeria, was captured by the Germans in June 1940 and less than a year later became the first to escape from the infamous Colditz prison in Germany. The Nazis had boasted that the prison was escape-proof, and his exploits were recounted in the 1976 book “Première à Colditz” — “First in Colditz.”

Back in France, General Le Ray entered the Resistance, and as an expert mountain climber, he helped in an operation in the Alpine region of Vercors, becoming the first military chief of the Vercors network in May 1943.

General Le Ray rose within the Resistance to become commander of the French Forces of the Interior in Isère, another Alpine region. In 1945, his forces moved to Mont-Cenis, where they forced the Germans from their last French mountain strongholds. He organized the liberation of the Isère area with Allied forces.

He later was named a lieutenant colonel, taking part in the 1953-54 Indochina campaign.

From 1956 to 1958, General Le Ray served as chief of staff of the paratrooper division in Algeria when it was waging war for independence from France. He then was named military attaché in Bonn. He was promoted to brigadier general in 1961, and a year later was made commander of the 27th Alpine Division in Kabylia, in Algeria.

He was promoted to general of army corps in 1968, two years before retiring.

Survivors include his wife, Luce, the daughter of the famed French writer François Mauriac.
234 2007-06-08 BELGRADE, Serbia, June 7 — The European Union said Thursday that it would resume negotiations with Serbia next week on an agreement that is the first step toward possible membership in the bloc.

The announcement was made a week after the arrest and transfer of a leading Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect to the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague, and it was seen as a victory for Boris Tadic, Serbia’s reformist president, who is supported by the United States and the European Union.

On Wednesday the tribunal’s chief prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, said during a visit to Belgrade that she believed that the government was fully committed to cooperating, and she praised the arrest and transfer of the Bosnian Serb suspect, Gen. Zdravko Tolimir. She said Serbia would arrest General Tolimir’s former boss, Ratko Mladic, the commander of the Bosnian Serb army during the 1992-95 war in Bosnia, “within months.”

The European Union has made full cooperation with the tribunal a condition for closer ties. The two senior Bosnian Serb wartime leaders are still at large and are the tribunal’s most-wanted suspects: General Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, the wartime leader of the Bosnian Serb government.

Just weeks ago, Serbia’s hopes of resuming negotiations with the European Union seemed faint. The conservative prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, had been accused by the Union of blocking cooperation with the tribunal. And for a brief moment in May, Mr. Kostunica’s party seemed on the verge of forming a coalition with the nationalist Serbian Radical Party, which is opposed to the arrest of war crimes suspects and favors closer ties to Russia rather than to the European Union.
235 2007-06-08 LONDON, June 7 — The Vodafone Group, the world’s largest cellphone company, said on Thursday that it had received a letter from a group of shareholders asking it to return as much as £38 billion ($75 billion) to investors in part by spinning off its stake in Verizon Wireless.

In the latest effort by minority shareholders to influence management decisions, a little-known group of investors, Efficient Capital Structures, suggested that Vodafone give its investors tracking shares representing the company’s 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless, the American cellular carrier; increase borrowing as a way to return more money to shareholders; and ask the permission of shareholders before making any large acquisitions.

Vodafone rejected the proposals late Thursday, saying that they would not be in the best interest of shareholders. Yet, the company may still have to take the suggestions to the agenda of its annual shareholder meeting on July 24, because Efficient Capital Structures said that it owned enough shares to force the issue. Yet several analysts backed management, saying the suggestions were weak.

“This is not a serious enough slate of suggestions to create more than headlines,” Terence Sinclair, an analyst at Citigroup in London, wrote in a note to his clients.

An analyst at Goldman Sachs in London, Simon Weeden, said that he did not expect the claims to be taken seriously and that a spinoff of Vodafone’s stake in Verizon Wireless would create complex tax issues and would dilute shareholder rights.
236 2007-06-08 The Argentine pianist and composer Guillermo Klein brought his big band to the Village Vanguard for the first time last summer, and New York reacted as it should. Word got around, and an artist whose music was easy to follow even if its referents were hard to determine — having crafted his individual, worldly, not-quite-jazz in various basements in New York, Buenos Aires and Barcelona — became a little less obscure that week.

The Vanguard has invited him back for two weeks this year. Though the music sounds even stronger, Mr. Klein is still holding it together without a lot of self-serving flash. He deserves credit for this, especially because he has a specific sound: Even songs written by other members of Los Guachos, his 11-piece international band, become Klein-like through the machine of his orchestration ideas. With his band you hear a song from all its corners; a piece of music bounces around its dimensions, treated with care and bolstered with strong, emotional soloing.

Mr. Klein’s writing hardly ever uses the jazz bandleader’s common prerogative: though he’s the pianist, he doesn’t overexercise that instrument. In about 75 minutes of music there was only a short moment toward the end that could have been considered a piano solo. Instead Mr. Klein did a few things that are still fairly uncommon at the Vanguard. He sang, and gave visual cues to his band. The sung piece was “Va Román,” which Mr. Klein wrote for an Argentine soccer player, and he used his modest voice for it: raspy and melancholic without affectation. The song put its verses up front, before a long section of some improvising over vamps by the saxophonists Chris Cheek and Miguel Zenon; it had a little bit of the authority with form that some progressive rock of the ’70s had, and it never slackened.

Mr. Klein loves compound rhythm, and he loves when a band passes a melody around. (To achieve this end he sometimes uses the medieval-music device called hocketing, in which a continuous line is rendered in short pieces by different instruments.) Los Guachos has made some fairly difficult pieces sound even more fluid than they did last year. But the result of the band’s labor is a natural, songlike music, not a math class or a jazz-technique clinic, and anyone can tell that this was Mr. Klein’s desire all along.

Though he has learned the pedagogy of big-band jazz arrangement, his music doesn’t come from swing rhythm and bebop harmony. He doesn’t strain to make up the difference, either. Rather than 4/4 swing, he feels rhythm much more often in 6/8, like the folkloric Argentine chacarera; most of the music in Tuesday’s first set used this rhythm in some way.

But he doesn’t stop there. He gives all sections of the band equal play; this is not another brass-heavy big band. He layers rhythms or writes in changing chunks of rhythm, so that a few pieces were extremely hard to count. He saves his crescendos for the most important part of a song. And in “Miula,” a song he wrote for his brother, the polyvalent rhythm even slowed down and sped up, flexing like a whip.
237 2007-06-08 While Henin defeated top players like No. 8 Serena Williams and the No. 4 Jankovic to make the final, Ivanovic had an easier road. She went through No. 3 Svetlana Kuznetsova and the No. 2 Sharapova, but she had beaten both women before.

This time, Ivanovic had only 11 unforced errors in her semifinal match, while Sharapova seemed to do nothing right. In front of a half-empty stadium, Sharapova made 25 unforced errors, had just 9 winners and recorded 5 double faults.

Sharapova chastised herself for making sloppy errors, then joked that she did not blame the fans for skipping the match to eat lunch.

“I would have loved to be having lunch then, too,” she said. “I’d rather be having a chocolate croissant than be down, 3-0.”

On the same day Sharapova packed her bags, Ivanovic, the newest female tennis star, took a huge step forward. On the court, she is subdued, compared with Sharapova’s signature shrieking. She is the friendly next-door neighbor, while Sharapova has fallen into the role of a calculating diva.

Earlier in the tournament, a reporter asked Ivanovic if she thought that being nice, not cutthroat, was a weakness in her game.

She lit up when she heard the question: “Thanks! I think you can never be too nice. It makes me happy that I make people happy.”

But ambition is hidden inside Ivanovic. She picked up tennis when she was 5, after seeing Monica Seles on television. During that broadcast, she saw a commercial for a local tennis club, then memorized the phone number.

From then on, she wanted to be a tennis player, though Serbia had no tennis tradition to speak of.

“When I was a kid, I never played with the dolls, I always carried some rackets,” she said. “I still have videos when I was 2, with the plastic rackets and a ball. I always was kind of sporty and tennis was the thing.”

Ivanovic continued to practice in her homeland even while NATO bombed Belgrade in 1999 in response to the presence of Serbian troops in Kosovo. But she moved to Switzerland when she was 14 because the facilities in Serbia were subpar.

Her Serbian benefactors had gone bankrupt and her parents could not afford to bankroll her career, so Dan Holzmann, a Swiss businessman, stepped in. He sponsored her and paid for her training, investing $500,000 in her future, according to Holzmann, who owns a successful vitamin company.

She began to blossom as an athlete, working so hard she would, at times, turn white and vomit on the court, Holzmann said. At the same time, she turned into a woman of stunning beauty, swamped with requests for photo shoots and modeling jobs.

“It’s very flattering that people ask me to do that, but I’m really shy to do it,” Ivanovic said. “I don’t feel as comfortable.

“I prefer to say , ‘Look, interview is fine, but not photos.’ ”

Ivanovic has had plenty of both in the past few weeks. Last month, she won a tournament in Berlin for her third tour victory. Until her success at this French Open, she had never made it past the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam event.

Even with her recent success, though, Ivanovic is the newcomer in Paris, while Henin is the host. Henin, 25, has owned Roland Garros in recent years, taking home three of the past four championships. En route to the final, Henin dismantled Jankovic, beating her for the sixth time in a row. Jankovic said she could simply not keep up, saying that Henin played “really well, flawless.”

Jankovic, who is also from Belgrade, said that she thinks Henin will win this tournament, calling her the best player on clay. (Still, she made sure to wish her compatriot the best of luck.)

Henin, however, is remaining humble about her chances against Ivanovic. They have played only once before, in 2005 in Warsaw, where Henin won in straight sets.

“She has matured quite a lot over the last years, so this is a match I’m going to work on very seriously,” Henin said of Ivanovic, who, even hours after making the final, was still giddy.
238 2007-06-08 Anxiety over high inflation, which has preoccupied investors all week, sent bond prices falling today and pushed the interest rate on the benchmark United States Treasury note above 5 percent for the first time since last summer.

The stock market quickly followed suit, and shares suffered their biggest declines since March. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down nearly 200 points, or 1.5 percent.

Investors have pushed the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which is used to set mortgages and corporate bond rates, higher over the last several days as new economic data raised concerns that inflation would not settle down as predicted. Analysts believe that at the very least, the Fed is now locked into holding interest rates steady for the rest of the year at 5.25 percent.

If the outlook for inflation worsens, however, the central bank might have to raise rates — a possibility that has sent chills through American financial markets this week.

Today was the third day that stocks fell on Wall Street. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite both declined almost 1.8 percent.
239 2007-06-08 The State Supreme Court ruled yesterday that the Historic District Commission of Fairfield has the authority to rule on whether an 80-foot-long sculpture may be installed in front of a house in the town's Southport Historic District. The homeowner...
240 2007-06-08 Early in the documentary ''You're Gonna Miss Me,'' the film's subject, the psychedelic rocker and drug-damaged schizophrenic Roky Erickson, ambles through his Austin, Tex., home, clutching a Mr. Potato Head doll. It's a potent image that's all the more effective for being tossed off: Mr. Erickson, the lead singer of the 13th Floor Elevators and maybe the most influential 1960s pop star that most folks haven't heard of, has had so little control over his life and image for so many years that he's become a goofy blank slate.

Luckily, the director Keven McAlester keeps Mr. Erickson's humanity front and center. He lets music critics and musicians praise Mr. Erickson's smiling banshee voice (which influenced Janis Joplin) and pioneering use of feedback, but he doesn't insist on his subject's genius or oversell his importance.

He's more interested in Mr. Erickson's spiral into despair, through drugs and mental illness, and his slow climb to something like normalcy. The film credits much of his recovery to his youngest brother, Sumner Erickson, who took custody of him in 2001 and helped him resolve long-festering royalty issues.

Also noteworthy is the film's superb cinematography, by Lee Daniel, a frequent Richard Linklater collaborator. His striking compositions and purposeful camera moves mirror Sumner Erickson's quest to create order from chaos. MATT ZOLLER SEITZ
241 2007-06-08 The European Union said Thursday that it would resume negotiations with Serbia next week on an agreement that is the first step toward possible membership in the bloc.     The announcement was made a week after the arrest and transfer of a leading...
242 2007-06-08 The Taliban released four members of an Afghan medical team kidnapped and held hostage since March after the government handed over the body of the senior Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah, said Qayum Pukhla, the director of the health department ...
243 2007-06-08 VALUE OF 'FOR SALE BY OWNER' -- Two Northwestern University economists who studied home-sales data from 1998 to 2004 in Madison, Wis., found that people who sold their homes through real estate agents typically did not get a higher sale price than...
244 2007-06-09 Take a look and listen as, less than 24 hours after immigration reform stalled in the Senate, John McCain was back on the stump in Iowa discussing the issue....
245 2007-06-09 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
246 2007-06-09 Jason Giambi hobbled out of Yankee Stadium in the bottom of the seventh inning last night, wearing camouflage pants, a dark T-shirt and a black walking boot on his injured left foot. He was very willing to discuss his foot problems, but not so willing to discuss his other problems.

On Wednesday, Commissioner Bud Selig requested that within two weeks Giambi cooperate with the investigation into steroid use in baseball by the former Senator George J. Mitchell. Selig’s request came after Giambi’s tacit admission to USA Today that he had used steroids.

While Giambi acknowledged that he has spoken with his agent, Arn Tellem, about Selig’s request, he said they needed to have additional talks. He would not elaborate on his discussions with Tellem.

“I’ll just deal with what I can deal with,” Giambi said. “Like I said, I’ve been in contact. There’s really not much to talk about until then. I’ll definitely let you guys know. I have no problem with that.”

Tellem has not said whether Giambi would speak with Mitchell. Selig intimated that his decision about possibly disciplining Giambi would be affected by whether Giambi cooperated with Mitchell. Two of Giambi’s teammates said they doubted that he would cooperate.

When a reporter asked Giambi if he felt Selig’s statement was threatening because the potential punishment could be influenced by whether he meets with Mitchell, Giambi cut the questioner off.
247 2007-06-09 Philip Morris USA, the tobacco company, said late yesterday that it would test-market four flavors of a smokeless tobacco product known as snus under the Marlboro brand name in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, starting in August.

Snus (rhymes with loose) is a moist, spit-free variant on traditional chew and dip tobaccos. It comes in a small pouch similar to a tea bag that users most often place inside the upper lip. Snus is widely used in Scandinavia, where numerous studies have shown that it offers smokers an alternative way to get the nicotine and taste of cigarettes with less risk of cancer.

Opponents of tobacco use have been divided on whether to encourage smokers to switch to snus because they believe that quitting tobacco altogether is the safest course of action.

Philip Morris said the Marlboro snus line would be made at a factory it reopened recently in York County, Va. That factory was brought online as part of a strategy to expand the company’s smokeless products and to develop tobacco-related products, a company spokesman, Brendan McCormick, said. Sales of smokeless products have increased at a 6 percent annual rate over the last five years.

Philip Morris has been test-marketing two versions of a snus product in Indianapolis under the name Tobaka, with less than stellar results, industry analysts said.

One analyst, Christopher Growe at A. G. Edwards & Sons, said last month that most retailers he surveyed in Indianapolis had stopped selling Tobaka. But Philip Morris said last night that it was learning from the test and would continue it.
248 2007-06-09 Federal land managers authorized up to 1,570 new natural gas wells over the next 20 years on a 3,000-foot-high plateau prized for its energy reserves and its wildlife. The Bureau of Land Management decision covers about 115 square miles of federal land. Drilling on top of the Roan Plateau has been debated because of its abundant wildlife and areas of pristine backcountry. The decision follows years of review and public hearings about energy development on the plateau, about 180 miles west of Denver.
249 2007-06-09 Gov. Rick Perry signed into law sweeping reforms of the Texas juvenile justice system, which has been rocked by accusations of sexual abuse. “This legislation will change the broken culture at the youth commission,” Mr. Perry said. The commission incarcerates about 4,700 offenders ages 10 to 21. State lawmakers voted for an overhaul of the agency by improving staff-to-inmate ratios, creating strong new investigative powers to look into claims of abuse, and prohibiting courts from sending youths to state lockups for misdemeanors.
250 2007-06-09 MEXICAN COMPANY REJECTS BIDS The Mexican satellite operator Satmex said it was suspending its sale after offers came in below its expectations. “The offers received to date do not adequately fulfill the requirements of the technical committee nor the expectations of the parties,” the company said. Satmex, short for Satélites Mexicanos, decided to put itself up for sale after a long period of debt restructuring. The French satellite operator Eutelsat Communications said on Thursday that it had submitted a bid in partnership with two Mexican companies, but Satmex did not give further details or say whether it received other offers. (REUTERS)

BIDDERS FOR TRUMP RESORTS A former gambling executive and regulator, Dennis C. Gomes, and the Jemb Realty Corporation are making a bid to buy Trump Entertainment Resorts, said Morris Bailey, who runs the real estate company with his son-in-law. Mr. Bailey acknowledged entering a confidentiality agreement with Trump Entertainment and confirmed that Mr. Gomes is his operating partner, but declined to elaborate on the specifics of the negotiations. A spokesman for Trump Entertainment, which owns the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort, Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino, and Trump Marina Hotel Casino, declined to comment. Trump said in mid-March that it had hired Merrill Lynch to explore strategic options for the company. The company said last month that it had received interest in an acquisition. (DOW JONES/AP)

DELL TO SELL AT SAM’S CLUBS Dell, the computer maker, said that it would start selling Inspiron 1501 notebook computers at more than 500 of the Sam’s Club outlets of Wal-Mart Stores starting next week, its latest move to sell computers in retail chains. The computers will be priced at $899. Dell said last month that it would start selling desktop computers for less than $700 each in more than 3,000 Wal-Mart stores in North America. Yesterday’s announcement expands Dell’s retail push to notebook computers, which are typically more expensive and more profitable than low-end desktops. (REUTERS)

A TRACTOR ACQUISITION Deere & Company, the farm equipment maker, agreed to acquire a Chinese rival, the Ningbo Benye Tractor and Automobile Manufacture Company, in Ningbo, to expand sales of small tractors in that country.

TYCO SPINOFFS SCHEDULED Tyco International will spin off its health care and electronics units to shareholders at the end of the month after winning approval from its board and from the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Stockholders as of June 18 will get one share of the health care company, named Covidien, and one share of the electronics unit, called Tyco Electronics, on June 29 for every four shares of the parent they own, Tyco said. After the breakup, Tyco holders will own all the shares of Covidien and Tyco Electronics, the company said. Covidien will be the world’s second-biggest maker of disposable medical products behind Johnson & Johnson, while Tyco Electronics will be the world’s largest manufacturer of electronic connectors. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

NORILSK’S PROFIT DOUBLES Norilsk Nickel, the Russian nickel and palladium producer, said its profit more than doubled in 2006, as a result of soaring metals prices. Norilsk reported net profit of $5.99 billion, up from $2.36 billion in 2005, mostly because of a run-up over the period in the price of nickel. Analysts said growth in demand for steel in China was driving the increase. Revenue was $11.55 billion, up from $7.17 billion. Anticipating the jump in profits, two investment banks in Moscow issued reports last week identifying Norilsk’s stock as undervalued. Still, the company is in the midst of a potentially destabilizing change in ownership as the two principal Russian shareholders are unwinding a decade-long partnership. Norilsk produces a fifth of all nickel and half of all palladium in the world at its mine above the Arctic Circle in Siberia. ANDREW KRAMER

DISMISSAL OF SUIT SOUGHT Sixteen former executives of the accounting firm KPMG asked a federal judge in Manhattan yesterday to dismiss an indictment accusing them and two others of selling illegal tax shelters that cost the United States at least $2 billion. The executives said in court documents that dismissal was warranted because prosecutors denied many of them their right to legal representation. The request follows a decision by a federal appeals court to overturn a trial court order for KPMG to stand trial on whether it must pay legal fees for the defendants. Judge Lewis Kaplan of Federal District Court ruled last year that prosecutors illegally pressured KPMG to stop paying the defendants’ fees. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
251 2007-06-09 Like Mr. Gates, he appears willing to give the current strategy at least until September to show signs of working.

“It is a matter of months that this surge is designed to apply,” he said in a recent interview, noting that the White House had consulted the chiefs before adopting the new strategy. “If there isn’t political progress, if there isn’t economic progress, the military isn’t going to make this work.”

His biggest challenge if the strategy shows signs of failure could be convincing Mr. Bush, who until now has resisted efforts by Congress to radically reduce the American military presence in Iraq.

A Naval Academy graduate from Los Angeles who began his military career at the height of the Vietnam War, Admiral Mullen has long been one of the Navy’s stars. He was given his first sea command while still a lieutenant — a rarity — and he went on to hold commands at sea and ashore, including deputy chief of naval operations. He also oversaw all NATO naval forces in Europe in 2004 and 2005.

He earned two master’s degrees, one in operations research from the Naval Postgraduate School and another from Harvard Business School. As chief of naval operations, Admiral Mullen has pushed to reverse the decline in the size of the Navy’s fleet, which has shrunk to fewer than 280 ships, and to build new types of vessels for the unconventional conflicts the United States may face in coming years.

Over the years, associates say, Admiral Mullen earned a reputation for mentoring young sailors as well as a fondness for military strategy.

“He could go between being a sailor and be just as comfortable thinking strategically about where the Navy should go,” said Rear Adm. William Cobb, retired, who recalled serving with Admiral Mullen on a deployment to the Persian Gulf in the early 1980s, when tensions were running high with Iran over the seizure of hostages at the American embassy in Tehran.

Although Admiral Mullen was appointed chief of naval operations by former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, those who know him say he chafed under Mr. Rumsfeld’s management style. In particular, associates say, he felt Mr. Rumsfeld did not rely heavily enough on advice from the joint chiefs and rarely met with them as a group. That has changed under Mr. Gates, who usually meets once a week with the chairman and the service chiefs and with whom Admiral Mullen appears to have forged a close bond.

“I have become well-acquainted with Admiral Mullen over the past six months and believe he has the vision, strategic insight, experience and integrity to lead America’s armed forces,” Mr. Gates said Friday.

Admiral Natter said he was not surprised that Mr. Gates had grown to rely on Admiral Mullen. “They are both quiet professionals and they don’t place their egos into any arguments or into any debates,” he said.

Mr. Gates seemed impressed by Admiral Mullen’s ability to look beyond the interests of his own service. When asked recently by one of Mr. Gates’s aides what he was most concerned about, Admiral Mullen replied that he was worried about the Army, which has been badly stretched by the requirement of fighting wars in both Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. Gates told reporters.

He added that Admiral Mullen had the ability “to look to the future in terms of where we need to be 5 years from now or 10 years from now.”

Those who have worked at senior levels at the Pentagon said Admiral Mullen had shown the independence needed in a chairman during meetings with civilian officials in the Pentagon conference room known as “the tank,” where the chiefs convene.

“I’ve seen him at several of the tank meetings stand up and say, ‘Wait a minute. Is this really the best way to do this?’ ” said Gen. Michael Hagee, the former Marine Corps commandant, who said he met Admiral Mullen when they were plebes at the Naval Academy in 1964.

Admiral Mullen was visiting Annapolis when his selection was announced today.

The initial reaction to the choice from key lawmakers in the Senate was positive.

“I think going in that Admiral Mullen is well-qualified,” said Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee.

Admiral Mullen is married and has two sons. Both are Navy officers, and one of them recently returned from a tour as an aviator flying missions over Iraq.
252 2007-06-09 Passport requirements from all other destinations, including Central and South America, remain in place, officials emphasized.

“I’m pleased the administration agreed that immediate relief was greatly needed,” said Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, whose staff members spent Thursday night calling panicked constituents — including Mr. Shiverick — with news of the change. (As it happened, Mr. Shiverick received his son’s passport yesterday.)

Mr. Voinovich called on the Bush administration to put off from next January until June 2009 a planned extension of the policy that would for the first time require passports of travelers returning from Mexico, Canada, Bermuda and non-United States territories in the Caribbean by road, rail and sea, as well as by air.

Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of Texas and chairman of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, said he was concerned about the financial burden of obtaining a passport, $97 without expediting fees, for families crossing regularly to Juarez, Mexico.

Representative Heather Wilson, Republican of New Mexico, was unsparing in her critique of passport officials. “This is the kind of mess that makes people mad at their government,” Ms. Wilson said. “One department says you have to have a passport, and another says we can’t get it to you. Dumb as dirt. Homeland Security did the right thing to suspend the requirement so the State Department can get its act together. It’s not Middle East peace; it’s basic customer service.”

The easing of the rules this summer was welcomed by leaders of the travel industry.

“Common sense prevails,” said Roger J. Dow, president of the Travel Industry Association, which says it represents all components of the $700-billion-a-year travel market. Mr. Dow called the decision “an all-important timeout that allows the machinery of government to catch up with the new laws.”

Although it was too soon after the announcement to see any immediate effect, Washington officials said, Jacqueline Harley-Bell, regional director of the Houston Passport Agency, said the number of anxious passport-seekers swarming the office daily was down to about 800 from 1,200 in recent weeks. The State Department said it expected to issue about 17.5 million passports in the fiscal year ending in September, up from just over 12 million last year.

It attributed the jump to strong tourism and high regard for the identification value of a passport but most of all to the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, a security measure that imposed passport requirements for the first time for travel in the nation’s backyards.

Cyberspace, meanwhile, resounded with the blogs and postings of travelers comparing notes, mostly anonymously, of their passport ordeals.

One person said his experience boded ill for the future of government health care. “I can just see my dad’s pacemaker battery giving out and being told by an ‘underpaid, overstressed individual’ not to worry, your battery will be expedited,” he wrote. “Folks, plan your escape route.”

But many voiced relief at the breather offered by the rules suspension.

Jim Finucan, 46, of Westlake, Ohio, had been waiting for five passports that he and his wife, Lindy, and their three children had applied for on March 17. With Sunday’s departure date for a trip to Mexico approaching, they were, Mr. Finucan said, “sweating it out.”

After three days of calling could not get them through, he said, “I called every politician I could.”

On Thursday night, Mr. Voinovich’s office called to say they would not need the passports after all — proof that they had applied would do. But by then, Mr. Finucan said, he had learned that his passports had been sent by FedEx, due to arrive today. “I’ll believe it when I see it,” he said.
253 2007-06-09 “We didn’t really have much to put in there,” said Dave Serrano, the head coach. “Now, we can start filling it.”

Officially, Irvine started playing baseball in 1970. The university won two Division II World Series but disbanded its program in 1992 because of statewide budget cuts. The trophies and the game balls seemed to disappear with the bats and the gloves. All significant keepsakes have been collected in the past week — the lineup card from the first regional victory, the trophy from the first regional championship and the most outstanding player award from the first regional championship. The winner of that award, Taylor Holliday, started his college baseball career at Arizona State, the alma mater of Barry Bonds, Reggie Jackson and Jim Palmer. Then he transferred to Irvine, the alma mater of ... the former big-leaguer Brady Anderson.

“I went to Arizona State because of their tradition,” Holliday said. “I came here to try to help build a tradition.”

College baseball is typically ruled by all the usual characters: Longhorns, Tigers, Seminoles, Hurricanes and Bulldogs. They gather every June in Omaha to crown a national champion. Somehow, Anteaters do not seem to fit into the club.

“I was definitely skeptical about that, too,” said Cody Cipriano, a senior infielder. “But you have to embrace the Anteater. You have to embrace the Zot.”

The Zot, as Cipriano explained, is the low-pitched sound made by an excitable anteater. Before Irvine takes the field, players in the dugout chant “Zot! Zot! Zot!” To complement the rally cry, they make a hand gesture in the shape of an anteater head. As a demonstration, Cipriano raised his pinkie and index fingers, while pressing his thumb to the bottom of his middle and ring fingers, forming the nose.

Last weekend, when Irvine played Texas in the regional, thousands of Texas fans were flashing their patented hook-’em-Horns sign. About 50 Irvine fans were making their anteater heads, which looked a lot like the horns. In a startling upset, Irvine beat Texas twice to advance.

After the decisive victory Monday, Serrano called over the team’s graduate assistant, Greg Wallis, and told him, “I’m glad you’re here right now.”

Wallis was the first player to commit to the program, back in 2001, when the team had not even played a game yet. The field was overrun with weeds, without an outfield fence and was used for soccer games.

Wallis had never heard of Irvine, but for some reason, he signed with the Anteaters, and 34 other young ballplayers followed him. Baseball America rated that first recruiting class No. 8 in the nation.

“Those kids came on blind faith,” said John Savage, then the head coach. “It felt like the Diamondbacks or the Devil Rays. We were building a team, designing a ballpark, putting together a schedule. We were even creating the jerseys.”

When Wallis returned from Texas on Monday night, he found one of those Savage-designed jerseys in the team’s clubhouse. He said he took it to a former teammate, Nash Robertson, along with a message: “You can wear this with pride now.”

The Anteaters have been contenders for a while. In 2002, billed as the inaugural season, they surprised college baseball by winning 33 games. In 2003, they disappointed themselves by winning only 21. And in 2004, they made their first Division I regional.

This weekend, while Irvine (43-15-1) plays a super-regional at Wichita State, Savage will coach U.C.L.A. at Cal State Fullerton. The two men most responsible for Anteater baseball — Savage and Dan Guerrero — are now Bruins.

Guerrero, the U.C.L.A. athletic director, was hired to lead the Irvine athletic department in 1992. During his introductory news conference, Guerrero was asked one question that he still remembers: Can you bring back baseball?

It seemed hopeless. Men’s sports were being eliminated more often than they were being added. But Guerrero, a former second baseman at U.C.L.A., believed it was possible to add baseball as long as he added two women’s sports at the same time. “We couldn’t just bring back the baseball program,” Guerrero said. “We had to do it right.”

The Spirit Fee Referendum of 1999 is remembered because of baseball. But it also helped establish the women’s water polo and women’s golf teams. The Anteaters were able to play hardball and still comply with Title IX.

Guerrero, who hired Savage as the head coach at U.C.L.A., can now daydream about the Bruins and the Anteaters meeting next week at the College World Series in Omaha. “That would be something, wouldn’t it?” Guerrero said.

Playing major college baseball in Southern California is an accomplishment in itself. U.S.C. has won 12 national championships. Cal State Fullerton has won four. San Diego State’s head coach is Tony Gwynn. U.C.L.A.’s most famous alumnus is Jackie Robinson. Pepperdine’s most famous booster is Pamela Anderson.

The Anteaters do not have any Hall of Fame alumni or celebrity fans. But they did persuade students to cough up an extra $99 a year. And that is something to Zot about.
254 2007-06-09 She added, “This is an idea that has not yet been vetted. We have to see whether Azerbaijan makes any sense in the context of missile defense.”

President Bush himself, at an appearance on Friday with the Polish president, Lech Kaczynski, after the two had dinner at Mr. Kaczynski’s presidential retreat on the Baltic Sea, seemed to signal that he was still committed to his original plan. After thanking Mr. Kaczynski for his support of the plan, he once again emphasized that “the system we have proposed is not directed at Russia.”

Speaking Friday at a news conference in Germany, the Russian president insisted that his offer of using the existing radar was only part of the Kremlin’s alternative plan.

“My initiative and my proposals to our American partners are much wider than the establishment of a radar station,” he said.

He also urged the United States not to proceed with its plans until thoroughly consulting with Russia on its own ideas, and suggested forming a pool of countries, including those in Europe, to evaluate emerging missile threats through 2012.

The proposal to examine the threats could later prove to be another impasse, however, as Russia has quarreled with the West on the need for a missile defense system, saying Iran possesses no missiles capable of reaching Europe. The United States insists that Iran could develop the technology for such weapons, and that it needs to keep ahead of that possibility.

There was no immediate reaction from the Bush administration to Mr. Putin’s latest remarks.

But Mr. Bush had described the previous suggestion as “interesting,” and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, had treated Mr. Putin’s shift from criticizing the plans to proposing an alternative as a recognition that missiles from so-called rogue states could become a legitimate threat.

“He has indicated that since it is a common threat to Russia, Europe and the United States, Russia ought to consider cooperating with us,” Mr. Hadley said.

Beyond saying that Russia would “not rule out” accepting American interceptor missiles in Iraq, Turkey or at sea, the details of the Kremlin’s position were vague and left many issues to be worked out.

Russia and the United States agreed Thursday to convene meetings of their experts this summer to assess Russia’s proposals, and officials said it would be difficult to comment about them until the meetings had begun.

Mr. Putin’s new proposals were made shortly after the NATO secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, suggested that Azerbaijan was not an ideal location for defensive interceptor missiles, because it was too close to potential launch sites in Iran.

And while Mr. de Hoop Scheffer made clear that he was giving only an initial assessment and that a fuller judgment should be rendered by experts, diplomats and analysts in Russia, the Caucasus, Europe and the United States also expressed skepticism about whether Mr. Putin’s radar proposal was technically feasible.

The Azeri radar, located in Gabala and operated by Russia under a lease, is used for early detection of launches, and is a different sort of system from the fire-control radar used to guide interceptor missiles against an incoming target.

“The Gabala radar can only be used as a source of information,” said Aleksandr A. Khramchikhin, a military analyst and missile expert at the Institute of Military and Political Analysis here. “It cannot be used for guiding a missile in the direction of a target.”

“It is incompatible,” he added. “So far this is the biggest problem.”

Mr. Khramchikhin said Russia’s proposals were still valuable, because the radar could serve as an excellent complement to an American system, providing a highly accurate early-warning capability that could be used in concert with fire-control radars. “Principally, this is a rare case when Russia’s initiative is sensible,” he said.

Mr. Putin made his initial proposal to Mr. Bush on Thursday at a resort on the Baltic Sea, the highlight of a private session between the two presidents during a meeting of the world’s wealthy democracies that was hosted by Germany.

Whatever the outcome of the eventual technical assessments of the proposal, no one disputed that Mr. Putin’s suggestion had provided a welcome, if temporary, exit from an intensive diplomatic standoff.

The Russian president had threatened to aim nuclear weapons at Europe should the current plans for missile defense go forward. The Russian proposal and a subsequent agreement to have experts from the United States and Russia discuss the idea this summer, offered the possibility of a less menacing round of negotiations, diplomats said.

“The important thing, the good thing, is that the two presidents are engaging in dialogue,” a NATO official said. “That can only be welcomed.”
255 2007-06-09 Vladimir Putin has proved again what a canny player he is, calling President Bush’s bluff and suggesting that parts of Mr. Bush’s cherished missile defense system could be based at an old Soviet radar station in Azerbaijan or perhaps in Turkey or even Iraq. It’s hard to know if the Russian president is serious or just trying to stall the effort. Despite Mr. Bush’s impatience, there’s plenty of time to try to find out: the American shield and the Iranian missiles it’s supposed to deflect are years away from working.

The presidents’ kiss-and-make-up session shouldn’t erase Mr. Putin’s earlier threats that Moscow would retarget its weapons against Europe if Washington went ahead with plans to build the system there.

The mathematics of his dudgeon never added up. Ten rudimentary missile interceptors would pose no threat to the thousands of sophisticated weapons in Russia’s nuclear arsenal. So if you suspect that Mr. Putin was trying to divert attention from his own multiple sins — abusing civil liberties, bludgeoning his neighbors — you’re probably right. Still, his shrill posturing was an important reminder of just how much of the Cold War’s nastiest business is still unfinished.

Go back to the mathematics for a moment. Nearly two decades after the Berlin Wall came down the United States and Russia together still have nearly 25,000 nuclear weapons — including 6,000 long-range weapons deployed and ready to launch. By 2012, the two sides are each supposed to cut their number of deployed weapons to around 2,000. But under the terms of the 2002 Moscow Treaty, there are no restrictions on how many weapons they can keep in reserve. Mr. Bush never wanted a binding agreement. In a particularly grudging touch, the Moscow Treaty’s limits expire the day they go into effect. And since 2002, thanks to Mr. Bush, there have been no serious discussions about any further arms cuts.

The president and his aides ridicule anyone who advocates new agreements with our no-longer-enemies, the Russians, as mired in old think. There are so many things wrong with that approach that it’s hard to know where to start.

Mr. Putin’s posturing should first be a reminder that friendship can be fleeting. The dangers of accidental launch or theft that come with such huge arsenals are the stuff of nightmares. And then there’s the whole “do as I say, not as I do” problem. Mr. Bush would have a lot more credibility when he tries to block the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea if he were championing a genuine effort to keep reducing the world’s two largest arsenals rather than blocking it.
256 2007-06-09 With the mayor’s congestion-pricing plan gaining political support, some critics said yesterday that the network of several hundred cameras that would be installed on the streets of Manhattan could be too intrusive.

The cameras, which would record the license plate numbers of all vehicles that pass them, would be installed in 340 locations below 86th Street, said John Gallagher, a spokesman for the mayor.

They would be the eyes of the billing system, which would charge drivers of cars $8 a day for entering the zone and $4 a day for driving within it, according to the mayor’s plan. Drivers of commercial trucks would pay $21 to enter the zone and $5.50 to drive within it.

Richard L. Brodsky, a Democratic assemblyman from Westchester, estimated that the plan would require about 1,000 cameras and expressed concern that such widespread monitoring would violate people’s privacy.

During a hearing in Midtown yesterday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg dismissed such worries, saying people who harbored them were not “being terribly realistic.” He pointed out that there were cameras pointed at the streets and sidewalks from buildings and bridges all over the city.
257 2007-06-09 The government transferred Mr. Padilla last year from military to civilian custody, adding him to the terrorism conspiracy case of Mr. Hassoun, a Lebanese-born Palestinian computer programmer, and Mr. Jayyousi, a Jordanian-born engineer.

The intercepted calls, many in Arabic, are crucial to the government’s case. But on the surface, they seem to have nothing to do with terrorism — one caller, for example, tells Mr. Hassoun of plans to go on a picnic and smell fresh air.

All week, defense lawyers fiercely protested the government’s plan to let an F.B.I. agent who led the investigation tell jurors his interpretation of such words, so-called code for terrorist activities. The agent, John T. Kavanaugh Jr., testified that the defendants spoke in code because they suspected their calls were being monitored.

Judge Marcia G. Cooke responded to the defense by limiting what Mr. Kavanaugh could say about the conversations and telling the jurors his interpretations were nonexpert opinions.

Mr. Padilla mumbled and chuckled throughout the conversation played Friday, sometimes calling Mr. Hassoun “bro.” Mr. Hassoun appeared impatient, asking Mr. Padilla if he was “ready.”

“Inshallah, brother,” Mr. Padilla replied, using the Arabic for “God willing” and urging Mr. Hassoun to have patience. “You know, it’s going to happen.”

Mr. Padilla, who met Mr. Hassoun at the South Florida mosque, is described in the indictment as Mr. Hassoun’s recruit. It says Mr. Padilla traveled to Egypt in 1998 and then to Afghanistan, where he filled out an application to attend a terrorist training camp. The call was recorded in July 1997.

Other calls played Thursday and Friday, as interpreted by Mr. Kavanaugh, focused on jihad activities in Ethiopia, Afghanistan and Kosovo. There was talk of “brothers” who had been “married” — code for killed in battle, Mr. Kavanaugh said — and of interference by “the dogs,” or the United States government.

Mr. Kavanaugh also said a reference to “eating cheese” was code for waging jihad. But he said he had no idea what a reference to a “reservation on the female donkey” meant.

Defense lawyers will probably try to convince jurors that the code theory is nonsense and that the conversations were innocent. In opening arguments last month, they said their clients were merely passionate and vocal Muslims with no connection to Al Qaeda and no intent to support terrorism. The government’s case is politically motivated, they said, and was fueled by the nation’s dread after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

“In this case,” Anthony Natale, Mr. Padilla’s lawyer, said in opening arguments, “you will see how in the absence of hard evidence, a suspicion can be fueled by fear, nourished by prejudice and directed by politics into a criminal prosecution.”

The proceedings, almost four weeks along, have been constantly interrupted by defense objections, and Friday was no exception.

The jurors, who include a makeup artist, a software developer and a dispatcher, read transcripts of the tapes as they were played and occasionally took notes. They have not been told of Mr. Padilla’s former status as an enemy combatant, nor his claims that he was tortured while in military custody.

The trial is expected to last months, and Judge Cooke has taken pains to keep jurors happy — letting them take Monday off, for example, because one is getting married over the weekend and wants a break.
258 2007-06-09 “If he says, ‘In my religious tradition, homosexuality is considered sinful, unnatural,’ that’s his right,” said Joel Ginsberg, executive director of the Gay and Lesbian Medical Association. Citing opinions by medical associations that homosexuality is not a disorder, Mr. Ginsberg said, “But if he says it is pathological, he is speaking from a discredited scientific viewpoint.”

In Dr. Holsinger’s defense, Dr. F. Douglas Scutchfield of the College of Public Health at the University of Kentucky noted that Dr. Holsinger took on state politicians who threatened to withhold financing from a women’s health conference in 2002 because it had a session on health care for lesbians.

“Dr. Holsinger’s posture was that regardless of people’s nature, we need to understand the problems and concerns they have,” Dr. Scutchfield said.

President Bush nominated Dr. Holsinger in late May, citing his leadership of the health care system in Kentucky and the medical school at the University of Kentucky. In 1992, he became undersecretary for health in the Department of Veterans Affairs.

His skill at managing complex health systems has won him wide respect, said Dr. David Dale, president of the American College of Physicians, of which Dr. Holsinger is a distinguished member. Mr. Bush has said that Dr. Holsinger, 68, would focus on educating people about childhood obesity.

The nomination, which requires the approval of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, has raised questions in the Senate. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts who is chairman of the health committee, released a statement saying he was “disappointed” that the administration had chosen a doctor “whose record appears to guarantee a polarizing and divisive nomination process.” Senator Barack Obama, a committee member and a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, said in a statement that he had “serious reservations” about the nomination.

The Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights advocacy group, said Dr. Holsinger’s record was “unworthy” of the surgeon general post.

Calls to Dr. Holsinger’s office were referred to the Department of Health and Human Services, which said that his “focus has been to provide compassionate effective care to any and all who need it.”

Emily Lawrimore, a White House spokeswoman, said, “On numerous occasions, Dr. Holsinger has taken up the banner for underrepresented populations, and he will continue to be a strong advocate for these groups and all Americans.”

Gay rights advocates had been alarmed by reports that his congregation, Hope Springs Community United Methodist Church, had a ministry to change the sexual orientation of gay men and lesbians. However, the congregation’s pastor, the Rev. David Calhoun, denied that it did.

The controversy over the nomination has largely been fueled by the 1991 report that Dr. Holsinger prepared for a committee in the United Methodist Church that was reviewing the denomination’s stance on homosexuality.

Dr. Holsinger’s supporters contend that the report was based on peer-reviewed medical literature of the time. But the Rev. J. Philip Wogaman, the main writer for the committee, said the report reflected Dr. Holsinger’s view on homosexuality. When Dr. Holsinger discerned that the committee was preparing a statement that would “recognize the moral dignity of gay and lesbian life if practiced without promiscuity,” Mr. Wogaman said, Dr. Holsinger angrily resigned.

Maria Kemplin, a former colleague of Dr. Holsinger’s who is a lesbian, is familiar with the 1991 report. But in a letter she sent to Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, she wrote of Dr. Holsinger as a friend who helped without judging her.

“I am a liberal Democrat and a member of gay and women’s rights organizations,” Ms. Kemplin wrote. “Still, I strongly support Dr. Jim Holsinger as a leader and administrator who is able to see across divisive issues and relate with integrity to people, no matter their life circumstance.”
259 2007-06-09 DAVIE, Fla., June 8 (AP) — Trent Green’s first practice with the Miami Dolphins was apparently Daunte Culpepper’s finale.

Frustrated by the team’s decision to let him participate only in individual drills, Culpepper walked off the practice field — accompanied by a member of Miami’s security staff — about an hour into Friday’s start of a three-day minicamp and vowed that he would block the Dolphins’ plans to trade him.

“Any team that’s interested in my services, just sit tight,” Culpepper said. “I’m not going to agree to a trade.”

The Dolphins want to trade Culpepper, telling him so before completing the Green trade and essentially giving last year’s marquee quarterback acquisition notice that his time in South Florida was ending.

Culpepper sustained a serious right knee injury in 2005, was traded by the Minnesota Vikings to Miami for a second-round pick that off-season and surprised many by starting the Dolphins’ first four games last season. He was hampered by knee problems, was sacked 21 times in those four games and ultimately was shut down for the remainder of the season.

He missed most of the Dolphins’ off-season sessions because of continued knee rehabilitation and said Friday’s practice was a test of where he was physically.

“I still have a ways to go,” Culpepper said.

Green was on the field with his new team for the first time. He wanted out of Kansas City because he said the Chiefs would not give him a fair chance to beat out Brodie Croyle and Damon Huard for the starting quarterback job there this year, and he worked out a contract with Miami several weeks ago.
260 2007-06-09 JERUSALEM, June 8 — The Palestinian prime minister, Ismail Haniya of Hamas, called Friday for the political will to stop another round of intra-Palestinian clashes between his own faction and Fatah, which sit together in a unity government.

He spoke before Friday Prayer in Gaza, after fighting on Thursday killed one Palestinian and wounded 17. Such clashes have killed dozens of people in recent weeks.

“We are not in need of more agreements, but we are in need of the political will to implement the existing agreements,” Mr. Haniya said. He appeared to blame Fatah, saying, “There are parties who do not want stability in the internal Palestinian situation.”

The clashes on Friday were limited, with gunmen firing at Hamas forces deployed east of Gaza City, followed by a Hamas attack on a house where it was thought that Fatah gunmen were staying. A member of Fatah’s Presidential Guard was abducted overnight.

The most recent fighting has been small-scale but personal. In a separate episode on Thursday, Fouad al-Barawi, a physician with ties to Hamas, was kidnapped from a graduation ceremony for his brother, who is a part of Fatah’s Presidential Guard.
261 2007-06-09 PARIS, June 8 — In a report on Friday, the lead investigator for the Council of Europe gave a bleak description of secret prisons run by the Central Intelligence Agency in Eastern Europe, with information he said was gleaned from anonymous intelligence agents.

Prisoners guarded by silent men in black masks and dark visors were held naked in cramped cells and shackled to walls, according to the report, which was prepared by Dick Marty, a Swiss senator investigating C.I.A. operations for the Council of Europe, a 46-nation rights group.

Ventilation holes in the cells released bursts of hot or freezing air, with temperature used as a form of extreme pressure to wear down prisoners, the investigators found. Prisoners were also subjected to water-boarding, a form of simulated drowning, and relentless blasts of music and sound, from rap to cackling laughter and screams, the report says.

The report, which runs more than 100 pages, says the prisons were operated exclusively by Americans in Poland and Romania from 2003 to 2006. It relies heavily on testimony from C.I.A. agents.

Critics in Poland and Romania attacked Mr. Marty’s use of anonymous sources and issued categorical denials, as they have done repeatedly. Denis MacShane, a British member of Parliament and longtime critic of Mr. Marty, complained that the investigator “makes grave allegations to two European Union member states, Poland and Romania, without any proof at all.”
262 2007-06-09 ROME, June 8 — A trial that charges American and Italian intelligence operatives with kidnapping a radical imam in 2003 opened Friday in Milan, the first prosecution involving the contentious American policy of abducting terrorism suspects for interrogation elsewhere.

It is a landmark case that will look into one of the United States’ most secretive programs, called extraordinary rendition, and it risks straining relations between America and Italy, and embarrassing the secret services of both nations.

But the first day was consumed with procedural issues. Then the trial adjourned for 10 days so the judge, Oscar Magi, could decide whether to suspend the trial temporarily.

Defense lawyers argued that the trial should be halted while the Constitutional Court rules on whether prosecutors violated state secrecy in bringing the case. That court’s decision, not expected until later this year, could limit what evidence might be presented or could void the indictments entirely.

“We need to have certainty about what evidence we can use,” Titta Madia, a lawyer for the highest-profile defendant, Nicolò Pollari, Italy’s former chief of military intelligence, told reporters.

Mr. Pollari, who says he is innocent, was not at the trial, nor were the 26 Americans, including 25 Central Intelligence Agency operatives, who are charged with abducting the imam, Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr. After the abduction in Milan, Mr. Nasr was jailed for four years in Egypt where, he says, he was tortured.
263 2007-06-09 PURCHASE, N.Y., June 8 (AP) — A service fee that Visa places on its largest debit card issuers essentially deters them from moving their business to a competitor and is unlawful and must be repealed, a judge has ruled.

MasterCard, the credit card network operator and Visa’s rival, said Friday that the ruling was returned on Thursday regarding Visa’s fee, which was introduced after a lawsuit was settled in 2003.

The ruling was handed down by Judge Barbara S. Jones of Federal District Court in Manhattan.

The service fee required Visa’s 100 largest issuers of debit cards to pay a “settlement service fee” if they reduced their Visa debit volume by more than 10 percent. MasterCard said that effectively prevented those issuers from switching their business to MasterCard.

“This is a significant win for MasterCard and its customers,” said Noah J. Hanft, MasterCard’s general counsel. “With this roadblock out of the way, financial institutions will not be deterred by this coercive fee and can make decisions based on their best judgment about quality of service, strength of brand and other competitive factors that benefit their cardholders.”

MasterCard said the judge also ruled that all of Visa’s top 100 debit card issuers could terminate their agreements with Visa if they were signed when the fee was being levied and wanted to switch.
264 2007-06-09 The composer Richard Wilson has had to wait so long for the New York premiere of “In Schrafft’s,” his lively piece set to W. H. Auden’s poem of the same title, that the once ubiquitous restaurant referred to is long gone.

Mr. Wilson’s work, written in 1968 and revised in 1979, was part of an enjoyable concert given by the New Amsterdam Singers, a fine amateur choir, and their music director, Clara Longstreth, at the Church of the Holy Trinity in Manhattan on Thursday. It featured 20th-century music by American and British composers set to poems by Yeats, Longfellow, Auden and Elizabeth Bishop about love, music, birds and blue-plate specials.

Mr. Wilson scored Auden’s poem for clarinet, marimba and harpsichord, with spoken, whispered and sung words. The piece begins on a whimsical note, with jagged, dissonant fragments tossed between the marimba and harpsichord, then progresses to a melodic, somber clarinet line.

The marimba also had a starring role in Frank Lewin’s “Light Footfall,” conveying special effects like the owl hooting in Yeats’s poem “The Cap and Bells.” A violinist walking down the aisle opened the work with an evocative Celtic tune, followed by frantic, dissonant exchanges between the instruments and a barbershop quartet.

Auden’s poetry was also heard in Benjamin Britten’s lovely “Hymn to St. Cecilia,” whose score was seized in 1942 by British customs officials who were worried about coded messages in the music.

The rapid-fire words of the tricky second movement almost sound like Morse code. The singers ably navigated that movement, as well as the evolving moods of other sections, with a lilting pulse, clear diction and subtle dynamic shadings.
265 2007-06-09 The U.S.A.-2 team for the Venice Cup will be Shawn Quinn, Sue Picus, Hjordis Eythorsdottir and Rozanne Pollack. On Wednesday in Schaumburg, Ill., they defeated Kathleen Sulgrove, Candace Griffey, Cindy Bernstein, Sally Wheeler, Laurie Kranyak and Linda McGarry by 192 international match points to 158.

In the trial for the Bermuda Bowl, the semifinals were completed yesterday evening. After 90 of the 120 boards, Nick Nickell, Dick Freeman, Bob Hamman, Paul Soloway, Jeff Meckstroth and Eric Rodwell led Seymon Deutsch, Grant Baze, Bart Bramley, Gary Cohler, John Kranyak and Sidney Lazard by 174 imps to 139. And Russ Ekeblad, Ron Rubin, Fred Gitelman, Brad Moss, Chip Martel and Lew Stansby led Richard Schwartz, Michael Becker, David Berkowitz, Larry Cohen, Drew Casen and Jim Krekorian by 237 imps to 147. (The results can be found at usbf.org.)

The winners play a 120-board today and tomorrow to decide the U.S.A.-2 team for the Shanghai world championships, which begin at the end of September.

The Deutsch team led by 11 imps after Board 73. The diagramed deal was No. 74.

The auction given was produced by Meckstroth (North) and Rodwell. It gives an insight into the scientific methods they employ when having slam potential. South’s opening bid showed 14-16 points. He sensibly added one point for his excellent five-card club suit.

Two diamonds was a transfer, promising five or more hearts with any point-count, and two no-trump artificially announced four-plus clubs with at least game-forcing values. Three clubs was an inquiry denying three-card heart support. Four no-trump showed 2-5-2-4 distribution with slam-invitational values.
266 2007-06-09 “Sexuality does not just have a reproductive function,” she declared in an interview on the front porch of a Havana mansion, where the center is located, noting that sex is also about love and pleasure and discovery and experiment. “Human beings are much more diverse than we think.”

CUBA, like many islands around the Caribbean, is a sexually liberal place where relationships out of wedlock are commonplace and taboos seem to be few, but only within heterosexual relationships. Homosexuality, transvestitism and transsexuality, however, are another matter.

Historically, Cuba’s gays have experienced the wrath of the government, with many sent off to labor camps. The climate has greatly improved in recent years, most seem to agree. Still, transvestites and transsexuals continue to complain of police harassment, and those with AIDS remain stigmatized, making prevention programs a challenge.

“I suggest you take a stroll on La Rampa to see how freely people express their sexual orientation,” Ms. Castro said, mentioning a popular gathering spot for gays in Havana. “This doesn’t mean we don’t have to work in the political arena and in the education of all of society.”

Ms. Castro said she felt no pressure to enter the family business of politics. She studied psychology in college, she said, and is now on the forefront of Cuba’s effort to make sex, in all its variety, as natural a discussion topic as it is a physical act. Her center helped produce a soap opera on state television last year featuring a married man who discovered he was attracted to other men. It was hugely popular.

Ms. Castro, who is writing her Ph.D. dissertation on transvestitism, is also pushing for an overhaul of Cuban laws so that, among other things, the government health care system covers surgery for transsexuals and that new official identification documents are issued after the operation.

Already, a government panel reviews individual cases of those wishing to change their sex and refers some transsexuals to therapy and hormone treatment. Currently, 26 transsexuals have been approved for treatment by the committee, with another 50 under review, Ms. Castro said.

She recalled several years ago her discomfort when some transvestites and transsexuals first approached her at the center to raise their difficulties with the authorities. “At the beginning, I didn’t understand them,” she said.

But the more she listened, the more she began to believe that Cuba’s Communist state, in which she is a committed believer, ought to accept transvestites and transsexuals as comrades along with everyone else.

NO sex-related topic is off limits in the center’s publication, Sexology and Society, which features artwork and poetry with sexual themes and academic articles dealing with subjects like gay bashing, domestic violence and hormone therapy for transsexuals.

Her magazine publishes research from scientists around the world regardless of their nations’ relations with Cuba. That means American sex research sometimes finds its way onto the pages of Sexology and Society.

Ms. Castro attended a sexology conference in California several years ago, which was her only trip to the United States. A return trip seems unlikely any time soon, though, she said with a smile and a shrug, since she cannot get a visa.

Ms. Castro, who has two sisters and a brother, insists her family name “doesn’t help me at all.” To the contrary, she said, when she has tried to work with the Cuban military, commanders were so concerned about nepotism that they were uncooperative.

But Ms. Castro acknowledges that she has access to the very top of Cuba’s bureaucracy, which certainly does not hurt in pressing her agenda.

She said she puts a copy of her center’s magazine on her father’s bedside table and briefs him on her work whenever she can. “He has told me he supports me, that he supports the personal rights of homosexuals,” she said of her father, who is 75 and spent his life as a military man. “He always says go slowly, though, so you don’t build walls.”

Making the case to her uncle, Fidel, has been even more of a challenge. He is known for firing back questions at those briefing him and expecting knowledgeable answers. “I was terrified he would ask me something I didn’t know,” she said.

Now she gives him informal briefings whenever she can. He is a busy man, though, she said, so getting an audience is not easy.

Ms. Castro views her work as a continuation of that of her mother, Vilma Espín, who has been the head of the Cuban Women’s Federation for nearly half a century. The sexual education center, like just nearly every other group in Cuba, is part of the government bureaucracy. But Ms. Castro said she participated in politics as an everyday citizen, not as the niece of El Commandante, whom she recently described as being in “stupendous” condition.

Despite her government’s restrictions on political speech, Ms. Castro is an outspoken advocate for more open sexual discourse. The more young people learn about sexuality, she contends, the less they will pick up from the streets. And politicians, too, need to be briefed on the topic, she said, to lead to more enlightened public policy.

“If you suppress things, they will become hidden,” she said. “It has been proven in scientific research in Cuba and other countries that the more education you give adolescents and adults, the more people are free to make their own decisions.”
267 2007-06-09 Norilsk Nickel, the Russian nickel and palladium producer, said its profit more than doubled in 2006, as a result of soaring metals prices. Norilsk reported net profit of $5.99 billion, up from $2.36 billion in 2005, mostly because of a run-up ove...
268 2007-06-10 Rafael Nadal defeated his rival Roger Federer to win his third straight French Open....
269 2007-06-10 SAN DIEGO, June 9 (AP) — An investigating officer has recommended dismissing charges against a Marine lawyer accused of failing to investigate the killings of 24 Iraqi civilians in November 2005 in the town of Haditha, his lawyer said Saturday.

The Marine lawyer who was accused, Capt. Randy W. Stone, 34, is charged with failing to report and investigate the deaths by members of a Marine unit.

His civilian lawyer, Charles W. Gittins, said the investigating officer, Maj. Thomas McCann, had recommended to the commanding general overseeing the case that the matter be handled administratively.

At Captain Stone’s preliminary hearing last month at Camp Pendleton, Calif., he argued that he had never ordered an investigation into the killings because he believed the deaths resulted from lawful combat.
270 2007-06-10 WASHINGTON, June 9 — Senior American diplomats at the United Nations have compiled new information indicating that several million dollars in United Nations development money had been paid to a North Korean entity closely associated with that nation’s programs to develop unconventional weapons and sell missiles abroad.

According to diplomats at the United Nations headquarters in New York, the American inquiry found that the development money for North Korea had also been used to purchase “dual use” equipment, which has both civilian and military applications, including mass spectrometers, sophisticated global positioning systems and advanced computer hardware.

The diplomats, speaking on traditional ground rules of anonymity to describe private discussions among senior officials at United Nations headquarters over recent days, said the American investigation had also found evidence that up to $3 million in development funds were used by the North Korean government to purchase buildings and houses in Europe and North America.

The American ambassador to the United Nations, Zalmay Khalilzad, and his deputy, Mark D. Wallace, laid out the findings in recent days in a meeting with Kemal Dervis, administrator of the United Nations Development Program, United Nations officials said.

American officials declined to discuss the substance of the meeting, but Richard A. Grenell, the spokesman for the American mission to the United Nations, said, “We were quite encouraged about how Administrator Dervis came out immediately and committed to investigate the matter.”

Details of the United Nations meeting and of alleged abuses regarding development funds for North Korea were first reported in Saturday editions of The Chicago Tribune and The Washington Post.
271 2007-06-10 ST. PETERSBURG, Russia, June 9 — The Boeing Company announced on Saturday a $3.5 billion sale of airplanes to Aeroflot, the Russian national airline, in a deal that defied the souring political relations between the United States and Russia.

Boeing characterized the deal, which ended a high-stakes battle with its European rival, Airbus, as a vote of confidence in the quality of its new 787 Dreamliner airplane. The model is selling well even in countries otherwise loath to patronize American businesses.

Boeing announced the sale at an economic forum that Russian officials said would show that their country remains open for business.

Aeroflot is buying 22 of the airplanes, to be assembled in Everett, Wash., to renew its fleet of Boeing and Airbus planes built during the Soviet era.

The sale was a victory for Boeing, based in Chicago, in one of its more politically fraught markets. Aeroflot said it would leave in place plans to also buy Airbus planes for a later delivery date.
272 2007-06-10 With the victory, Henin became the first woman since Monica Seles in 1992 to win three consecutive French Open titles. But the day meant so much more for the 25-year-old Henin, whose mother died of cancer when she was 12. Her brothers and her father had been missing from her life, too.

In 1999, Henin cut them out of her life, as she went one way and they went another, for reasons they want to keep private. On Saturday, they cheered her on. Her father, José, watched the match from his village in Belgium, too overwhelmed to be there in person.

For years, her family had been a taboo topic, but now Henin talks freely about it, saying she is at peace.

“Everyone suffered a lot from the situation in the last few years,” she said. “And today, finally, we are united in this joy, and we can share this moment.”

While sipping a beer in the players’ lounge, Henin’s older brother, 33-year-old David, told how the family reconnected. In April, he was in a serious car accident and was in a coma for two days. Sarah, who had some contact with Justine, called her with the news.

By the time David woke up, Justine was at his side. It caused an avalanche of pent-up emotions. The Henins realized it was a shame to remain apart, so they decided to rebuild their bond.

“It was very moving,” said David Henin, who owns a tavern with his brother, Thomas, in Liège, Belgium. “It really boosted my morale. It was something horrible that turned into something good.”

The reconciliation came at a time when Henin needed her family the most. She had skipped the Australian Open after separating from her husband of four years, Pierre-Yves Hardenne. Heartbroken, she began to step back and evaluate the relationships in her life.

Her coach, Carlos Rodriguez, said he had encouraged Henin to take that first step toward her family.

“I told her a lot of power and love comes from your family, so it’s the best for you to go back now,” Rodriguez said. “Tennis is just a part of your life, not the entire thing. I told her to remember that.”

Since taking his advice, Henin has changed drastically, Rodriguez said. During the two weeks of the French Open, she went to dinner with friends, shopped and spent time with her family. She broke out of her cocoon and, Rodriguez said, he had to hold her back.

“I said, it’s a new democracy, this overdose of communication and contentment,” Rodriguez said. “It’s like you couldn’t eat sweets for a year, then I told you that you could eat whatever you want. She wants to give everything, talk to everyone.

“It’s a huge difference. Now people can see what is behind the wall she had built; they can see what I saw in her when I started coaching her 11 years ago.”

On the court Saturday, the thousands of fans inside Court Philippe Chatrier saw the new Justine Henin or, more appropriately, the reborn Justine Henin.

She looked distracted at the start of the match, while the 19-year-old Ivanovic came out fearless in her first Grand Slam final. She broke Henin in the opening game and moved ahead, 40-0, on her serve in the second. Then Ivanovic fell apart.

Ivanovic, who grew up in Belgrade playing on a court built in a drained swimming pool, said that she lost concentration.

“I was trying to put the nerves aside, the emotions aside,” Ivanovic said. “But then, in the first service game, it just hit me, I guess.”

Watching from the stands, Henin’s siblings worried that they would be a distraction, but their presence seemed to only improve her play. In the players’ lounge afterward, Henin also looked more relaxed then ever.

She collapsed into her brothers’ chests as they hugged her. She cradled her 6-week-old niece, Kiara — Thomas’s daughter — in her arms, gently planting a kiss on her head. She smiled.

Henin said that a year ago, when she won her third French Open title, she could never have imagined being this happy.

“It’s amazing how life can change,” she said. “But it’s for every person the same. I’m sure a lot of you had some trouble, some ups and downs in their lives, and that it’s tough for everyone. But we come back stronger, for sure.”
273 2007-06-10 Mr. Barnett’s memo appears to have backfired, state officials said. Prosecutors from several states said they intended to pursue the Google accusations with or without the federal government. In response, federal prosecutors are now discussing with the states whether the Justice Department will join them in pursuing the Google complaint.

The complaint, which contends that Google’s desktop search tool is slowed down by Microsoft’s competing program, has not been made public by Google or the judge overseeing the Microsoft consent decree, Colleen Kollar-Kotelly of the Federal District Court in Washington. It is expected to be discussed at a hearing on the decree in front of Judge Kollar-Kotelly this month.

The memo illustrates the political transformation of Microsoft, as well as the shift in antitrust policy between officials appointed by President Bill Clinton and by President Bush.

“With the change in administrations there has been a sharp falling away from the concerns about how Microsoft and other large companies use their market power,” said Harry First, a professor at the New York University School of Law and the former top antitrust lawyer for New York State who is writing a book about the Microsoft case. “The administration has been very conservative and far less concerned about single-firm dominant behavior than previous administrations.”

Ricardo Reyes, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment about the complaint.

Bradford L. Smith, the general counsel at Microsoft, said that the company was unaware of Mr. Barnett’s memo. He said that Microsoft had not violated the consent decree and that it had already made modifications to Vista in response to concerns raised by Google and other companies.

He said that the new operating system was carefully designed to work well with rival software products and that an independent technical committee that works for the Justice Department and the states had spent years examining Vista for possible anticompetitive problems before it went on sale.

He said that even though the consent decree did not oblige Microsoft to make changes to Vista in response to Google’s complaint, Microsoft lawyers and engineers had been working closely with both state and federal officials in recent days in search of an accommodation.

“We’ve made a decision to go the extra mile to be reasonable,” Mr. Smith said. “The discussions between the company and the various government agencies have been quite fruitful.”

Microsoft was saved from being split in half by a federal appeals court decision handed down early in the Bush administration. The ruling, in 2001, found that the company had repeatedly abused its monopoly power in the software business, but it reversed a lower court order sought by the Clinton administration to split up the company.

Google complained to federal and state prosecutors that consumers who try to use its search tool for computer hard drives on Vista were frustrated because Vista has a competing desktop search program that cannot be turned off. When the Google and Vista search programs are run simultaneously on a computer, their indexing programs slow the operating system considerably, Google contended. As a result, Google said that Vista violated Microsoft’s 2002 antitrust settlement, which prohibits Microsoft from designing operating systems that limit the choices of consumers.

Google has asked the court overseeing the antitrust decree to order Microsoft to redesign Vista to enable users to turn off its built-in desktop search program so that competing programs could function better, officials said.

State officials said that Mr. Barnett’s memo rejected the Google complaint, repeating legal arguments made by Microsoft.

Before he joined the Justice Department in 2004, Mr. Barnett had been vice chairman of the antitrust department at Covington & Burling. It represented Microsoft in the antitrust case and continues to represent the company.

In a recent interview, Mr. Barnett declined to discuss the Google complaint, noting that the decree requires complaints by companies to be kept confidential. He defended the federal government’s overall handling of the Microsoft case.

“The purpose of the consent decree was to prevent and prohibit Microsoft from certain exclusionary behavior that was anticompetitive in nature,” Mr. Barnett said. “It was not designed to pick who would win or determine who would have what market share.”

“We want to prevent Microsoft from doing those things that exclude competitors,” he added. “We also don’t want to disrupt the market in a way that will be harmful to consumers. What does that mean? We’ve never tried to prevent any company, including Microsoft, from innovating and improving its products in a way that will be a benefit to consumers.”

Prosecutors from several states said that they believed that Google’s complaint about anticompetitive conduct resembled the complaint raised by Netscape, a company that popularized the Web browser, that was the basis of the 1998 lawsuit.

Richard Blumenthal, the Connecticut attorney general, declined to talk about the substance of the complaint, or which company made it. But he said the memo from Mr. Barnett surprised him.

“Eyebrows were raised by this letter in our group, as much by the substance and tone as by the past relationship the author had had with Microsoft,” said Mr. Blumenthal, one of the few state prosecutors who has been involved in the case since its outset.

“In concept, if not directly word for word, it is the Microsoft-Netscape situation,” Mr. Blumenthal said. “The question is whether we’re seeing déjà vu all over again.”

The administration has supported Microsoft in other antitrust skirmishes as well.

Last year, for instance, the United States delegation to the European Union complained to European regulators that Microsoft had been denied access to evidence it needed to defend itself in an investigation there into possible anticompetitive conduct. The United States delegation is led by Ambassador C. Boyden Gray, who had worked for Microsoft as a lawyer and lobbyist.

Robert Gianfrancesco, a spokesman for the delegation, said that Ambassador Gray had not formally removed himself from involvement in Microsoft issues but was not involved in the complaint to European regulators, which was handled by other American diplomats in the delegation.

In December 2005, the Justice Department sharply criticized the Korean Fair Trade Commission after that agency ordered major changes in Microsoft’s marketing practices in Korea.

And in 2004, the Justice Department criticized the European Commission for punishing Microsoft for including its video and audio player with its operating system.

Antitrust experts attribute the Bush administration’s different approach to Microsoft to a confluence of political forces as well as significant changes in the marketplace.

A big factor has been the Bush administration’s hands-off approach to business regulation. For its part, Microsoft, which spent more than $55 million on lobbying activities in Washington from 2000 to 2006 and substantially more on lawyers, has become a more effective lobbying organization.

“The generous and noncynical view is that there has been a fundamental change in philosophy about the degree to which antitrust should be used to regulate business activity,” said Andrew I. Gavil, an antitrust law professor at Howard University who is a co-author of the Microsoft book with Professor First, the New York University law professor. “In the Microsoft case, you can see how that change has manifested itself.”
274 2007-06-10 An article last Sunday about a Dutch television show in which kidney patients purported to compete for an organ donation referred incorrectly to organ transplants from live donors. Transplants from cadavers outpace those from live donors, not the other way around.
275 2007-06-10 Jordi Prat, the government official in charge of Catalan railroads, said other routes under the city had been rejected because they involved digging directly beneath dozens of buildings. He added that as the project proceeded, engineers would test for any potential threats to structures above ground.

Joan Escuer, president of the Catalan College of Geologists, said more thorough research was needed to establish the true risk of damage to the church. Digging under Barcelona was complicated, he said, because the subsoil varied from one part of the city to another.

“There is no such thing as zero risk,” he said in a telephone interview. “It is very unlikely the Sagrada Familia will collapse with the construction of the tunnel. But it is not unlikely that it could be damaged or suffer cracking.”

Mr. Bonet rejected the government assurances. “This is a badly designed project,” he said. “They say, ‘We will fix things as we go along.’ You cannot do that. It’s absolute recklessness.”

And once the trains, which will halve the five-hour journey to Madrid from Barcelona, start running, Mr. Bonet warned, the vibrations could shake loose colored tiles embedded in the ceiling or fragments of bright Venetian glass that decorate the sculpted bell towers. Standing on a scaffold 215 feet above the nave, he pointed to the shimmering mosaic pattern set in the ceiling.

“The tiniest crack could prompt stones to fall down, and from 200 feet, with people underneath, that would be dangerous,” he said.

Gaudí began work on La Sagrada Familia, or the Holy Family, in 1883 and only 15 percent of it was complete when he was killed in a streetcar accident in 1926.

It was eventually decided that the master had left sufficient plans to compete the church. But in 1936, during the Spanish Civil War, an anticlerical mob set fire to Gaudí’s workshop, destroying blueprints and breaking hundreds of plaster models. Mr. Bonet’s father helped salvage the models and became one of Gaudí’s successors on the project.

Work finally resumed in 1952, but financing depended largely on donations, and progress has often been slowed by a lack of money. And part of Gaudí’s vision has been humbled by the spread of Barcelona itself. The site is flanked by two subway tunnels (which, being shallow, cause minimal distress, Mr. Bonet says) and plans for a grand esplanade leading to the church were foiled in the 1970s, when apartment houses rose opposite the main entrance.

Hundreds of residents are also campaigning against the tunnel, saying that it will damage their homes. Academics from overseas have joined the protest. “To consciously endanger a World Heritage site is an act of thoughtless vandalism,” J. Mark Schuster, professor of urban cultural policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, wrote to Mr. Bonet. World Heritage sites are cultural and national places designated by Unesco, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.

The government says the project could begin next spring, and despite the potential dangers, Mr. Bonet remains philosophical about La Sagrada Familia’s future.

“Gaudí said that everything is providential,” he said with a shrug. “This is the Expiatory Temple of the Holy Family, and by expiatory we mean that everything is achieved through sacrifice and tribulation.”

As for the church’s completion, the only thing Mr. Bonet is sure of is that he will not be around to see it. Computers have made the work much faster, and Mr. Bonet says technology is changing so rapidly that, for all he knows, helicopters rather than cranes will be used when it comes to building the central 550-foot cross.

The financing has improved, and spending on the church currently runs about $1.35 million, a month. “What is the point in worrying about whether it will take another 20, 30 years to finish?” he said as he crossed into the gloom of one of the tight, spiral staircases. “Gaudí never saw it finished. Why should I?”
276 2007-06-10 But Martin has never won a driver’s championship in Nascar’s top series. He has finished second four times, most recently in 2002, and he qualified for the Chase the past three years.

Now that he has entered the part-time phase of his career, it is not as if he is fading away. He lost the Daytona 500 to Kevin Harvick by a nose on Feb. 18. Then, on May 16, Martin announced that he would add three races to his schedule, two of them before the Chase field is determined. He is scheduled to skip 5 of the next 13 races, but he can always change his mind.

“I can if I wanted to,” he said. “But I don’t.”

What he can do is take points from other drivers by running well on a schedule that for him is not too hard. Asked what he enjoyed most about his part-time schedule, Martin said: “Being off. The schedule they have today is overkill.”

Martin moved from Roush Racing to a team owned by Bobby Ginn in the off-season because Ginn promised Martin he could run part time. Ginn’s team has been one of the pleasant surprises of an otherwise drab season dominated by the Hendrick Racing combination of Jeff Gordon and Jimmie Johnson.

“It’s an outstanding accomplishment by a team I’ve come to know as being equal to, or on a par with, the best in the garage,” Martin said of Ginn’s team.

Martin has been provided with a powerful black Chevrolet that he has driven to six top-10 finishes. Martin, in fact, has not finished lower than 17th in his 10 races. If he wants to add races, he will have a fast car to drive.

“He says he’s not going to do it,” said Matt Kenseth, his former Roush teammate, who is third in the standings.

“But if he’s sitting 12th in the standings, and he needs to add a race to make it, I think it would be awfully difficult for him not to do it.”

Martin is a smooth driver, and as a result is well respected, which makes him a little more impervious to most of the histrionics that develop among younger drivers — the latest example being Busch.

Busch, the only Dodge driver in the top 12, lost 100 points and was fined $100,000 for parking his car next to Stewart’s on pit road and chewing him out after the two were in an accident at Dover. Busch fell to 17th in the standings from 11th.

“Safety on pit road can’t be compromised, and I understand that,” Busch said Friday.

Martin took Busch’s place in the standings, with Martin Truex Jr., the winner of the Dover race, moving to 12th.

Martin will start from the middle of the pack in the Pocono 500 but should be a factor: he has finished second six times in 40 top-series races at Pocono.

Johnson suggested that Martin could become a trendsetter. Other veteran drivers have recently tried part-time schedules, but their cars were not fast enough to deliver consistent results. Martin is three positions ahead of a famous full-time driver, Dale Earnhardt Jr., in the standings.

“To see team owners willing to go that route, it inspires Jeff, it inspires me and guys who don’t want to quit racing,” Johnson said, referring to Gordon.

“After 15 or 20 years you want to have a couple weekends off here and there. I think Mark’s doing a great job of leading that brigade.”

Martin is not eager to leave the part-time brigade. He said his schedule was set. He plans to drive next weekend at Michigan, then will skip races in Sonoma, Calif., and Loudon, N.H., before driving in four consecutive races, including another at Pocono on Aug. 5.

Tension has begun to mount now that the midway point of the 26-race portion of the season that determines the playoff qualifiers has been reached. Even some drivers who are among the top 12 have begun talking about what it will take to make the Chase.

“We’ve got to keep stuff from falling off our car,” Harvick said, smiling.

Meanwhile, Martin drives on, carefree. He loves racing, and he loves racing even more when he is in 24 races instead of 36. He has raced enough to know what to do when he gets in a car. He does not need refresher courses after a week or two off.

“I’ve been racing for 35 years,” he said, laughing. “I don’t need any more practice.”
277 2007-06-10 At 5 foot 8, he is balding, has eyes more mischievous than intense and blankets himself in a shield of one-liners. Why did he shed the weight and shave the beard? “I wasn’t going to make myself taller.” How does he feel about the markets? “I haven’t felt this good since July 1998” (a month before Wall Street went into a tailspin after the Russian ruble collapsed). And to a photographer shooting his portrait? “If I’d known you were coming, I’d have had my hair done.”

If Mr. Blankfein sometimes seems more master of the quip than master of the universe, his intellect, knowledge of history and deep understanding of trading set him apart from other titans of Wall Street, even among those with their own formidable skills. So does his pay package. He took home $54.3 million in total compensation last year, well shy of what hedge fund stars pulled in but more than any other chief executive on Wall Street.

“Lloyd understands risk taking,” said Kenneth C. Griffin, chief executive of Citadel Investment Group, one of the country’s largest hedge funds. “In a sense, it’s his most fundamental skill. Other firms want to emulate Goldman Sachs but they have neither the culture, the risk-taking appetite nor the understanding of the capital markets at the top of the house to do so.”

Indeed, his familiarity and comfort with risk make Mr. Blankfein, however unlikely at first blush, perfectly suited for the role of Wall Street chief executive circa 2007 — less Ivy League backslapper sipping a gin and tonic after a round of golf, and more sharp-witted, quant jock.

While Wall Street still mints money advising companies on mergers and taking them public, real money — staggering money — is made trading and investing capital through a global array of mind-bending products and strategies unimaginable a decade ago. Banks navigating that complex territory do it for their own bottom line and for their clients, and increasingly in far-flung corners of the world. And no financial firm has mastered that more than Goldman Sachs, which reshaped itself from an advisory-focused business to a trading machine with a bank that advises, finances, invests in and hedges deals.

Mr. Blankfein is an architect of this change at Goldman, and it has paid off richly for shareholders, employees and clients. It has also generated criticism from those concerned about possible conflicts of interest or unbridled power at Goldman.

“There’s an expression: It’s easier to ask for forgiveness than permission,” says a senior private equity executive who requested anonymity for fear of alienating Goldman. “Rather than ask, ‘Can I compete with you?’ they say, ’Sorry, but we’ll help you get another deal.’ And they get away with it because it’s hard not to be in business with Goldman Sachs.”

WHEN Mr. Blankfein became Goldman’s chief executive, the internal rap on him from some was that he was, perhaps, not reverential enough about the firm’s culture. (He is known for saying “the graveyard is filled with indispensable people,” blasphemy at a firm whose previous chief executive had to apologize profusely for saying that a small group of executives generated most of the profits.)

There was also concern internally that he had not spent enough time with high-profile clients, an art that had helped all four of his immediate predecessors later land in the Senate or in presidential administrations.

Mr. Blankfein has worked mightily to fill in his gaps, going on a world tour that has included meeting prime ministers and scores of chief executives. In the last four weeks alone he has taken separate trips to Russia, China, Turkey and the Middle East.

“Over the past few years, I’ve had to involve myself in parts of our business that I wasn’t as close to,” says Mr. Blankfein, who spent most of the earlier part of his career managing traders and their books. “There was a swath of the firm I didn’t deal with as much.”

Henry R. Kravis, founder of the private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, recalls Mr. Blankfein’s first visit three years ago when the Goldman executive knew nothing about the private equity business. “I had as good a conversation as I’ve had with anyone,” Mr. Kravis says. The two men now get together every few months.

“What he’s had to do is make himself into a client person,” says David M. Rubenstein, founder and chief executive of the Carlyle Group, another major private equity player. “When you are a trader you care about performance and you measure it minute by minute, day to day. When you are in the business of winning clients you have to learn different skills.”

AS he rounds off his education, Mr. Blankfein has also reached out to the firm’s top brass. Since March, he has been enmeshed in a “chairman’s forum,” a series of meetings that allow him to meet with every managing director at the firm in small groups and address important strategic issues. He is focusing on clients, including potential conflicts with them. The sessions are global, last an entire afternoon and involve case studies, debate and discussion.

The meetings are just part of protecting the Goldman brand, which Mr. Blankfein says is important to him. “It allows us to do things, and allows the people in the firm to lead professional lives, that wouldn’t otherwise be possible,” he says.

Case in point: Lloyd Blankfein. Over a 25-year career at Goldman he has worked in almost every part of the firm. He grew up in the projects of the East New York section of Brooklyn, one of the worst neighborhoods in New York, and went to Harvard at 16 on a scholarship, applying not because he knew a lot about Harvard but because he’d heard the name. He went on to Harvard Law School and then worked as a tax lawyer before applying for a job on Wall Street. Goldman initially rejected him, but J. Aron, a little-known commodity trading shop, hired him. Soon after, Goldman bought J. Aron and got Mr. Blankfein, too.

He is reluctant to talk about perceived disadvantages, but they were clear. More-pedigreed Goldman employees knew people to call for business; he did not. But his ability to manage risk and people earned him the nod to run J. Aron, then the fixed-income business, and, later, all of Goldman’s securities units.

“There are many people in our business with huge egos,” says S. Donald Sussman, founder of the Paloma Funds, a hedge fund, who is a close friend of Mr. Blankfein. “That is not Lloyd.”

After Mr. Blankfein became Goldman’s president in 2004, he studied every aspect of Goldman’s business, extending the circle of people who would receive his frequent 2 a.m. e-mail messages. Today, the co-presidents Gary D. Cohn and Jon Winkelried run the firm’s day-to-day operations and Mr. Blankfein spends more time on clients and strategy.

Mr. Blankfein, who has been married for 24 years and has three children, is well aware that some see his management style as overly driven. “There are real consequences to being the arbiter,” he says. “In the past, if I had an idea and, say, I wanted to move the firm 30 degrees to starboard, I’d go push with 500 pounds of pressure because my base assumption would be that the organization would resist.

“In my current role, if I exerted that kind of pressure, I’d probably end up with a 180-degree turn,” he adds, by way of saying why he now uses his power more conservatively.

But he was not Mr. Conservative over the last five years as he led the charge to reshape Goldman from being a firm focused on its advisory business to one that embraces more risk and more principal transactions — including private equity investing, proprietary trading and using the firm’s own capital to facilitate complex client transactions.

The impetus, Mr. Blankfein says, was the 1999 repeal of the Glass Steagall Act, the Depression-era law that separated investment and commercial banking — and had protected the core business of smaller advisory firms like Goldman from lending behemoths like Citigroup.

“If you take an historical perspective, clients want us to do what clients have always wanted their bankers to do — give good advice and provide them with the financial means with which to be able to act,” he says. “We’ve come full circle, because this is exactly what the Rothschilds or J. P. Morgan the banker were doing in their heyday. What caused an aberration was the Glass Steagall Act.”

Goldman recently closed a $20 billion private equity fund, which means it now controls one of the biggest funds in the world. It runs the second-largest hedge fund group globally, manages the largest mezzanine fund and is expected to announce a $2 billion credit fund, all housed in its asset management division.

Goldman’s transformation has allowed it to remain the bank to beat. Each earnings call inevitably breaks the firm’s previous record of just a quarter or a year earlier.

For the first quarter this year, there were record quarterly net revenues in fixed income ($4.6 billion), equities ($3.1 billion) and investment banking ($1.72 billion). Net earnings of $3.2 billion, or $6.67 per diluted share, were up 29 percent from the first quarter of 2006 — which was, of course, a record. Its investment bank now contributes only about 15 percent of Goldman’s revenue, yet another benchmark of its makeover.

But Mr. Blankfein believes that this makeover has emboldened the advisory unit. “We couldn’t have had the client business we have today if we hadn’t developed our skills and expertise as principals and financiers,” he says.

But some executives worry that the firm may be putting its desire to make money before its stated No. 1 business principle, which is always putting clients first. “We used to agonize about how having a failed private equity fund or an aggressive one would affect our reputation,” said one senior Goldman executive who requested anonymity because he is not authorized to speak to the press. “Today they don’t worry about it. It’s about generating earnings.”

GOLDMAN, like many other Wall Street firms, has had a strong wind at its back as the markets have rushed skyward. But its business mix and its astute take on the financial world have made it particularly well positioned to cash in on the vast availability of cheap credit and high-octane global growth. From 2001 to 2006, Goldman’s trading revenue surged 168 percent. From 1999 to today, its balance sheet has grown 265 percent, to $1 trillion.

The occasional backlash against Goldman’s financial supremacy leaves Mr. Blankfein bemused: “In the space of five years, we went from being a firm with a small balance sheet which was considered to be too advice-oriented and lacking the financial muscle to be taken seriously, to an organization which generates articles with headlines like ‘Too Big? Too Powerful? Too Bad!’ ”

Goldman is often described as a hedge fund on steroids because of its proprietary trading, little of which is publicly disclosed. Partly because of that lack of disclosure, the price of its shares trades at a teeny earnings multiple of 10, a fact that colleagues say irks Mr. Blankfein. He has said privately that he thinks equally opaque competitors with far less experience than Goldman, like newly minted private equity firms and hedge funds, unfairly snare higher multiples. Goldman does not comment on its multiple.

Despite all of this, clients often turn to Goldman first because of its expertise as both a trading machine and marquee adviser, even if it means offering Goldman a look at their own portfolios (an age-old fear that clients have about Wall Street).

“I always worry about what they learn,” says Mr. Griffin at Citadel. “But on the flip side, I know the minds and the skills and the ability to bridge buyers and sellers of risk is ultimately more important to me.”

While Mr. Blankfein jokes that he is a worrier, not a warrior, he is cautiously optimistic about the current market. Like any savvy trader, he will seek to minimize the fallout. “Ultimately, what will happen, will happen,” he says. “And we’ll either have been right or wrong in our assessment of the risks but, to be successful in this business, you have to have a degree of risk tolerance.”

But the worrier says he will also make sure that Goldman’s hard-won reputation stays intact.

“I’d hate it if someone I’d recruited to join the firm would have been better off going to a competitor,” says Mr. Blankfein, frowning at the prospect. “I care about people having satisfying careers, which includes being commercially successful, but it also means how people live their lives, how they feel about what they have chosen to do and whether they feel fulfilled by what they’re doing.”

He adds: “I don’t want to sound too flip, but you know that line from ‘Citizen Kane’: ‘It’s no trick to make a lot of money, if what you want to do is make a lot of money’? That’s not enough here. That may sound — well, whatever it sounds like, it’s true. It’s not enough.”

He also has his own appearance to worry about. He wants to lose another 15 pounds and wants thicker skin to help deflect criticism loosely hurled at him or his firm.

“Do you think I can do both?” he asks.
278 2007-06-10 While the markets shifted to a happier note on Friday, the week was a troubling one for many investors, as stock and bond prices fell sharply and long-term interest rates soared.

A stock market rebound on Friday made up for a small portion of the week’s losses, which appeared to have been set off by the remarks of Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman. He said that inflation remains a threat, echoing language that he and other Fed officials have been using in recent weeks, but nevertheless worrying many traders.

Longer-term interest rates rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond breaching the 5 percent level for the first time in nine months, and ending the week at 5.10 percent, up from 4.95 percent the previous week. That rate affects the cost of borrowing for homeowners and corporations alike, and it could slow down the brisk pace of mergers and acquisitions.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 243.72 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 13,424.39. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 28.67 points, or 1.9 percent, to close at 1,507.67. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 40.38 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 2,573.54.
279 2007-06-10 Whenever I read an editorial like “New York’s Powerful Ghosts” (May 27) on the need to curb out-of-control public authorities in New York, I chuckle. While some reforms are needed, like prohibiting employees of the appointers from serving on the boards, legislators calling for reform is like the line in “Casablanca” where the police inspector professes shock that there is gambling going on.

New York’s public authorities are creatures of the state. The governor generally appoints the board members. Sometimes the legislative leaders get to appoint board members. Board members must generally be confirmed by the State Senate. The state and city comptrollers have the authority to audit public authorities. Bond sales by the large public authorities must be approved by a board composed of representatives of the governor and the State Legislature.

Gov. Eliot Spitzer cannot be blamed for the appointments of his predecessor, but the Legislature has no one to blame but itself if it believes that public authorities are out of control.

The writer is a former employee of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

Emily Brady’s Street Level column about the drug dealing at a Kennedy Fried Chicken in the Bronx (“A Corner Once Sunny, Made Dreary by Drugs,” June 3) was disturbing and depressing. It is disturbing that the mother featured in the column is afraid for her children’s safety while they eat their meal. It is depressing because the current strategies employed by our country to address the drug-dealing problems are destined to fail.
280 2007-06-10 Some of my clearest memories of that Boston summer come from Edgar introducing me to the carnival known as “dog parks,” enclosed spaces where dogs are healthy and humans spectacularly neurotic.

The figures come back very sharply (maybe too sharply to be trusted): the man who pulled his healthy Labrador to the park in a shiny red Radio Flyer wagon; the woman who fretted that her female shepherd was made “uncomfortable” by the advances of male dogs; the bearded Viking giant who rolled his gigantic wolf hybrid on its back and growled in its face at the slightest sign of disobedience.

Summer meant watching my girlfriend walk Edgar on the banks of the Charles, where they illustrated the complex physics involved when spandex-clad skaters crossed the axis of a retractable leash. That was the summer of Edgar raiding picnics on the Boston Common, liberating hot dogs from blankets without breaking stride. It was the summer of long, idyllic mornings in the Public Garden, reading Thomas Mann and not quite figuring out my literary ambitions, Edgar always at my side.

But one memory above all gives that summer its place in my life story, and Edgar sits obediently at its center.

My girlfriend and I read in one of our many training books that dogs are happiest when playing games similar to the tasks they were bred for. Shepherds should herd; retrievers retrieve; hounds track. Dog-obsessed, we committed ourselves to this, lest the little fellow’s development be stunted by shabby parenting. Beagles are purported to be rabbit hunters, so we set to work providing our friend with a chance to self-actualize by honing his lagomorphocidal instincts.

In the rippling heat of a Boston July, we took Edgar to a green suburban meadow. He sat dutifully as we dragged a small canvas cylinder drenched in “rabbit scent” through the tall grass, making an aromatic path, then leaving the toy and a dog biscuit hidden at the trail’s end.

“Ready, boy? Get that rabbit!” I urged the stationary beagle, a small Ferdinand the Bull. “Kill the wabbit!”

I tapped his rear, and, as if I could almost hear him say, “I would prefer not to,” he stood up, put his nose to the ground, and walked off, in precisely the opposite direction of the imaginary bunny’s escape.

Edgar sat down again, some 20 feet away, where, I swear, an actual rabbit — aroused to lunacy by the field steaming with eau de lapin — leapt directly over him.

The beauty and strangeness of the sight — reckless prey taunting sleepy predator — led me to the most reckless moment of my life, and I suggested to my girlfriend that she might consider marrying me. She, equally inspired to leap over danger’s cute and furry head, thought the notion not unfeasible.

Six summers later, my wife and I took Edgar and our young son to live in Paris for two years. Its reputation as a dog-centric city is merited but not in a way most American dogs would appreciate. The French have so confounded canine pleasures with their own that they simply treat dogs as marginally furrier, shorter Frenchmen: le chien is welcome to sit on the banquette at the cafe, is warmly greeted when browsing the boutiques, is considered an old friend by the grocer, but is, like le français bipède, strictly forbidden from setting paw on green grass.

This reversal of Boston — no dog parks, just cafes — was disorienting to Edgar and me, both of us now in early middle age, our timelines crossing there in Paris. So we marched up and down the Seine, his leash hooked to the stroller, and we discovered that the beagle’s natural prey is not the rabbit, but the baguette.

I have no shortage of non-dog memories from Paris, but the chronology clarifies itself instantly when I remember this: whenever we came home, even in the hottest, most unconditioned air, Edgar still ran up the three flights of crimson-carpeted staircase to our door, his back legs propelling in unison, like a dwarf kangaroo. But, only a single summer later, when we had moved our growing family to the coast of South Carolina, Edgar walked upstairs one leg at a time.

He and I forged a new summer routine on the Atlantic Coast, more suited to a dog of later middle years and his suddenly younger human. The extreme heat allowed us outside only early in the morning and late in the evening, and then we walked on the beach.

Edgar, beach, sunset: and at once I have those summers in detail. We wandered the shore, confident without a leash, and I would occasionally slow down for my friend, now definitely older than I, while (and you’ll have to trust me) dolphins arched and leapt not 30 feet from our wet bare feet and paws. A pod of four to six would, on some fine nights, keep unlikely perfect pace with us, matching our step for a mile or two.

Because of new zoning laws that require all novelists to live in Brooklyn, we moved to the borough a few years back, my two children, my wife and our elderly dog, Edgar.

Despite all the evidence of passing time (my younger boy could talk, my older liked school, I was writing my third novel), nothing brings back that first New York summer any faster than the memory of Edgar not terribly interested in the dogs at the dog park near our home, and the summer after that, him slow with cancer, an old, old fellow with no interest in much of anything but trying to find a comfortable position on the couch.

That same pup who had, 11 summers before, blessed my betrothal in the tall grass of the Boston suburbs, I now carried in my arms the six blocks from our Brooklyn home to the veterinary hospital where the final kindness I could do my old friend at the end of our last walk was to give him the injection that made his tired body kick, then shudder, then sleep.

Will I — 40 years hence — distinguish between the summer my son was 8 and the one he was 9? I admit: maybe not. But, with a dog, for whom fewer than 15 summers is a lifetime, each new, accelerating summer memorably marks my slower life, too.

It seems like summer today. Brooklyn looks wonderful. The cherry and the white pear blossoms have fallen, but it’s not too hot yet. Ellis Island floats, sharply focused, an easy jump off the end of Atlantic Avenue. We have just come from the dog park where Hamish and a greyhound puppy have rolled down a hill wrapped in each other’s paws, each chewing on the other’s face.

At the cafe, his leash is binding my shins as I try and fail to find the words to express all this. He has made a gift of his half-consumed bull penis to the nice people at the table next to me. He is putting his paws up on my lap. I have reset the clock of my memory with this new puppy, staring up with floppy ears and brown eyes, asking when, oh when, can we leave this place and go for another unforgettable walk?
281 2007-06-10 In Google’s case, the idea was to turn a popular Web site for looking at video clips into a hotbed of television-like programming and ads.

At Dow Jones, some see an enterprise dwarfed by electronic rivals and worryingly reliant on newspaper publishing economics. But Mr. Murdoch sees the company’s flagship, The Wall Street Journal, as the hub for the digital transformation of newspapers he already owns around the world and as an engine for a global financial information business with print, online and TV components.

Whether Mr. Murdoch can pursue his dream hinges on negotiations with the Bancroft family, which controls Dow Jones, over how much autonomy he would guarantee in the newsroom.

If he succeeds, Mr. Murdoch will need to decide quickly how The Journal will fit into his plans to finally start a business news cable channel in the United States this fall. The new business channel will be an early indicator of whether his bold business gambit shows promise.

The issues surrounding the business channel are thorny, because CNBC, the leading financial news channel, has a deal to use Journal reporters as on-the-air personalities until 2012. (Dow Jones formerly owned half of CNBC’s operations in Asia and Europe but sold them two years ago.)

Mr. Murdoch wants his new channel to rattle CNBC which is owned by NBC Universal, the way his Fox News Channel has rattled CNN and MSNBC. And Roger Ailes, who runs Fox News, once led CNBC to some of its best years. Certainly The Journal might help kick-start the new channel, but Mr. Murdoch faces the prospect of either waiting until the CNBC deal expires five years hence or trying to break or buy out the contract.

And even if he could bring the storied newspaper’s assets to his TV party (he has said he’d like to work “Journal” into the network’s name, for one) the new channel faces the handicap, at least at the get-go, of being carried in only about a third of the 92 million homes that carry CNBC. (Even Bloomberg’s television outlet reaches more viewers.)

Indeed, while they have been short on programming specifics, News Corporation officials have said they plan to spend $100 million on the channel’s start-up, a trifle next to the proposed outlay for Dow Jones.

So what are the vulnerabilities at CNBC that Mr. Murdoch might like to exploit? It is a classic Murdoch target in the sense that it has a dominant position in a market where few others see an opening.

CNBC is certainly a rich mark. The channel generates an incredible annuity for NBC Universal, considering that it is guaranteed subscription fees from cable and satellite subscribers. Yet over a given day, viewership averages only around 218,000, according to Nielsen Media Research, just over one-tenth the number of people who subscribe to The Journal every weekday.

To help it sop up advertising revenue, CNBC argues that its modest audience figures underestimate office and other “out of home” viewing that make up a majority of its high-income audience.

Despite its niche, CNBC is among the most profitable businesses in all of NBC Universal, generating around $300 million in operating profit a year. Jeff Zucker, NBC Universal’s chief executive, told me last week that the channel was adrift as little as 18 months ago after a big drop in viewership, but that it has since been preparing for Mr. Murdoch’s long-awaited challenge. Viewership is up 57 percent since 2005, as a result of an effort by CNBC’s new president, Mark Hoffman, and his news chief, Jonathan Wald, to reinvigorate the channel.

“We don’t take any competitor lightly,” Mr. Zucker said.

Still, he added, Mr. Murdoch’s legendary success with Fox News has overshadowed less successful television efforts in trying to set up a Fox Sports channel to challenge ESPN and in recently starting the MyNetwork TV network. “Just because Rupert wants to do it doesn’t mean it works,” Mr. Zucker said.

That said, Mr. Zucker is watching keenly. If there is a rub against CNBC, it is the common refrain about NBC Universal: that as part of General Electric it may have played too safe for too long. Sure, CNBC, is a profit-spinner, the thinking goes, but it has never quite figured out evening or weekend programming and instead has relied on infomercials for revenue and reruns of shows like NBC’s “Deal or No Deal” to bolster ratings.

Mr. Hoffman says he is working on filling these gaps. “We’ve taken the last two and a half years to change the direction, to change the voice, to change the energy of what we’re doing at CNBC,” he said.

Some wonder what would have been possible had G.E. bought Dow Jones in the mid-1990s — which it considered doing — rather than becoming long-term partners. But then, as now, NBC Universal and its G.E. bosses viewed Dow Jones as primarily a newspaper company — and that was not deemed a growth business. Mr. Murdoch is more of a gambler in pursuit of his goals, the way Google was in buying the unproven YouTube.

ANOTHER area where the News Corporation sees an opening for its business news is online. CNBC, after years of licensing its content to Microsoft’s MSN, only a few months ago introduced a new iteration of its own CNBC.com Web site. With 662,000 unique users in April, the site ranked a distant 22nd among financial news Web sites, according to comScore Media Metrix. Its audience is growing, but Dow Jones attracted nearly 10 times as many users between its WSJ.com paid site and its Marketwatch.com free business news destination, acquired in 2004.

The News Corporation currently has little presence in financial news, online or on cable. But Mr. Murdoch believes that his company is uniquely positioned to conquer the Web — with everything from the Fox TV and film businesses to a new mobile arm to newspapers to MySpace — even if it doesn’t claim Dow Jones.

Mr. Ailes is plowing ahead with plans to set up the new business channel without presuming that The Journal will figure into them. Mr. Ailes declined to comment, and Fox News declined to give any specifics.

But if they do get The Journal, the nation’s second-largest newspaper after USA Today, it will be interesting to see whether Mr. Murdoch and Mr. Ailes can crack the code for having a print news product translate into a world-beating brand on television, let alone the Web.

As much as Mr. Zucker says he values the relationship between The Journal and CNBC, it’s not clear how much the channel would suffer if the newspaper’s reporters no longer appeared on the air alongside such better-known TV personalities as Jim Cramer and Maria Bartiromo (who is host for the only Journal-branded show on the network, “The Wall Street Journal Report,” which is shown in the quiet of Sunday nights at 7:30).

Recalling the day the story of Mr. Murdoch’s audacious bid broke last month, Mr. Zucker noted jokingly: “Let’s remember who broke the story about Dow Jones — it was CNBC. It was not The Wall Street Journal.”
282 2007-06-10 ALTHOUGH the insurance industry just agreed to pay $2 billion to help rebuild the World Trade Center site — bringing the total paid to $4.55 billion, the biggest insurance settlement ever — that doesn’t mean that the private sector alone can handle terrorism insurance.

Instead, it demonstrates the need for an immediate extension and improvement of the federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act. And with the arrest last weekend of four men accused of plotting to attack Kennedy International Airport, this can’t happen too soon.

After Sept. 11, 2001, insurance companies started excluding acts of terrorism from the policies they offered. Congress responded by enacting legislation in 2002 that provided a federal backstop limiting, but not eliminating, private insurance companies’ exposure in a terrorist attack. After losses reach a catastrophic amount set by a formula based on the cost of a specific attack, the federal government steps in. That legislation, which expires this year, allowed insurance companies to offer terrorism insurance coverage, though with some gaps.

What would happen if it expires? Construction in places like New York City, which is perceived as a likely target for terrorist attacks, would slow or come to a standstill. Development requires borrowing, and lenders won’t lend money without terrorism insurance to protect the building that provides security for the loan. This is especially true with the World Trade Center, which will cost much more than the $4.55 billion that is coming from insurance policies, and therefore requires private financing.

Opponents of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act say that the federal subsidy is unnecessary and crowds out the private sector. They say that the insurance industry has never been stronger. Industry earnings were $63.7 billion in 2006, the highest since 1986. Total industry surplus is also at a record high.
283 2007-06-10 THE Federal Reserve chairman uttered the same message — inflation remains a threat and economic growth resilient — but it must have sounded different. Many similar warnings have caused barely a ripple on Wall Street, but after the Fed chief, Ben S. Bernanke, reiterated them early last week in remarks to a conference of bankers, bond yields rose and the stock market sank.

Although the markets regained some lost ground on Friday, a full calendar of economic reports this week, including two that track widely followed gauges of inflation, could mean treacherous going for traders. That is especially true if, as the recent moves in stocks and bonds suggest, investors have changed their outlooks on inflation and interest rates.

How crucial does Stuart Schweitzer, a global strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank, consider the May reports on producer prices (to be announced Thursday) and on consumer prices (the day after)?

“Inflation is the answer to every question here,” he said. “If we get a scare on inflation at a time when people are already nervous that growth is reaccelerating, it would have the potential to be quite damaging to investor psychology.”

Inflation data has been remarkably stable, showing monthly increases of 0.2 percent, excluding food and energy items, for consumer and producer prices for much of the last year or so. The numbers are hardly budging and neither, apparently, are Mr. Bernanke’s thoughts on the subject. But anxiety about future price increases, and the steps that the central bank may have to take to curb them, seems to be mounting.
284 2007-06-10 Exiting the bar, happy enough with its turnover, he was crossing the road toward his car when he caught sight of the figure on the bench. It wasn’t much of a park, just a playing field for soccer, crisscrossed with paths and a few benches where teenagers could gather on an evening to scare their elders. The figure rose from the bench and started pacing across the grass, measuring each stride. Chib clicked his fingers, letting his boys, Johnno and Glenn, know something was happening. Glenn reached a hand into the front of his jacket, even though there was nothing there — the stranger wouldn’t know that. All the same, the man grinned at the action, seeming to dismiss it. His eyes bore into Chib’s. He was still advancing.

“Easy, pal,” Johnno said, stretching an arm in front of him. The man stopped and rubbed his hands down his face.

“I represent some people, Mr. Calloway.” The accent was foreign, but Chib had expected as much. Had to be the Norwegians, that biker gang from Haugesund. “You owe my friends for a shipment, and you have not been forthcoming.”

Johnno had taken a step forward, but Chib swiped a hand against his shoulder. “I’ve already told them the money’s on its way,” he rasped.

“Repeatedly so, Mr. Calloway, but it’s hardly a sustainable bargaining position, is it?”

“You mean because I speak English better than you?” the stranger asked Glenn.

“You don’t just come barging up to Mr. Calloway,” Glenn barked back. “You show him some respect.”

“The same respect he has displayed to my clients?”

“You’re not part of the gang then?” Chib interrupted.

The man shook his head slowly. “Straight fee, half in advance.”

The man ignored him; he had eyes only for Chib Calloway.

“Tell them,” Chib said, “the money’s coming. I’ve never let them down before, and I’m insulted they’ve sent you.” He decided a wagged finger was in order. “You report back to them, and we’ll talk again next week.”

The man offered a sliver of a smile. “Because by next week, they’ll have their money, paid in full.”

Johnno guffawed; Glenn joined him. But to Chib, they suddenly seemed as useful as infants in a playground. The stranger appeared to agree, because he was already turning to leave. He paused long enough, however, to hand a folded scrap of paper to Chib. A row of numbers: cellphone.

“Hey!” Chib called out to him. “What’s your name, big man?”

“People have a habit of calling me Hate,” the giant said, striding away across the park.

He was in Prof. Robert Gissing’s office, door locked and with the plan of the warehouse spread across the desk and weighted down at its corners with oversize art books. Gissing had paid another visit to the warehouse and amended the plan accordingly.

“Gatehouse,” Mike recited, “CCTV room, maybe a couple of guards with the tour party, and everyone on the tour itself. If you’re sitting in the getaway van, that leaves just three of us to cope with all that.”

“And one of you,” Gissing reminded Mike, “will need to be collecting the actual paintings.”

Mike started nodding, then shook his head instead. “We’ll never manage.”

“I think Allan will be fine,” Gissing said, attempting reassurance.

“It’s just that it all seemed so perfect at the time,” Mike complained, rubbing a palm across his forehead.

“Most plans do, when you first think of them,” Gissing offered.

“Bottom line, Robert: We’ve been over this a dozen times, and you know it comes down to the same thing — we need more hands.”

Gissing folded his arms. “Remember the old adage about too many cooks?”

Mike just shrugged. “The only other alternative is, this stays on the drawing board — a nice dream, never realized.”

Gissing pursed his lips in thought. “So where would these hands come from?”

Mike made sure he had eye contact before speaking. “I’ve been giving it some thought. Someone who knows a bit about heists . . . someone you mentioned right at the start of the project.”

Gissing’s eyes widened. “We’d be mad to let him near this.”

“Think about it, Robert: Calloway has the know-how and the manpower.” Mike paused. “And how else are we going to get firearms?”

“I believe the gangland terminology is ‘shooters.’ ”

Mike gave a conciliatory smile. “I mean, if there’s anyone else who springs to mind . . . anyone equally qualified. . . . Because if we bring in more amateurs like us, how do we know we can trust them?”

“You seriously think Chib Calloway’s a man to be trusted?”

Mike gnawed his bottom lip as he considered this. “He’s got more to lose than any of us. With a record like his, the law would come down on him like Carl Andre’s bricks.”

“So why would he offer assistance?”

Mike shrugged. “Maybe I can persuade him it’s good for art. The least I can do is sound him out.”

“I’m not sure, Mike. Calloway’s . . . well, I’m just not sure.” Gissing sank back into his chair.

“We can always call it off,” Mike offered. “No damage done.”

Gissing seemed to consider this. “Maybe you’re right, my boy. Calloway would bring certain . . . qualities to the project.” Then, his eyes meeting Mike’s: “How exactly would you pitch it at him?”

Gissing’s sudden reversal caused Mike to wonder at his own powers of persuasion. Except that, really, Gissing hadn’t needed much persuading at all.

“Good for art?” Chib Calloway echoed, laughing out loud. “I’ll tell you, Mike, I’ve been needing a bit of light relief all day, so bless you for that.”

They were seated in Chib’s BMW. He had picked Mike up from outside the Last Drop pub on the Grassmarket. Johnno and Glenn in the back, eyes open for anyone following.

“Safer this way,” Chib explained. Mike asked if there was some trouble. “No trouble,” Chib assured him. All the same, he had taken right turns and left and right again, doubling back on himself in places, until a voice from the back seat had announced that they were “clear,” which was when Chib pulled the car to a stop and ordered his men out before driving off again, seeming to relax a little.

“So what’s on your mind, Michael?” he asked, and Mike told him, starting the story as if it were theory only, but Chib quickly realized the truth.

They were sitting in a parking lot halfway around Arthur’s Seat in Holyrood Park. Mike seldom ventured up here: it was a place for dog walkers and tourists. Incredible, panoramic views over the city, with wilderness and the humped shape of the vast rock itself fooling you into thinking you were miles from civilization. Yet you were still in the middle of Edinburgh.

“Good for art,” Chib said again, shaking his head. But then he sniffed and rubbed a finger across his nostrils and asked Mike to repeat the plan. This time, he had questions, concerns and ideas of his own. The ideas were too elaborate, but Mike listened patiently. He’d experienced a frisson from the moment he set foot in the car with those two gorillas hulking in the back. He couldn’t help thinking about other people who’d taken a ride with Chib Calloway, many of them fearful, a few perhaps never seen again. But what Mike felt was excitement. There was something feral about Chib. Mike’s first week in high school, the weakest newcomers had been selected and given a kicking by Chib and his cronies. It hadn’t bothered Mike — better to be picked on than ignored. But afterward that was just what Chib had done — ignored him. And a year later, he was gone from the school, leaving behind only the legend. There were still bullies and gangs, but nothing like Chib. Later, Mike studied at college, found himself an apartment in the New Town. He’d witnessed a few brawls outside nightclubs but had never been in a fight in his life.

It interested him that Chib wasn’t merely about anger and the need to be the alpha male. There was intelligence in those piercing eyes and a thirst for knowledge. Perhaps the gangster was realizing how narrow his world had become.

When Chib got out of the car, Mike followed. The two men walked to the edge of the parking lot, from where they could stare at a nearby pond. There was a small island in the middle; a swan was nesting while its mate swam in protective circles. A woman had brought her child along so they could toss chunks of bread to a nearby cacophony of ducks, coots, gulls and moorhens. But it was the swans that interested Chib. He slipped his hands into his pockets as he watched them. Mike wished he knew what the man was thinking. Maybe he wanted the same sense of poise and certainty. It was another two or three minutes before he spoke.

“You’ll need to be tooled up, Mike. Think you can handle a gun?”

Chib shook his head. “Just needs to look real . . . if that’s what you want.”

“And four more crew, I reckon. One apiece for the gatehouse and guard room, and two to keep the visitors quiet. That leaves the three of you clear to do the actual fetching.”

“The four crew: got anyone in mind?”

“You want them young, means they’re hungry, on top of which there’s all that testosterone . . . makes them even scarier.”

But Chib waved this aside. “Guns and bodies aren’t a problem. Don’t even need to tell the crew who they’re working for — a word from me’ll be enough. All they’ll see is a warehouse, won’t know what’s being taken.”

“Nothing’s being taken,” Mike reminded him with a smile.

“Received and understood,” Chib said, returning the smile. “Which just leaves my fee for us to discuss.”

“I’m sure you’ve got a figure in mind.”

Mike’s Adam’s apple bobbed as he swallowed. “A bit steep, actually,” he was eventually able to tell the gangster.

Chib laughed again and slapped him on the arm. “I’d be willing to take a painting of equal value.”

“I don’t seem to be having much luck at the auctions, Mike. You’re planning on lifting seven paintings, seems to me one extra won’t make much difference.”

“Our forger is pushed as it is.”

“Then we push him harder.” Chib had turned to face Mike. Although Mike was a couple of inches taller, it seemed as if the gangster was towering over him. “I want a painting, Mike. That’s my price, and it’s nonnegotiable.”

Chib was having dinner that evening with a woman who ran an escort agency. A couple of years back, he offered to help her with the business, an offer she turned down out of hand. All the same, Chib had grown to like her. She was tougher than most guys he knew. It wasn’t serious between them — just dinner now and then, maybe a film or a show. They swapped news and gossip, rumors and anecdotes. Sometimes he even let her pick up the tab.

Tonight’s venue was a new restaurant in one of the gentrified sections of Leith. Chib remembered Leith when it had been all about the docks and the hard men, drinking dens and tattoo parlors. There was still that side to it, but a lot of the dockside had been spruced up, stylish bars opening, bonded warehouses turning into apartments. Chib often wondered what happened to the old-timers when these makeovers took place. All over the city, neighborhoods were changing. Where Chib lived, there hadn’t been any homes until 10 years ago. Now it had its own railway station. Sometimes it was hard to keep up.

He was early at the restaurant. Drove there himself. Didn’t like taking Johnno and Glenn; they always made jokes the next day about whether his lady friend snored and how she liked her eggs at breakfast. Seated at the table the best table in the place he felt himself studying the art on the walls. Splotches of paint, primary colors. Not even reproductions of anything worthwhile, just bought as a job lot to cover the pale yellow plaster. He’d been reading up on the subject ever since visiting the auction house. A bookshop in town suggested various “primary texts” the very words the assistant had used. “Primary” to Chib meant elementary school, and he started to argue that he wasn’t thick until the assistant explained what she meant. After that, they got along fine. Elementary school then made him think of high school . . . funny that he didn’t remember Mike. Recognized the type though: the kind who still wanted the hard kids to notice him, even 20-odd years on. He reached into his pocket and took out one of his cellphones, along with the slip of paper. Punched in the numbers and waited. Saw his friend walk in, and waved to her that he’d only be a moment. She was being fussed over by the maÃ®tre d’, her coat removed. Chib’s call was picked up. He licked his lips.

“The one and only. I can’t help thinking we got off to a bad start, so let me make it up to you.”

“Well, while I’m putting the cash together, how about a peace offering? Something you could place under the heading of collateral.”
285 2007-06-10 The park’s plans call for two dozen attractions, including a Formula One-themed roller coaster on which two sets of cars will race against each other on separate tracks. Other features will include virtual reality racing simulators, a pit-lane team experience, go-karts, dune buggies and a high-tech interactive museum.

One ride will incorporate a 200-foot g-force tower that simulates the cornering forces felt by racecar drivers. There will also be a Ferrari driving school. Each aspect of the park, says Ferrari, will highlight the company’s heritage and competitive prowess.

In addition, the overall $40 billion Yas Island project will include beaches, nightclubs, restaurants, upscale stores, luxury hotels, condominiums, marinas, golf courses, polo fields and equestrian facilities. The emirate’s government is investing billions in transportation improvements to roads and the international airport to ensure the smooth arrival and departure of tourists.

Also in the plans for Yas Island is a grand-prix-caliber racetrack; the Formula One governing body has granted a date for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix beginning in 2009, joining Bahrain to become the second grand prix in the region. Scuderia Ferrari, the factory racing team, will, of course, be among the teams competing, as will the Spyker Formula One team, whose cars are powered by Ferrari engines. Mubadala also owns 17 percent of Spyker.

The Yas Island racing circuit was designed by Hermann Tilke, a track architect known for his work on tracks in Bahrain, Shanghai and Sepang, Malaysia. It is being modeled after a temporary circuit used for the Monaco Grand Prix in Monte Carlo, and sections will be used as part of the theme park.

Ferrari also plans to use the track for extreme-temperature testing of vehicle prototypes, giving the company another facility to complement its Fiorano (at the factory), Imola and Mugello circuits in Italy. But even with these developments in the gulf region, Ferrari remains adamant that Maranello will remain the company’s epicenter.

Why would a sports car manufacturer with a legendary racing team agree to put its name on a theme park? The answer lies in Ferrari’s desire to continue building the marketing empire it has nurtured over the decades. It has gone from a small racing outfit to a brand name recognized around the world, in spite of its products being out of reach for most consumers.

While rival automakers seek to broaden their product range with sport utilities and crossovers — even Porsche will be making a four-door sedan in coming years — Ferrari produces only two-door sports cars, at prices that climb with each successive model. Reinforcing the brand’s position, company executives insist that the company is not developing an entry-level model.

To a large degree, Ferrari’s marketing efforts focus on a global branding strategy that capitalizes on the marque’s history and reputation for high performance. Licensing partnerships have placed the Ferrari name on all manner of products, ranging from sportswear to fitness equipment, audio systems to perfumes, and even teddy bears; the theme park is not an unreasonable extension.

Ferrari’s merchandising and branding activities have grown to such proportions that the company recently inaugurated a third division to operate alongside its road-car manufacturing and racing divisions. The new department will have worldwide responsibility for developing the Ferrari brand.

To run the new division, Ferrari recruited Dany Bahar, a top motorsport marketing expert who, during his tenure at the energy-drink company Red Bull, transformed the company from a straightforward sponsor into a direct owner of several racing teams.

In November 2004, Red Bull acquired its own Formula One team from Ford’s Jaguar subsidiary, and then entered into joint ownership of a second team operating out of Italy under the name Scuderia Toro Rosso. The Red Bull cars ran with Ferrari power in the 2006 season; the engine contract went to the Toro Rosso team for 2007.

During the engine supply negotiations with Ferrari, Mr. Bahar evidently made a lasting impression on his Italian counterparts; in his new role at Ferrari, he will report to Jean Todt, chief executive of Ferrari.

The Ferrari theme park project is already set to face its first major challenge. As on the race track, Ferrari’s rivals are close by, and in this instance the competition comes from within the United Arab Emirates. A Dubai real estate developer, Union Properties, signed an exclusive agreement with Formula One Management in 2006 to build a series of theme parks, with the first scheduled to open around the same time as Ferrari’s in 2009.

Rather than fearing the competition, however, Ferrari projects that “having complementary sports facilities can only make the area more interesting and more attractive” to potential visitors.

The budget for the Dubai theme park is $360 million; Union Properties has plans for additional locations in Europe and the Far East. Although Ferrari is not ruling out the possibility of opening additional locations, the company currently has no such plans, preferring to focus on one location before entertaining others.

Unlike its most successful team, Formula One has not fully realized its marketing potential, especially outside Europe; it could stand to take a page out of the Nascar playbook. The contract to construct the F1 theme parks may prove to be a good first step.
286 2007-06-10 Jennifer Olsen Mathissen and Michael William Licamele III were married yesterday in Fairfield, Conn. The Rev. Dr. Alida Ward officiated at Greenfield Hill Congregational Church.

Ms. Mathissen, 36, is keeping her name. She is a vice president for strategy in the Norwalk, Conn., office of Modem Media, a marketing agency and a unit of Publicis, the advertising agency. She graduated from Mount Holyoke. She is the daughter of Cynthia S. Olsen and Randall J. Olsen of Dublin, Ohio.

Mr. Licamele, 41, is the owner of Residential Finance Network, a mortgage brokerage in Fairfield. He graduated from Georgetown and received an M.B.A. from New York University. He is a son of Martha E. Rogowski of Fairfield and Mr. Licamele Sr. of Easton, Conn. The bridegroom is a stepson of Cherie Licamele and of John P. Rogowski.

The bride’s previous marriage ended in divorce, as did that of the bridegroom.
287 2007-06-10 Erica Renée Atkinson, the daughter of Rhys Timm Atkinson and Craig Alan Atkinson of Bridgeport, Conn., was married yesterday in Fairfield, Conn., to Benjamin John Applestein, the son of Donna Marsicano Applestein and Dr. Jeffrey Mark Applestein of La Jolla, Calif. The Rev. Doran B. Morford, a Quaker minister, officiated at the Country Club of Fairfield.

The couple met at Duke, from which they graduated, she summa cum laude.

Mrs. Applestein, 30, teaches English literature in the upper school of the Castilleja School in Palo Alto, Calif. During summers, she has been studying for a master’s degree in English literature at Middlebury.

Her father is a broker with Sterling Capital, a mortgage brokerage based in Stamford, Conn.

Mr. Applestein, also 30, is a tax associate with the law firm of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett in Palo Alto. He received a law degree from the University of California, and a master’s of law degree in taxation law from New York University.

His mother is retired as the director of the Florence Riford Adult Center in La Jolla. His father, a former doctor to the San Diego Chargers football team, is a pulmonologist at Scripps Clinic in La Jolla.
288 2007-06-10 “What we also really wanted were agents that were passionate about getting commercial space travel off the ground and making it a viable industry, and wanted to get in on the ground floor,” she said.

Ms. Wincer said that since February, almost 200 people from 20 countries had agreed to pay $200,000 to be guaranteed a seat on one of the first flights on SpaceShipTwo, which will take six people at a time 70 miles above the Earth to the edge of space and back in roughly two hours.

She said that during the flight, passengers would be able to leave their seats and experience weightlessness, and their view will span 800 miles in any direction and include the curvature of the Earth and the blackness of space.

“It will be a real space flight,” she said.

Mr. Largay said he had four potential customers for the flight (a husband and wife and two men), none of whom wished to be identified. He said one was from Connecticut.

Besides wealth, Mr. Largay said the four share one trait. “They each just have a real sense of adventure,” he said.

Mark Patterson, 55, a financier from Bronxville who bought his seat directly through Virgin Galactic, said that being one of the first civilians to fly into space was what attracted him.

“To be in the first 10,000 people is not nearly as exciting as being in the first 100 or so,” he said. “It’s a tiny little community that is going to get to say they did this.”

That exclusivity, Mr. Largay said, is what makes the trip so attractive to those with the desire and the money.

“I’ve said to some of my clients that are interested: ‘I can warranty you this: that you will never go to a cocktail party after you’ve taken this flight and have someone say “checkmate” to you.’ ”
289 2007-06-10 “They have put the burden on the broker unfairly,” Ms. Bonarelli said. “We don’t condone illegal rentals, but I think the burden should be on the town, not the Realtor.”

The issue, many say, is the small stock of affordable housing in Islip and generally on Long Island “that has forced many people into having illegal rentals,” Ms. Bonarelli said.

But the law cuts deeper than affordable housing. Opponents counter that the law is aimed at the Latino community in poor neighborhoods while town officials look the other way in more affluent areas.

The highest density of illegal rentals is in the hamlets of Bay Shore, Central Islip and Brentwood, according to Steve Flotteron, an Islip town councilman who co-sponsored the new law with the town supervisor, Phil Nolan. Those neighborhoods also have a large number of Latino residents.

Addressing the real estate agents’ concerns, Mr. Flotteron and Mr. Nolan both said agents must simply call the town Building Department to verify that a listing has a legal rental occupancy permit.

But brokers say the wording of the law is vague and seems to place greater responsibility on real estate agents than Mr. Flotteron and Mr. Nolan say. And it does not apply only to rentals.

In addition to requiring that “any person, broker or agent” verify that there is a valid rental occupancy permit, it requires an agent to verify “compliance with all provisions of the code of the town of Islip before listing, showing or otherwise offering for lease, rent or sale any dwelling unit in the town of Islip,” according to the text of the law.

“The law doesn’t state that we only have to verify there’s a legal permit,” Ms. Bonarelli said. “It goes on to state that the properties must be in full compliance with the code of the town of Islip.”

Mr. Nolan said the law was modeled after similar laws in Riverhead and Smithtown, which he said had not met with opposition.

But officials in both of those towns say their laws require only that brokers verify a rental occupancy permit with the town. “The Islip law has more to do with building codes,” said Frank DeRubeis, the director of planning and community development in Smithtown. “That’s a little more extensive.”

Beyond the law’s wording as it relates to real estate agents, another section has drawn criticism: the part that allows code-enforcement officials to identify homes occupied by more than one family without actually entering them.

In the past, said Mr. Nolan, the town supervisor, inspectors responding to the “thousands of complaints” each year about overcrowded homes and illegal rental apartments within single-family homes have needed the homeowner’s permission to enter a home.

The new law, referred to by officials as “presumptive evidence,” allows inspectors to presume that a house is occupied by more than one family if the house has any 2 of 11 features, many obvious from the street outside the house. They include more than one electric meter, more than one satellite dish or antenna, and more than one door on one side of the house.

“The presumptive evidence gives us the obvious signs: there are three mailboxes, three electric meters,” Mr. Nolan said. “Now we can cite the homeowner, who then has to prove that they’re not illegal.”

The town has also hired more inspectors and streamlined the process of taking a landlord to court for violations, Mr. Nolan said.

The higher fines were necessary to discourage violations, Mr. Nolan said. Until now, landlords have viewed the penalties as a “cost of doing business,” he said. “Some have literally 20 or 25 people in these houses and are drawing up to $3,000 a month in profit.”

Residents are paying for it with higher taxes to support overcrowded schools, Mr. Flotteron, the town councilman, said. “Someone’s paying $4,000 in taxes for a single-family house, but the house is sending 14 children to the schools,” he said. Town officials declined to identify any house that had such severe overcrowding.

Past attempts to crack down on overcrowded homes have involved the school district, according to Mr. Nolan, who has been supervisor for six months. School officials were asked to provide the town with addresses of students who lived in the same house but had different surnames. That practice was ended because of privacy concerns, he added.

As for the new law, some question its timing and raise concerns that the town is victimizing Latino residents, who they say are often targets in Suffolk County towns.

“There is probably minimal, if nonexistent, enforcement of mother-daughter type apartments in middle-class white neighborhoods where there are plenty of those,” said the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church, who is also an advocate for the Latino community on Long Island. “Why, if you’re against overcrowded housing of any kind, why don’t you go after those that have existed for so long?”

In fact, town officials say that “the old widow who rents out a room in her house — that doesn’t even get on our radar screen, nobody complains,” as Mr. Nolan put it.

But Mr. Ramirez took issue with that approach. “As town officials, they should realize that they are there to enforce the law,” he said. “If they want to call it ‘the little old lady renting the apartment,’ they can call it what they want, but if they are going to enforce it for one, enforce it for the other.”
290 2007-06-10 In his stimulating essay Lawrence Kramer asks why classical music still matters. I would be more specific: Why does going to a classical music concert still matter, since the music may be heard anywhere via iPod or CD? I’ve performed classical music in concert and have recorded the same music. The difference is huge. At a concert there are likely to be more risks taken, more new ideas instantly realized, and more deeply emotional playing in response to an audience. This is not the case in the studio, where care and consistency are the rule. No matter what electronic apparatus we have in our homes, or carry with us, the concert hall is the beating heart of classical music, and it matters enormously.

Art Anyone Can Own

Lawrence Kramer is on to something when he suggests that a vibrant concert hall could have much in common with an excellent art museum. But he misses the mark when he laments the lack of a “classical music equivalent of the contemporary-art market.” The only reason a contemporary-art market exists is that art can be owned, and collectors have a pecuniary interest in escalating prices. One of the most appealing things about great music is that it belongs to all of us.Daniel Okrent

The writer is a former public editor of The New York Times.

Lawrence Kramer urges readers to “listen to Mahler the way you would look at Klimt.” Who looks at a Klimt nonstop for an hour or more, the length of a Mahler symphony? You can look at that Klimt for a bit, look somewhere else, return to it or not. When in its presence you have no choice but to hear that symphony. Hearing sound is coercive; you have to go to considerable lengths not to hear. Looking at images is discretionary; it is usually quite easy to look away. These differences make the notion of a music museum dubious.Rudolph H. Weingartner

Perhaps Lawrence Kramer should get out more. Well-placed display cases, video monitors? For the New York Philharmonic there are several of those at Avery Fisher Hall. Different possibilities of performance? Michael Tilson Thomas did just that at Carnegie Hall on Feb. 28, presenting the Fifth Symphony of Shostakovich, first with altered notes, then as the composer intended. A gift shop in which to linger? The Barbican in London is virtually a shopping mall.

Listening to Mahler “the way you would look at Klimt” can be a worthy goal, but it’s up to the listener — the museumgoer — to learn beforehand about Mahler and Klimt, and about listening and seeing and making connections. I see the stumbling block as an inherited European tradition that still bristles at American brashness.
291 2007-06-10 He said that while the sale price of an apartment in the building directly relates to the value of the shares assigned to that apartment — the higher the sale price, the higher the per-share value — and that while the sale price of one apartment could affect the per-share value of other apartments, the co-op board has no authority to control sale prices.

“It is understandable that shareholders want to keep the value of their shares as high as possible,” Mr. Sonnenschein said. “But the business of a corporation does not include trying to maintain the value of its shares.” He contends that doing so is “basically a form of stock manipulation.”

Aaron Shmulewitz, another Manhattan co-op lawyer, disagreed. “I don’t see why co-op boards should not be doing this,” he said. “Board members have a fiduciary duty to protect the financial interests of the corporation and all its shareholders. And allowing sales for below-market value would damage the financial interest of the co-op and its shareholders.”

Mr. Shmulewitz said at least two court cases had addressed the issue. In one, State Supreme Court in White Plains ruled in 1995 that a co-op board did not have the right to set minimum sale prices. But in the second case, in 1999, Supreme Court in Manhattan ruled the other way. These are both lower court cases that are not binding on other courts, Mr. Shmulewitz said.

Arthur I. Weinstein, a Manhattan lawyer who is a vice president of the co-op and condo council, said that while he believes boards have the power to impose floor prices, this power should generally not be exercised.

“The co-op board should not be trying to second-guess the marketplace,” he said. “And the marketplace determines what the value of an apartment is.”

Mr. Weinstein said that in a building where there is a flip tax based on the gross sale price — that is, a percentage of the sale price that must be paid to the co-op — and the board believes that the sale price is being deliberately understated to reduce the flip tax, it can decline to approve the sale.

Other than that, Mr. Weinstein said, a board should not be involved in price matters. “They could be badly hurting the seller,” he said. “And this is especially true in a declining market because the seller will not be able to get today’s price tomorrow, and that will only exacerbate the problem.”

In fact, Mr. Weinstein said, if a co-op is convinced that an apartment is so underpriced as to warrant board intervention, the co-op should buy the apartment itself and resell it.

“I’ve represented several co-ops that have done that,” he said. “That eliminates the injury to the seller because the seller is getting his price, and the co-op could make a profit if the board’s judgment is correct.”
292 2007-06-10 Orlando Hernández of the Mets would argue that the number is only 10. He says he is only 37, and that’s how the Mets list him on their roster. But other records show him to be four years older, and even the Mets’ general manager, Omar Minaya, said before they joined the Mets that Hernández, a Cuban defector, was four years older.

El Duque’s age, however, did not discourage Minaya from trading for him a year ago and signing him to a two-year, $12 million contract last November, right after he probably turned 41.

Jamie Moyer (44), David Wells (44), Randy Johnson (43), Tom Glavine (41), Greg Maddux (41), Tim Wakefield (40), Woody Williams (40), Curt Schilling (40) and John Smoltz (40) do not dispute their age.

Never before have so many 40-year-olds pitched in the majors. Previously, the largest contingent of pitchers who made at least 20 starts in a season, according to Elias Sports Bureau, which doesn’t count Hernández, was last season when Clemens, Moyer, Wells, Johnson, Glavine, Wakefield and Williams qualified at that level. Wakefield and Williams didn’t turn 40 until August.

The largest group before that was six in 1987: John, Ryan, Don Sutton, Steve Carlton and the Niekros, Phil and Joe.

Reflecting on the trend toward more active 40-year-olds, John said: “What does that tell you? It tells you there is a dearth of talent.”

John, however, wasn’t questioning the talent of the senior contingent.

“If you look at the guys who are pitching other than Clemens and Randy and Smoltz, they have captured the essence of how to pitch,” he said. “You don’t have to blow the doors off the wagons to be really good. The younger guys would do well to take heed on that.”

Young pitchers have had plenty of opportunities to watch 40-year-olds pitch this season and even pitch against each other. Six times, the seniors have started the same games.

Moyer and Johnson started against each other three weeks apart last month, each time establishing plateaus for the combined age of starting left-handers, the second time at 88 years 90 days.

Moyer and Glavine have started against each other twice and very likely will again as the Phillies and the Mets contend for the National League East title.

Johnson and Wells opposed each other April 24, as did Glavine and Smoltz on May 24. It was the third time for Glavine and Smoltz, but the first two games came before Smoltz joined the 40 crowd. Maddux and Smoltz started against each other six days before Smoltz turned 40. Johnson and Glavine missed each other by a day.

Eight of the 10 40-years-olds pitch in the National League, giving new meaning to the league’s old name, the senior circuit. No senior matchups have occurred in the American League because Schilling and Wakefield are teammates. Now that Clemens is returning to the majors, that absence could be corrected when the Yankees and the Red Sox resume their rivalry later in the season.

Entering yesterday, most of the 40-year-olds had winning records. Only Williams (2-8) and Wakefield (5-7) did not. Smoltz had the most victories among the group (seven), and Hernández had the lowest earned run average (1.94). Smoltz, at 2.83, had the lowest among admitted 40-year-olds.

“I would say this is a unique group,” said John, who manages the Bridgeport (Conn.) Bluefish in the independent Atlantic League. “They are dedicated, intelligent, baseball savvy, they take care of themselves and they enjoy pitching.”

None of them, however, have reached John’s retirement age, 46.

“They retired me,” he said. “I sent out tapes to teams I thought I could help either starting or out of the bullpen. But no one called, so I went into my managerial career. I managed my sons in Little League.”

A recent column suggesting that the Yankees erred in trading Gary Sheffield last winter prompted disagreement from some readers who raised several issues about him.

They questioned his clubhouse demeanor without ever having been in a clubhouse with him (his teammates have liked him wherever he has played), they recalled how he admitted once deliberately throwing away a grounder (when he was a young, immature kid) and they said he was past his prime as a hitter.

For the last point, the critics might have been looking at Sheffield’s April performance. Through April 29, Sheffield batted .193 with six runs batted in and one home run in 23 games. In 35 games since, before yesterday’s game with the Mets, Sheffield batted .317 with 34 R.B.I. and 15 home runs.

His slugging percentage in the first 23 games was .265; it was .676 in the next 35. The Yankees, vulnerable to left-handed starting pitchers, could have used that kind of right-handed production.

Prince Fielder is threatening to be this season’s Ryan Howard.

Fielder, the Milwaukee first baseman, slugged his N.L.-leading 22nd home run in the Brewers’ 61st game. Last season, Howard hit his 21st home run in Philadelphia’s 59th game.

It was after the All-Star Game, though, that Howard took off on his way to 58 home runs, making him the eighth player to hit that many.

In his first 53 games after the All-Star Game, the 26-year-old Howard hit 28 home runs, including two on Sept. 8 to raise his total to 56. He had only two homers in his last 21 games as teams walked him with greater frequency.

Fielder, 23, hit 10 home runs in 17 games heading into last night’s game.

If they had not bolstered their infield defense, the 2004 Boston Red Sox weren’t going anywhere. Acquiring Orlando Cabrera and installing him at shortstop was part of their solution.

But five days after the Red Sox won the World Series, Cabrera became a free agent and the Red Sox let him leave. He signed with the Angels three days after the Red Sox signed Édgar Rentería to play short.

Rentería, however, lasted only one season in Boston. The Red Sox were especially dissatisfied with his major-league-leading 30 errors and traded him to Atlanta. Their new shortstop was the slick-fielding Álex González.

He committed only seven errors last season, but the Red Sox weren’t satisfied with his hitting, so they let him go, instead signing Julio Lugo to a four-year, $36 million contract. González signed with Cincinnati for three years and $14 million.

Has Lugo satisfied the Red Sox’ desire for more offense at shortstop? He was hitting .217 before last night’s game, declining steadily from a .256 average in April to .209 in May to .133 in June. González was hitting .268 for the Reds with 11 home runs, compared with four for Lugo.

In the first 65 days of the season, teams played a total of five 1-0 games. Then in a three-day stretch last week, teams played four 1-0 games.

Two of last week’s games were in the National League West, where San Diego edged Los Angeles and Arizona topped San Francisco.

The American League, which had no 1-0 games until June 2, had a pair of 1-0 games last Tuesday and Thursday. Cleveland defeated Kansas City on a home run by Franklin Gutiérrez, and Boston edged Oakland on a home run by David Ortiz.

Through no fault of their new owner, the Texas Rangers won the A.L. West title in 1998 and 1999, giving them three division championships in four years. Since then, they have been one of the worst-run organizations in the major leagues. That development can be attributed to the owner, Tom Hicks.

Hicks became the Rangers’ owner in June 1998. After enjoying the fruits of the previous ownership — which at one time included George W. Bush — Hicks has overseen four consecutive last-place finishes and three successive third-place finishes. This season, the Rangers are back in last place by a sizable margin.

After the 2001 season, Hicks fired Doug Melvin, the general manager who built the division winners, and replaced him with the very expensive John Hart, under whom the Rangers have made no progress in four years. An inexperienced Jon Daniels, Hart’s assistant for not much more than a season, replaced Hart in October 2005.

Hicks also became an easy mark for the agent Scott Boras, who induced Hicks to give Alex Rodriguez a record $252 million contract and to give Chan Ho Park, an unproductive pitcher, $65 million for five years.

Melvin became the general manager of the Milwaukee Brewers and has turned a perennial loser into a team that is in first place in the N.L. Central.
293 2007-06-10 Mr. Basit and four other men here, who spent time at a hamlet in Afghanistan run by Uighur separatists, are still considered terrorist suspects by China’s Communist government. Only Albania’s pro-American government would give them asylum, but Albanian officials have since told the men they cannot afford to give them much else.

Things could be worse, the former prisoners note. At least 15 of the 17 Uighurs who remain at Guantánamo have also been cleared for release, but not even Albania will accept them — and neither will the United States. Instead, American diplomats say they have asked nearly 100 countries to provide asylum to the detainees, only to find that Chinese officials have warned some of the same countries not to accept them.

“The United States has made extensive and high-level efforts over a period of four years to try to resettle the Uighurs in countries around the world,” the State Department’s legal adviser, John B. Bellinger III, said in an interview. Its lack of success, he added, “has not been for lack of trying.”

Many American officials privately describe the Uighurs’ plight as one of the more troubling episodes of the Bush administration’s detention program. The case also provides a view of the remarkable difficulties Washington has encountered in trying to winnow the detainee population at Guantánamo in response to domestic and international criticism.

The refugees in Tirana seem to have little sense of how to influence the global chess game in which they have become involved. They spend most of their days behind the refugee center’s high, cinderblock walls, reading the Koran, studying Albanian and waiting for a turn on the center’s lone desktop computer. They avoid the gravelly soccer field because it reminds them of one they looked out on at Guantánamo.

With President Bush scheduled to visit Albania on Sunday, the Uighurs and three other former Guantánamo detainees here are also asking whether the United States, having flown them here in shackles, might do anything to help get them the housing, jobs and other support they have been told to expect.

One morning in mid-May, the five Uighurs (pronounced WEE-gurs) got permission to leave the refugee center, rode buses downtown and trooped to the offices of the Albanian prime minister, Sali Berisha. An aide said Mr. Berisha was too busy to see them, but promised to pass along their entreaties.

“We said, if you can’t deliver what you have promised, please ask George W. Bush to find another country for us,” another of the former prisoners, Abu Bakker Qassim, recalled.

Officials of the Albanian Interior Ministry, which is responsible for the refugees, declined to comment on their treatment.

The 22 Uighurs who ended up at Guantánamo were part of a group of about three dozen Uighur men who were staying at a hamlet in the White Mountains of eastern Afghanistan, not far from Tora Bora, when United States forces began bombing the area in October 2001.

Most of the five Uighurs in Tirana said they had left their homes in China’s far-western Xinjiang Province, an area the Uighurs call East Turkestan, to earn more money for their families and escape government harassment. They said they drifted into Afghanistan after travels through other Central Asian countries, and heard that the Uighur hamlet was a place where they could get free food and shelter while trying to figure out where to go next.

The youngest, Ayoub Haji Mamet, who was 18 when he was captured, had a quixotic plan to make his way across Europe and then fly to the United States to attend school.

International human rights groups have long accused the Chinese authorities of oppressing the roughly nine million Uighurs in Xinjiang, where there have been occasional acts of separatist violence. The State Department’s own 2006 human rights report for China describes ethnic discrimination, the suppression of Muslim religious freedom and the persecution of those thought to be separatists, many of whom have been executed.

Pentagon officials have described the Uighur hamlet in Afghanistan as a separatist training camp that was at least loosely aligned with the Taliban. Lawyers for the men dispute that characterization. But in interviews, the Uighurs in Albania described a tiny, primitive outpost run by secretive members of some sort of Uighur liberation group.

The men who arrived there were given chores to do and beans to eat. Most of them were assigned aliases and shown how to fire an old AK-47 assault rifle, the only weapon they saw. One American intelligence official said that some of the Uighurs still at Guantánamo received more extensive training. The leader of the hamlet, a man called Abdul Musin, told visitors that they could stay on if they wanted to “liberate” other Uighurs, the men said, but that they were also free to go.

“We do not know if he belonged to any group,” said Mr. Qassim, 38, the oldest of the five detainees. “We were not allowed to ask any questions.”

In mid-October of 2001, American planes bombed the Uighur hamlet, killing at least one man and sending the rest fleeing over the mountains into Pakistan. Villagers there sheltered and fed the Uighurs but then betrayed them to local security forces, which turned them over to the United States military.

By June 2002, nearly all the Uighurs had been sent from military detention centers in Afghanistan to Guantánamo. They described their imprisonment as bewildering and traumatic, punctuated by moments of the absurd. After they were cleared for release, they were able to watch cartoons and Harry Potter movies, until Mr. Mamet smashed the television because of what he said was the guards’ refusal to take him to a doctor. The set was replaced with one made in China, the men said dismissively; it broke after a week.

Several of the Uighurs said their most traumatic experience at Guantánamo was their interrogation by a team of Chinese security officials in September 2002. The Chinese “had all of our files from the Americans,” Mr. Qassim said, threatened them repeatedly and insisted that the prisoners return with them to China. They refused.

But American intelligence personnel at Guantánamo soon began to doubt that most of the Uighurs represented a real terrorist threat, officials who served there said. By late 2003, senior national security officials in Washington cleared most of the Uighurs for release — 14, by one official’s count.

Some officials at the Pentagon advocated sending the Uighurs back to China, and the State Department eventually sought and received assurances from the Chinese that they would treat the men humanely. But senior officials finally decided not to repatriate them, citing China’s past treatment of the Uighur minority.

The State Department began approaching both Muslim countries like Turkey and those with small Uighur communities, like Germany and Sweden. However, the search was interrupted in September 2004, when the Pentagon set up panels at Guantánamo to decide whether the prisoners there, including the 22 Uighurs, were being rightfully held. Although most of the Uighurs had already been cleared for release, the review panels found that all but six were in fact enemy combatants.

The boards were told to review the Uighur cases again, officials said. This time, they found that only five could be freed. (Subsequent annual reviews have cleared 15 of the 17 remaining detainees.)

The State Department then began casting its net more widely. One prospect was the west African republic of Gabon, which has a small Muslim minority. Gabon’s long-ruling president, Omar Bongo, said he was open to accepting the Uighurs. But according to two officials, he wanted not only compensation for resettling the refugees, but support for international loans to his government and a meeting with President Bush at the White House. He had already had one such meeting just months earlier, on May 26, 2004.

American diplomats said they had contacted governments from Angola to Switzerland to Australia. Increasingly, though, they have seen the shadows of their Chinese counterparts.

“The Chinese keep coming in behind us and scaring different countries with whom they have financial or trade relationships,” said one administration official, who insisted on anonymity in discussing diplomatic issues.

A spokeswoman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington said her government would not discuss its specific diplomatic efforts regarding the Uighurs. But in a statement, the embassy described the Uighurs at Guantánamo as “suspects of the ‘East Turkestan’ terrorist forces which constitute part of international terrorist forces,” and it said they should face justice in China.

Beijing’s ambassador to Albania has met at least three times with Mr. Berisha, the prime minister, to demand the Uighurs’ repatriation, Albanian officials said. Albania has since told Washington it cannot accept any more of the Uighur detainees.

“But we helped as much as we could,” the Albanian foreign minister, Lulzim Basha, said in an interview.

American officials said China has also been active in Germany, which has heard appeals about the Uighurs from high-level White House and State Department officials, as well as international human rights groups.

“One of the problems we’ve encountered is that they say, why doesn’t the U.S. take some of these people?” said Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, who has lobbied European governments to accept some of the Uighurs and other Guantánamo detainees.

American officials said they considered that idea. But two officials said it was shot down in 2005 by the Department of Homeland Security, which argued that the men would be barred from entering the United States under the Immigration and Nationality Act because they had been linked to a terrorist group or received “military-type training” from a group that engaged in terrorism.

Although American officials said they had compensated the Albanian government generously for taking the refugee, American diplomats in Tirana have paid little attention to the fate of the five Uighurs and the three other former Guantánamo detainees here, an Egyptian, an Algerian and an Uzbek.

“We’ve never talked to them,” said an American official who insisted on anonymity because she was not authorized to discuss the matter. “We don’t monitor them. They’re not our citizens, and there is no reason for us to.” The official attributed the shortcomings of the Albanian resettlement effort to “routine bureaucratic problems.”

The Tirana representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which has helped to organize and finance the refugee program in Albania, sounded more frustrated with the slow pace of resettlement.

“The government of Albania agreed to provide asylum to these people,” the official, Hossein Kheradmand, said. “We are not talking about 5,000 or 6,000 people; we are talking about eight people.”

The detainees have tried to fend for themselves. Mr. Mamet, the only one of the Uighurs who is single, found a young Albanian Muslim woman to marry but the arrangement collapsed when he could not move out of the refugee center. The others seem torn between longing for their families, who may never be able to leave China, and hope that they might someday start over.

After what they said had been endless promises of help from Albanian officials, they asked late last year to be moved to another country. They were told that because they were in a “safe” country, the United Nations could not relocate them. And anyway, no other country would have them. Lately, they have considered a hunger strike, a protest method they sometimes used in Cuba.

“After four and a half years, we thought we had escaped from Guantánamo, but we are still living under that shadow,” Mr. Qassim said. “Sometimes we think it would be better to go die in our homeland than to stay here.”
294 2007-06-10 To the Editor:      Re ''So, Do I Make the Cut?,'' April 29: Neither as renter nor homeowner have I ever come across a dog who: plays his music too loud; blocks my driveway; steals my parking space; lets his trash blow into the street; or leaves t...
295 2007-06-10 To the Editor:     Re ''Concert Hall? How About Music Museum?'' [June 3]:     In his stimulating essay Lawrence Kramer asks why classical music still matters. I would be more specific: Why does going to a classical music concert still matter, sinc...
296 2007-06-10 Beach season at the Jersey Shore got off to an ominous start when the water from Deal south to Bradley Beach was closed to swimmers Tuesday after thousands of gallons of partly treated sewage escaped from a broken pipe at an Asbury Park waste trea...
297 2007-06-10 To the Editor:     I read with great enjoyment the article by Roxana Robinson about world literature and cab drivers (''The Novelist and the Curious Cabbie,'' New York Observed, June 3). The combination of New York City cab drivers and a discussio...
298 2007-06-10 Those of us who speak plain English don't agonize over the meaning of words like benchmark, timetable, guidepost, yardstick, deadline, road map, regarding the Iraq War (On Language, William Safire, May 27)....
299 2007-06-10 To the Editor:     Re ''Still Needing, Still Feeding the Muse at 64'' by Allan Kozinn [June 3]:     So the ''cute Beatle'' might seem even more frivolous in middle age. As a teenager I may have wept and screamed for Paul McCartney's music and his ...
300 2007-06-11 My final days in St. Louis have been filled with excitement, anticipation, and trepidation. How does this "win-a-trip" really work, and what would it be like to work with Nick Kristof? What should we expect, and what unexpected challenges will we ...
301 2007-06-11 A few days ago, for the first time in our history as a species, the human population of the planet Earth became predominantly urban, not rural. Some bold researchers pinned down this epochal moment of passage to May 23, 2007. The date was of cours...
302 2007-06-11 This is one tune that Warner Music cannot get out of its head. Warner Music said Monday that it "continues actively to consider an offer for EMI Group." The statement, which confirmed a report earlier in the day, indicates that New York-based Warn...
303 2007-06-11 The Carlyle Group said Monday that it had created a new group that will invest in the financial services sector, including banking and insurance. The private equity giant said that Edward "Ned" Kelly, the former chief executive of Mercantile Banks...
304 2007-06-11 Will a slimmed-down H&R Block look more appealing to private equity? That is what an analyst at UBS Investment Bank was suggesting Monday. The analyst, Kelly A. Flynn, raised her rating on the tax-preparation company to "buy" from "neutral," citin...
305 2007-06-11 Affiliated Computer Services, the technology services provider, said on Sunday that it had opened up the bidding for the company, ending its exclusive bargaining with Cerberus Capital Management and its founder and chairman. In a news reelase, the...
306 2007-06-11 General Electric's NBC unit and Microsoft explored making a joint bid for Dow Jones but decided against it about a week ago, according to news reports Monday. A bid by the two heavyweights, who were partners in forming the MSNBC cable television n...
307 2007-06-11 Ford Motor has hired Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and HSBC to sell Jaguar and Land Rover, its two British luxury brands, The Financial Times reported Monday. The planned sale does not include Volvo, Ford's third premium brand, and is said to be i...
308 2007-06-11 Amp'd Mobile's filing for protection from bankruptcy on June 1 may have one unexpected side effect: a delay in the introduction of sex-oriented programming on cellphones. No mobile carrier, including Amp'd Mobile, a niche carrier that markets itse...
309 2007-06-11 While Goldman Sachs is the most imitated, envied and at times griped-about investment bank around, its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, is still intent on proving himself and his firm to the world, writes The New York Times' Jenny Anderson, wh...
310 2007-06-11 Nearly a decade after the government began its landmark effort to break up Microsoft, the Bush administration has sharply changed course by repeatedly defending the company both in the United States and abroad against accusations of anticompetitiv...
311 2007-06-11 General Electric’s NBC unit and Microsoft explored making a joint bid for Dow Jones but decided against it a week ago, a person close to NBC and Microsoft said yesterday.

No rival has yet stepped up to compete with Rupert Murdoch’s $5 billion bid for Dow Jones, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal.

Microsoft and NBC were partners in forming the MSNBC cable television network.

Representatives from NBC and Microsoft talked to advisers to the Bancroft family, which controls Dow Jones. But after the preliminary discussions and a more detailed analysis by NBC and Microsoft executives, they decided against going further. “Mainly, the economics just didn’t make sense,” said the person, who had not been authorized to speak for the companies.

NBC initiated the overture after the Bancroft family announced on May 31 that it would meet with Mr. Murdoch and opened the door to counteroffers to the bid from Mr. Murdoch’s News Corporation.

NBC decided to explore a bid after being contacted by investment bankers on behalf the Bancroft family. Both the Bancrofts and Dow Jones have hired investment bankers that have been pursuing potential bidders since the News Corporation offer to buy Dow Jones for $60 a share was disclosed in early May. NBC then contacted Microsoft about the possibility of a joint move.

But following a brief review, Microsoft rejected the idea of taking further steps, and NBC agreed, the person said.

For NBC, the News Corporation bid, if successful, raises competitive concerns. Its CNBC is the leading financial news channel on television, generating solid profits for NBC. Mr. Murdoch has said that one of the reasons he is willing to pay a premium price for Dow Jones is that he plans to start his own financial news channel and to tap the news gathering resources and staff of The Wall Street Journal. He hopes to challenge CNBC in financial news, just as his Fox News Channel has proved a formidable rival to CNN and MSNBC.
312 2007-06-11 HANOI, Vietnam, June 10 (AP) — Vietnam has released a prominent government critic convicted of spying against the Communist government, two weeks before Vietnam’s president makes a historic visit to the United States, an official said Sunday.

Nguyen Vu Binh, 39, was released from Nam Ha prison on Saturday under a presidential amnesty, said Pham Hong Canh, deputy director of the prison in Ha Nam Province, 40 miles south of Hanoi.

Mr. Binh, a former journalist, was one of Vietnam’s first “cyber dissidents,” who used the Internet to spread pro-democracy views. In late 2003, he was convicted of spying and sentenced to seven years in prison and three years of house arrest. The court said he had committed espionage by gathering antigovernment information and documents for overseas “reactionary organizations.”

Washington has grown increasingly concerned about the arrest and jailing of a number of dissidents in Vietnam. Last month, President Bush met at the White House with four Vietnamese-American pro-democracy activists, including one who had been held in a Vietnamese prison. A spokesman for the National Security Council, Gordon D. Johndroe, said Vietnam’s crackdown on expression was “out of keeping with Vietnam’s desire to prosper, modernize and take a more prominent role in world affairs.”

President Nguyen Minh Triet is scheduled to make a visit on June 22 to the United States, the first by a Vietnamese president.
313 2007-06-11 WASHINGTON, June 10 (AP) — Former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said on Sunday that Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential candidate, had sought him out for advice on foreign policy matters.

Mr. Powell said he had met twice with Mr. Obama. “I’ve been around this town a long time and I know everybody who is running for office,” Mr. Powell said in an interview on “Meet the Press” on NBC. “And I make myself available to talk about foreign policy matters and military matters with whoever wishes to chat with me.”

Mr. Powell served in the administrations of two Republican presidents, but he said Sunday that it was too early in the 2008 race to say whether he would back the Republican nominee.

Mr. Powell said he did not want to serve in elected office but was less certain about a return to some government post.

“I would not rule it out,” he said. “I am not at all interested in political life, if you mean elected political life. That is unchanged. But I always keep my eyes open and my ears open to requests for service.”

Mr. Powell also said he believed the United States’ military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, had become “a major problem” in the way America was perceived around the world. “If it was up to me, I would close Guantánamo — not tomorrow but this afternoon,” Mr. Powell said.
314 2007-06-11 Beginning in 2012, the college has agreed to give up the use of three of its athletic fields, including the varsity softball field, so the U.S.G.A. will have time to erect the platforms, roads, colossal tents and utility services for the cynosure of the event to many visitors: the five-acre corporate tent village.

The college will receive an undisclosed moderate fee from the U.S.G.A. for its cooperation, as well as some passes, a hospitality tent and a promise to restore the fields to their original condition. Still, that left the softball team without a field for one season.

No worries. The U.S.G.A. found a simple municipal field a short walk from the campus and agreed to pay for its renovation to meet the standards of Haverford’s flourishing softball program.

“You learn quickly that the U.S.G.A. doesn’t mess around; they are a well-oiled machine,” said Ron Tola, Haverford College’s director of facilities management. “I was awe-struck by the advance planning. Then again, when you go to an Open, and you walk into one of those giant buildings that they call corporate tents, you realize what you’re dealing with.

“There’s black walnut furniture in those tents and every other amenity. My wife would say, ‘Give me this for my living room, and I’ll be happy.’ They call it a corporate village; it’s really a city.”

The core U.S.G.A. advance staff will usually visit a potential host site seven to eight years before play is to begin. At Merion in the past year, the U.S.G.A. has met with local public transportation officials to review how the nearby rail lines could deliver many of the 25,000 spectators expected daily.

Officials have begun devising a strategy for parking about 15,000 cars in outlying areas. (The Villanova University campus several miles away is one option.)

The U.S.G.A. has met with Haverford township officials and begun to rally a force of more than 5,000 volunteers. And it has asked about 20 families living in homes abutting the course to allow corporate tents to sprout in their yards. The homeowners could be paid enough to cover their mortgages for two or three months.

The Open is primarily about identifying a national champion, but it is also a perfect merger of powerful entities: golf culture and corporate America.

Because of that, and other reasons like golf’s popularity in the Tiger Woods era, the Open has become a cash machine for the U.S.G.A. The association does not reveal its finances, but recent federal tax records show it reported about $40 million in annual profits from its 16 championships. (The U.S.G.A. also puts on men’s, women’s and junior amateur championships as well as the United States Women’s Open.) The bulk of that profit, perhaps as much as 75 percent, comes from the United States Open.

A 2004 article in Golf Digest estimated that the 55 to 70 corporate tents at a typical Open rented for about $150,000 each. The massive merchandise tent, as big as a football field, brought in $7 million in revenue, according to the magazine. Television kicked in as much as another $20 million and ticket sales another $10.5 million. Those numbers have remained steady.

Mike Butz, the deputy executive director of the U.S.G.A., did not discuss the financial details of the Open but acknowledged that the revenue had to be high to cover the expenses.

“I think the only other sports event that compares in terms of advance planning is the Olympics,” Butz said.

“The Olympics is obviously bigger, but each of their venues is like putting on a U.S. Open. And probably like a successful Olympics, it only works if the community hosting things buys into it completely.”

In the late 1990s, the U.S.G.A. told Merion it would probably not be the site of another Open. The modern version of the event, some said, had grown too big for the old, traditional courses like Merion, which held its last Open in 1981.

“I think the club and the community around us took that as a challenge,” said Rick Ill, the president of Merion Golf Club. “We lengthened some holes, and that solved one part of things, but the incredible community collaboration is truly what made this happen. It couldn’t have happened, for sure, without Haverford College giving up its three fields.”

Greg Kannerstein, the dean of the college, remembers being shocked that the availability of Haverford’s grassy fields could be the deal-breaker.

“I had no idea they needed so much space,” Kannerstein said. “But we all felt kind of badly that Merion wouldn’t be part of the Open rotation, and we knew we wanted to help.”

Haverford’s incoming president, Dr. Stephen Emerson, had one complaint about the arrangement.

“I do wish they had included golf lessons targeted specifically for the college president,” Emerson said. “Then again, had they seen what a project they would be taking on, the whole thing might have fallen through. Maybe it’s best to leave things in the hands of the professionals.”

A U.S.G.A. task force will descend on the campus and community in about five years, even living in campus housing while working. The temporary city will rise in the fields like a mirage. Then, after a boisterous week, it will begin to disappear.

Somewhere, the 2020 United States Open will have taken seed.
315 2007-06-11 With good health and a lot of luck, this threesome of 3-year-olds may meet in August races like the Haskell Invitational at Monmouth Park or the Travers Stakes at Saratoga, or perhaps in October in the $5 million Breeders’ Cup Classic.

The team behind Rags to Riches is game to have its star filly take on the boys again. Her owners, Michael Tabor and Derrick Smith, are from Britain and they race in Europe, where battles between the sexes are more common.

“I would say it’s more than possible,” Tabor said. “Obviously, there are some filly races like the Alabama that I suppose we would like to win. Hopefully, we’ll take on the boys whenever we think it’s appropriate.”

Even though Rags to Riches is 5 for 6 in her career and has earned more than $1.2 million, Pletcher said he would handle her carefully in the hope of nurturing a long career. He said her next start would probably be the Grade I Coaching Club American Oaks for 3-year-old fillies at Belmont Park on July 21.

Then he would decide between competing against 3-year-old fillies in the Grade I Alabama Stakes on Aug. 18 at Saratoga, or against 3-year-old colts in the Haskell Invitational on Aug. 5 at Monmouth Park or the Travers Stakes on Aug. 25 at Saratoga.

“The filly is going to make those decisions,” Pletcher said. “My job is to read how the filly is doing and when she’s ready to run.”

Street Sense’s trainer, Carl Nafzger, and his owner, Jim Tafel, decided to skip the Belmont in favor of the Grade II Jim Dandy Stakes on July 29 at Saratoga and then the Travers. Street Sense was the 2-year-old male champion and his stallion rights have already been purchased by Darley America, the United States arm of the breeding operation of Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai.

Nafzger and Tafel intend to campaign the colt for the rest of the year with the ultimate goal of capturing the Breeders’ Cup Classic on Oct. 26 at Monmouth.

Curlin and Hard Spun were the only two colts to contest all three legs of the Triple Crown, and they did so determinedly. Hard Spun was second in the Derby, third in the Preakness and fourth at the Belmont.

“He ate well last night and his legs are good and cold,” his trainer, Larry Jones, said yesterday. “We’re not going to plan on anything right away. We’ll let him recharge his batteries. He won’t run again until August.”

The strapping Curlin has also earned the vacation that his trainer, Steve Asmussen, promised to give him. Curlin’s loss by a head to Rags to Riches was only his second defeat in a brilliant, brief and perhaps brutal campaign. The colt has run six times since February.

Curlin might have been an inexperienced racehorse in the Derby when he overcame a terrible start to finish third, but he became more seasoned with each Triple Crown race. Curlin and Hard Spun have the same races on their dance card as Rags to Riches and Street Sense. “Curlin is definitely a throwback,” Asmussen said. “The races that he’s run since March with the pressure that has been on him. I can’t say enough about him. The one thing we’ve learned with Curlin is that he’s a competitor. He’s got a lot of fight in him.”

Horse enthusiasts can not only be grateful for the past five weeks of Triple Crown races, but also can keep their fingers crossed that these talented 3-year-olds stay healthy and renew their rivalries in the summer and the fall.
316 2007-06-11 NEW DELHI, June 10 — An international panel appointed by the government of Sri Lanka has issued a stark indictment of a presidential commission impaneled to investigate serious human rights violations, saying that its activities so far “do not satisfy international norms and standards.”

The appointment last fall of the panel, the International Independent Group of Eminent Persons, was widely seen as an effort by President Mahinda Rajapakse to stave off moves to deploy international human rights monitors to his country.

As Sri Lanka has descended into full-fledged civil war over the past year, there has been a spate of mysterious abductions, extrajudicial killings and other human rights abuses. Security forces and their allied paramilitary groups have been blamed for some of the abuses.

The 11-member international panel has a limited mandate: to “observe” the workings of a commission of inquiry, which the president’s office appointed last fall.

The commission is to carry out independent investigations into 16 high-profile cases in which there have been accusations of human rights abuse, starting with the killings last August of 17 employees of a Paris-based aid group, Action Against Hunger, in the eastern town of Mutur. The killings are also under investigation in a criminal court in the eastern part of the country.
317 2007-06-11 “Who dumped this catfish in my lap?” was the president’s irate complaint when he learned recently that the government’s environmental agency had refused to license the dam projects, according to Brazilian news reports.

But the proposal is far from dead, and continues to have Mr. da Silva’s support. Additional environmental impact studies are under way, but the dispute now raging in Rondônia appears to have more to do with politics and economics than science and nature.

“My impression is that some environmental groups see the authorization of construction as opening the door to unrestricted entry to the Amazon,” said Antônio Alves da Silva Marrocos, a leader of the Pro-Dam Committee, financed by business groups and the state government.

“But if they are able to block this,” he added, “then every other Amazon hydroelectric energy project is doomed as well.”

Many of the arguments for and against the two dams to be built, Jirau and Santo Antônio, reprise those from previous debates in Brazil and elsewhere. Proponents talk of the thousands of jobs to be created if the dams are built and predict power blackouts if they are not. Opponents warn of damage to the rain forest and say cheaper, more efficient alternatives are available.

But the correlation of political forces is now much different than it had once been. Though Brazil’s environmental movement had a big hand in founding the left-wing Workers’ Party in 1980, it has steadily lost influence under Mr. da Silva, who took power in 2003. He has since courted the business establishment.

As environmentalists see it, the dams, one of which is to be barely 20 miles from Brazil’s border with Bolivia, will not only add to the strains on the Amazon, but also generate tensions within the country and between Brazil and its neighbors.

“Yes, we need electricity, but not in this form,” said Artur de Souza Moret, director of the sustainable energy institute at the Federal University here. “And there are still a lot of unanswered questions as to the impact that this project could bring.”

The energy generated by the dams is to be transported more than 1,000 miles south to Brazil’s industrial heartland, with little or no immediate benefit for this state of 1.5 million people, whose own growing demand for energy is supposed to be met by a new gas pipeline to the north.

“The biggest problem is the studies showing that this project will bring 100,000 people to Rondônia, between workers and their families,” said Silvânio de Matias Gomes, regional representative of the Amazon Working Group, a leading environmental organization. “We already have serious deficits in housing, education, health, sanitation and drinking water,” he said, “and those problems will surely be exacerbated by such a migration.”

One immediate consequence of Mr. da Silva’s ire over the denial of the construction license has been a decision to divide the environmental agency — already weakened by lack of financing — in two, supposedly in the name of greater efficiency.

As a result of the change, proponents of the dams are now talking as if the supplementary environmental studies that have been ordered are merely a formality meant to assure the outcome that they and the president want. But government monitors say they will not be intimidated and are determined that this time, in contrast to the past, things will be done in accordance with law.

“In general, environmental studies in Brazil tend to be weak and ineffectual and to omit relevant issues” because of a rush to construction, said Heitor Soares, a lawyer at the federal prosecutor’s office here, which has filed two suits alleging irregularities in the licensing process. “Often, work the federal agency should be doing is farmed out instead to local government entities vulnerable to the pressures of politicians and construction companies.”

Further complicating approval is that by law environmental studies are also supposed to consider potential impacts throughout the river basin. In this case, that would mean bringing both Bolivia and Peru into the discussions, something that supporters of the dam project are loath to do.

Indeed, many Brazilians blame Bolivia and its president, Evo Morales, for much of the energy squeeze their country is beginning to feel, in the form of higher prices for natural gas and uncertainties about future supplies.

Mr. Morales nationalized Bolivia’s large gas reserves last year, some of which were being developed by the Brazilian state energy company Petrobras. More recently, he also took over a pair of refineries and is now quibbling with the Brazilian government over compensation.

“Bolivia has no reason to meddle in this matter,” Ivo Cassol, the state governor here, said of recent complaints by officials and environmental groups there. “They’ve already given us enough problems with Petrobras and with the illegal immigrants they send across the border.”

Sedimentation is another area of heated debate, with dam opponents warning of clogged turbines, and proponents saying that all problems have been solved.

The sources of the Madeira are in the foothills of the Andes, and the river carries vast amounts of soil, which gives its water a distinct brownish tinge and makes the flood plains along its banks among the most fertile in the Amazon region.

Concerns have been raised that dam construction could stir up deposits of mercury in river water. Those are the result of a gold rush in the state in the 1980s and ’90s, in which prospectors ignored the law and used mercury to extract ore.

But thanks to Mr. da Silva’s remarks, it is the catfish that has become the main symbol of the controversy. Scientists and environmentalists say the fish’s complex 2,000-mile migration to the mouth of the Amazon would be disrupted by the dam project, even though sluices are envisioned.

The Madeira basin is believed to have more distinct types of fish than any river in the world, with nearly 500 species already cataloged. In addition, fishing for catfish and other species is one of the main sources of income for the approximately 3,000 river dwellers who would be displaced by construction of the dams.

“This project, like all the others before it, will bring nothing but damage to us river dwellers, so of course we distrust what they are telling us,” said Carlos de Morais Naboa, whose homestead, which his family has owned for 50 years, is less than a mile from Santo Antônio, the first of the proposed dam sites.

“They’re only offering us peanuts for flood-plain land that is incredibly fertile and haven’t said where they plan to send us.”
318 2007-06-11 Jordi Prat, the government official in charge of Catalan railroads, said other routes under the city had been rejected because they involved digging directly beneath dozens of buildings. He added that as the project proceeded, engineers would test for any potential threats to structures above ground.

Joan Escuer, president of the Catalan College of Geologists, said more thorough research was needed to establish the true risk of damage to the church. Digging under Barcelona was complicated, he said, because the subsoil varied from one part of the city to another.

“There is no such thing as zero risk,” he said in a telephone interview. “It is very unlikely the Sagrada Familia will collapse with the construction of the tunnel. But it is not unlikely that it could be damaged or suffer cracking.”

Mr. Bonet rejected the government assurances. “This is a badly designed project,” he said. “They say, ‘We will fix things as we go along.’ You cannot do that. It’s absolute recklessness.”

And once the trains, which will halve the five-hour journey to Madrid from Barcelona, start running, Mr. Bonet warned, the vibrations could shake loose colored tiles embedded in the ceiling or fragments of bright Venetian glass that decorate the sculpted bell towers. Standing on a scaffold 215 feet above the nave, he pointed to the shimmering mosaic pattern set in the ceiling.

“The tiniest crack could prompt stones to fall down, and from 200 feet, with people underneath, that would be dangerous,” he said.

Gaudí began work on La Sagrada Familia, or the Holy Family, in 1883 and only 15 percent of it was complete when he was killed in a streetcar accident in 1926.

It was eventually decided that the master had left sufficient plans to compete the church. But in 1936, during the Spanish Civil War, an anticlerical mob set fire to Gaudí’s workshop, destroying blueprints and breaking hundreds of plaster models. Mr. Bonet’s father helped salvage the models and became one of Gaudí’s successors on the project.

Work finally resumed in 1952, but financing depended largely on donations, and progress has often been slowed by a lack of money. Part of Gaudí’s vision has been humbled by the spread of Barcelona itself. The site is flanked by two subway tunnels (which, being shallow, cause minimal distress, Mr. Bonet says) and plans for a grand esplanade leading to the church were foiled in the 1970s, when apartment houses rose opposite the main entrance.

Hundreds of residents are also campaigning against the tunnel, saying that it will damage their homes. Academics from overseas have joined the protest. “To consciously endanger a World Heritage site is an act of thoughtless vandalism,” J. Mark Schuster, professor of urban cultural policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, wrote to Mr. Bonet. World Heritage sites are cultural and national places designated by Unesco, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.

The government says the project could begin next spring, and despite the potential dangers, Mr. Bonet remains philosophical about La Sagrada Familia’s future.

“Gaudí said that everything is providential,” he said with a shrug. “This is the Expiatory Temple of the Holy Family, and by expiatory we mean that everything is achieved through sacrifice and tribulation.”

As for the church’s completion, the only thing Mr. Bonet is sure of is that he will not be around to see it. Computers have made the work much faster, and Mr. Bonet says technology is changing so rapidly that, for all he knows, helicopters rather than cranes will be used when it comes to building the central 550-foot cross.

The financing has improved, and spending on the church currently runs about $1.35 million a month. “What is the point in worrying about whether it will take another 20, 30 years to finish?” he said as he crossed into the gloom of one of the tight, spiral staircases. “Gaudí never saw it finished. Why should I?”
319 2007-06-11 But, in explaining the corporate kiss-off, Mr. Charness added, “William Morris, from an entertainment point of view, is best able to deliver something for us now.”

For Creative Artists, the loss of Hasbro is hardly a show-stopper. But the embarrassment comes just as it is trying to prove that it can mirror, if not exactly match, the intricacy and reach of the media conglomerates and consumer and technology companies that have come to define the entertainment world.

In recent years, the agency has been quietly shifting its center of balance. It is fighting to protect core movie, television and music businesses that are confronted by changing technology and consolidation among buyers, even while adding new divisions that are meant — if they keep their footing — to ease the company and its clients toward the uncertain future.

Nested since January in a new glass-sheathed Century City tower, Creative Artists has doubled in size in the last five years to about 300 agents and executives, and roughly 700 employees over all. In that time, it not only raided competitors for agents and talent in the movie and television businesses, but began representing athletes and added dozens of marketers and licensing operatives who are supposed to keep pace with the likes of Coca-Cola, Delta, eBay and, until lately, Hasbro.

Whether brokering exclusive entertainment for Delta flights or setting up “lifestyle” tours on the skateboard circuit, the agency’s new businesses mostly involve transactions between talent or mainstream entertainment companies and a widening ring of customers.

To outsiders, the logic of that push has not always been clear. Competitors complain privately of what they often see as a simple urge for dominance. And the expansion has created new pressures within the 32-year-old agency, which is scrambling to keep its growing list of more than 2,000 clients employed and happy as it seeks to master new worlds.

In recent weeks, agency watchers have been intrigued by some belt-tightening at Creative Artists, which ordered agents to refrain from extras like first-class plane tickets. That measure, reported by the Deadline Hollywood blog, was widely viewed as a response to the added cost of the new quarters and the need to pay $1-million-plus salaries to agents snatched from William Morris, Endeavor, International Creative Management or the United Talent Agency.

Yet the agency’s basic challenges are no different from those of major competitors, who have been similarly reaching for the next rung, if not always on so grand a scale. And its success or failure is likely to tell whether talents as varied as Will Ferrell, Tom Cruise, Jerry Bruckheimer, Derek Jeter or Norah Jones — Creative Artists clients all — will maintain their leverage against evolving media giants like the News Corporation and Viacom or make new fortunes from the nonentertainment companies that are looking to Hollywood.

Citing a longstanding policy against public discussion of their affairs, the agency’s executives declined to comment for this article. Richard Lovett, its president, has joined fellow managing partners Kevin Huvane, Rob Light, Bryan Lourd, Rick Nicita and David O’Connor in maintaining official silence about the company’s inner workings since the late 1990s. (A rare public glimpse of ownership came in 2002, when a filing in Mr. Huvane’s divorce showed his stake at the time to be 7.9121 percent.) They were only a bit more talkative last decade, as they weathered a storm of agent and client defections in the wake of their 1995 purchase of Creative Artists from its co-founders: Michael S. Ovitz, Ron Meyer and Bill Haber.

Their adviser in the buyout was the mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer Martin Lipton. He has since helped to engineer a growth strategy meant to give Creative Artists a command over the talent world complete enough that clients, in theory, would find internal support for virtually any interest, while anyone approaching the entertainment business would find dealing with the agency an inevitability.

Mr. Lipton’s counsel to the partners, he said in a recent e-mail exchange, was “to follow their instincts and engage in related areas that benefit from the great expertise that they have perfected in their basic business.”

Creative Artist’s new strategy, which superseded Mr. Ovitz’s earlier and limited foray into advertising, pushed the notion that corporations, talent and new technology would combine to create growth even as the recording industry faltered, television networks fractured and studios clamped down on costs.

Some of the initiative’s successes have been as obvious as the Coke cups in the hands of the “American Idol” judges. In one of its more triumphant gambits, Creative Artists’s marketers helped assemble the hit show for the producer and client Simon Fuller by lining up Coca-Cola, another client, as a backer even before the Fox network became involved.

In other forays, the agency’s marketers joined the music department to organize shopping mall concerts promoting Abercrombie & Fitch’s Hollister brand, and helped Delta reclaim its image as an upscale air carrier by associating it with “Project Runway.” More recently, Creative Artists took on Joost, the Internet entertainment provider, as a client, and connected Mr. Ferrell and his partner Adam McKay with backers from Sequoia Capital, the Silicon Valley venture capital firm, to start FunnyOrDie.com, a comedy site.

Years ago, after rejecting a possible merger with United Talent as being too complex, Creative Artists instead undertook a buildup in the more traditional areas of Hollywood talent, picking off clients including Mr. Ferrell, Kate Winslet, Matthew McConaughey and Jim Carrey. Once smaller than William Morris and International Creative Management, Creative Artists now counts slightly more film and television clients than either, according to lists culled from Baseline StudioSystems, a data service owned by The New York Times Company. (None of the three agencies disclose exact client counts.)

At least some evidence indicates that less grandiose agencies are occasionally better able to find work for some clients. An assessment by TVtracker.com, for instance, found that during the 2006-7 television season, Endeavor had the most clients at work on broadcast and cable shows, with a total of 737, to the bigger agency’s second-ranked 667.

Yet a talent agency’s revenue comes overwhelmingly from its big earners, and Creative Artists has an abundance of those in all of its main businesses, including sports, where a rapid expansion over the last year brought Mr. Jeter from baseball, Peyton Manning from football and the basketball star Allen Iverson, along with about 350 others, into the fold.

Operatives who represent the agency’s huge list are for the most part layered into eight floors of its Gensler-designed headquarters, which is being called “the building with a hole in it,” for the 100-foot space between its bridged wings. (Outlying offices have spread to New York; Nashville; Kansas City, Mo.; St. Louis; London; Beijing; Stockholm; and Calgary, Alberta, and Creative Artists has an ownership stake in Shepardson, Stern & Kaminsky, a New York-based marketing company.)

Interiors veer from the cold pallor of assistants’ rows outside the agents’ quarters to the day camp warmth of a patio where lowly players in red company T-shirts have been known to hand out treats at a midafternoon ice cream social.

And the inner sanctum is a vast, high-gloss and ultracorporate conference room.

Yet the contretemps with Hasbro points to some vulnerabilities that come with being the mightiest talent agency in Hollywood, not the least of them the difficulty of minding what has become a very large store.

According to Mr. Charness of Hasbro, the company initially came to Creative Artists for help in connecting its games and toys with a wide range of promotions. As things fell out, however, it did not always need the agency’s guidance in navigating worlds it had mastered on its own. When striking a deal for a mobile phone game based on the “Transformers” film, for instance, Glu Mobile dealt directly with the toymaker, without relying on Creative Artists’s gaming expertise. “We had a longstanding relationship,” said Jill Braff, Glu Mobile’s general manager of the Americas.

Mr. Bay’s agents at William Morris, meanwhile, detected Hasbro’s hunger for more movies. So they began shaking down clients — the agency term of art is “packaging within” — for ideas that are likely to surface as half a dozen projects for the toy company in the next couple of months.

In short, Hasbro wanted to go Hollywood. And Creative Artists, apparently, had become too busy — or too fancy — to make that happen. “We’re moving to William Morris as an entertainment client,” Mr. Charness said.
320 2007-06-11 Amp’d Mobile’s filing for protection from bankruptcy on June 1 may have one unexpected side effect: a delay in the introduction of sex-oriented programming on cellphones.

No mobile carrier, including Amp’d Mobile, a niche carrier that markets itself as a service for the young and technologically sophisticated, directly offers sexually oriented videos or still nude imagery. Amp’d Mobile let subscribers download pictures of fully clothed pornography stars and models.

But Amp’d Mobile had discussed the possibility of offering racier fare in a meeting with industry analysts in March, according to Neil Strother, an analyst with Jupiter Research.

While Amp’d, based in Aliso Viejo, Calif., declined to comment on the bankruptcy filing, analysts believed that the company would be more cautious in proceeding for fear of alienating subscribers while it worked though its financial difficulties.

Members of CTIA, a wireless industry trade group, agreed not to introduce sex-oriented programming until age-verification technology is in place.

People who are determined to download pornography to their cellphones can do so today, but it must be done from third-party Web sites designed for mobile phones.
321 2007-06-11 With captchas getting easier for computers and more difficult for real people, several Internet companies, including Microsoft and eBay, are working on replacements.

“You can make a captcha absolutely undefeatable by computers, but at some point, you are turning this from a human reading test into an intelligence test and an acuity test,” said Michael Barrett, the chief information security officer at PayPal, a division of eBay. “We are clearly at the point where captchas have hit diminishing returns.”

If that is true, at least captchas had a good run. Though several researchers devised similar tests early in the decade, credit for inventing the technology usually goes to Carnegie Mellon University, which was asked by Yahoo in 2000 to create a method to prevent rogue programs from invading its chat rooms and e-mail service.

University researchers devised a collection of cognitive puzzles that they knew modern computers could not solve. They called their approach the Completely Automated Public Turing Test to Tell Computers and Humans Apart, or captcha for short. The reference was to the computer scientist Alan Turing, who did research into ways to tell man from machine in the 1950s.

Captchas quickly became popular online and soon expanded into new dimensions. When advocates for the visually impaired complained that some people could not read the puzzles, many sites added audio versions, where a computer voice recites a string of letters and numbers, often over noises in the background.

The emergence of the technology started a wave of research into ways to make computers smart enough to crack the puzzles.

Yet some of that activity can be ethically murky. Aleksey Kolupaev, 25, works for an Internet company in Kiev, Ukraine, and in his spare time, with his friend Juriy Ogijenko, he develops and sells software that can thwart captchas by analyzing the images and separating the letters and numbers from the background noise. They charge $100 to $5,000 a project, depending on the complexity of the puzzle.

Mr. Kolupaev said he had worked both for legitimate companies that want to test their own security and for spammers who seek to infiltrate Web sites.

“Nothing is unbreakable, and each system has its own weakness,” he said. “If you create a program that only recognizes one picture from a hundred, it’s not a problem. You just hit the site 100 times, and you break through.”

On his Web site, ocr-research.org.ua, Mr. Kolupaev boasts of cracking the captchas of companies like MySpace and PayPal; the site also ranks the effectiveness of each captcha. He says he believes that his work makes the Internet more secure because companies tend to improve the captchas that he critiques.

Internet companies have responded to these challenges by making their captchas more complex. On YouTube, for example, the letters and numbers in the captcha float on an uneven grid of colors. On the technology news site Slashdot, random squiggly lines slice through the letters and numbers, as if a child had scrawled with a pen on each puzzle.

All these tricks are attempts to disguise the boundaries of the characters, so that software cannot identify the numbers and letters.

But often these measures prove too tough for humans to decipher as well. On Ticketmaster’s site, the characters appear over a grid of diagonal lines that are so thick that they often obscure the puzzle. Jacob Hanson, the chief technology officer of HireVue, an online employment agency in Salt Lake City, estimated that he had failed to solve the Ticketmaster captcha once every four times.

“I can only imagine someone like my mom trying to go through it,” he said.

As a result, the hunt is on for puzzles that are friendlier to humans and more difficult for computers. Many researchers are focusing on expanding the test beyond the constrained realm of 26 letters and 9 digits.

Microsoft researchers have developed an alternative captcha that asks Internet users to view nine images of household pets and then select just the cats or the dogs.

“For software, this is wildly hard,” said John Douceur, a Microsoft researcher. “Computers are tripped up by all the photos at different angles, with variable lighting conditions and backgrounds and the animals in different positions.”

The project, called Asirra (for Animal Species Image Recognition for Restricting Access), uses photographs of animals from Petfinder.com, a site that finds homes for homeless pets and has more than two million images in its database.

Other companies prefer to keep their next-generation captcha research quiet. Mr. Barrett of PayPal will say only that the new breed of captchas might resemble simple image identification puzzles, like asking users to view pictures of a head of lettuce, a tree and a whale — and pick out the vegetable.

“Captchas have gotten as good as they are going to get, and it is likely they are going to be slowly supplanted with a different technology that achieves the same thing,” he said.

He added: “No single defensive technology is forever. If they were, we would all be living in fortified castles with moats.”

Not everyone feels that the traditional captcha is finished. Luis von Ahn, a professor at Carnegie Mellon and a member of the team that invented captchas, recently unveiled an effort to give them new usefulness.

His reCaptcha project (recaptcha.net) seeks to block spam while handling the challenge of digitally scanning old books and making them available in Web search engines.

When character recognition software fails to decipher a word scanned in a book — when the page is yellowed or the letters are smudged, for example — Mr. von Ahn’s project makes it part of a captcha. After the mystery word has been verified by several people, it is fed back into the digital copy of the book.

“I heard that 60 million captchas are solved every day around the world, which first made me quite happy for myself but then quite sad,” he said. “It takes about 10 seconds to solve a captcha, so that means humanity is wasting thousands of hours solving them. I wanted to do something good for humanity in that time.”
322 2007-06-11 These days advertisers fret over DVR owners fast-forwarding through their commercials, but that was far from the case with the release by Apple last week of four iPhone commercials, which viewers pored over with Talmudic intensity.

The product was announced in January, and some teaser ads for it ran during the Academy Awards ceremonies in February. Last week, three new television commercials for the iPhone divulged the product’s release date — June 29 — and showed off a range of features that led Apple fans to seek more details.

While the ad campaign, by TBWA/Chiat/Day, highlighted some functions, the individual commercials are being parsed to determine precisely how the phone will operate. In a typical post, Erica Sadun on the Unofficial Apple Weblog (www.tuaw.com) extrapolated how the device’s e-mail and map search functions might work, based on the mere seconds that each function was shown in the commercials.

At Macenstein.com, a “Dr. Macenstein” wrote on June 3 that for a moment in one of the ads, the iPhone’s screen had 12 icons, each representing a function, where earlier promotional material featured only 11. What was this “mystery” application, he wondered, and then said four days later that the 12-icon shot had been edited out of the same commercial featured on apple.com.

Many bloggers also wrote that fine print initially appearing in ads — which said that iPhone purchasers would be locked into a "minimum new two-year activation plan" with AT&T — was absent from similar ads posted on apple.com, leading, of course, to speculation whether iPhone buyers would have to sign such a contract. An Apple spokesman declined to comment on an AT&T plan or any other aspect of the iPhone or its commercials.
323 2007-06-11 “Well, you can put it any way you want,” the 25-year-old Federer said. “All I know, at the end of the day, is that I’m disappointed today, and I don’t care less about the way I’ve played over the last 10 months or 10 years.

“I wanted to win this match, and I didn’t succeed. So, of course, it’s a bit sad.”

But Nadal, who scowled through nearly every set of the match, showed exactly why the red clay at Roland Garros has recently been his, and his alone. On Sunday, he reveled in it.

After the final point, a forehand Federer hit long, Nadal threw his racket and collapsed onto the ground that has been so good to him. He remained there for a moment, eyes squeezed shut, letting the clay stain his trademark sleeveless shirt and cropped pants.

Later, when he addressed the crowd, the 21-year-old Nadal bit his lip, holding back tears.

“I am very happy,” he said. “But I am really sad for Roger. He is a friend, and I know he is a great champion, whether he wins or loses.”

Nadal is the second man in 93 years to win three consecutive singles titles at the French Open. Bjorn Borg won four in a row from 1978 to 1981.

Nadal did not preen or boast, even though his performance had solidified his place as one of the best clay-court players ever. Instead, he complimented Federer, who has been No. 1 for 175 weeks. For 98 of those, Nadal has been No. 2. When asked if Federer would ever win at Roland Garros, Nadal defended him.

“What Federer has done is something almost nobody has done in history, so what are you going to ask of Federer?” he said. “What he does is exceptional already.”

On the Parisian clay, Federer has had spurts of genius but has not been able to capitalize on them. Last year, he lost to Nadal in the final. In 2005, he lost to Nadal in a semifinal.

On Sunday, Federer pushed Nadal to 10 break points in the first set, only to come up short each time. Nadal, playing some of the best tennis of his career, went on to save 16 of 17 break points in the match.

Nadal’s forehands found the court’s white lines as if they were magnets, as he repeatedly hit winners. He dripped with sweat, but seemed to be gaining energy, while Federer looked exhausted.

Even Federer’s formidable forehands were not working. He had 29 unforced errors on that side. In the second set, he came alive, but that did not last long.

“Roger sometimes plays very, very aggressive, especially with the forehand,” Nadal said. “But anyway, for me, he has the best forehand of the tour, no? But, yes, the truth is he had some mistakes today, more than usual.”

In the end, Federer had 59 unforced errors to Nadal’s 27.

He managed to win one set, though; it was the only set Nadal dropped during the tournament. There is another bright spot. Federer defeated Nadal on clay in Hamburg a week before the French Open. Before that victory, he was 0-5 against Nadal. Now he is 1-6.

But Federer is not giving up. He expects to see Nadal waiting in the final here once again.

“If I would have won today, I would have not many other goals to chase in my career,” Federer said. “Eventually, if I get it, the sweeter it’s going to taste. So hopefully I’ll give myself more opportunities, over and over again. I know I can do it now, that’s for sure.”

Federer remains one of the best players without a victory at Roland Garros. He is in good company. Pete Sampras, Jimmy Connors, John McEnroe, Stefan Edberg and Boris Becker never won a singles title at Roland Garros. Still, it hurts.

Federer received the runner-up’s silver platter, the size and shape of a high school cafeteria tray. His mother, Lynette, had that platter tucked under her left arm while she waited for her son in the players’ lounge.

When Federer arrived looking glum, she hugged him as he walked to the locker room, alone.

“For us Federers,” his father, Robert, said, “it was very difficult to see this. But you cannot win them all.

“It was a game against history, for both of them. Only Rafa was good enough.”

Individual session tickets for the United States Open tennis tournament go on sale at 9 a.m. today. The Open will run from Aug. 27 to Sept. 9. Tickets for the tournament and Arthur Ashe Kids’ Day on Aug. 25 can be purchased at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center box office, at usopen.org, at all Ticketmaster outlets and by calling Ticketmaster at (866) OPENTIX.
324 2007-06-11 MOVING ON -- Daniel Menaker, the executive editor in chief of the Random House Publishing Group who was hired four years ago for his reputation in literary fiction, is leaving the company. [Page C1.]    A QUICK CHANGE -- The outsize robot adventur...
325 2007-06-11 CASALE--Ann Grimshaw, artist, died in Sag Harbor on May 7, 2007 at the age of 78. A remarkable woman who believed in herself and her ability to achieve whatever she reached for. She gave birth to ten children in thirteen years. A gifted and provoc...
326 2007-06-12 Why are institutional investors continuing to pour money into venture capital despite that industry's recent history of abysmal returns? Marc Andreessen, the founder of Netscape and other startups (including Ning, which creates platforms for onlin...
327 2007-06-12 Are games imitating life? As market regulators are knee-deep in insider trading cases, a couple of stock-picking contests have run up against some unfair play. First came CNBC, which recently announced that it was investigating possible cheating i...
328 2007-06-12 Another day, another highly placed equity researcher leaves for buyout-land. Not 24 hours after Morgan Stanley's chief United States investment strategist, Henry McVey, announced he was setting up shop at Fortress Investment Group, the private equ...
329 2007-06-12 Vast migrating herds, rivaling those of the Serengeti plains, have been photographed in Sudan....
330 2007-06-12 Hedge funds and those who do business with them were warned Monday by a Treasury official not to operate "under the false illusion" that systemic risk from their activities was not a "real possibility." It was a friendly warning, couched in sports...
331 2007-06-12 Allianz, Europe's biggest insurer, sold 463 billion won ($497 million) of shares in Hana Financial Group, a South Korean bank, ending a seven-year equity partnership with the company, Bloomberg News reported. Allianz, based in Munich, sold the sha...
332 2007-06-12 Jana Partners, the hedge-fund manager run by Barry Rosenstein, agreed to buy a 30 percent stake in the Shenyang Machine Tool Group. Jana and the Shenyang Group's state-owned controlling shareholder signed an agreement on June 9, Ma Shaoyan, a spok...
333 2007-06-12 When Terry S. Semel, Yahoo's chief executive, faces shareholders at the company's annual meeting on Tuesday, questions over his pay package are expected to be a hot topic for some investors. While the question of Mr. Semel's compensation, which is...
334 2007-06-12 The Dubai Mercantile Exchange's chairman told Reuters that the company is considering an initial public offering as one of its options for growth, but added that it is "still early days." The exchange, which is backed by the New York Mercantile Ex...
335 2007-06-12 “Hamas is seeking a military coup against the Palestinian Authority,” he said.

Hamas made a similar accusation against Fatah. Hamas, which has an Islamist ideology, demanded that security forces loyal to Fatah, the more nationalist and secular movement, abandon their positions in northern and central Gaza.

Fatah’s leaders said Tuesday night that they would suspend participation in the unity government with Hamas, which began in March, until the fighting ends.

That agreement to govern jointly, negotiated under Saudi auspices, put Fatah ministers into a Hamas-led government in an effort to secure renewed international aid and recognition and to stop what was already serious fighting between the two factions.

But the new government has failed to achieve either goal, and it appeared to many in Gaza that the gunmen were not listening to their political leaders. Mr. Abbas is under increasing pressure to abandon the unity government he championed and to try once again to order new elections, which Hamas has said it will oppose by any means.

The head of the Egyptian mediation team, Lt. Col. Burhan Hamad, said neither side responded to his call on Tuesday to hold truce talks. “It seems they don’t want to come,” said Colonel Hamad, who has brokered several brief cease-fires between the two. “We must make them ashamed of themselves. They have killed all hope. They have killed the future.”

He said neither side had the weaponry required to produce “a decisive victory.”

Talal Okal, a Gazan political scientist, described what could be coming. “Tonight, we may find ourselves at the beginning of a civil war,” he said. “If Abbas decides to move his security forces onto the attack, and not to only defend, we’ll find ourselves in a much wider cycle.”

Fatah forces were ordered Tuesday evening to defend their positions and counter “a coup against the president and against the Palestinian Authority and national unity government.”

The streets of Gazan cities were once again empty of pedestrians and cars. People ventured out to buy food, but only to the next building, and parents kept children out of school.

At Shifa Hospital in Gaza, which Hamas gunmen patrolled, bodies of four Hamas fighters lay on the floor of the emergency room, including Muhammad al-Mqeir, 25. His closest friend called him a martyr, even though he was killed by another Palestinian, from Fatah. “They are not Palestinians, they are lost people,” the friend said of Fatah. Doctors said that the emergency room was overloaded and that the hospital was running short of blood.

After warning Fatah, Hamas attacked a Fatah-affiliated security headquarters in Gaza City, and declared northern Gaza “a closed military zone.”

An estimated 200 Hamas fighters surrounded Fatah security headquarters there, firing mortar shells and grenades at the compound, where some 500 security officers were positioned. The headquarters fell to Hamas. Hamas gunmen also exchanged fire with Fatah forces at the southern security headquarters in the southern town of Khan Yunis. There, the two sides fought a gun battle near a hospital. Fifteen children attending a kindergarten in the line of fire were rushed into the hospital, which is financed largely by European donations.

Angering Hamas, Fatah militants abducted and killed the nephew of Abdel Aziz Rantisi, the Hamas leader assassinated by Israel in April 2004.

Hamas gunmen attacked the home of a Fatah security official with mortars and grenades, killing his 14-year-old son and three women inside, security officials said. Other Fatah gunmen stormed the house of a Hamas lawmaker and burned it down.

Fatah forces also attacked the headquarters, in Gaza, of Hamas’s television station, Al Aksa TV, and began to broadcast Fatah songs, but Hamas said later that it had repelled the attack.

In the West Bank, where Fatah is stronger and the Israeli occupation forces keep Hamas fighters underground, Fatah’s Presidential Guards took over the Ramallah offices of Al Aksa TV and confiscated equipment.

Also in the West Bank, Fatah men kidnapped a deputy minister from Hamas, one of the few Hamas cabinet members and legislators not already in Israeli military jails, part of Israel’s effort to keep pressure on Hamas.

Since Monday morning, at least 43 Palestinians have died in the renewed fighting, after more than 50 had died in the previous outburst last month that ended in a brief cease-fire mediated by the Egyptians.

A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, accused Fatah, in alliance with Israel and the United States, of trying to destroy Hamas and overturn the results of elections held in January 2006, in which Hamas won a legislative majority.

“They crossed all the red lines,” Mr. Barhoum said of Fatah after the second straight day that Prime Minister Haniya’s house was fired upon.

Sami Abu Zuhri, another Hamas spokesman, said: “Those we sit with from Fatah have no control on the ground. These groups have relations with the U.S. administration and Israel.” Hamas believes that Mr. Abbas’s aide, Muhammad Dahlan, is controlling the Fatah forces, and Mr. Zuhri said, “It’s an international and regional plan aiming to eliminate Hamas.”

Israeli officials are debating whether Fatah can stand up to Hamas in Gaza. They say they have been asked by Washington in recent weeks to approve another shipment of armored vehicles, weapons and ammunition to the Presidential Guards. But a senior Israeli official said Israel was worried that the weaponry would just be seized by Hamas, as much of the last shipment was.

“Hamas now has two million bullets intended for Fatah,” he said.

Israeli officials are explicit privately about their intention to damage Hamas and its military infrastructure in Gaza and try to give Fatah a boost at the same time. Israel, in retaliation for rocket fire into Israel from Gaza, has been bombing the buildings and facilities of Hamas’s Executive Force, a parallel police force in Gaza, that has not been firing rockets. Israeli officials argue, however, that the Executive Force and the Hamas military wing “share a command headquarters.”

The United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which deals with the 70 percent of Gaza’s 1.5 million people who are refugees or their descendants, said its ability to provide needed aid had been severely hampered by the fighting. Three of its five food distribution centers and seven of its 18 health clinics were forced to close Tuesday, said its Gaza director, John Ging.

“The violence is compounding an already dreadful humanitarian situation,” he said, with 80 percent of the refugee population already dependent on aid.

Mr. Okal, who is now on the board of trustees of the Fatah-affiliated Azhar University in Gaza, said he would oppose Fatah’s pulling out of elected institutions, but added that he was not optimistic about Gaza. “We are heading toward a collapse — of both the political system and society,” he said.
336 2007-06-12 NASA managers said Monday night that they would extend the mission of the space shuttle Atlantis for a spacewalk to repair a problem that could cause heating damage during re-entry.

The announcement came during a briefing for reporters as astronauts James F. Reilly II and John D. Olivas were wrapping up a complex spacewalk of more than six hours.

The two men connected the power lines to a new structural truss and solar arrays on the starboard side of the International Space Station. The shuttle brought the 17.5-ton truss up in its payload bay, and the shuttle pilot, Col. Lee Joseph Archambault of the Air Force, connected the truss to the station using the station’s robot arm before the spacewalkers stepped outside to do their electrical work.

The spacewalk, the first of this mission, was delayed by about an hour because of problems with the gyroscopes that keep the station’s attitude stable on orbit.

Extending the mission to 13 days from 11 is likely to involve adding a fourth spacewalk to reseat an insulating blanket that pulled away from the maneuvering rocket pod cover during ascent. Blankets are used on the top of the shuttle instead of the more heat-resistant tiles that cover the bottom of the craft because the heat during re-entry is much higher on the bottom of the shuttle than on the top.
337 2007-06-12 TRENTON, June 11 — A standoff over a 1-cent sales tax increase led to a government shutdown last year. But on Monday, the Assembly voted 79 to 1 to allow voters to decide whether they wanted all of the proceeds of that increase to go toward property tax relief for local governments.

Last year, when Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr. opposed the 1-cent increase in the state sales tax that Gov. Jon S. Corzine and the State Senate leadership said was needed to close a $4.5 billion budget gap, the government shut down for a week.

The shutdown was resolved only when a battered Mr. Roberts agreed to support the increase. But it was not an unalloyed victory for the governor and his supporters in the Senate, who agreed to dedicate half of the increased sales tax revenue to property tax relief.

“Dedicating the remaining half-cent from last year’s sales tax increase is vital to achieving the long-term sustainability of property taxes,” Mr. Roberts said of this year’s proposal. “Promises of property tax relief should not be an annual rite in Trenton, but a permanent right in the state constitution.”

Governors have no say over proposed constitutional amendments that are put on the ballot. If the Senate approves the measure, which is considered probable, voters will decide in November whether to dedicate all of the proceeds from the sales tax increase to property tax relief. That total is estimated to be $1.5 billion for the 2008-9 fiscal year.
338 2007-06-12 Nearly six years after the attack on the World Trade Center, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has appointed a public relations specialist to coordinate New York City’s response to the mounting health issues of people who were exposed to dust and smoke from the collapsed towers. The new coordinator, Jeffrey Hon, will advise the mayor on 9/11 health issues and oversee the way municipal pension programs respond to requests from employees who were exposed to the toxic dust. Mr. Hon, 53, was a spokesman for the American Red Cross September 11 Recovery Program, which provides financial assistance for mental and physical health care for those most directly affected by the attack. Yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg also named a 15-member panel to review findings on the effects of exposure at ground zero and the adequacy of medical services available to those exposed, The Associated Press reported. The panel includes representatives of Mount Sinai Medical Center and the city Fire Department.
339 2007-06-12 A developmentally disabled man who was born and raised in Los Angeles County and is a United States citizen was illegally deported to Mexico last month by immigration agents screening inmates at a jail, according to a federal lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. The man, Pedro Guzman, 29, of Lancaster, Calif., has now been reported missing in Tijuana, Mexico, family members said. The lawsuit accuses federal authorities of failing to ascertain his citizenship and refusing to help find him in Mexico. Mr. Guzman, who was serving a sentence for misdemeanor trespassing, said in a brief telephone conversation with a family member after he was removed that he told jailers he was born in California, the lawsuit said. Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the federal immigration agency, said it “had no reason to believe that it improperly removed” Mr. Guzman.
340 2007-06-12 An anti-corruption committee of the new army-backed government ordered more than $1.6 billion in assets belonging to the country’s ousted prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, and his wife to be frozen pending a court determination of whether it was obtained illegally. The Assets Examination Committee, set up after Mr. Shinawatra, a billionaire telecommunications tycoon, was deposed in a coup in September while he was abroad, said money in 21 bank accounts and other financial assets belonging to the couple could be seized if they were found to have been gained illegally. “The committee found evidence that Thaksin, during his time as prime minister, committed corruption and illegal acts as well as being unusually rich,” it said in a statement. In July 2006, Forbes magazine put the fortune of Mr. Thaksin and his family at $2.2 billion. Last month, the military-appointed Constitutional Tribunal dissolved his political party and barred him from public office for five years. He has been splitting his time between staying at a residence in London and traveling around Asia.
341 2007-06-12 Belgium’s political parties shifted into horse-trading mode to come up with a new coalition government after voters handed a stinging defeat to Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt. After eight years in power, he gave his resignation to King Albert II, but will stay on as caretaker in the weeks, perhaps months, needed to form a government that can satisfy Belgium’s main linguistic municipalities. The leader of the Flemish Christian Democrats, Yves Leterme, is widely seen as most likely to emerge as the next prime minister after his party came out on top in the Flanders region in Sunday’s legislative elections. But he will have to convince the French-speaking municipalities in the Wallonia region that he really has their interests at heart, after disparaging them for their general failure to master the Dutch language.
342 2007-06-12 Now the state is considering expanding the counseling to all of Chicago and its suburbs to avoid charges of racial discrimination. But that too has been challenged by industry officials as unnecessary meddling that will severely slow real estate transactions.

Illinois’ approach raises questions about how far lawmakers and regulators can go in trying to safeguard consumers from risky and expensive home loans before they are seen as overly intrusive.

So far, discussions in Washington and elsewhere have focused mostly on what should be done to help homeowners in foreclosure and how to rein in aggressive mortgage lenders. Illinois has been largely alone in focusing on trying to make sure borrowers fully understand the debts they are taking on.

Housing counselors, who supported the initial phase of the program, say it saved people like Ms. McKinney from taking on large debts on onerous terms. But they added that many financially pressured borrowers went ahead with loans even after excessive fees and interest rates had been clearly explained to them.

Critics, however, asserted that the counseling was yet another hurdle borrowers had to surmount. Brokers also said that the program was at best a half-measure because it did not cover loans made by federally chartered banks that the state could not regulate.

The plan’s first iteration applied only to borrowers in 10 ZIP codes that had experienced the most significant increases in foreclosures. Borrowers with low credit scores or people who were taking out certain exotic mortgages were required to talk with a federally certified housing group. About 1,200 loans were vetted before the program was suspended.

Now, the state is retooling the program to include all of Cook County, which encompasses Chicago and many of its suburbs. Under the proposal, first-time home buyers and borrowers who are refinancing would be referred to counseling only if they selected certain loans like adjustable-rate mortgages that reset in five years or less, or loans that initially require only interest payments. A state agency is drafting the rules, which must be approved by a committee of lawmakers.

Even as that process plays out, the Illinois General Assembly is considering legislation that would enshrine the new counseling rules in law. In addition, the bill would require mortgage brokers to act in their clients’ best interest and bar state-regulated lenders from making loans without verifying borrowers’ income with tax returns, paycheck stubs or other documents.

The counseling sessions provide a rare and revealing window into lending to people with weak, or subprime, credit. Borrowers in this world are often in a financial bind, and loan brokers and officers who deal in these mortgages typically earn hefty commissions and know much more about the loans than their clients.

A report compiled by an advocacy group, Housing Action Illinois, shows that the majority of borrowers who were about take on adjustable-rate mortgages believed that they had fixed-rate loans. More than two-thirds of the borrowers were spending more than 60 percent of their take-home pay on housing expenses. And 75 percent of the borrowers were refinancing existing debts; the rest were buying a home.

“We really feel like that the counseling was a great benefit to everyone who got it,” said Bob Palmer, policy director for Housing Action. But real estate officials “really got all the momentum in terms of controlling the public debate and very effectively and misleadingly made it an issue about race and ethnicity.”

While the counseling sessions persuaded some like Ms. McKinney to back out, counselors said that other borrowers went ahead with dubious loans, because they felt trapped by credit card balances, medical bills and other debt.

“Some of them realized that even though their monthly mortgage payment was going to increase, they had to do this,” said Alfred Guyton, executive director for the Institute for Consumer Credit Education.

It is unclear how many borrowers who were counseled closed on their mortgages, since the state has not provided an analysis of a database it maintains on the loans. The Greater Southwest Development Corporation, one of the counseling agencies, estimates that up to 60 percent of the people it talked to closed on a loan, based on a survey of public filings. But it does not know how many renegotiated the terms of their loans.

The president of the Illinois Association of Mortgage Brokers, Bill McNamee, said the nonprofit agencies’ analysis could not be trusted because they have an incentive to play up problems — they receive $300 for each counseling session, which is paid for by brokers and lenders. “They are going to want to justify their existence so they can continue to collect their fees,” he said.

Brokers and real estate agents said that home sales fell by more than 45 percent in the neighborhoods where the counseling requirement was introduced, which was much more than the decline in unaffected areas nearby. Brokers assert that a countywide requirement could severely slow the housing market in Chicago.

John West, a mortgage broker, said the government should emphasize first-time home buyer classes and a more rigorous financial education curriculum in public schools. “People want government to safeguard them,” Mr. West said. “But I don’t want to be turning my head and seeing the government saying, ‘We think you should make another decision.’ ”

Jasmika Cook, who oversees vocational programs in the city college system, said that she was unimpressed by a counseling session in November when she was considering buying a house in one of the 10 ZIP codes. (She ultimately bought a house in another area.) She said the counselor merely verified that the terms of the loan a broker entered into a state database matched information on her loan application.

“I don’t see how $300 worth of service was provided,” she said.

Ms. Cook said the state should respond to aggressive lending, noting that a friend’s monthly house payments recently jumped 45 percent when the fixed-rate period on her loan ended. She said that the proposed rules were an improvement because they screened for risky loans, not for troubled borrowers in low-income neighborhoods.

Though many may object to the idea of mandatory counseling, the mortgage industry has found it beneficial in the past.

Until last year, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which buy mortgages, required lenders to send borrowers who were taking out certain affordable housing loans to counseling. A Freddie Mac study from 2001 showed that homeowners who were counseled under its Affordable Gold program were 19 percent less likely to fall behind on payments for three months or more at any time during the life of the loan than borrowers in comparable circumstances who were not counseled.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by Congress, eliminated those requirements because the mortgage companies they bought loans from, the agencies said, were losing customers to lenders that did not require counseling and were generally more lenient.

“We made the determination that it would be better to drop the counseling requirement to encourage customers to get into a better product,” said Thomas A. Lund, executive vice president of Fannie Mae.

Illinois officials have received more than 300 comments on its proposed rules, and lobbyists for industry groups have stepped up their campaigns to sway lawmakers.

Dean Martinez, secretary of the state’s Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, says that the uproar is missing the point and suggests that the term “counseling” may be the problem. He views the sessions as akin to state driving tests. They are there to make sure borrowers fully comprehend what they are doing, not to watch over their every action.

“Mario Andretti has to take a driver’s license test,” Mr. Martinez said, “even though he is one of the best drivers in the world. No one disputes that.”
343 2007-06-12 Since Mr. Semel reorganized the company into three units in December, it has experienced a steady stream of executive departures, some planned but some resulting from disagreements about how the company should be run.

Now two of those three operating units lack a permanent leader. The head of Yahoo’s technology group, Farzad Nazem, left late last month after 11 years with the company. And Yahoo has yet to name an executive to run the audience group, which was created in December and oversees many of the Yahoo’s most important Web offerings.

In addition, 17 executives at the vice president level or higher are known to have left Yahoo since the December shake-up. Some of them left after their responsibilities changed or their jobs were reduced or eliminated. Others, like Mr. Nazem, chose to move on after years at the company. But the defections include executives who were widely praised, ran important businesses within Yahoo and left for places that seemed to offer better opportunities.

Yahoo disputes the notion that it is losing people at an unusual rate, saying that it had named about 80 vice presidents worldwide this year, most of them promoted from inside. But some in Silicon Valley say that plenty of people are still looking to leave.

“It’s a buyer’s market in terms of hiring people out of Yahoo,” said a prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalist who asked to remain anonymous, in part because three of the companies he has backed are talking to different Yahoo vice presidents about possible jobs.

The departed executives include one of Mr. Nazem’s top deputies in engineering, the senior vice president in charge of HotJobs, two executives who ran Yahoo’s music business, the head of the health and food Web sites, the heads of international and European operations and an important search executive.

Jerry Yang, one of Yahoo’s founders, said that many of the departures involved people whose positions had been eliminated during the reorganization or who had planned to leave after a long career at Yahoo. He said the company has had no problem replacing those who have left with seasoned executives from inside and outside Yahoo.

“We are promoting and hiring new executives at a pretty fast pace,” said Mr. Yang, who holds the title of chief Yahoo. “People are joining us because they believe in the upside.”

The company recently named Blake Jorgensen, the co-founder of the investment bank Thomas Weisel Partners, to be its chief financial officer. The move freed Susan Decker, who had held that post, to take over Yahoo’s other operating unit, its advertiser and publisher group, which is largely responsible for the company’s advertising revenue.

The New York Times contacted a dozen executives who have left since December. Those who responded agreed to speak only if they could remain anonymous, citing confidentiality clauses in their separation agreements.

“In general, there is a pretty big morale problem internally,” said an executive who left the company earlier this year. “There are a lot of frustrated people who may not leave tomorrow, but if the right offer came along, they’d jump.”

This executive said that, among other complaints, some managers resented that over the last two years many of the company’s resources were devoted to a major overhaul of its search advertising system, an endeavor known as Project Panama — leaving their own projects starved for resources.

The dissatisfaction among some senior Yahoo managers was thrust into the spotlight last November when an internal memo written by Brad Garlinghouse, a senior vice president who oversees the company’s communications and social networking products, was leaked to The Wall Street Journal. In the memo, dubbed the Peanut Butter Manifesto, Mr. Garlinghouse complained that like peanut butter on toast, the company had spread itself too thin. It also said the company had become too bureaucratic and needed a drastic revamping.

Yahoo’s management has since said that it had long recognized that the company faced some structural problems and had begun planning a reorganization long before Mr. Garlinghouse’s memo came to light.

But some of those who have left recently said the reorganization did little to address Yahoo’s problems.

“The takeaway from a lot of the people was that this new strategy is not a new strategy,” said another recently departed executive.

Mr. Yang disputed that assertion, saying that the reorganization had focused Yahoo on its customers: its users, and the advertisers and publishers that help it generate the bulk of its revenue.

Analysts who follow the company say the executive departures are not surprising given the company’s continuing challenges and the many job opportunities in the Internet sector.

“A little turnover in the management team is probably a good thing,” said Mark Mahaney, an analyst at Citigroup. “It is not like execution has been flawless,” Mr. Mahaney said, noting, for instance, that Panama had been delayed by several months.

Others said Yahoo was simply going through changes that are common at large technology companies.

“All companies go through transitions,” said Jim Brock, a former Yahoo executive who left more than two years ago and is now chief executive of Attributor, a technology start-up. “Some people are charged up about the opportunity, and you have people who cycle in and out.”

But in light of Yahoo’s continuing difficulties and lagging performance Mr. Semel’s handsome compensation has become a focal point of dissatisfaction. Three advisory firms — Institutional Shareholder Services, Glass Lewis and Proxy Governance — have recommended that shareholders withhold votes from three directors on Yahoo’s compensation committee on Tuesday. Such votes are usually symbolic, but they are a way for shareholders to register discontent.

In its report to investors, Institutional Shareholder Services singled out grants of 6.8 million stock options given to Mr. Semel as retention and bonus pay in 2006. It estimated Mr. Semel’s total pay during the year at $107.5 million. The figure is larger than the $39.8 million that Yahoo reported, in part because the company amortizes the value of the options over some years and makes different assumptions about their terms.

“Given the size of these mega-awards they give to Terry Semel, we don’t see a link between pay and performance,” said Patrick McGurn, executive vice president of Institutional Shareholder Services.

For Yahoo shareholders, Mr. Semel’s tenure, which began in 2001, has been a mixed bag. Over the last five years, the company’s shares returned an average of 23.6 percent each year, far outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, according to the I.S.S. report. But in the last three years, its shares have lagged behind the S.& P. 500. And in 2006, the shares fell nearly 35 percent, as the S.& P. rose 13.7 percent.

Mr. Semel has realized gains of about $451 million from options and other pay since he joined Yahoo, according to a report by Equilar, an executive compensation firm.

In a statement, Yahoo said: “Mr. Semel’s compensation for 2006 was almost entirely equity based and is, therefore, closely aligned with the interests of Yahoo’s shareholders.”
344 2007-06-12 Westinghouse, for example, has contracts for four new reactors in China, but has not begun work. It is a subcontractor or supplier at other sites, including six in South Korea, but is not the primary builder, a spokesman, Vaughn Gilbert, said in a telephone interview. Reactors designed by Westinghouse, however, remain the most prevalent in the world — 45 percent of currently operating reactors.

In raising capital and gearing up for new construction, the Russians are betting on an outlook that not everybody shares.

Regardless of what choices are made in America, Japan and Europe, which remain wary of new nuclear power plants, the world is poised for another boom in construction, reminiscent of the 1960s and 1970s, as one nation after another seeks alternatives to the fossil fuels that are a culprit in global warming.

Today, 26 power plants are under construction worldwide, in countries from Argentina to Romania, according to the International Energy Agency. Of these, only two are being built in developed economies — one each in Finland and Japan.

Still, some industry experts project that future demand will come from the developed economies, including the United States.

Steven C. Kerekes, spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Institute, representing owners and operators of nuclear plants in the United States, said he expected that utilities would build 30 reactors in the next 15 to 20 years. The United States now operates 104 nuclear reactors, more than any other country.

The Russians, meanwhile, are in talks with Vietnam, Malaysia, Egypt, Namibia, Morocco, South Africa, Algeria, Brazil, Chile and Argentina, according to Mr. Shmatko.

In a sign of the Russians’ reach into markets others might avoid, last month the Russian company opened negotiations for a research reactor in Myanmar, formerly Burma, a country ruled by a junta.

In Iran, critics say, the Russian company’s work on the Bushehr plant gives the Iranian government a justification to enrich uranium, which the United States says could also be used to make bomb-grade fissile material.

The Russians counter that the reactor itself is harmless if looked at separately from the effort to enrich uranium fuel. They say the site on the Persian Gulf complies with international treaties and does not contribute to nuclear proliferation.

But Atomstroyexport seems eager to rebrand itself as a modern corporation with global reach and interests — not merely as the supplier of nuclear expertise to Iran. Indeed, analysts of nuclear proliferation have not been easy on the company. Many say its narrow business interests have needlessly exposed the United States, Europe, Israel and possibly even Russia, too, to the risk that Iran may one day be able to build a nuclear bomb.

Mr. Shmatko said in the interview in his office that the $1 billion project no longer even appeared profitable to the Russians and his company, because of rising prices for stainless steel and a shortage of skilled labor in the nuclear industry. He suggested that it was a drag rather than a benefit for Russia’s nuclear business.

Yet the Iran contract is only a small part of the company’s global work and its expansive plans in the developing world.

Atomstroyexport hopes to win $5 billion to $10 billion in new business in the coming two years, Mr. Shmatko said.

In doing so, he said the company was shaking off Russia’s dark legacy of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster by convincing foreign governments of engineering advances in Russian designs since then. Mr. Shmatko said his company’s plant in Tianwan, China, is the first in the world to use a “core catcher,” a meltdown-control technology designed to trap the molten slug of uranium in a meltdown and prevent it from burrowing into the earth.

The company, he said, is also introducing a new design for emerging markets. It has a line of minireactors more typical of the power plants for nuclear submarines or ice breakers. They are sized to fit the limited capacity of ramshackle electricity grids in developing countries, he said.

Industrial reactors typically produce around 1,000 megawatts of electricity, enough to power a million American homes. Atomstroyexport says it will market reactors in the 300- to 600-megawatt range.

Indeed, with the potential profits at stake, Western investors, including such heavyweights as Citigroup, are seeking ways to bet on the Russian nuclear power industry.

Russia is pushing a business model that bundles nuclear fuel supplies with power plant construction contracts and that seeks to ensure that spent fuel — a potential ingredient for dirty bombs or fission weapons — is returned to Russia for storage.

“The world has no alternative but to develop nuclear energy,” Mr. Shmatko, a former accountant, said.

For now, investors can buy Atomstroyexport corporate bonds that were issued last month and attracted European and American investment houses. The Russian-registered subsidiary of JPMorgan, for example, bought into the $58 million offering, according to Atomstroyexport. A spokeswoman for JPMorgan said it had held only a “very short-term trading position” in the bond and no longer owned any Atomstroyexport bonds.

Subsidiaries of a related company, Tvel, which makes fuel rods, trade on Russian exchanges. Citigroup owns about 5 percent of the Priargunsk uranium mine that is part of the Tvel group, according to the mine’s Web site.

On May 31, Sergei V. Kiriyenko, a former prime minister and head of the Russian atomic energy agency, said the government planned to consolidate nuclear assets into a state-controlled holding — a sort of Gazprom of nuclear power — to be called Atomenergoprom. That company would incorporate not only Atomstroyexport and Tvel but also uranium mines and companies that make fuel rod assemblies and specialized equipment like gas centrifuges for enriching uranium. Subsidiaries will most likely be open to foreign investment, analysts say.

For Russia, the business of building nuclear power plants complements its business in fossil fuels. In fact, Russia’s business of maintaining Soviet-designed plants in Eastern Europe may get a boost as these countries worry about excess dependency on Russian natural gas from Gazprom and reconsider nuclear energy as an alternative.

Atomstroyexport’s exact ownership, meanwhile, is something of a mystery. Organized as a joint stock company, it is 50.2 percent owned, and clearly controlled, by the Russian government.

The rest of the shares, the company’s Web site says, are owned by “Gazprombank group companies.”

Marina V. Alekseenkova, an industrial analyst with Renaissance Capital in Moscow and an authority on publicly traded companies in the Russian nuclear industry, said that the phrasing shed little light on the private shareholders in the company, believed to be industry and government insiders.

And those already concerned about Russia’s role in the spread of nuclear technology should consider this: the Russian Atomic Energy agency is looking into developing floating reactors built on pontoons. The Russians envision a product that could be towed into ports in the developing world and hooked to the local power grid, for a fee.

“We are, generally speaking, the absolute monopoly here,” Russia’s first deputy prime minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, said of the floating reactors. “Nobody apart from us is able or knows how to build them.”
345 2007-06-12 Moving to harness cleaner forms of energy to meet the city’s growing power demands, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a plan yesterday to outfit municipal buildings with solar panels and to begin buying heating oil containing biofuels.

At the same time, he said, a project that uses turbines beneath the East River to deliver electricity will be significantly expanded.

The announcements were related to an overall package of measures unveiled in April, PlaNYC, intended to help the city cope in an environmentally sound way with the one million new residents expected by 2030. But the East River hydropower project, along with the solar and biofuel plans, shows how the city is already moving in several directions to supplement its aging power plants.

“It’s important that we do everything we can to limit our impact on climate change, and that includes expanding our use of cleaner energy sources,” Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference at the East River’s edge on Roosevelt Island.

In the hydropower project, begun in 2002, six turbines spin with the tides like underwater windmills, producing electricity without dams to power a supermarket and parking garage on Roosevelt Island. Officials at Verdant Power, the Virginia company given permits for the project, plan to expand, according to Mr. Bloomberg, with more than 300 turbines producing enough power for 8,000 homes a year.
346 2007-06-12 In the 1990s, the government privatized its antiquated enrichment plants. USEC closed one, in Piketon, Ohio, and still runs the other, in Paducah, Ky.

But the Paducah plant is a heavy user of costly electricity, which now amounts to more than 70 percent of USEC’s costs. Centrifuges, which are used by almost all other enrichment plants, use only 5 percent of the electricity used by the Paducah plant.

In February, USEC announced that the centrifuges it was developing would cost $2.3 billion, up from a previous estimate of $1.7 billion, and would take an extra year to deploy. The company has already spent about $400 million on the centrifuges and is looking for financing to complete the project, which it is trying to build in Piketon, Ohio.

“Most people expect that $2.3 billion is going to go up,” said Paul R. Clegg, a stock analyst at Natexis Bleichroeder Inc.

The company has been involved in merger talks with several companies in the nuclear business, and the trade press has carried reports of other negotiations. But two people with knowledge of the talks said that they did not appear to be leading anywhere.

In addition to USEC’s Paducah plant and its planned centrifuge project, a European consortium is building a centrifuge plant in Hobbs, N.M., that it calls the National Enrichment Facility, and General Electric is trying to make an Australian enrichment technology called Silex commercially feasible.

Despite the challenges, and the fact that Mr. Welch eliminated the dividend, the stock price is strong. Market analysts say one reason is that the price of virgin uranium is so high that customers are demanding more enrichment work, thus driving up the price of the service that USEC provides. Some investors also see the company as a takeover target, or a likely beneficiary of government help.

USEC would like to acquire uranium from the Energy Department on favorable terms, to help provide funds for its centrifuge project. But the Energy Department appears to want a signal from Congress, and the company faces questions there about its previous performance, and about the wisdom of bailing out its stockholders.

The government still owns the Paducah plant, and could take it over and give it to a contractor to run. Or it could allow USEC to operate in bankruptcy, although that would probably eliminate the company’s ability to build a more modern plant.

The assistant secretary of energy for nuclear energy, Dennis R. Spurgeon, was USEC’s executive vice president and chief operating officer until he left in 2003, receiving a payment of more than $5 million, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Mr. Spurgeon, through a spokesman, declined repeated requests for an interview.

According to people close to the company, Mr. Spurgeon had clashed with the chief executive, William H. Timbers, as had other top officials. Mr. Timbers left the company in December 2004, after disagreements with the board. In February 2006, USEC agreed to pay him $14.5 million, according to S.E.C. filings.

Some Democrats in Congress are demanding a full explanation of the departures of Mr. Timbers and others before they proceed with a discussion about how to help the company.

USEC has other problems as well. It also takes in enriched uranium from Russia, left over from Russia’s nuclear weapons program, under a program called Megatons to Megawatts. USEC dilutes the material to reactor grade under an agreement in operation since the early 1990s.

Half of the enrichment that the company sells is done under the terms of that agreement, which were locked in years ago, and it provides a substantial profit to USEC. But the agreement ends in 2013, after which the Russian nuclear enterprise, Rosatom, wants to deal directly with the nuclear utilities. Those utilities would like to do the same.

Another potential problem for USEC is that a near-total ban on Russian imports beyond those allowed in the Megatons to Megawatts program may be coming to an end.

The ban dates from a trade case brought by American uranium companies against the Soviet Union. The companies won a ruling that the Soviets were dumping production in this country below cost. As a result, the United States threatened a tariff of more than 100 percent, and reached an agreement that limited the imports allowed under the Megatons to Megawatts program.

But last month, a similar ruling against a French producer was overturned by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The court ruled that enrichment was a service, not a product, and thus not subject to import quotas.

Russian and American officials said that the court decision put pressure on the American side to conclude a deal more favorable to the Russians.

Russia has vast inventories of enriched uranium and a huge ability to enrich more, according to trade experts. The prospect alarms some on Capitol Hill, who believe that the United States must maintain the ability to enrich uranium.

The prospect is that without USEC, the United States will rely on others not only for the uranium ore, but also for most of the work needed to convert it into fuel.

“We import two-thirds of our oil, but 90 percent of our uranium,” said Jack Edlow, a Washington businessman who deals in uranium and who pointed out that the reliance was for both raw ore and for enrichment. “I can’t say ‘energy independence’ with a straight face.”
347 2007-06-12 JACKSON, Miss., June 11 (AP) — Mississippi’s attorney general, Jim Hood, sued State Farm Fire and Casualty on Monday, saying the company failed to honor an agreement for a mass settlement of claims over Hurricane Katrina damage.

In January, Mr. Hood agreed to drop State Farm from a lawsuit that his office filed against several insurance companies for refusing to cover damage to homes from Katrina’s storm surge.

Mr. Hood took that step after State Farm settled with lawyers for homeowners on a $50 million payout to about 35,000 southern Mississippi policyholders who had not sued the company but could have their claims reopened.

But the pact fell apart after a federal judge refused to endorse it. Mr. Hood has said that he did not negotiate the terms of that settlement and that he shared the judge’s concerns about the deal.

The state is seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages against State Farm, based in Bloomington, Ill., accusing it of breach of contract. Mr. Hood’s office filed the suit Monday in Hinds County Circuit Court.

He did not rule out reopening a criminal investigation that he ended in January as part of the agreement. Mr. Hood’s office was investigating allegations that the company had fraudulently denied policyholder claims after Katrina.
348 2007-06-12 The James River Group, a property and casualty insurer, said yesterday that it had agreed to be acquired by the hedge fund D. E. Shaw Group for $575 million in cash.

Shareholders would receive $34.50 a share, a 1.9 percent discount to the Friday closing price. The price is 92 percent above the $18 a share that the company, based in Chapel Hill, N.C., was worth when it went public in August 2005, less than three weeks before Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf coast.

James River runs James River Insurance, a business insurer in Richmond, Va., and Stonewood Insurance, a workers’ compensation insurance provider in Raleigh, N.C. Profit nearly tripled in 2006 to $34.7 million, or $2.17 a share.
349 2007-06-12 He has led a series of demonstrations against the United Nations, and was sent to prison in February after one violent protest in which two people were killed and 82 wounded. Last Thursday, he was released and placed under house arrest while awaiting trial.

The treatment of Mr. Kurti has increased nervousness among Kosovo politicians and international officials here as the status of the province remains up in the air. Under the United Nations plan for independence, Kosovo would be supervised by a European-led mission for three years.

The plan awaits approval by the Security Council, but the Russians may well veto it on behalf of their ally, the Serbs.

Meanwhile, Mr. Kurti continues to get his message across. In order for the province to obtain “true independence,” Kosovo must be allowed to run all of its own affairs, he argued from his apartment, as two policemen stood guard outside.

The real reason for the charges against him, he claims, is his opposition to the United Nations plan, and fears among politicians and United Nations officials that the protests will jeopardize Kosovo’s independence. Several human rights groups and the province’s ombudsman have said that the charges appear to be politically motivated.

Mr. Kurti’s stance has made him deeply unpopular with many of his ethnic group. Most ethnic Albanians, who make up an estimated 90 percent of Kosovo’s population, support the Western plan for Kosovo as their best prospect of gaining independence after eight years of rule by a United Nations administration, and seven decades of Serbian domination before that.

Despite the criticism of the arrest and imprisonment of Mr. Kurti, one political analyst said the sympathies of Albanians generally lay with the United Nations in this case.

“People do not oppose his detention,” said the analyst, Besa Shahini, the director of the Kosovar Stability Initiative, a political research group based in Pristina. “There is a sense of relief that he cannot do anything that would jeopardize the final status process.”

Yet his group, Vetevendosja — which means “self-determination” in Albanian — has caught the imagination of the urban youth of Kosovo, who are fed up with the United Nations’ presence in the region.

The group has led numerous eye-catching protests at the United Nations headquarters in Pristina, in one case leading around a donkey bearing a United Nations sign.

On Feb. 10, violent clashes ensued after Vetevendosja protesters tried to force their way through a police cordon in Pristina. The police responded by firing tear gas canisters and rubber-coated bullets, killing two demonstrators.

The unrest was the most serious in Kosovo since rioting in 2004; Kosovo’s interior minister resigned and the chief of the United Nations police force was asked to step down.

Mr. Kurti was arrested and accused of leading a demonstration “that led to the deaths of persons and injury of 82 others.” He also is accused of preventing United Nations personnel from carrying out their duties and faces a maximum sentence of 10 years.

A report by the United Nations mission blamed a Romanian police unit serving with the United Nations for the deaths and injuries, but concluded there was insufficient evidence to charge the police officers.

At another court hearing on May 7, a United Nations prosecutor argued that Mr. Kurti needed to remain in detention in light of “the danger the defendant represents to the future status of Kosovo,” according to a transcript of the hearing.

That comment upset human rights groups monitoring the treatment of Mr. Kurti. “Regardless of the status of negotiations, the premise of freedom of expression should not be jeopardized,” said Hilmi Jashari, Kosovo’s ombudsman.
350 2007-06-12 IT was 30 minutes before the open microphone part of the show was to begin, and one poet was already nervous.

“I don’t feel like doing it,” he said, tugging at his shirt while eyeing the microphone.

“You don’t have to do anything you don’t want to do,” his mother answered.

Last Friday night, about 50 pupils and their parents were tucked into a corner of a Barnes & Noble store in Park Slope, Brooklyn, for Public School 321’s first open mike night. The students were there to read their original poems as part of a three-day fund-raiser in which the bookstore donated some of its sales to the school.

In a neighborhood known for its concentration of writers and editors, poetry nights like this may be the urban equivalent of the neighborhood car wash.

John Ellrodt, an educational consultant whose children attend P.S. 321, served as the night’s M.C. He briefed students on the protocols of poetry nights, and offered them a backward baseball cap or black beret to wear while they read.
351 2007-06-12 “I felt it was important to address the families and the public,” he said during a break in the hearing.

The vaccine court has gone to unusual lengths to convince parents that it will fairly adjudicate their claims, even setting up a conference call where parents can listen in to the hearings, which are expected to run for three weeks.

At the opening of the hearing, Special Master George Hastings took pains to express his sympathy to the parents of autistic children.

He pointed to Michelle Cedillo and her parents, Theresa and Michael Cedillo, whose claim for compensation is serving as the first test case. Special Master Hastings said the Cedillos were “the most important people in the courtroom.”

“To all such family members, as to the Cedillo family, we special masters pledge to you that we will listen very carefully to the evidence presented at this hearing,” Special Master Hastings said. “We realize what an important task that has been assigned to us in this hearing.”

Michelle Cedillo, 12, was rolled into the courtroom in a wheelchair at the start of the hearing. She wore hearing protection similar to that worn by heavy-machinery operators. She hit herself repeatedly and made loud grunting noises. Her parents soon rolled her out.

Many parents who claim that vaccines gave their children autism are deeply suspicious of what they see as the government’s role in their children’s illness.

Most have dismissed the many government-sponsored studies and panels that found no link between vaccination and autism. A few have even physically threatened some government scientists.

Parents’ lawyers said this case would probably affect only a handful of the other claims. A test hearing for the other claims will be heard next year, said Mike Williams, chairman of a committee of parents’ lawyers.

In Monday’s hearing, lawyers argued that the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine gave Michelle a chronic measles infection that damaged her central nervous system. The lawyers also said that a once-common additive to pediatric vaccines, thimerosal, damaged her immune system, making it impossible for her to fight the infection.

“She had been interacting with her parents, with her cousins,” said Sylvia Chin-Caplan, who represents the Cedillos. “She was babbling. She suddenly became silent.”

The argument represents a patchwork of theories advanced for years, but the more common argument is that thimerosal directly damaged children’s brains.

In hopes of finding more evidence to support their claims, parents’ lawyers have for years delayed the cases based on that argument.

“I think we can win with what we’ve got,” Mr. Williams said. “But I think we’ll get better evidence” by waiting.

Vincent J. Matanoski, an assistant director in the civil division of the Department of Justice, opened with a brief statement in which he dismissed the parents’ cases as “junk science.”

“Unfortunately, after five years, you’ll find a signal lack of support for their contentions,” Mr. Matanoski said.

Thimerosal was almost entirely removed from pediatric vaccines in 2001 after some government scientists expressed concern about the amount of mercury that children who got routine vaccinations would be exposed to. Since then, autism rates in the United States have shown no signs of dropping.
352 2007-06-12 “We’re on the verge of a real radical shift in the way we apply genetics in our society,” said Mark Neff, associate director of the veterinary genetics laboratory at the University of California, Davis. “It’s better to be first confronted with some of these issues when they concern our pets than when they concern us.”

Some Labrador breeders are using DNA tests for coat color to guarantee exotic silver-coated retrievers. Mastiff breeders test for shaggy fur to avoid “fluffies,” the long-haired whelps occasionally born to short-haired parents.

Next up, geneticists say, could be tests for big dogs, small dogs, curly-tailed dogs, dogs with the keenest senses of smell and dogs that cock their heads endearingly when they look at you.

Scientists who recently completed the first map of a dog genome (of a boxer named Tasha) are now soliciting samples from dog owners across the world to uncover the genetic basis for a slew of other traits.

Some discoveries grow out of government-financed research aimed at improving human health. Others are paid for by breed clubs carrying out their mission to better their breeds. By screening their dogs’ DNA for desirable and undesirable traits that might appear in their offspring, breeders can make more informed decisions about which dogs to — or not to — mate.

But because genes are often tied to multiple traits, scientists warn, deliberate selection of certain ones can backfire. The gene responsible for those silver-coated Labradors, for example, is tied to skin problems.

With the genetic curtain lifted, breeders also take on a heavier burden for the consequences of their choices. Whippet breeders who continue to mate fast dogs with one another, for instance, now do so knowing they may have to destroy the unwelcome bullies such pairings often produce.

Moreover, the prospect of races being won by dogs intentionally bred to have a genetic advantage may bring new attention to the way that genes contribute to canine — and human — achievement, even when the genetic deck is not stacked. Inborn abilities once attributed to something rather mystical seem to lose a certain standing when connected to specific genes.

A mutation similar to the one that makes some whippets faster also exists in humans: a sliver of genetic code that regulates muscle development, is missing.

“It would be extremely interesting to do tests on the track finalists at the Olympics,” said Elaine Ostrander, the scientist at the National Institutes of Health who discovered that the fastest whippets had a single defective copy of the myostatin gene, while “bullies” had two.

“But we wouldn’t know what to do with the information,” Ms. Ostrander said. “Are we going to segregate the athletes who have the mutation to run separately?” For the moment, it is whippet owners who find themselves on the edge of that particular bioethical frontier.

It was not exactly news to breeders that speed is an inherited trait: whippets were developed in the late 1800s specifically for racing. But knowing that one of her dogs was sired by a carrier of the gene, said Jen Jensen, a whippet owner in Fair Oaks, Calif., makes its championships seem “less earned.” Ms. Jensen’s suggestion that a DNA test be required for all dogs and that the fastest ones without the mutation be judged and raced separately, however, has not gone over well.

At a recent race here in southern New Jersey, some whippet owners wanted the mutation eliminated altogether, even if that meant fewer fast dogs. But as the dogs pounded after a lure at 35 miles per hour, several owners allowed that they would prefer a whippet with the gene for speed.

“It’s more fun having fast dogs than slow dogs,” said Libby Kirchner, of Glassboro, N.J.

The headaches are enough to make some breeders long for the time when decisions about breeding were dominated by intuition and pedigree charts. Selecting a mate, they say, was meant to involve mystery — in any species.

“It makes it so there’s no creative expression,” said Cheryl Shomo, of Chesapeake, Va. “Now everyone’s just going to do the obvious thing.”

Even so, many veteran breeders welcome the transparency the tests confer. Because while like tends to beget like, it doesn’t always work that way.

Mary-Jo Winters, a poodle breeder, uses a DNA coat-color test to ensure there are no genes for brown fur lurking beneath her black-and-cream-colored dogs.

“I don’t want brown,” said Ms. Winters. “It’s not my thing.”

Judy Pritchard, a Doberman breeder in Toledo, Wash., screens dogs she is considering breeding for a gene responsible for von Willibrand disease, a bleeding disease like hemophilia that also affects humans.

DNA tests, Ms. Pritchard said, “are the greatest tools that have been offered to dog breeders since the beginning of dogs. You need to use them to improve the breed.”

Many breeders hope this new effort to corral nature will weed out the numerous recessive diseases that plague purebred dogs after generations of human-imposed inbreeding. But some question the wisdom of escalating intervention. Mark Derr, an author who has written about the history of dog breeding, urges everyone to reconsider the goal of genetic purity.

“I always use dogs as the example of why we don’t want to be mucking around with our own genome,” Mr. Derr said. “These people are trying to use DNA tests to solve problems of their own making.”

Still, some proponents of using the DNA palette are proposing to go even further. Dr. Neff, the University of California researcher, has proposed screening successive generations of dogs with DNA tests and breeding only those with genes for traits like stamina and scent detection to create a new breed of dogs to patrol subways and airports. , It could be done within a few years, he said, instead of the centuries it took shepherds to breed the sheepdogs that patrol their flocks.

Even those who want to exert more direct control over dog DNA, however, agree that no genetic test can predict the intangible qualities that make a dog great.

If a dog does not have the spirit to run a race, it is not going to win, said Betsy Browder, a whippet owner in College Station, Tex.

“ ‘Keenness’ is what we call it,” she said. “Just like you can have a human athlete who’s really lazy, and all the genes in the world aren’t going to help.”
353 2007-06-12 WASHINGTON, June 11 (AP) — The Army fell short of its recruiting goal for May, its first significant slip in two years, although it remained on track to meet its goal of 80,000 for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.

The active-duty Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force met or surpassed their May targets, although the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard fell far short.

With special incentives for attracting recruits, the Army has managed to recover from a 2005 recruiting slump. But the war in Iraq, where the Army and the Marine Corps have suffered an overwhelming majority of the armed forces’ casualties, and the strong domestic economy have made recruiting difficult.

The pace of recruiting is particularly important now because Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has set a goal of increasing the active-duty Army by 65,000, to 547,000, within five years. The increase is intended to ease some of the strain on the Army from its heavy commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Statistics released Monday showed that the Army signed up 5,101 recruits in May, short of its goal of 5,500.
354 2007-06-12 Re “Listen Up, Everybody: I’m in Menopause” (Thursday Styles, June 7):

Congratulations for highlighting something many of us have now realized for several years. That menopause is not a taboo subject, and women have been expressing openly their thoughts, concerns, fears of certain treatments, and yes, jokes, for quite some time.

But for many women the symptoms are not trivial and can be severely disruptive to their quality of life, and their ability to function well at home, at work and with people. While a humorous comment may deflect the moment, it is not possible to laugh off 10 or more disruptive flashes during the day or disturbing sleep at night.

Unfortunately, menopause is so out in the open now that snake oil salesmen of all stripes have oozed out of the woodwork, and the best message to women today is: Realize that it is a normal transition event in life, and you don’t need to suffer through this transition.

Remember, buyer beware. Get good evidence-based factual advice and treatment from trustworthy sources, and avoid the unproven “menopause cures” sold through health stores and even some health providers.

Wulf H. Utian, M.D.

Mayfield Heights, Ohio, June 7, 2007

The writer is executive director of the North American Menopause Society, a scientific not-for-profit organization.
355 2007-06-12 NOT everyone who starts a business wants to have employees.

If you are thinking of going solo, Josh Hyatt in an article on Money magazine's Web site offers some tips. Among them:

Give yourself a cushion. "Most people need to set aside a year's worth of income before they cut themselves loose. You'll know within eight months whether you're developing a sustainable business." To increase your chances of survival as a soloist, make sure your entire income does not flow from any single project.

Charge enough. "Figure out what you were earning per hour as an employee, and then add in the costs of vacation days, holidays, sick time and benefits. There's administrative overhead, too: if you rent space, say, or need nifty technology. Depending on the industry, you'll want to tack on a profit margin of about 20 percent." Mr. Hyatt says your pay before expenses should be at least double, if not triple, what you made as "a W-2 drone."

You can't bill every hour. Expect to spend 20 percent of your time on administration (writing proposals, sending out bills) and another 20 percent on marketing.

HIRING EMPLOYEE NO. 1 When do you add your first employee? Not quite as early as you might think, says Joanna L. Krotz.

In an article in Microsoft's small business resources center, Ms. Krotz writes: "Don't rush to hire when sales turn strong and cash is flush. All business fluctuates and the cost of adding an employee takes a sharp bite, including compensation, training time and better technology."
356 2007-06-12 Though Sloatsburg does not seem to be a maximum-security prison — there is a garden where the women grow beans, and a bakery where some of them work — most of the characters there seem to have committed horrific crimes.

Darla has dismembered her boyfriend’s wife. Aida stabbed her cousin at school. Jessie is serving 15 years for third-degree murder, aggravated assault, the unauthorized practice of medicine and animal cruelty. (“At the time of her arrest, a dead dachshund was found hanging from the back porch of her mobile home.”) LizAnn kept her newborn son in her closet — he died when an ice skate fell on him. Jo permanently disabled her husband by attacking him with an electric knife. And so on and so on.

Friendships and alliances develop among the women, but they also commit savage acts against one another. One woman throws scalding water on Keesha for passing a new girl a plate of noodles. Darla cuts off the finger of a woman named Ahnjanoo, using a piece of her plastic hand mirror “broken and sharpened for that purpose.”

And Helen is assaulted with a pair of scissors by a woman named Larissa who says she wants “to cut her face so the world would always know she was the Devil incarnate.”

Not surprisingly, most of these women come from nightmarish backgrounds. Like characters in earlier Moore novels, many have been abused — raped or molested or, in one woman’s case, pimped out at the age of 9 by her grandmother.

Helen’s story is especially gruesome: she was raped for years by her stepfather, while her mother punished her for being “a natural-born liar” by making her eat hot jalapeño peppers — so many that her face once broke out in blisters.

As an emotional defense, Helen developed an alter ego named Ellie in whom she could confide, and she also began to hear voices — the voices of God’s messengers, she says, who told her to save her own children by killing them. To pass the time in prison, she measures everything in her cell with a measuring tape, writing down the measurements in a little notebook.

Louise, who has problems with her own son, Ransom — he tells his father that his mother’s lover, Ike, has exposed himself to him — identifies with Helen and takes a special interest in her case. She urges Helen to accept the fact that Ellie is not a real person but a projection of Helen’s own subconscious, and she presides over Helen’s move from protective custody out into the general prison population.

Louise realizes that therapy is full of hazards for Helen: “The tension between her conscious self and the self that she has so long kept hidden is so delicate that I am frightened for her. I always knew how dangerous knowledge would be to her, but must I still hold to the belief that her ignorance is equally dangerous?”

Using the empathy for outsiders that she’s demonstrated in earlier books, Ms. Moore does a powerful job of conveying Helen’s state of mind, at once self-righteous and grief-stricken, fearful and angry and oddly detached.

Louise, however, remains an enigmatic and sketchily drawn character: we’re told that she was abused as a child, and suffered a breakdown when her son was born. But her past, like that of the narrator of “In the Cut,” feels oddly disembodied and vague, and the reader keeps wondering how she ever became a psychiatrist and why she hasn’t gained greater insight into her own neuroses and needs.

Worse, Ms. Moore dwells so insistently on the terrible childhood abuse and neglect her characters have suffered — just as she dwells relentlessly on the violent or deeply dysfunctional trajectory of their lives — that their stories all have a way of bleeding into one another. As a result, all these women, with the notable exception of Helen, tend to blur together, leaving the reader feeling horrified and benumbed rather than genuinely moved.
357 2007-06-12 Carbon monoxide detectors are not hard to find. They are available in many stores, and a growing number of people are using them in their homes.

But if you go looking for one in a hotel room, a new study says, chances are it will not be there.

Writing in The American Journal of Preventive Medicine, researchers said that from 1989 to 2004, they found 68 incidents that affected more than 700 guests, 41 employees and 20 rescue workers. Twenty-seven of the people died.

Even after these episodes, the researchers found, most of the hotels where they took place still did not install the detectors. Federal law requires that hotels install smoke detectors, but it does not require carbon monoxide detectors.

The lead author of the study, Dr. Lindell K. Weaver of the University of Utah School of Medicine, said that “although one’s individual risk is extremely low,” hotel guests should not have to put up with it.

A few states and municipalities have passed laws intended to protect guests from carbon monoxide, the study said. But until hotels begin using detectors consistently, the researchers advised, travelers should consider carrying portable ones.
358 2007-06-12 A test version of the program was available Monday for downloading from Apple’s Web site.

In an interview after his presentation, Mr. Jobs said he had no concerns that the new competition might anger Microsoft or lead to retaliation, such as slowing the development of the version of Office for the Macintosh. “After all, we are developing for Windows,” he said.

Like many of Apple’s strategic moves, the implication of an Apple browser for Windows was not immediately clear. It is likely that Mr. Jobs is now plotting a broader business strategy that will allow Apple to grow beyond its niche position in the computer market of about a 5 percent share.

“Who knows? Maybe we can grow our Safari share in the future,” Mr. Jobs said. “We’re going to try.”

Apple’s move is significant, industry executives said, because it indicates that despite the end of the browser wars of the late 1990s, Microsoft’s continued ability to retain more than 80 percent market share is a continuing threat to its competitors. Mr. Jobs said that Safari’s market share was currently about 5 percent and the share of Firefox, the open source browser, was about 15 percent. There has been a persistent fear that Microsoft would be able to create new standards that would force computer users to adopt its software to reach certain Web sites and Internet services.

The broader appeal of the browser might have implications for Apple’s iPhone. In his presentation, Mr. Jobs said that the company was encouraging Apple software developers to use modern Internet software standards to make applications compatible with Apple’s iPhone, which will go on sale June 29. The announcement is likely to touch off a frenzy of activity because Mr. Jobs said that applications that are written to Internet standards like AJAX and designed to work with Web browsers would work from the first day the iPhone is available.

“It will create a much more significant consumer platform for the iPhone,” said Mike McGuire, a research analyst at Gartner, an industry research firm in San Jose, Calif.

By moving software development away from personal computers and cellular phones and toward the Internet, Apple is attempting to persuade its developers that they can achieve new economies of scale while permitting the computer and consumer electronics firm to build more secure devices and computers.

“There is something very clever going on here with Apple releasing Safari for Windows,” said Scott Love, president of Aquaminds Software, a Macintosh developer based in Palo Alto, Calif. “Don’t ever underestimate S. J.’s motives.” Some developers said they were disappointed that Apple would continue to restrict software development for the iPhone. However, a number of them said that they were intrigued by the company’s new Windows-oriented Web browser strategy.

Much of the rest of the presentation focused on showing 10 new features of the company’s Leopard version of the OS X operating system. Mr. Jobs had shown many of the features, such as a new backup system called Time Machine and a new more powerful version of the Apple instant messaging system called iChat. On Monday, Mr. Jobs showed several refinements to the company’s operating system appearance and graphical user interface.

At previous events announcing the Leopard version of Apple’s Mac OS X operating system, Mr. Jobs has hinted at important new features. However, Monday’s event indicated that Leopard, which was originally supposed to be commercially available by now and then was delayed until October when the company shifted resources toward its iPhone, had no major surprises.

Mr. Jobs teased the audience of about 5,000 software developers, saying the company would have multiple versions of Leopard, all priced at $129.

“I’m sure most of you will want the Ultimate version,” he said. The reference was a not-so-subtle jab at Microsoft, which offers Windows Vista at a variety of price points with different features. Apple, of course, will sell just one version.

Electronic Arts and Id announced that they would begin releasing popular games for the Macintosh simultaneously with Windows versions.
359 2007-06-12 Wildlife biologists could only wonder what happened to Sudan’s animals during that time. Experience has shown that wars can be devastating to wildlife. As peacetime protections collapse, poachers sweep in to kill animals for meat, horn and ivory. Armies shoot game to feed themselves.

“In places like Angola and Mozambique, the parks just got wiped out,” Dr. Fay said. In the 1990s, pilots returning from relief missions to Southern Sudan told bleak stories. “People were saying that wildlife is finished there,” said Paul Elkan, the director of the Wildlife Conservation Society’s Southern Sudan Country Program, in a telephone interview from Nairobi. Some species, like the oryx, a long-horned antelope, were thought to have been wiped out.

But signs of hope turned up near the end of the war. Malik Marjan, a Sudanese graduate student at the University of Massachusetts, conducted a ground survey in Boma National Park. He and his colleagues saw healthy populations of white-eared kob.

Last January, Mr. Marjan joined Dr. Fay and Dr. Elkan in the first aerial survey of Southern Sudan in 25 years. On their first day of surveying in Boma, they flew over thousands of white-eared kob. Dr. Fay, who has flown more than 70,000 miles of aerial surveys in Africa, was taken aback. “As soon as we saw that, we said, ‘This place is insane.’ ”

For the next month, Dr. Fay and his colleagues retraced the path of the last aerial surveys before the war. The white-eared kob were joined by hundreds of thousands of mongalla gazelles and tiang, a species of antelope. They formed a gigantic column that stretched 30 miles across and 50 miles long. “It was just solid animals the whole way,” Dr. Fay said.

The biologists estimated there were 1.3 million kob, tiang and gazelle in their survey area. That is close to the size of migrating herds of wildebeest on the Serengeti, long considered the biggest migration of mammals. But Dr. Fay and his colleagues suspected that because they were replicating prewar survey methods, their estimates were low. New survey methods, such as digital photography, were likely to raise it above the Serengeti.

“My personal feeling is that it’s the biggest migration on earth,” Dr. Fay said, “but we just haven’t proved it yet.”

Other animals are also thriving in parts of Southern Sudan, including elephants, ostriches, lions, leopards, hippos and buffalo. Biologists have even spotted oryx, which were thought to be extinct. But some species are faring badly. Southern Sudan used to be home to many zebras. In the 1982 survey, scientists estimated that 20,000 were living in Boma National Park alone. The Wildlife Conservation team found no zebras in Boma at all, and only a few elsewhere.

The scientists also observed that most species suffered badly in the western part of the region. In 1981, about 60,000 buffalo lived in Southern Sudan National Park. Now, Dr. Fay said, “Not one buffalo did we see.”

Geography may explain much of their results. Poachers on horseback could ride into the western part of Southern Sudan, but the Nile River and a giant swamp called the Sudd proved to be an impenetrable shield protecting the eastern region of Southern Sudan.

Migrating animals also fared better than animals that stayed put year-round. “Their wet-season refuge is very isolated, so even if they were heavily hunted in the dry season, they would have a buffer,” Dr. Elkan said.

The survey was conducted by the Wildlife Conservation Society in cooperation with the Government of Southern Sudan. The government is already taking steps to protect its wildlife, said Maj. Gen. Alfred Akwoch, undersecretary of the Ministry of Environment, Wildlife Conservation and Tourism. The Sudan People’s Liberation Army is deploying some of its soldiers to protect the parks. “We are training them now with the basic knowledge of wildlife conservation,” General Akwoch said.

It will also be necessary to balance the conservation of wildlife with the economic recovery from the war, Dr. Elkan said. “You have oil exploration in the northern part of the Sudd already,” he said. “Oil permits have already been handed out throughout most of the migratory corridor for the tiang and the white-eared kob.” The government is rebuilding roads and schools, and people are returning to their farms. “This place is hopping,” Dr. Fay said.

Dr. Fay said he thought Southern Sudan could attract eco-tourists in the future. He also plans to use the new survey to lobby donor nations to set aside some of their aid to Southern Sudan for managing natural resources. “I’m going to keep hammering away at these guys that natural resources management is as important for people as it is for keeping elephants alive,” Dr. Fay said. “If we can’t invest in what might be the largest wildlife migration on earth, then we may as well close up shop and go home.”
360 2007-06-12 Using information from these questionnaires and interviews, experts rated the men’s relationships with siblings during childhood and adolescence, and how well they were raised by each parent. They also recorded whether a parent had died before the child was 18 and whether there was a family history of depression. The 26 only children in the sample were excluded from the rating of relationships with siblings.

None of the 21 men who had a parent die in childhood became depressed. The 15 percent who had a poor relationship with their mothers and the 16 percent who had a family history of depression suffered depression later in life. But among those who had poor or destructive relationships with siblings, 26 percent had episodes of major depression as adults.

The significantly increased rate for depression among this last group remained even after controlling for family history of the illness, which suggests that the poor relationship with brothers and sisters did not grow out of a genetic tendency for depression but was an independent predictor.

“This is a really important study,” said Myrna M. Weissman, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia University who was not involved in the work. “The one caveat is that these were all men, and sibling relationships may pertain more to men than to women.”

The researchers offered some other examples of how the risks interact. A man whose parents did an average job and who had no family history of depression, but who had a poor relationship with a sibling, would have a 9.9 percent chance of developing depression. But a similar man with a good relationship with at least one sibling would have only a 2.3 percent chance of becoming depressed. In a man with an average parental experience, a family history of depression and poor relationships with siblings, the risk for depression rises to 30 percent.

The authors acknowledged that they collected diagnostic information on depression before the appearance of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, which established strict psychiatric diagnostic criteria. Also, the small sample consisted only of white male college students who came of age in the World War II era, and who were selected specifically for excellent mental health.

The study offers no conclusions about whether depression causes destructive interactions between siblings, whether the destructive relationships are an early indication of depression, or whether the two factors act on each other to increase the risk.

“This is just one study, and we need more to see whether this finding will be confirmed,” Dr. Waldinger said. “Sibling relationships have been underemphasized in learning about child development.”
361 2007-06-12 The Canadian real estate investor Brookfield Asset Management made a cash offer worth 4.2 billion Australian dollars ($3.55 billion) for Multiplex, a troubled Australian developer and contractor. The directors of Multiplex, which was sued over rep...
362 2007-06-12 The Onex Corporation, Canada's largest investment firm, has joined the Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board in its bid for Bell Canada, the country's largest telephone company. Onex will bring additional capital to the bid and help ensure that t...
363 2007-06-12 FIGHTING RISKY LOANS A case in Illinois raises issues about what lawmakers and regulators can do when trying to keep consumers from entering into risky and expensive mortgage loans. [Page A1.]    APPLE TAKES ON MICROSOFT Apple, showing its willing...
364 2007-06-12 To the Editor:     Re ''Listen Up, Everybody: I'm in Menopause'' (Thursday Styles, June 7):     Congratulations for highlighting something many of us have now realized for several years. That menopause is not a taboo subject, and women have been e...
365 2007-06-12 Nearly six years after the attack on the World Trade Center, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has appointed a public relations specialist to coordinate New York City's response to the mounting health issues of people who were exposed to dust and smoke f...
366 2007-06-13 After the Mets lost to the Arizona Diamondbacks on June 1, this is how the N.L. East Standings looked: Team*W*L*PCT*GB NY Mets 34 19 .642 – Atlanta 31 23 .574 3.5 Philadelphia 26 28 .481 8.5 Florida 26 29 .473 9.5 Washington 23 32 .418 12 Less t...
367 2007-06-13 The latest in what has become an increasingly open war waged by John McCain's campaign against Mitt Romney....
368 2007-06-13 What is it about big investment banks and hedge funds? UBS closed its fund earlier this year, and Goldman Sachs' flagship fund, Global Alpha, has been on a 16-month losing streak. Now, a fund managed by Bear Stearns, less than a year old, is said ...
369 2007-06-13 So far, the Wasserstein effect is looking pretty muted. Shares of Ceridian were up less than 0.5 percent around midday Wednesday after one of the company's largest shareholders said he opposed its proposed $5.3 billion buyout and announced that hi...
370 2007-06-13 Yahoo said on Tuesday that about a third of its shareholders had voted against the re-election of one or more company directors. The vote against some directors had been recommended by three Wall Street advisory firms who complained about what the...
371 2007-06-13 Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission is planning to simplify licensing requirements to make it easy for hedge fund managers to set up shop there, HedgeFund.Net reported. The commission will speed up the licensing process and exempt some s...
372 2007-06-13 Ford Motor confirmed Tuesday that it was working with financial advisers to sort out the future of Jaguar and Land Rover, which have been rumored to be up for sale for more than a year. The comments, which follow several reports that the company w...
373 2007-06-13 Openads, a supplier of open-source online advertising software, has received $5 million in initial venture funding from a group led by Index Ventures. Openads' ad-server technology competes with DoubleClick, which Google recently acquired, but at ...
374 2007-06-13 New Century Financial, the bankrupt housing lender, disclosed on Tuesday that it had fired its chief executive and an executive vice president and named its chief restructuring officer to the post of chief executive. New Century said that it had f...
375 2007-06-13 Mr. Wiseman, who believes his art is in his editing, eschews that wanton, good-time cutty style, choosing instead to manipulate images like a traditional celluloid editor. This type is understandably parsimonious with incisions, knowing they’re hard to undo on film; Mr. Wiseman, let’s say, is trigger-unhappy. His films are long, and they often look like tape simply rolling, C-Span-style.

But even security cams catch good stuff from time to time. And Mr. Wiseman, whose choices are apparent in the selection of scenes and sequence if not in the internal editing of scenes, offers subdued intellectual pleasures and gentle ironies for those faithful enough to wait for them.

During a presentation by a police officer before the Legislature on the dangers of perverts with camera phones, for example, the contradiction between the film’s monotone and the sexual and technological panic it exhibits comes into focus.

“This is a big issue we’ve had lately,” says the officer, with considerable reserve, in his gun-metal-colored suit, “of the ladies in particular, that are unaware that someone is coming up from behind them and sticking one of these new videos — or, excuse me, cellphones with the cameras on it — up behind them and actually doing what we call ‘upskirting’ and taking pictures up their skirt, and they’re not even aware of it.”

In the Hollywood version of “State Legislature” this man’s speech would either be excessively sanctimonious or excessively salacious. What’s striking here is that it’s neither, even with that aggressive word “sticking.” The officer speaks with measured frustration about prosecuting the new crime and seems as vexed and discomfited by the new technology as he is by the voyeurism.

“The Internet is just really getting to a point where people want to put some images out there,” he says, shaking his head. “And we have no way to address it at this time.”

“Upskirting,” in other words, trips off his tongue as a coinage, whereas “camera phone” continually eludes him.

From there, watching the movie begins to feel like being in a giant, well-organized meeting that never ends, where you never get to talk and where the issues — unless you live in Idaho — don’t have anything directly to do with you. After video voyeurism, subjects move to matters educational, agricultural, jurisdictional, procedural, soporifical, sleeperal, ambieneral, losttrainofthoughteral. ...What, huh? No, I’m awake. I’m just dozing.

Look, is that police officer who couldn’t say “camera phone” a stand-in for Mr. Wiseman’s own anxieties? The filmmaker, who began his prolific and genre-defining career with “Titicut Follies” in 1967, has been in far rougher, raunchier places than this Legislature, and even ones that require more patience.

But, like the rest of us, he has never lived in a more digital era, with such small cameras and so many opportunities for so many people both to shoot and stage-manage images. To someone who is used to running the show, there’s something much scarier about that than upskirting, even. Maybe that’s what this film is really about.

Directed, produced and edited by Frederick Wiseman; Stephen Segaller, executive producer for Thirteen/WNET; Sally Jo Fifer, executive producer for ITVS; John Davey, photography; sound by Mr. Wiseman. Produced by Idaho Film Inc. and Thirteen/WNET New York in association with ITVS.
376 2007-06-13 Too lil’, too late. The animated satire “Lil’ Bush” makes its television debut tonight on Comedy Central, and if you think the moment has passed for a show about pint-size, foul-mouthed versions of George W. Bush, Dick Cheney, Donald H. Rumsfeld and Condoleezza Rice getting into all kinds of mischief, you’re not alone. (For one thing, hasn’t Lil’ Rummy been sent home already?)

This mocking celebration of executive hubris feels awfully pre-2006-election, and there’s a good explanation for that: “Lil’ Bush” first went on the air last September as a series of five-minute cellphone cartoons, intended to draw young subscribers to a new wireless company, Amp’d Mobile. Apparently it hasn’t attracted enough of them; Amp’d Mobile filed for bankruptcy protection this month. But it drew enough attention that Comedy Central has expanded the idea into a half-hour series with two 10-minute cartoons in each episode.

Tonight’s installment of this pioneering cellphone-to-television transfer appears to prove that some things are, in fact, too small even for TV. What looked crude and amusing on a phone — or on YouTube, where the first mobisode has drawn a middling 462,000 views since it was posted nine months ago — simply looks crude on the medium-size screen, despite the improved animation.

The central conceit of “Lil’ Bush” — its conception of the president as a supremely self-confident grade schooler who can get away with anything because, well, he’s just a little kid — is a good one. But almost nothing else about this new version is funny, and it doesn’t help that the creators have responded to the challenge of expanding the show by making it more edgy, or, to use the traditional term, tasteless.

On cellphones we got Lil’ Bush and his cronies throwing dark-skinned cafeteria workers into Abu Ghraib-like piles to force them to serve hot dogs for school lunch; on Comedy Central we get Lil’ Cheney disappearing during sex with Barbara Bush and eventually being discovered camped out near her kidneys. Jon Stewart ought to be proud to have that as his new lead-in.
377 2007-06-13 One of the most ambitious tonal mash-ups in memory, “Noriko’s Dinner Table” is a domestic comedy, a bloody psychological thriller and a comment on intergenerational tension and the fragility of identity. It’s also a sort of sequel to “Suicide Club,” written and directed by the same filmmaker, Sion Sono, that replays its predecessor’s key event from a new vantage point.

The five-chapter, chronologically scrambled plot centers on an unhappy family from Toyokawa, Japan, that loses two teenage daughters, Noriko (Kazue Fukiishi) and Yuka (Yuriko Yoshitaka), to the Family Circle, a Tokyo cult that dismantles its members’ “false” personalities and rents them to clients for elaborate role-playing.

The film’s attitude toward its characters is more complex than this synopsis suggests. The cult’s figurehead, Kumiko (Tsugumi), is depicted as both a sociopath and a visionary battling bourgeois complacency. And the movie mocks the girls’ father, Tetsuzo (Ken Mitsuishi), a feature reporter, for his sense of entitlement, but it also respects his grief and rage.

This 159-minute feature doesn’t quite cohere. Mr. Sono’s direction is haphazard; he oversells the first half’s whimsical touches (including fourth-wall-breaking compositions too reminiscent of Wes Anderson’s movies) and the second half’s spiral-of-doom emoting. Still, the movie is worth seeing, if only to experience a small story with impossibly grand ambitions.

Written (in Japanese, with English subtitles) and directed by Sion Sono; director of photography, Souhei Tanigawa; edited by Juniichi Ito; music by Tomoki Hasegawa; art director, Toru Fujita; released by Tidepoint Pictures. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A, East Village. Running time: 159 minutes. This film is not rated.
378 2007-06-13 WASHINGTON, June 13 (AP) — A key House lawmaker on Wednesday threatened to strip the Federal Reserve of its authority to write rules against abuses in the market for high-risk mortgages if the central bank did not act quickly to do so.

The remarks by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, intensified the pressure from congressional Democrats on the Fed in recent months as mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures have surged.

If the Fed does not exercise its authority soon as the sole federal agency entitled to write regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive mortgage practices, “then we’ll find someone else who will,” Mr. Frank said at a committee hearing.

That could mean a potential transfer of authority to another federal bank regulatory agency such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Treasury Department’s Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The Fed, among the United States agencies, has the broadest power to impose restrictions on mortgage lending practices.

“I just want to put you on notice,” Mr. Frank told Randall Kroszner, a member of the Fed’s board of governors, who testified before the panel. ”I think that the absence of rules is a serious problem that has to be dealt with.”
379 2007-06-13 DALLAS, June 13 (AP) — Blockbuster is offering lower-priced plans for online movie rentals as it competes with Netflix in a market that some analysts believe could grow more than 40 percent this year.

Blockbuster said Tuesday that it would cut prices $1 a month for customers who order movies only online and not at stores. Only a month ago, Blockbuster’s chief executive talked about raising prices.

Analysts said Netflix could be forced to drop prices, which would reduce its profits.

Shares of Netflix tumbled $1.85, or 8.4 percent, to $20.08, while Blockbuster shares slipped 12 cents, or 3 percent, to $3.95.

Blockbuster said it would offer a plan letting customers place online orders to rent three movies at a time for $16.99, a dollar cheaper than its most popular offering, called Total Access. The movies are mailed to the customer.

The difference is that customers on the cheaper plan, called Blockbuster by Mail, won’t get a free rental by returning DVDs to a store instead of mailing them back. They will, however, get a coupon for one free in-store rental a month.

Blockbuster said it would offer more limited plans, such as two movies a month, for $4.99 a month.

Netflix charges $17.99 for a three-out-at-one-time plan, and it has begun throwing in movies streamed over the Internet for customers with high-speed access and a Windows-based computer. It also has a $4.99 plan for up to two rentals a month.
380 2007-06-13 Canvasback Missions, in Benicia, Calif., took ownership of the cutters, the White Sage and the White Holly, in Baltimore in September 1999. This was the first time such ships had been given away through an earmark, the Coast Guard said.

Pressed for cash, Canvasback sold the White Sage a few months later for about $85,000. Two years later, the struggling mission sold the White Holly to the Bay Area couple for $330,000. The mission did not inform the Coast Guard property office about the sales.

Typically, decommissioned Coast Guard vessels are sold at auction, are included in foreign aid packages or are added to the nation’s mothball fleet.

If the two cutters had been sold at auction, the General Services Administration would have monitored their use for five years. But the Canvasback earmark required no such monitoring, and Coast Guard officials said they did not know about the sales until The New York Times asked about them.

The fate of the White Holly and the White Sage comes as a surprise to people who supported the Canvasback earmark.

Former Representative Frank D. Riggs, Republican of California, whose staff drafted the earmark, said it “would raise concerns” if the ships were “not used as intended.”

Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, was also credited by Canvasback with working on the earmark. But David Snepp, Ms. Snowe’s spokesman, said she had merely voted for it. Mr. Snepp called Canvasback’s actions troubling and said the senator had asked her staff to research what is now a gray area: whether selling the two ships was legal.

“If they were not used in Micronesia, they were definitely not used in the spirit of the way this was written,” Mr. Snepp said. The text of the earmark gave the government the right to reclaim the ships, he added. While that was perhaps unlikely, he continued: “They were supposed to retain the vessels in case the Coast Guard needed them back. The charity does not have the option to sell.”

A harsher assessment came from Steve Ellis, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a watchdog group that opposes earmarks, and a former Coast Guard officer. “They are flipping the property,” Mr. Ellis said.

Jamie W. Spence, president and founder of Canvasback Missions, said all the sales proceeds supported the organization’s work in the Marshall Islands, where it has provided eye and dental care and counseling on diabetes prevention to thousands of people since it was founded in 1981.

“We did everything in our power to put these ships into service,” Mr. Spence said. But when the group could not raise the money to repair and maintain the vessels, it sold them instead, using the proceeds to cope with its financial difficulties, he said.

Mr. Spence said he had consulted with Canvasback’s legal advisers and was confident the sales were ethical and legal.

Coast Guard officials were surprised at the cutters’ fate. “The White Holly and the White Sage are in the South Pacific,” Lynn Brown, the personal property manager in the decommissioning office, said in March. She affirmed recently that her office had not known that Canvasback sold the ships.

Mr. Spence acknowledged that he did not give notice to Ms. Brown’s office. But he said he told Coast Guard employees in the Bay Area about the White Holly sale and mentioned the White Sage sale to the Coast Guard officer in charge of the Baltimore yard before the deal and to civilian Coast Guard officials afterward. He did not respond to requests to identify those people.

While all earmarks are troublesome to critics like Mr. Ellis, who called the Canvasback gift an “utter indictment of earmarks,” those made for faith-based groups involve special questions about the constitutional borders between church and state.

The Coast Guard ships were given to Canvasback for a secular purpose, providing medical services. But Mr. Spence said Canvasback did not isolate the sales proceeds; instead it mingled them with its general revenues, which also cover activities that include evangelism. And under most court decisions, evangelism cannot be paid for with federal grants.

Mr. Spence said no constitutional violations occurred. “I’m very certain that the proceeds were used for supporting our medical program,” he said, “and I’m absolutely sure they were not used for evangelism.” He said Canvasback, a nondenominational Christian mission, raises donations separately for its evangelism activities, which included donating Bibles translated into local languages and constructing a chapel.

Mr. Spence and his wife, Jacque, established their medical mission 26 years ago, using a 71-foot catamaran, the Canvasback, to navigate the shallow coasts of the poorer, more remote islands of Micronesia. As the ministry grew, it mobilized medical professionals to volunteer for short stints in the islands and delivered donated medical equipment and supplies.

When they sought the Congressional earmark, the Spences were hoping the two cutters would allow them to expand their medical ministry, Mr. Spence said. But the mission acquired and then sold those vessels, and a third vessel that was privately donated, because Canvasback determined that maintaining and operating the ships was too big a financial burden, he explained. But few of these details can be found in the annual statements Canvasback files with the Internal Revenue Service. Two leading nonprofit accounting experts examined the statements and found them to be incomplete and internally inconsistent.

“There is no clear audit trail for the boats,” said Julie L. Floch of Eisner L.L.P. in Manhattan, a member of the I.R.S.’s national advisory panel on nonprofits. Her view was echoed by Jody Blazek of Blazek & Vetterling L.L.P. in Houston, the author of six books on nonprofit tax law and accounting.

William J. MacLean, the accountant in Seaside, Ore., who prepared the filings, declined to comment.

These days, Canvasback has redirected its efforts from ship-based medical care in the remote islands to land-based clinics on the more populated islands, Mr. Spence said.

That work has won praise from health officials in the Marshall Islands — and fresh support from Congress. The tiny mission is now the lead contractor on a diabetes research program being financed through two $1 million Defense Department contracts. Those grants were directed to Canvasback by Congress through a pair of earmarks.
381 2007-06-13 “Versus old ConAgra? This is as different as you can possibly imagine,” Mr. Rodkin said. “Literally, the cupboard was bare 18 months ago.”

None of the products he introduced were entirely new brands, but rather updated twists on the company’s old portfolio. For instance, ConAgra will introduce Pam Professional cooking oil this summer for enthusiasts who cook with high heat. The ergonomically correct silver canister goes well with stainless-steel kitchen appliances, ConAgra officials said.

The company, which had $11.6 billion in net sales last year, is hardly setting Wall Street ablaze with its financial performance, and many remain skeptical that Mr. Rodkin can revive a business with so many second- and third-tier brands that struggle to retain shelf space in grocery aisles. Even its top sellers, like Healthy Choice and Orville Redenbacher, are in slow-growing categories.

Still, industry analysts credit Mr. Rodkin with steering ConAgra in the right direction after years of drift. Arriving from PepsiCo, where his last job was as head of the North American business, Mr. Rodkin’s first moves at ConAgra included finding $100 million in cost savings, which included closing nine manufacturing plants, and replacing nearly the entire senior management.

And that may have been the easier part. Now Mr. Rodkin faces the task of finding ways to please increasingly fickle consumers.

In a May 30 note to investors, Greggory Warren, an analyst at Morningstar, wrote: “While we were critics at first, we have to admit that the company has done a fantastic job over the past year of picking a lot of the low-hanging fruit that was there for the taking. The longer-term key, though, is for the firm to demonstrate that it can really nurture growth in its disparate portfolio of brands and product lines.”

ConAgra shares many of the problems of other packaged-food companies, including Kraft Foods, Unilever and General Mills. Many consumers no longer buy their food at traditional supermarkets, but now also shop for groceries at places like Wal-Mart, Costco and Trader Joe’s. The growing choice of stores has brought more product options, giving shoppers far more choices than the traditional brand-name processed foods.

They are also buying more private-label products because the quality has vastly improved, more ready-to-eat foods because of their convenience, and more natural and organic fare out of health concerns. Those trends alone work against ConAgra, which is selling Swiss Miss hot chocolate mix, Wesson oil and Van Camp’s canned pork and beans in an age when more people are reaching for bagged salad greens and vitamin-infused water.

But the company’s problems extend beyond the appeal of its brands. It has underperformed competitors, missed earnings targets and suffered a series of accounting problems that forced it to restate earnings in some recent years.

Mr. Rodkin, a native of New Jersey who rose through the ranks at General Mills and PepsiCo, was considered a big catch for ConAgra, and was guaranteed a $2 million cash bonus in his first year on the job (in addition to more than $2 million in consulting fees from Pepsi).

His strategy has focused on operating ConAgra as one company instead of different fiefs, which reduced expenses and allowed for a sharing of ideas among brands. ConAgra’s Missouri River campus is now plastered with banners that read, “One company growing by nourishing lives and finding a better way today ... one bite at a time.”

In addition, Mr. Rodkin directed $75 million more in advertising this fiscal year — a total of $410 million — and promised to focus on the top-performing brands.

His turnaround plan suffered a setback in February when salmonella in Peter Pan peanut butter made at least 425 people sick. Still, quarterly earnings in March showed some signs of progress, despite the costs of the peanut butter recall. Sales were up 2 percent, to $2.92 billion, and the company posted a profit of $193 million. A year earlier, in contrast, it reported a $25 million loss. Mr. Rodkin says his goal is 2 to 3 percent annual sales growth in the next three years, as well as 8 to 10 percent yearly growth in earnings per share.

So far, his efforts have done little to budge the stock price. Shares of ConAgra closed on Tuesday at $25.44; the stock price was $24.74 when Mr. Rodkin took over in 2005.

Christopher R. Growe, an analyst at A. G. Edwards & Sons, said in a note to investors last Wednesday that the company’s focus on its top brands had been disappointing to date. “Our primary concern with ConAgra remains that it competes in slower-growing categories and that its position in many categories remains less than advantageous. Product innovation will be needed to further boost results.”

Harvey Hartman, chief executive of the Hartman Group, a food consulting and market research firm, said ConAgra remained too focused on “industrial food” that did not reflect changing tastes. “We believe that the legacy brands are spiraling downhill,” he said. “We question if very few of those things can survive long term.”

But David Driscoll of Citigroup is bullish on ConAgra’s future and gives Mr. Rodkin credit for “a turnaround story.”

“We came away impressed with the firm’s new product pipeline,” Mr. Driscoll said in a note to investors after attending the meeting here.

Mr. Rodkin said ConAgra needed a stronger talent pool, more efficient operations and new products that spurred growth. He plans to introduce products every six months or so. “We are not going to win a prize for quantity,” he said. “We are going to win a prize for batting average.”
382 2007-06-13 “I’m trying not to go in with too many expectations as far as I how I finish, place and so forth,” he said. “I want to, as Thursday starts and as we get to Sunday, continue to improve my ball-striking without aggravating my wrist anymore.”

The United States Open, though, has taken out healthy players. In 1995, Tiger Woods injured his wrist hitting out of the rough at Shinnecock Hills in Southampton, N.Y.

“Out of this rough,” Woods said, “try and advance the golf ball, even if you’re healthy, it’s still going to be a difficult test.”

Mickelson, who last month won the Players Championship after teaming with the swing coach Butch Harmon, said he knew there was a chance he could make his injury worse at any time.

“I have concerns,” he said. “But I’m going to do the best I can do.”

THE PENNSYLVANIA KID Phil Mickelson may be the teddy bear of this United States Open, the player fans cannot help but embrace, but his gallery the first two days figures to be torn between two golfers.

One of Mickelson’s playing partners, Jim Furyk, grew up outside Lancaster, which is roughly 200 miles from Pittsburgh but near enough for him to be hailed like the boy next door. The Australian Adam Scott will round out the threesome.

“It’s the Pennsylvania Kid!” yelled one fan as Furyk, the 2003 Open champion, negotiated a long receiving line on his way from the putting green to the clubhouse after practicing Tuesday. Nearly every other person holding a hat or photo for him to sign made some mention of his Pennsylvania roots.

Asked how many tournament passes he managed to procure for family members and friends, Furyk laughed and said, “A lot.”

The last time the Open was at Oakmont, in 1994, Furyk was a 24-year-old Tour rookie playing in his first major. He finished in a tie for 28th, and emerged from the experience with two indelible memories: the satisfaction of playing his first major in front of an extended family of Pennsylvanians and the severity of Oakmont’s greens.

Thirteen years later, Furyk returns as one of the favorites. In 13 events he has two top-three finishes and is coming off a playoff loss to Rory Sabbatini at the Colonial.

Furyk, 37, may be a different golfer than he was in 1994, but the course, from what he has seen, has not changed much.

“The greens are pretty much the same as they were,” said Furyk, who lives outside Jacksonville, Fla. “They added a little bit of length,” he added, referring in particular to the par-3 eighth, which has been stretched to 288 yards, “but so has everyone else in that time.”

In the last four Opens, Furyk has ranked no worse than eighth in fairways hit, and he has usually been near the leaders in greens in regulation. He hopes to play true to that form this week, because the bunkers have been made into real hazards.

“The bunkers are a huge change from what they were,” Furyk said. “They’re very, very deep and very severe. I think playability wise, that’s the biggest change in the golf course over the years.”
383 2007-06-13 New Century Financial, the bankrupt housing lender, disclosed yesterday that it had fired its chief executive and an executive vice president and named its chief restructuring officer to the post of chief executive.

New Century said that it fired its chief executive, Brad A. Morrice, and its executive vice president, Anthony T. Meola, “without cause,” and that both men would get severance payments under their employment agreements to the extent that the company’s bankruptcy permitted.

New Century said in its disclosure, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, that Mr. Morrice was succeeded by Holly F. Etlin, who had been the chief restructuring officer.

New Century also said that it had named Michael Tinsley, the company’s controller, as chief financial officer, succeeding Tajvinder S. Bindra, whose resignation was disclosed last week.

Ms. Etlin and Mr. Tinsley are working for the company through an arrangement with AP Services.

Last month, the United States trustee overseeing the New Century bankruptcy had sought the ouster of Mr. Morrice and other executives, but was turned down by Judge Kevin J. Carey of United States Bankruptcy Court.

The trustee, Kelly Beaudin Stapleton, argued in part that the company’s failure to estimate accurately how many of its subprime home loans would go bad, and how quickly, was ground for replacing its leadership.
384 2007-06-13 KABUL, Afghanistan, June 12 — American-led forces killed seven Afghan policemen and wounded five more in an exchange of fire early Tuesday that Afghan police officials said was a result of mistaken identity.

At an Afghan police checkpoint in the Khogyani district, in the eastern province of Nangarhar, Afghan and American forces mistook each other for insurgent fighters and opened fire. During the exchange, the Americans called in air support.

“The American troops were coming toward the Afghan police post as both sides did not know the identity of each other,” said Nasir Ahmad Safi, an Afghan police official in Nangarhar. He said the bodies of the policemen were riddled with bullets.

A spokesman for the American forces said that they were en route to an operation at a Taliban house in the Shirzad district of Nangarhar Province on Monday night when they were ambushed and attacked with rocket-propelled grenades and small-arms fire.

The Americans returned fire and called in air support, said the spokesman, Maj. Chris Belcher.

Afghan authorities regularly complain of a lack of coordination between the American-led forces and Afghan forces, saying many civilian casualties have resulted.
385 2007-06-13 Although sectarian violence continues in Iraq every day, he said, “We have eliminated the danger of sectarian war.”

The visit and Mr. Maliki’s statement seemed to underscore the increasingly tense relationship between Mr. Maliki and the Americans.

Many American officials now blame a lack of firm leadership by senior politicians like Mr. Maliki for the lack of progress in Iraq. He and other Iraqi officials, including Sunnis and Kurds, say the Americans are mistakenly focused on individuals rather than the broader forces of sectarian distrust, corruption, violence and interference from Iran and Syria, which they contend have conspired to sabotage stability.

Iraq’s quarrelsome political climate has been on public display lately as Parliament has sought to unseat its speaker, Mahmoud Mashhadani, a Sunni, who has done little to build consensus among political blocs and whose guards were accused of assaulting a Shiite lawmaker on Sunday.

In a vote on Monday, 113 of the 168 Parliament members who were present voted to force Mr. Mashhadani’s resignation, and his own bloc, the Iraqi Consensus Front, has agreed to replace him. But in some of his first public comments on Tuesday, he told reporters that he did not intend to leave and would try to sue if forced to give up his position.

In Baghdad, the authorities found 26 bodies scattered throughout the city, many showing signs of torture, an Interior Ministry official said. Three roadside bombs in the capital killed three people and wounded at least 12, news services reported.

To the west, in Anbar Province, a suicide car bomber killed at least four people at a checkpoint west of Ramadi, witnesses said.

And in Diyala Province, increasingly the site of Iraq’s most extreme violence, bombs and gun battles continued to tear through communities. The police said that gunmen attacked the house of a local official outside Muqdadiya, kidnapping his elderly father and three sisters.

Gaps in Iraq May Prolong U.S. Stay

WASHINGTON, June 12 (Bloomberg) — Iraq’s security forces have gaps in leadership, logistics and combat power that could tie down United States troops for years, the departing Army general in charge of Iraqi training said Tuesday.

The most serious problem is a lack of majors, lieutenant colonels and brigadier generals to lead military forces set to exceed 190,000 by the end of the year, Lt. Gen. Martin Dempsey told a House Armed Services Committee panel. That force level would be larger than the total American troops now in Iraq.

Finding competent leaders has been difficult, he said, because the pool of qualified officers recalled from Saddam Hussein’s army after the United States disbanded the force in May 2003 “is beginning to thin out, and many fine military and police leaders have been killed and wounded in the ongoing fight.”
386 2007-06-13 As Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki told an American military commander on Monday, “There are two mentalities in this region, conspiracy and mistrust.”

Iraq’s political limitations raise difficult questions for the American project here. The initial mission for the increase of American troops was to create an atmosphere for political reconciliation. If broad-based compromises among the country’s factions fail to emerge or have little impact, what comes next?

Most Western political officials in Iraq and Washington publicly refuse to discuss a Plan B, but Iraqi leaders and some of those who work with them admit that their days are often filled with angst and frustration. Many have turned their attention toward risky local alliances with insurgents or former insurgents who say they will fight Al Qaeda. Even among the most hopeful, expectations have diminished.

“Being here, you can’t be optimistic until things happen,” said Ashraf Qazi, the United Nations special representative for Iraq. He said that while a broad national reconciliation program based on a series of new laws might still be possible this year, a “passing grade” would be signs of building momentum.

“There are no guarantees,” he said. “In fact, it would be overambitious to say all these things can be solved.”

The challenges to reconciliation include the personal, the sectarian and the systemic. Two of the stalled laws — regarding a constitutional review and de-Baathification — highlight the distrust over the petty and profound disputes that have undermined the process.

The current Constitution is a product of the last ambitious American effort to inspire a grand compromise among Iraq’s belligerent factions. Approved by a referendum in October 2005, it set the stage for elections and was widely praised by the White House, but it also failed to address many vital issues.

There was so little agreement on how to share revenues — with minority Sunnis fearing they would be left out — that the charter even failed to give the government a right to collect taxes.

Iraq’s government formed a constitutional review committee in October to address potential amendments. The group was given four months to come up with recommendations for changes.

Nicholas Haysom, a constitutional expert with the United Nations, worked closely with the committee. He said the group’s 31 participants met regularly.

“We felt there is an ethical commitment,” said Sheik Humam Hamoudi, one of three committee chairmen and a member of the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council, an influential Shiite group. “We have a mission to accomplish.”

The discussions soon turned to gridlock over a number of issues, including many of the same problems that arose during the last constitutional effort. Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds, for example, initially could not agree on how to divide revenues and responsibilities between the federal government and the regions. The future of oil-rich Kirkuk was left in limbo, with Kurds holding out for a referendum scheduled for the end of this year that they hope will grant them control.

There were also bitter disputes over whether the Constitution should define Iraq as an Arab country, and whether the powers of the presidency should be expanded.

As was the case with the original Constitution, the conflicts involved existential questions of Iraq’s identity and more immediate struggles for power.

Sunni demands for presidential strength have been particularly strong, lawmakers said, because with a Kurd, Jalal Talabani, currently president, Sunnis expect that the next president will be one of their own. Sunnis say broadening the executive branch would help Iraq when the prime minister fails to produce results.

“Putting all the authorities in one hand, in one man, will be more dangerous than spreading it out,” said Hussein al-Falluji, an attorney and member of Parliament with the Iraqi Consensus Front, the main Sunni bloc.

The prime minister, not surprisingly, has interpreted the Sunni position as an affront. An aide to Mr. Maliki, who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak to reporters, said the prime minister resented the way that Tariq al-Hashimi, the Sunni vice president, was undermining the country’s parliamentary system by trying to secure additional power for the presidency, an unelected position.

He said the prime minister’s refusal to compromise was “constitutional” and “practical.”

With neither the presidency debate nor the question of Kirkuk resolved, the committee missed its original four-month deadline and a two-month extension. When it finally delivered a draft in May, it essentially passed the buck, saying that the disputed provisions must be handled by “the political leadership in the country, to settle them for the interest of the nation and to guarantee rights to all parties.”

Nearly a month later, the heads of Iraq’s major political parties still have not met to discuss the Constitution.

“Maybe they do not care about their responsibilities,” Mr. Falluji said.

Mr. Haysom and Mr. Qazi at the United Nations emphasized that the committee had made progress. They said there was widespread support for provisions establishing the primacy of the federal judiciary and a federal right to collect taxes and regulate ports, transportation and other national resources. But two major issues are outstanding, and other laws depend on a census that could assign revenues according to population, so no quick end is in sight.

“We have not committed to doing it by September,” Mr. Hamoudi said. “Maybe the American Congress has made such a commitment, but we have not.”

Ever since the Americans purged former members of the Baath Party of Saddam Hussein from Iraq’s government soon after the 2003 invasion, they have been trying to reform their policy.

Some changes were made in 2004, bringing back teachers and others with technical expertise, but the hope has been that a broader plan to rehire low- to midlevel Baathists would woo disaffected Sunni Arabs and drain the Sunni-led insurgency of support.

The latest effort began this spring with the grandly titled Reconciliation and Accountability Law, a proposal backed by Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, the senior American envoy in Iraq until April. The draft decreed that all former Baathists who had worked in the government could collect their pensions. It opened government jobs to thousands more, and set a three-month time limit for Iraqi citizens to bring lawsuits against former members of the Baath Party.

Sunnis supported the overhaul, and Shiites and Kurds were expected to fall in line after the Shiite prime minister and the Kurdish president announced the plan on March 26.

But the law was stymied by Ahmad Chalabi, who headed Iraq’s de-Baathification commission. Mr. Chalabi, the former Pentagon protégé, relies on the commission for an official role in Iraq’s government. Having just renovated a spacious office in the Green Zone, he has strongly opposed any effort to weaken his position or the country’s policy on former Baathists.

According to a senior official with the commission, Mr. Chalabi and members of his organization sabotaged the American-backed plan by rallying opposition among Shiite government officials in southern Iraq, then taking their complaints to Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq’s most powerful Shiite cleric.

On April 1, Mr. Chalabi visited the ayatollah’s office in Najaf. He later appeared at a news conference, declaring that Ayatollah Sistani told him the law was incomplete and that “there would be other drafts.”

A day later, an aide to the reclusive cleric confirmed that there was “a general feeling of rejection” about the proposal.

Since then, the original draft has gone nowhere. The Americans have met with several groups responsible for additional drafts that address de-Baathification. Iraqi officials said they were working on a compromise law combining various elements of the American law and other proposals, primarily a softer alternative backed by Mr. Chalabi.

But without clear support from Ayatollah Sistani, a final draft of the law has not been completed or introduced in Parliament.

It remains unclear how much support the proposal could attract. Mr. Falluji, the Sunni lawmaker, said the prime minister did not fully support reconciliation with former Baathists — a suspicion also harbored by some American officials. Some Sunnis currently in government have fallen afoul of Baathists and may not be eager to bring back members of the former government.

Even if the law passes, it may not be enforced. In many provinces, officials have little respect for laws passed in the capital. In the southern city of Basra, the various Shiite parties have already divvied up the spoils of government: the Fadhila Party controls much of the oil industry and the border police are tied to the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council, the party of Abdul Aziz al-Hakim.

The Americans are seeking to hold provincial elections by the end of the year, but the proposal is also stalled, with some fearing that it would lead to more violence. Meanwhile, similar concerns about the weakness of the central government are hampering progress on other laws, particularly those involving government revenues.

At one point during discussions over the constitutional review, the Americans offered a suggestion: that every check be signed by a Sunni, a Shiite and a Kurd, said Jabir Habeeb, a Shiite member of the constitutional review committee.

The proposal, he said, was immediately dismissed as unworkable.
387 2007-06-13 “What Romney’s doing is extending his conversation with voters, his introduction period, and he’s being allowed to do it essentially alone,” said Evan Tracey, chief operating officer of Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising.

Although some of his opponents have challenged his assertions in his advertisements to reporters, arguing that Mr. Romney actually increased spending and fees as governor and that his immigration advertisement actually supports the main provisions of the bill, Mr. Romney’s advisers said advertising now, while other Republican candidates remain on the sidelines, allows them an unfettered opportunity to begin to craft voters’ first impressions of Mr. Romney.

“Every campaign has different needs and different jobs,” said Alex Castellanos, a top media strategist for Mr. Romney and former Bush campaign adviser who is considered a master of the modern attack advertisement. “Someone who’s unknown has an opportunity to be introduced.”

But John Weaver, chief political adviser for Mr. McCain’s campaign, said early advertising mattered little in the long run because no one was paying attention at this point.

“We’re in the dog days of summer, and it’s called that for a reason,” Mr. Weaver said.

He discounted any jump Mr. Romney has gotten in the polls, arguing early advertising only created an “artificial impression that they’re doing well.”

“They’re very soft numbers because it’s done in a vacuum,” he said. “It would be like, if on a busy intersection, a hamburger chain puts up a store, and they’re the only hamburger chain around. People would buy their hamburgers there, but after a period of time, Burger King and McDonald’s move in, and the hamburger chain wouldn’t do as well.”

It is also unclear just how effective television advertisements continue to be in today’s rapidly changing media environment, with audiences segmented over a kaleidoscopic array of cable channels and with the competing din of the Internet and other information sources.

“There is no model anymore,” said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democrat Network, which instructs liberal activists on how to take advantage of media advances. “Everything is made up as we go, because audiences are leaving the old platforms. We are hurtling into a post-broadcast media age.”

Members of Mr. Romney’s media team say they are able to reach those who are already watching the presidential contenders closely by sophisticated microtargeting techniques, pioneered by the Bush campaign in 2004, that crunch through mountains of market research data.

“That’s why early media makes more sense now than it would have even made even four years ago, because we can find our targets in a fragmented media market,” said Will Feltus, another member of Mr. Romney’s media team.

The data helps the campaign’s media buyers, he said, isolate specific programs and schedule their advertisements for times of the day when Republican primary-goers are more likely to be watching. The television show “24,” for example, has been a favorite of the campaign’s.

In another unusual move, Mr. Romney has also been running advertisements on national cable networks, focusing mostly on Fox News, a favorite among conservatives. The goal is to establish him among national party activists, fund-raisers and leaders, as well as among early primary voters.

Among Democrats, none of the leading candidates has ventured onto the paid airwaves yet. But Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico has spent several hundred thousand dollars on television time in Iowa and New Hampshire. Both he and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, of Connecticut, who spent several hundred thousand in advertising last month as well, recently introduced new commercials in New Hampshire.

Although they have invested just a fraction of Mr. Romney’s total, Mr. Richardson’s advisers say their investment is helping him inch up in polls as well.

“We really have the playing field to ourselves right now,” said Mark Putnam, a media consultant for Mr. Richardson’s campaign. “That’s why we’re moving up.”

Back in 2003, Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont began airing advertisements in June, which Steve McMahon, Mr. Dean’s top media adviser, recalled was considered “mind-bogglingly early.”

“People thought it was crazy,” Mr. McMahon said.

But the early paid television spots helped establish Mr. Dean, who was relatively unknown at the time, as a serious contender, he said, similar to what they are doing for Mr. Romney.

Several media experts said Mr. Romney’s approach could become a model for future candidates and expressed surprise that his opponents had let him have the advertising stage to himself for so long.

“Why wouldn’t you advertise early when people are most likely to be influenced?” said Kenneth M. Goldstein, a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin who specializes in political advertising.

For candidates like Mr. Romney, who have demonstrated the ability to raise large sums for their campaigns, said Mr. McMahon, Mr. Dean’s former media adviser, wasting money is not a concern.

“There’s no reason they can’t sustain their advertising,” he said, “from now until next November.”
388 2007-06-13 ISTANBUL, June 12 —Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan took a strong public stance against a military incursion into northern Iraq on Tuesday, in an indication that he would not back the military’s request for a major offensive.

For weeks, the Turkish Army has been pushing for a broad military response to attacks by the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, a militant separatist group that takes refuge in northern Iraq. The military has already increased its presence along the border and has been conducting operations against the militants in Turkey. On Tuesday, Mr. Erdogan said Turkey should first continue to fight the militants on Turkish soil before fighting them in Iraq, slowing the movement toward an incursion. He said far more militants were in Turkey than in Iraq.

The Turkish Parliament would need to approve a major military action, and Mr. Erdogan’s party controls the legislature, so his view on the wisdom of an invasion is important.

“Has the struggle against 5,000 terrorists inside Turkey come to a close, so that we can now start dealing with the 500 in northern Iraq?” Mr. Erdogan said in Ankara, according to the state-run Anatolian News Agency.

It was the first time a cautious tone had been struck in weeks of sharp language, and Mr. Erdogan’s message will likely be welcomed by the United States, which is trying to navigate a position between its two allies: Turkey, a NATO member, and Iraqi Kurds, the most reliable partner in Iraq.
389 2007-06-13 SANTA CLARA, Calif., June 12 — Yahoo said on Tuesday that about a third of its shareholders had voted against the re-election of one or more company directors. The vote against some directors had been recommended by three Wall Street advisory firms who complained about what they described as excessive executive pay.

During the annual meeting of stockholders here, Yahoo officials said that all members of the board had been re-elected with 66 percent or more of the votes. The company would not give more details about how many votes each director had received.

“That’s one of the larger no votes of the year,” said Patrick McGurn, executive vice president of Institutional Shareholder Services, one of the firms that advised shareholders to withhold votes for three directors on the company’s compensation committee. “I think it does send a significant message on compensation.”

I.S.S., along with Glass Lewis and Proxy Governance, criticized the compensation committee for awarding bonus and retention pay in the form of 6.8 million stock options to Terry S. Semel, Yahoo’s chief executive, in a year when the company’s shares dropped nearly 35 percent. I.S.S. valued Mr. Semel’s pay in 2006 at $107.5 million, making him one of the nation’s best-paid executives.

Separately, Yahoo shareholders rejected approximately 2-to-1 a proposal that would have tied executive compensation to competitive performance. They also rejected, by wider margins, proposals to establish a committee to oversee Yahoo’s human rights practices and to require the company to fight censorship and protect freedom of access to the Internet in countries with repressive regimes.
390 2007-06-13 Inflation in China reached a 27-month high of 3.4 percent in May, government statisticians announced yesterday, but the increase in consumer prices was heavily concentrated in food, while figures for growth in the money supply and in loans suggested that the broader economy was not yet overheating.

The central bank governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, warned on June 5 that the government might have to take action if inflation moved above the bank’s target of 3 percent, the level reached in April.

Investment bank economists said higher interest rates were needed to ensure that bank deposits remained attractive as an alternative to the highly speculative stock markets; the benchmark Shanghai composite index rose yesterday for the fifth consecutive trading day. But the economists doubted that officials would soon resort to the kind of emergency measures they invoked when inflation briefly quintupled in 2004, to 5.3 percent.

“All anticipated tightening measures should still be moderate as there is no need for Beijing to slam on brakes,” wrote Qu Hongbin, an economist at HSBC, in a research note.

Chinese officials have watched data on the money supply and credit growth for indications whether monetary policy is too tight or too loose. Figures released yesterday showed that year-over-year growth in the M2, a fairly broad measure of the money supply, slowed to 16.7 percent in May from 17.1 percent in April, while year-over-year growth in loans was unchanged at 16 percent in both months.

Both rates were high, though not accelerating, because money is pouring into China in foreign investment and through an ever-widening trade surplus. “The slowdown in money and credit for this month may not last long going forward,” a Goldman Sachs economist, Hong Liang, wrote in a research note.
391 2007-06-13 Oko, a new frozen yogurt shop in Park Slope, Brooklyn, dispenses only two flavors for now, tangy plain and wild berry, but offers an array of toppings that include fresh raspberries, blackberries, strawberries, diced mango and pineapple, several kinds of nuts and chocolate bits. Cups are $3, $3.75 and $5.

Assorted teas, hot and iced, including a lip-smacking ginger with Asian pear, are $3 to $4 for 16 ounces.

The shop’s name means “eco” in Hungarian. Countertops are made from pressed sunflower seeds and walls from bamboo; biodegradable utensils are made from corn and potatoes.

Oko is owned by Helen Lee, a culinary school graduate, and three other partners, two of whom built the shop. Ms. Lee is the manager. It is at 152 Fifth Avenue (DeGraw Street), (718) 398-3671.

When she was the pastry chef at the Union Square Cafe, Emily Isaac said, she always hoped to have her own bake shop, a dream Ms. Isaac, right, has now realized with Trois Pommes Patisserie in Park Slope, Brooklyn. A banquette in the window and a whimsical chandelier dangling from the soaring ceiling enliven the brick-walled shop, the better to showcase some riffs on popular snacks like whoopie pies and Oreos.

Chunky peanut butter cookies ($2.50) are sandwiched with peanut butter filling; Valrhona brownies ($3) are dense and fudgy. Ice creams, including a wickedly intense caramel, are scooped into freshly made cones ($3 to $5). Right now her strawberry-rhubarb tartlets ($5 each) are best sellers. But her almond shortbreads ($1.50 for two) are all you need for an elegant dessert with some berries and a glass of Champagne. Trois Pommes is at 260 Fifth Avenue (Carroll Street), (718) 230-3119.
392 2007-06-13 In three other towns in northern Morocco I found similar ovens, all contributing to the heartbeat of the city. Communal ovens have been a part of Mediterranean life for thousands of years. People in the shtetls of Eastern Europe, in French country towns and in Middle Eastern medinas baked their bread in them, and later, when the ovens were cooler, cooked casseroles and other dishes.

Today many people have gas stoves or propane cooktops at home, and the communal ovens are disappearing. In my travels I have found them only rarely: in Jerusalem’s old city; in Arab villages in Israel and the West Bank; on the Caribbean island of Montserrat.

In Assilah, as in other Moroccan towns, the ovens are in transition, still in use even though many people have their own stoves. “These bread ovens are a link with the past,” said Paula Wolfert, the author of “Couscous and Other Good Food From Morocco,” who lived in Tangier for seven years. “It was part of the community, an extension of the home.”

Traditional cooks in Assilah wake around dawn each morning to knead and shape the dough. They let it rise for a few hours before carrying it to the public oven, known as a ferrane. Called khubz, the bread is about the size of pita but much denser. Sometimes it is made entirely with white flour; sometimes barley or coarse whole wheat flour is mixed in, and semolina is sprinkled on top.

Somehow, with dozens of loaves on the floor of his oven, the baker always knows whose bread is whose. But just in case he forgets, most people make an identifying mark on their dough.

“My housekeeper put a special stamp on the bread made out of iron with a design, a sort of family mark on it,” Ms. Wolfert said. “She didn’t sleep well unless there was a sack of wheat in the house to make bread.”

Bread isn’t the only food cooked in the ferrane. I saw metal plates filled with green peppers and tomatoes, ready to be quickly charred and then peeled for salads. Clay pots covered with tinfoil or parchment paper also waited their turn. Inside were tagines of fish — sardines, swordfish, snapper — rich with tomatoes, potatoes, cilantro and spices. Family secrets work their way into these tagines: the way the vegetables are cut, the ratio of spices, the kind of fish, even the shape of the clay pot.

The public oven is also where families announce weddings, anniversaries and other special occasions, whether they want to or not. When someone brings a b’stilla, one of the jewels of Moroccan cooking — a chicken or pigeon pie made with nuts, sugar, cinnamon and orange blossom water — everybody knows that a big celebration is on the way. After all, no one would take the trouble to make b’stilla on just any old day. This delicious pie is topped with warka leaf, a thin dough somewhat like phyllo that is made by bouncing fistfuls of wet, pasty batter on a hot grill until it miraculously comes together.

Other celebratory foods also appear at the ferrane, like crisp Moroccan cookies. Also made from warka, they are first baked in the oven, then taken home and soaked in honey.

Later that day, I ate lunch at the home of Mohamed Benaissa, the town’s mayor and an old friend from the time he was the Moroccan ambassador to the United States. The round bread and the fresh sardine tagine, the centerpiece of our magnificent meal, was assembled at the Benaissas’ home by their cook, Halima Sella, and baked in the same public oven I had just seen, only steps away from the house. The Benaissas have two gas ovens in their kitchen, but they prefer to use the ferrane.

“The oven is a social equalizer,” said Mr. Benaissa, who is also the foreign minister of Morocco. “It also creates jobs and is economical, especially in the summer, because we use little energy for so many people.”

After lunch Ms. Sella showed me how to make her chicken couscous with onions, ginger, cinnamon and saffron, a dish I had adored at the Benaissas’ home in Washington. She simmered it over the stove in a large couscousier, a double-layered pot.

The chicken stewed in the bottom of the pot, producing steam that seeped through the holes of a sieve and cooked the couscous in the top layer. Plastic wrap helped seal in the steam. Patiently frying almonds in hot oil, Ms. Sella insisted that the couscous be steamed three times, something that cooks rarely do in the United States.

As I tasted the Benaissas’ food and reflected on the different varieties of tagine and bread I had seen at the oven, it occurred to me that Moroccan recipes are proud secrets embedded in families, transferred by word of mouth from generation to generation. A little more cumin, a little less cinnamon? Should the vegetables be diced in rounds or squares?

These secrets are not revealed even to the man at the ferrane who does the cooking.
393 2007-06-13 1 cup bulgur 

2 cups plain Greek yogurt 

2 tablespoons chopped dill or basil or cilantro, more for garnish 

1 large garlic clove, minced

1 3/4 teaspoons kosher salt, more to taste

2 pounds ground lamb or beef

1 onion, chopped

1 teaspoon ground cumin

 3/4 teaspoon ground allspice

 3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

 1/8 teaspoon Aleppo pepper or a pinch of cayenne

4 tablespoons olive oil

Rice or pita or other bread, for serving

Sliced tomatoes and cucumbers (optional).

1. Put bulgur in a bowl and cover with plenty of cold water. Let soak for 20 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, in a bowl, stir together the yogurt, herbs, garlic and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Chill. Position a broiler rack about 3 inches from heat source and preheat broiler.

3. In a large bowl, combine lamb, onion and spices and remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons salt. Drain bulgur in a fine sieve, pressing down hard and squeezing to eliminate as much water as possible. Add to lamb mixture and mix very well with your hands.

4. Pour oil onto a large jellyroll pan or rimmed baking sheet. Using your hands, form lamb mixture into 2-inch-long footballs and rest each one on baking sheet. When all footballs are formed, roll them in oil, coating them all around.

5. Broil kibbe until well browned on one side, about 8 minutes. Roll them over and broil until browned on other side, 4 to 6 minutes longer.

6. Taste yogurt sauce and add more salt if needed. Serve kibbe with sauce (drizzle it on top, or dip kibbe into it) and rice or bread, and tomatoes and cucumbers if desired. Garnish with more herbs.
394 2007-06-13 THE best way to understand this fortress town, on the Atlantic coast about 30 miles south of Tangier, is to let your eyes and your nose lead you through the narrow streets where only foot traffic is allowed. While visiting here for a few days, I s...
395 2007-06-13 With a black wrap covering his injured left wrist, Phil Mickelson played nine holes at Oakmont Country Club on Tuesday with diminished expectations.     He often flexed his hand. He hit no shots out of Oakmont's dense rough. He said that if a smal...
396 2007-06-13 Oko, a new frozen yogurt shop in Park Slope, Brooklyn, dispenses only two flavors for now, tangy plain and wild berry, but offers an array of toppings that include fresh raspberries, blackberries, strawberries, diced mango and pineapple, several k...
397 2007-06-13 GIFTS FOR FAITH-BASED GROUPS -- Over the past 20 years Congress has given almost 900 grants to faith-based groups through the use of provisions called earmarks, including two decommissioned Coast Guard cutters that were given to a mission group in...
398 2007-06-14 Liberty Media and EchoStar Communications are preparing a joint offer for Intelsat, the world's largest satellite-network operator, The Wall Street Journal's online edition said on Thursday. Intelsat, which is accepting final bids for its auction ...
399 2007-06-14 A UBS analyst, Bruce S. Shipman, has some advice for holders of Dow Jones stock: sell now. "With the market pricing the stock as if a deal were a certainty," he wrote in a research note issued Thursday, "we advise investors to take profits." It's ...
400 2007-06-14 Hertz Global Holdings said Wednesday that the offering by certain of its stockholders of 51.8 million shares of its common stock was priced at $22.25 a share. The shares are being sold by the private equity funds Clayton Dubilier & Rice, the Carly...
401 2007-06-14 The Securities and Exchange Commission voted Wednesday to end price restrictions on short selling, meaning that investors seeking to sell a share that they do not own will no longer be barred from doing so because the price of the stock is falling...
402 2007-06-14 A report on Wednesday that the pancake chain IHOP might be about to toss Applebee's International onto its menu in a $2 billion deal, left analysts skeptical that such a deal was really in the offing. Bloomberg News reported that IHOP, owner of th...
403 2007-06-14 A group of hedge funds has asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to be on the lookout for manipulation of bonds backed by sub-prime mortgages. Paulson & Company, based in New York, told the S.E.C. that investment banks might pay inflated pr...
404 2007-06-14 Web video platform provider PermissionTV has closed a $9 million Series C round of funding led by new investors Castile Ventures and Point Judith Capital. The startup hopes to chisel out market share for customers launching Internet TV programming...
405 2007-06-14 New shows in New York include "In a Dark Dark House" and "The Butcher of Baraboo."...
406 2007-06-14 DETROIT, June 14 — John Edwards pressed his signature issue of universal health care coverage today, saying that he would force insurance companies to spend at least 85 percent of the premiums they collect directly on patient care.

Mr. Edwards, a Democratic presidential candidate and a former North Carolina senator, also said he would seek to cut health care costs by reducing the number of drug companies that hold monopolies on breakthrough drugs through long-term patents and by better coordinating treatment of chronic illnesses and preventative care.

He said his plan would save families an average of $2,000 to $2,500 annually and eliminate at least $130 billion in “wasteful health care spending.”

“Our health care system is entirely too expensive,” Mr. Edwards said during a visit to the East Riverside Health Center, a clinic on the east side of Detroit. “We put more money into health care than any country in the industrialized world and we get one of the worst products out the other end.”

Mr. Edwards was the first of the leading Democratic candidates to outline a specific plan for providing universal health coverage. Since then, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois has offered his own plan, while Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York has outlined proposals to rein in health care costs.
407 2007-06-14 The scene in Gaza was one of prayerful celebration for Hamas mixed with revenge. Hamas fighters took over the Fatah-run Preventive Security compound, driving away in cars loaded with weapons, computers, office furniture and other equipment.

Bystanders were shocked. Ghassan Hashem, 37, a civil servant, said, “I see Iraq here. There is no mercy. We are afraid. See how ferocious this fight was? There is no future for us.”

Islam Shahwan, a spokesman for the Hamas militia, told Hamas radio triumphantly: “The era of justice and Islamic rule have arrived.”

The prime minister of Israel, Ehud Olmert, said: “I call on my friend Abu Mazen,” referring to Mr. Abbas, who was in Ramallah, “to take the opportunity, now that almost the entire world understands the viciousness, the brutality of Hamas, to exercise his authority as the leader of the Palestinian people.”

Israel will do what it can, Mr. Olmert said in an interview, to “be helpful and supportive of the Palestinian people in every possible way, including economic cooperation and security cooperation.”

Mr. Olmert will travel to Washington over the weekend for talks with President Bush, which will focus on the collapse of Fatah in Gaza and Mr. Abbas’s chances of success. Mr. Olmert is expected to tell Mr. Bush that Israel favored sealing off the West Bank from the turmoil in Gaza, continuing to prevent contact between the two territories.

In security terms, Israel would like to seal off Gaza from the West Bank as much as possible, to prevent the spread of Hamas military power there, where Israeli troops still occupy the territory. Israel would also like to confront Hamas with the responsibility for governing Gaza — providing jobs and food and security to people.

Israeli officials suggested that Israel would work with Mr. Abbas and a Fatah government in the West Bank, and could gradually hand over to it the remaining Palestinian tax moneys, about $562 million, withheld since Hamas took power a year ago in March. “To give the money to a Hamas government would be reckless,” one senior Israeli official said. “To give it to a Fatah government is an opportunity.”

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressed support for Mr. Abbas’s decrees, saying he had “exercised his lawful authority.” Since Fatah conforms to the international conditions — accepting Israel’s right to exist, all previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements and forswears violence — a government run by it without Hamas would presumably not be subject to international isolation and restrictions.

The United States, Israel and the European Union consider Hamas, which seeks Israel’s destruction, a terrorist group. But it may be very difficult for the United States and the European Union to stop aiding the 1.5 million Palestinians in Gaza, no matter who their rulers, and divert all aid through Mr. Abbas, who would have little influence in Gaza.

Some on the Israeli right suggest Gaza is lost and should be treated like southern Lebanon, where Hezbollah rules another kind of mini, semi-state.

But some Palestinians believe that Fatah and Hamas may also come together again. Mr. Abbas says the emergency government will rule until new elections are possible — but Hamas will not accept early elections. And it may be that another Arab government, like Egypt or Saudi Arabia, will soon step in to try to patch together the nascent Palestinian state, which is in danger of collapsing.

Palestinians are unlikely to want to give up the idea of a Palestinian nation in both areas, with East Jerusalem as its capital. And Hamas has a significant number of followers in the West Bank, too, even if its fighters are far less well equipped and largely stay underground because of the Israeli occupation.

Hamas argues that it has purged the security forces of “corrupted elements” who were in league with Israel and the United States to harm the group. Hamas wants a restored unity government where the security forces would all report to the interior minister, effectively meaning Fatah would give up much of its remaining power.

In Gaza, Hamas began to settle scores. Its men executed a senior Fatah commander in the north, Samih al-Madhoun, who had vowed on the radio to kill scores of Hamas members. He was captured in an exchange of fire, brought to the house of a Hamas fighter killed in the exchange and executed, Hamas said.

More evident was the lack of Fatah leaders or commanders on the ground. The Gaza strongman Muhammad Dahlan, the former chief of Gaza’s Preventive Security who is now Mr. Abbas’s national security adviser, has been abroad for weeks for medical treatment. He returned to Ramallah on Thursday. His close ally, Gen. Rashid Abu Shbak, another former Preventive Security chief, is also outside the Gaza Strip, and the current Preventive Security head, Yussef Issa, was nowhere to be seen as the compound fell.

Of the few prominent Fatah figures left in Gaza, said to be on a Hamas hit list, some were escaping by boat to the Egyptian border.

Preventive Security cracked down on Hamas in 1996, led by Mr. Dahlan. Many of those who were imprisoned remember the treatment they received as cruel and humiliating.

“The Preventive Security has a special meaning for Hamas,” said Mr. Zuhri. “Our fighters were tortured and killed inside.”

He told reporters that the fall of the compound was “the second liberation of the Gaza Strip.” The first time, he said, “It was liberated from the herds of the settlers,” referring to Israel’s withdrawal of all troops and settlers from Gaza in 2005. “This time it was liberated from the herds of the collaborators,” he said of Fatah.

The battle for the Preventive Security compound lasted 24 hours, and neighbors said they saw members of the force who surrendered being shot in the legs. Others reported having witnessed executions.

According to Dr. Muawiya Hassanein, head of the emergency medical service in Gaza, 27 Palestinians were killed in the violence on Thursday.

Gaza has become increasingly cut off from the world and from key supplies.

All crossings from Israel and Egypt were closed because of the fighting, said Shlomo Dror, speaking for the Coordinator of Activities in the Territories, the Israeli agency that deals with the Palestinians.

Palestinians are not working on their side of the crossings, he said, and the Palestinian in charge of the Karni crossing, the main goods terminal to and from Israel, has been kidnapped. Karni has been closed since June 9.

Electricity and water continue to flow into Gaza from Israel and Egypt, but Mr. Dror said fuel oil was running low and could disrupt electricity generation in two days.

The International Committee of the Red Cross managed to bring in a small convoy of vehicles with blood supplies, Mr. Dror said, and nearly 150 Gaza businessmen left the territory on Thursday morning, “But we don’t know if they’ll be allowed to come back,” he said.

Concern was mounting both inside and outside the Gaza Strip over the welfare of its 1.5 million residents, many of whom are already impoverished. The European Union announced it was suspending its aid projects there, and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which helps the 70 percent of Gazans who are refugees or their descendants, said Wednesday that it was curtailing its operations until the fighting stopped.

“I don’t know if Hamas has a strategy for the day after,” said Mr. Abusada, the political scientist, adding, “There are more questions than answers.”

There was talk both in Mr. Abbas’s headquarters and among worried Palestinians in Gaza about requesting an international force to come to Gaza.

“This is the beginning of the separation of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank,” said Mr. Abusada, referring to the two Palestinian territories that were eventually supposed to make up an independent Palestinian state.

“This is the lowest point in our struggle. We Palestinians are writing the final chapters of our national enterprise,” he said.
408 2007-06-14 WASHINGTON, June 13 (AP) — The Federal Bureau of Investigation warned its agents Wednesday to carefully review all personal data collected from Americans in terror investigations to protect privacy rights and not to expect the evidence to remain secret.

The warning came in new guidelines issued to correct abuses of so-called national security letters that were revealed in a Justice Department audit three months ago. The letters allow investigators to subpoena evidence, without court approval, in terrorism and spy cases.

The Washington Post reported in its Thursday issue that an internal F.B.I. audit found that agents had potentially violated the law or agency rules far more frequently than the March report indicated.

Under the 24-page guidelines, which are effective immediately, investigators must request specific information, and justify its need, before the demand for data is sent.

Correction: June 15, 2007 

 Because of an editing error, an article in some copies yesterday about new guidelines for federal review of personal data collected from Americans in terror investigations misstated the name of the agency that issued the guidelines. It is the Federal Bureau of Investigation, not the Federal Bureau of Information.
409 2007-06-14 Five-ounce tubes of toothpaste labeled Colgate and sold in discount stores in four states are being recalled because they may contain a diethylene glycol, a chemical found in antifreeze, according to the importer. A Food and Drug Administration official, Doug Arbesfeld, confirmed that the chemical was found in a product with the Colgate label, but he said the agency was unsure if it was Colgate or a counterfeit. The toothpaste was sold in discount stores in New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Maryland. “Made in South Africa” is printed on the box. Varieties include regular, gel, triple and herbal. Consumers can return the toothpaste to the place of purchase for a refund, MS USA Trading said. (AP)
410 2007-06-14 The changes are evident in a variety of actions:

¶Intervening in federal court cases on behalf of religion-based groups like the Salvation Army that assert they have the right to discriminate in hiring in favor of people who share their beliefs even though they are running charitable programs with federal money.

¶Supporting groups that want to send home religious literature with schoolchildren; in one case, the government helped win the right of a group in Massachusetts to distribute candy canes as part of a religious message that the red stripes represented the blood of Christ.

¶Vigorously enforcing a law enacted by Congress in 2000 that allows churches and other places of worship to be free of some local zoning restrictions. The division has brought more than two dozen lawsuits on behalf of churches, synagogues and mosques.

¶Taking on far fewer hate crimes and cases in which local law enforcement officers may have violated someone’s civil rights. The resources for these traditional cases have instead been used to investigate trafficking cases, typically involving foreign women used in the sex trade, a favored issue of the religious right.

¶Sharply reducing the complex lawsuits that challenge voting plans that might dilute the strength of black voters. The department initiated only one such case through the early part of this year, compared with eight in a comparable period in the Clinton administration.

Along with its changed civil rights mission, the department has also tried to overhaul the roster of government lawyers who deal with civil rights. The agency has transferred or demoted some experienced civil rights litigators while bringing in lawyers, including graduates of religious-affiliated law schools and some people vocal about their faith, who favor the new priorities. That has created some unease, with some career lawyers disdainfully referring to the newcomers as “holy hires.”

The department’s emphasis has been embraced by some groups representing Muslims, Jews and especially Christian conservatives, who have long complained that the federal government ignored their grievances about discrimination.

“We live in a society that is becoming more religiously diverse, even by the hour,” said Kevin Seamus Hasson, who founded the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty 12 years ago. “So it’s entirely appropriate and slightly overdue that the Justice Department is paying more attention to the various frictions that increasing religious diversity is causing in the society.”

Combating racism remains an important mission, Mr. Hasson said, but one that has changed over the years. “We can now deal with the problems of racism more effectively on a more local level,” he argued. “We don’t always need the federal government to come riding over the hill.”

Some religious figures, though, are more wary about the changes at the Justice Department. Robert Edgar, president of the National Council of Churches, a liberal-leaning group, agreed that it was important to take on issues like religious discrimination and human trafficking.

But the problems of race and poverty in America “still require the highest caliber of attention,” said Mr. Edgar, who cited the flawed government response to New Orleans and its mostly poor, black population after Hurricane Katrina. He said he was distrustful of the Justice Department’s leadership to make appropriate decisions as to the nation’s civil rights priorities.

Some critics say that many of the Justice Department’s religious-oriented initiatives are outside its mandate from Congress. While statutes prohibit religious discrimination in areas like employment and housing, no laws address some of the issues in which the department has become involved.

“They are engaging in freewheeling social engineering,” said Ayesha Khan, counsel for Americans United for Separation of Church and State, and “using the power of the federal government to put in place an ideological, not constitutional agenda.”

The department declined to make available for interviews Assistant Attorney General Wan J. Kim, who heads the civil rights division, or Eric Treene, who holds the newly created position of special counsel for religious discrimination.

Ms. Magnuson, the Justice Department spokeswoman, said it was justified in devoting so much attention to the issue because Congress has demonstrated its interest by including religion in the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 and enacting the 2000 law involving zoning restrictions, the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act.

Ms. Magnuson also said the department had not diminished its interest in enforcing racial and national origin discrimination cases. The changes at the Justice Department began under Attorney General John Ashcroft, but have accelerated under Alberto R. Gonzales, his successor.

Mr. Gonzales has increasingly cited his agency’s record on behalf of religious causes as among his most important accomplishments, often noting the successful intervention in cases on behalf of people who had suffered discrimination for wearing Muslim head coverings. In speeches, he routinely says that religious freedom is the nation’s “first freedom because our founders saw fit to place it first in the Bill of Rights.”

President Bush has also talked of the department’s religion-related activities in appearances before religious conservatives, an important element of his support. Aside from any political benefit of satisfying conservative groups, the Justice Department’s shift has brought a more subtle dividend: a defense to the criticism leveled at past Republican administrations that they were half-hearted about civil rights enforcement.

The Bush administration has avoided that problem by changing the civil rights mission to something its Justice Department can take on with enthusiasm.

The department has prevailed in many, if not most of the cases in which it has become involved. It has, in effect, duplicated in the religious arena its past success in cases involving race and national origin.

At the same time, the department has sharply reduced its efforts to combat voting rights plans that may dilute black electoral strength.

Ms. Magnuson, the department spokeswoman, said that the civil rights division had brought more voting rights lawsuits under Mr. Bush than had been brought in the Clinton administration.

But an examination of the Justice Department’s Web site listing of the cases brought through early 2007 shows that many of them involved a different part of the law, one that requires voting materials be available in languages other than English in places with high concentrations of Asian and Hispanic voters.

Joseph D. Rich, who recently stepped down as head of the voting rights section after a 37-year career at Justice, said that only the federal government had the resources to bring voting dilution cases, while private groups have been able to bring the language cases. The civil rights division also brought the first case ever on behalf of white voters, alleging in 2005 that a black political leader in Noxubee County, Miss., was intimidating whites at the polls.

The shift in priorities at the criminal section of the civil rights division has been especially stark. The criminal section — which previously had mostly focused on hate crimes or lawsuits against police officers who may have violated someone’s civil rights — began taking on human trafficking cases that had previously been handled elsewhere.

During Mr. Bush’s second term, the section brought dozens of cases against people charged under a new law with bringing women into the country to work in brothels. The new employees with religious backgrounds were enthusiastic about such cases, seeing them akin to combating slavery, a former career lawyer in the division said.

Pursuing trafficking cases, rather than those involving hate crimes or police abuse, was seen as important to moving ahead in the department, current and former career officials said. They added that political appointees in supervisory positions frequently vetoed proposed hate crime investigations or questioned them to death.

“You only needed for that to happen a few times and people got the message they shouldn’t be eager to send up such cases,” said one lawyer who would talk only on condition of anonymity.

Rigel C. Oliveri, a law professor at the University of Missouri who worked in the civil rights division during the Clinton and early Bush years, said it became increasingly frustrating to bring what she said were worthy civil rights cases, because the political appointees would not act on them. “It was like a black hole,” she said.

Whatever cases may have been slowed or ignored, some religious leaders said they were grateful for actions the department had taken.

The Rev. N. J. L’Heureux, the executive director of the Queens Federation of Churches in New York, said the department had helped several Christian, Muslim and Jewish congregations deal with local governments trying to block houses of worship in neighborhoods. In Hollywood, Fla., for example, the department successfully sued the city for denying a permit to an Orthodox synagogue.

Sometimes, Mr. L’Heureux said, an inquiry from Mr. Treene, the special religious affairs counsel, had been enough to encourage local governments to drop their resistance. The civil rights division favorably resolved 16 of 26 zoning investigations simply by expressing interest in them, according to the Justice Department.

Kareem W. Shora, the executive director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, said that Mr. Treene had also intervened in cases the group brought to him about Arab prison inmates having access to prayer opportunities.

In so-called equal-access cases, the department has mostly won court rulings allowing religious organizations like the Child Evangelism Fellowship to have the same access to public school students as nonreligious groups, a principle generally approved by a divided Supreme Court in 2001.

In the candy cane case, for example, school officials in Westfield, Mass., had suspended students for handing out candy canes with religious messages, saying it was disruptive and lurid. The students said that the “J” shape represented Jesus and the red stripes his blood, the white his purity. In a pending case from San Diego, the government defended the city’s campground lease to the Boy Scouts, which had been challenged because of the group’s religious tenets. The department has also challenged so-called Blaine amendments, which are state constitutional provisions enforcing separation of church and state more rigidly than does the United States Constitution. The federal government sued because the amendments could impede Mr. Bush’s religion-based initiative, which provides money to religious groups for social programs.

As it has reoriented its priorities, the department has also tried to remake the cast of government lawyers who enforce civil rights. A number of career lawyers who served as section heads or deputies in the civil rights division have been replaced.

In Congressional testimony in March, Mr. Rich said seven managers had been removed or marginalized for what he characterized as political reasons or perceived disloyalty. Department officials acknowledge the changes, but dispute the reasons.

In addition, Mr. Ashcroft arranged for the agency’s senior political appointees to take over the decades-old system used to hire recent law school graduates for entry-level career jobs that are supposed to be nonpartisan.

Under the system, known as the honors program, nonpolitical career lawyers had screened applicants. Those selected were almost exclusively graduates of top-ranked law schools and often had had prestigious judicial clerkships or other relevant experience.

Monica M. Goodling, a former senior aide to Mr. Gonzales, testified to a House committee last month that she had improperly used politics to hire some people as assistant federal prosecutors and for other civil service jobs, a possible violation of federal employment laws.

But the pattern of hiring on an ideological basis was more widespread than what Ms. Goodling described, according to interviews and department statistics.

Figures provided by the department show that from 2003 through 2006, there was a notable increase of hirings from religious-affiliated institutions like Regent University and Ave Maria University. The department hired eight from those two schools in that period, compared to 50 from Harvard and 13 from Yale.

Several career lawyers said that some political appointees favored the religious-oriented employees, intervening to steer $1,000 to $4,000 annual merit bonuses to them.

Ms. Oliveri and several other law professors said placement officers and faculty at their schools found that graduates seeking work at the Justice Department had a better chance by cleansing their résumés of liberal affiliations while emphasizing ties to the Federalist Society, a Washington conservative group, or membership in a religious fellowship.

Ms. Oliveri recalled that when she was hired in 2000 by the Justice Department, she was impressed by the accomplishments of her peers. But once the political appointees controlled the hiring, she said, “The change in the quality of people who were chosen was very pronounced.”

When the front office sent around the résumés of those newly hired for the honors program, she said, “It was obvious what they had: conservative and religious bona fides.”
411 2007-06-14 Federal officials have decided that the Oneida Indian Nation’s Turning Stone casino, whose operations had been challenged in state court, can stay open, a tribal spokesman said yesterday. The federal Department of the Interior upheld the legality of the casino’s 14-year-old gambling compact with New York State, said Mark Emery, the Oneida spokesman. The department decided to review the compact after court decisions held that the agreement between the Oneida and New York State that paved the way for the casino’s opening in 1993 was illegal, and the tribe and state failed to negotiate a new deal. Turning Stone, which attracts nearly five millions visitors a year, includes a huge casino, three golf courses, three luxury hotels, and a convention center and showroom.
412 2007-06-14 The Securities and Exchange Commission voted yesterday to end price restrictions on short selling, meaning that investors seeking to sell a share that they do not own will no longer be barred from doing so because the price of the stock is falling.

The 5-to-0 vote, ending a rule that had been in place since 1938, when short sellers were blamed by some critics for having caused the 1929 market crash and the Depression that followed, came as the commission also voted to make it harder to engage in naked shorting, the practice of selling shares that have not been purchased or borrowed.

Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman, called naked short selling “a fraud that the commission is bound to prevent and to punish.”

When a naked short sale is made, it leads to a failure to deliver the stock when the trade settles three business days later. There are many other reasons for fails, but such sales are believed to be the primary one for many stocks.

The S.E.C. adopted a rule, known as Regulation SHO, in 2004 that was intended to reduce naked short selling by requiring the publication each day of a list of securities with heavy fails. Brokers are required to cure the fails within 13 days. But fails existing before the stock went on the list were grandfathered.

Yesterday’s vote will remove the grandfather provision, and the commission said it was also considering removing an exemption from the rule for options market makers who need to sell short to hedge an options position.
413 2007-06-14 Cardinal Renato Martino, head of the Pontifical Council on Peace and Justice, said Roman Catholics should not contribute to the rights group Amnesty International because it had adopted a new policy calling for access to abortion services for women under certain circumstances. Amnesty reversed its longtime neutral stance on abortion in April and adopted a policy urging governments to ensure access to abortion services for women in cases of rape or incest or when pregnancy presented a risk to the woman’s life or health. A statement from the cardinal’s office said that the “inevitable consequence of this decision will be the suspension of any financing to Amnesty on the part of Catholic organizations and also individual Catholics.” Amnesty also issued a statement, saying it had never received any financing from the Vatican or from official Roman Catholic organizations.
414 2007-06-14 Cambodian and international judges finally agreed on ground rules for trying the surviving leaders of the 1970s Khmer Rouge regime that left 1.7 million Cambodians dead. Cambodia and the United Nations created the tribunal last year under an agreement from 2003. Hopes to convene trials this year were dashed by disputes between Cambodian and United Nations-appointed judges over the past six months, mainly about trial guidelines. With a $56 million budget, the tribunal is supposed to complete its work within a three-year time frame. But the judges were sworn in last July, so the delays have meant that a year has already been lost without anyone even being charged.
415 2007-06-14 Scott Bearby, associate general counsel for the N.C.A.A., said in a telephone interview yesterday that the dispute “doesn’t really have a First Amendment angle to it” and that the N.C.A.A. had a right to protect the contracts it establishes with television networks and its own Internet providers.

“It’s a logical extension of the rights that have been around for years and years,” Bearby said. Furthermore, Bearby said, the N.C.A.A. can revoke credentials to events from news organizations that post Internet accounts of their events even by other employees who sit outside the press box or watch it on television outside the stadium.

In a statement sent via e-mail, the N.C.A.A. said: “Reporters covering our championships may blog about the atmosphere, crowd and other details during a game but may not mention anything about game action. Any reference to game action in a blog or other type of coverage could result in revocation of credentials.”

Rich Gordon, an associate professor of journalism at Northwestern University and a director of its new media journalism program, said that “this is just the latest skirmish in a longer-term war” that will get more contentious.

“The law, as happens in many cases, has not kept up with the technology,” Gordon said. “As a journalist, you’re inclined to wave the First Amendment flag. This is going to get messier before it gets figured out. The media trends are at odds with the leagues’ goal of controlling distribution and extracting a ransom.”

The N.C.A.A. action is occurring against a rapidly changing backdrop of how athletes, teams and leagues reach fans through different and new technologies and often bypass traditional news media.

Many newspapers have started or expanded their Internet coverage of sports events with reports before, during and after games. On the other side, players like Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling and Giants outfielder Barry Bonds have their own Web sites, and teams like the Chicago White Sox and the University of Missouri have relegated reporters covering their games to less desirable seating areas.

Yesterday, the Islanders addressed the growing influence of sports blogs by announcing the creation of the NYI Blog Box, a separate press area for home games at Nassau Coliseum. The team is allowing approved bloggers, and those who want to become bloggers, access to game notes and providing an area to interview coaches and players.

But, in addressing the issue that came up in Louisville, the Islanders said they had not yet decided whether bloggers would be allowed to transmit live during games.

The N.C.A.A. decision at the baseball tournament was ostensibly to protect the broadcasting rights that were sold to ESPN, which was telecasting the game, and CBS Sportsline.com, the official Internet provider of detailed descriptions for N.C.A.A. baseball tournament games.

An ESPN spokesman, Mike Humes, said: “To be honest, we didn’t ask for it. They didn’t consult us.” Bearby, the N.C.A.A. lawyer, said the N.C.A.A. initiated the action because “the entertainment event or sporting event has the ability to limit access to who gets that firsthand account.”

Bearby also said any challenge based on use of a public facility would be irrelevant because the N.C.A.A. rents the facilities for a private event. “To portray this as a First Amendment right is a little bit misleading,” he said.

Lisa Dolak, a professor of law at Syracuse University who specializes in intellectual property rights, said the N.C.A.A. might be within its rights under contract law to issue a press credential that said, as she put it, “Thou shalt not blog” and expect its rule to be obeyed.

But, Dolak said, the N.C.A.A. may have difficulty proving under intellectual property law that a live blog account of its games reduces the ticket value of its event or its transmission rights. “That would seem kind of weak,” she said.

Bennie Ivory, the executive editor of The Courier-Journal, said in a telephone interview Tuesday that the ban was a free-speech issue. “How can anybody control it?” Ivory said. “A blog is opinion and observation with some facts thrown in.”

Ivory and others asked whether it was in the best interests of sports promoters to discourage what amounts to free publicity for their live events and telecasts. One of them was James Speta, a professor of law at Northwestern who specializes in Internet law.

Speta also expressed doubt as to how such rules could be applied to bloggers at the games but outside the press box or to bloggers outside of the stadium.

“Somebody’s trying to set precedent here,” Speta said. “There is value in the immediacy of the distribution of the facts. But, once the hotness of the news is gone, there’s no protection for the value that comes from the distribution of the facts.”
416 2007-06-14 But it is not clear how these plants, or the seeds to grow them, would be acquired. The Assembly’s bill says only that it would be lawful to give patients marijuana or seeds if “nothing of value is transferred in return.”

Senator Vincent N. Leibell, a Republican whose district includes Putnam County and parts of Westchester and Dutchess Counties, said he would introduce legislation that would take a different approach. He said he would prefer that the state’s Health Department be in charge of growing and dispensing marijuana.

“The key issue is control,” he said. “How do you control manufacture, and how do you control dispensement? Those are the two issues that’ll be out there.”

The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said that he supported the idea — he has supported efforts to legalize marijuana for medical use in the past — but that “the Assembly version doesn’t work.”

He said he believed there was enough time left in the session to work out the differences, though lawmakers are grappling with a wide variety of issues in the five remaining days of the session.

Mr. Spitzer, the former attorney general, has in the past been opposed to the idea. But he said on Tuesday that he had rethought his position.

“On many issues, hopefully you learn, you study, you evolve,” the governor said. “This is one where I had, as a prosecutor, a presumption against the use of any narcotic which wasn’t designed purely for medicinal and medical effect, and now there are ways that have persuaded me that it can be done properly.”

But the governor said he would sign the bill only if it were “properly structured”; he did not elaborate.

Two years ago, the Supreme Court upheld the federal government’s authority to prosecute people for possession and use of marijuana for medical purposes, even in states that permit it. Federal officials have not appeared to prosecute patients aggressively but have gone after some distributors.

“Marijuana is illegal,” said Rogene Waite, a spokeswoman for the Drug Enforcement Administration, adding, “There has been no scientific determination by the federal government that there is any such thing as medical marijuana.”

State laws permitting medicinal marijuana use differ on how much of the drug can be possessed or grown and which illnesses can be treated with it. Hawaii and Vermont issue identification cards to patients who qualify, while Maine and Washington do not require registration with the state, according to the Drug Policy Alliance, an advocacy group that supports the legalization of medical marijuana.

In New Mexico, a new law requires the state’s Department of Health to oversee production and distribution of marijuana.

In California, the first state to legalize medical marijuana, a broadly worded law has allowed for the rapid proliferation of cannabis clubs and privately owned distribution centers.

But most other states, wary of venturing into murky legal waters, rely on a classically American business model: do-it-yourself. Approved patients are allowed to grow a limited number of plants, but must buy the seeds themselves — in violation of federal law.

“While it’s not a perfect solution, it’s the easiest one for states to implement,” said Bruce Mirken, a spokesman for the nonprofit Marijuana Policy Project, which promotes the legalization of the drug.

The talk-show host Montel Williams, who has said he uses marijuana to alleviate pain associated with multiple sclerosis, said he was encouraged by Mr. Spitzer’s “intestinal fortitude” on the issue.

“This is medication for those of us who use it,” he said, speaking from his Manhattan apartment. “We shouldn’t go to jail for it, and I shouldn’t be on the cover of a newspaper being ridiculed, because it’s my choice and my doctor’s choice.”

Mr. Williams has previously met with Mr. Bruno and former Gov. George E. Pataki to discuss the issue. He has said he has used marijuana daily, but would not say whether he had done so on Tuesday.

“I wish I could tell you that,” he said, “but then I’d have every cop in the city looking for me.”
417 2007-06-14 Mr. Olmert’s aides contend that the partnership with Mr. Barak, a former army chief of staff often described as Israel’s most decorated soldier, will restore public confidence in the government after an official investigating committee accused it of “severe failures” in the war in Lebanon last summer.

But Mr. Barak brings his own baggage on the issue, having presided over Israel’s unilateral withdrawal from southern Lebanon in 2000, a move some say contributed to the conditions that led to the war last summer. Mr. Olmert and Mr. Peretz were harshly criticized in the war report, the first part of which was published in late April.

The post of finance minister is also open. The previous minister, Abraham Hirchson of Kadima, took a leave of absence pending the outcome of a police investigation into allegations of corruption and embezzlement. Mr. Peres’s election to the presidency opens an additional government portfolio, giving Mr. Olmert — who is also being investigated in a corruption case and whose approval ratings sank to 3 percent in recent months — room to maneuver.

“There will be negotiations over the new appointments, and they will strengthen and stabilize the coalition,” said an official close to Mr. Olmert, speaking on condition of anonymity. “It’s a good day for the prime minister,” the official said.

Mr. Barak had called on Mr. Olmert to heed the war report’s conclusions and resign. Nevertheless, Mr. Barak has said that he will keep Labor in the governing coalition at least until the publication of the final part of the war report, due in August.

“Barak has made it clear that his goal is to become defense minister, and stay defense minister,” said Gadi Wolfsfeld, a professor of political science and communications at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. “If Barak finds a way to stay in the government, Olmert won’t fall.”

Mr. Barak does not favor early elections, probably because Benjamin Netanyahu, the leader of the right-wing Likud Party, has consistently emerged as the front-runner in opinion polls. But Mr. Barak beat Mr. Netanyahu for the premiership in 1999, and in his primary campaign he presented himself as the Labor candidate with the best chance of doing so again.

Mr. Peres, Mr. Olmert’s candidate for president, ran against Likud’s Reuven Rivlin and Labor’s Colette Avital, the first woman to seek the job. Though the role of the president is largely symbolic, many saw the vote in Parliament as a test of prestige and confidence in Mr. Olmert.

In the first round, Mr. Peres received 58 votes in the 120-member Parliament, just short of the 61 needed to win outright. Ms. Avital, who received 21 votes, withdrew before the second round, followed by Mr. Rivlin, who won 37. An emotional Mr. Rivlin called on all members of Parliament to vote for Mr. Peres. Ms. Avital said she was proud to have “broken the glass ceiling” by running, and gave her support to Mr. Peres.

He won 86 votes in a for-or-against second ballot, held for reasons of protocol. He thanked Mr. Rivlin and Ms. Avital for their “notable” gesture.

The victory of Mr. Peres, who is nearly 84, was greeted with relief in many quarters, because he has a reputation as a loser. He has been in Parliament since 1959, and has served in most senior government posts, twice as prime minister. But he had never before won a major post in his own right. His most stinging defeat occurred in 2000, when he was beaten for the presidency by Moshe Katzav of Likud. Mr. Barak, 65, entered politics in 1995 and was first elected to lead Labor in 1996.
418 2007-06-14 The Wall Street Journal will raise its weekday newsstand price from $1 to $1.50, starting July 16, the newspaper’s parent, Dow Jones & Company, said yesterday.

The subscription price will not change, a company spokesman said, so more than 90 percent of The Journal’s buyers will not be affected.

The weekday newsstand price has not risen since April 2001. In that time, newspaper costs have soared and advertising revenue has dropped. The newsstand price of The Journal’s weekend paper, which was introduced in 2005 and is published on Saturdays, is already $1.50.

Many newspapers have been reluctant to charge more, which can drive down sales, and The Journal already has one of the highest newsstand prices in the country.

The Journal is also one of the few American newspapers with a growing circulation; it has more than two million subscribers a day (including a portion of its online subscribers), and is second only to USA Today. Industry analysts say that with a desirable product and an affluent audience, The Journal does not risk losing many readers to a price increase.
419 2007-06-14 Stocks surged yesterday, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to its biggest gain in almost 11 months, after the bond market rallied and a government report on retail sales exceeded economists’ estimates.

Retail sales in the United States rose 1.4 percent in May, the Commerce Department said, the most in more than a year. Economists expected a gain of 0.6 percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.

Wal-Mart Stores, the world’s biggest retailer, added 59 cents, to $49.50. Home Depot, the largest home-improvement chain, increased 37 cents, to $37.73.

Stocks rose to their highest levels of the day after the Federal Reserve said economic strength had not added to wage and price inflation.

“Most districts reported that overall wage pressures do not seem to have increased,” the Fed said in its regional survey, known as the beige book.
420 2007-06-14 The Senate Judiciary Committee had previously voted to authorize subpoenas for the two former officials, but had not issued them, hoping to obtain the voluntary cooperation of the White House, which did not respond to several written requests.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, expressing the Democrats’ frustration, said in a statement, “The White House cannot have it both ways: it cannot stonewall Congressional investigations by refusing to provide documents and witnesses, while claiming nothing improper occurred.”

Congressional investigators have largely completed their interviews of Justice Department officials and assembled thousands of pages of departmental documents. Yet they still cannot definitively answer such basic questions as who initiated the effort to oust the nine prosecutors, how the nine were selected and whether their dismissals were motivated by a desire to push a political agenda, like accelerating investigations of Democrats or protecting Republican elected officials from scrutiny, as some members of Congress have asserted.

The inquiry has at least made clear that Ms. Miers and Ms. Taylor, among others at the White House, helped orchestrate the effort, despite an early statement by the Bush administration denying such a role.

Ms. Miers, starting as early as March 2005, was exchanging e-mail with D. Kyle Sampson, the attorney general’s former chief of staff, discussing prosecutors who could be removed. The consultations continued through this January, when she resigned, as she conferred then with her deputy, William K. Kelley, and Justice Department officials, over the backlash from the dismissals, questioning whether the administration should cite poor performance as a motivation.

“The individuals aren’t saying anything public. Senators are,” Ms. Miers wrote. “Then we are going to go out and say negative things about the people?”

Mr. Kelley wrote back, “F.Y.I. — maybe we can consider briefing the interested senators in private without going negative in public?”

Ms. Taylor, the e-mail has shown, played an important role in the appointment of J. Timothy Griffin, a former aide to Karl Rove, President Bush’s chief political adviser, as the interim United States attorney in Arkansas. He replaced H. E. Cummins III, one of the prosecutors removed.

Ms. Taylor expressed outrage, in one exchange released this week, that a Justice Department official had said Mr. Cummins was not removed for performance reasons. “Bud is lazy — which is why we got rid of him in the first place,” she wrote in a February e-mail message to Mr. Sampson, rebutting accusations that a job was being created at the request of Ms. Miers and Mr. Rove. Ms. Taylor, speaking through her lawyer, W. Neil Eggleston, indicated she was willing to testify if the White House and Congress came to an agreement.
421 2007-06-14 “Vietnam has experienced war and understands well the loss of human rights and freedom,” he said. “Therefore, we really love the fundamental rights of man and respect human rights. But if anyone violates the law we have to punish them.”

Since Vietnam, a nation of about 84 million people, gained increased visibility as the host of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum last fall, it has rounded up many dissidents, most recently sentencing two activist lawyers to long jail terms last month.

The White House said President Bush would “express his deep concern” over the issue, and some critics of Vietnam in the United States had lobbied to cancel the visit.

The visit is all the more significant given the opposition it faced, several Vietnamese and foreign analysts said.

“It strengthens the hands of the outward-looking, reform types in the government,” said Jonathan Pincus, the senior country economist for the United Nations Development Program. “It shows Vietnam that the United States is a reliable and mature partner. That is hugely important to Vietnam.”

One strong motivation to proceed for both sides is a desire to cement their relationship in the context of the growing political and economic weight of Vietnam’s northern neighbor, China.

Le Dang Doanh, a leading economist, said: “It is very important that the visit could take place because if not, the big neighbors to the north could try to push harder on Vietnam. And this is not good for the stability of the region and not good at all for Vietnam.”

Vietnam has carefully balanced its relations between the United States and China, and in advance of his trip to Washington, Mr. Triet visited Beijing last month.

“The two countries have a common target to build socialism,” he said in the interview, explaining his trip to Beijing. “Therefore, we want to enhance cooperation in many areas with China. As you know, China is a nation that goes further than Vietnam, so Vietnam wants to learn from China’s lessons in development.”

The United States is Vietnam’s largest trading partner, with an increasing two-way trade that rose to $7.8 billion in 2005, from $1.5 billion in 2001, according to Vietnamese government figures.

But Mr. Triet said he would lobby for more high-technology investment, saying American investment still lags as bilateral ties have developed.

“Now trade and investment-relations development is not commensurate with the politics of the two countries,” he said.

The United States ended a trade embargo in 1994 and established diplomatic relations with Vietnam the next year. In 2001, the two nations signed a trade agreement that was called the final step in postwar normalization of relations.

In January, with strong support from the United States, Vietnam officially joined the World Trade Organization.

The bilateral relationship has flourished in areas that include trade and business, military contacts, education and health care issues like bird flu and H.I.V./AIDS.

But last year, Vietnam listed the United States as only its 11th largest foreign investor with licensed projects whose total capital was $1.7 billion.

As relations have progressed, high-level exchanges have multiplied, from President Clinton’s highly popular visit here in 2000 to a flurry of visitors last year that included President Bush, Donald H. Rumsfeld, then the secretary of defense, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.

Vietnam’s prime minister and defense minister have both visited the United States.

Mr. Triet himself is seen as one of the outward-looking members of the Vietnamese hierarchy.

A southerner who was party chief in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, he is known for his innovations in supporting private enterprise and foreign investment.

He made his reputation as the chief of what is now Binh Duong Province, a land-locked area just north of Ho Chi Minh City with few advantages for development.

By relaxing conditions for private and foreign investment at a time when these were new and controversial policies, he created what is now one of the most prosperous regions in the country, a magnet for both business and labor.

“He broke the mold,” said Mr. Pincus, the United Nations economist. “He was able to change the way things are governed. So he has street cred among reformers.”
422 2007-06-14 Yet, as the free market and autocrats gained power in the Caucasus, Central Asia, Latin America and Russia, the initial optimism about democracy’s sure-footed march faltered. Some scholars pointed out that the American experience, where democracy and capitalism arose at the same time, was not so much a model for the rest of the world as an anomaly. “Capitalism came before democracy essentially everywhere, except in this country, where they started at the same time,” said Bruce R. Scott, an economist at Harvard Business School who is finishing a book titled “Capitalism, Democracy and Development.”

“In the rest of the world, it took 100, 200, 300 years before they got to where they could manage a democracy,” Mr. Scott said. A big mistake, he said, was assuming that “all you had to have was a constitution and an election and you had a democracy; that was really stupid.”

Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate now at Columbia University, agrees that one of the biggest changes since the early 1990s is an appreciation of the complexity and limits of democracy.

As more fledgling democracies fail, various theories have surfaced to explain the appearance of democracy and elections without real freedom. Fareed Zakaria, a columnist and author of a book on the development of democracy, suggested that some countries — Singapore, Peru and Russia, for example — went through a stage of “illiberal democracy,” where there was robust economic growth but few political liberties like a free press, the rule of law and personal liberty until liberal habits and institutions had a chance to develop.

Then, just after the start of the Iraq war, “There was a miniburst of optimism” that capitalism was leading to democracy after all, Mr. Mandelbaum said, with three popular uprisings in Ukraine, Georgia and Kyrgyzstan and elections in Gaza, Lebanon and Egypt in 2005. The burst quickly fizzled though, when the democratic “revolutions” proved short-lived and prone to violence and corruption. Now some scholars argue that a free market can even end up undermining democracy. “Capitalism doesn’t necessarily lead toward democracy at all,” Mr. Scott said. “The one thing that you can say is that capitalism is going to relentlessly produce inequality of income, and eventually that is going to become incompatible with democracy.” That is where political leadership and institutions come in.

Another problem, said Lord Dahrendorf, a research professor at the Social Science Research Center Berlin, is that when democracy fails to deliver the economic goods, people begin to doubt its value. “Few things seem more difficult and yet few things are more important for sustainable liberty,” he wrote recently, “than to separate capitalism and democracy in people’s minds.” Otherwise, instead of mutually reinforcing each other, the two spiral into disenchantment.

Even if capitalism does not assure democracy’s existence, many economists and political scientists say it creates a hospitable atmosphere and helps democratic systems withstand turmoil. Nor should we forget, Mr. Stiglitz counsels, that “the movement from closed to open society is a very big change.” To compete economically, a nation has to be plugged into the global information network, which exposes its citizens to other political systems and cultures. Reinforcing that trend, Mr. Mandelbaum said, is that the “habits and values of a market economy, when transferred to the political sphere, make for a democracy.”

But China, he acknowledges, is “the big enchilada, the big test.” Even with its growing middle class, it still has a billion poor people. Pressure for democracy will increase, but so will push back from China’s leaders. So far they have been successful. “The Chinese government is pretty good at buying off intellectuals and the middle class who fear disorder much more than they want political participation,” Mr. Fukuyama said.

He added that he would not be surprised if China and even Russia were to come up with a “new type of authoritarian ideology that tries to justify” their non-Western systems. He has already heard the outlines of such arguments — which echo the “Asian values” idea of non-Western cultural norms that lead to different development paths — from Chinese intellectuals and Russian policy makers.

Where the theorizing spills out of the classroom, though, is around the question of what can be done to influence the process. This is where stark differences appear, not between liberals and conservatives, but between the professors and policy makers. As Mr. Fukuyama said, one point on which he has differed from neoconservatives in the Bush administration is that, “I think, in general, the United States can’t do very much.”
423 2007-06-14 The Signature Theater Company, the 16-year-old Off Broadway theater that dedicates each season to the work of one American playwright, announced yesterday its next four seasons, which will feature plays by Edward Albee, Charles Mee, Suzan-Lori Parks and Tony Kushner.

What could possibly upstage a group like that? The announcement that, continuing on the success of the previous $15-a-ticket seasons, every seat for every play during all four seasons will cost $20.

For the last two seasons Signature charged $15 for every seat through a deal with Time Warner, the lead sponsor of the ticket initiative. (When shows are extended, tickets go back up to the normal price, which was $55 last season and will be $65 in the coming four.)

James Houghton, the Signature’s artistic director, said the ticket initiative was an unambiguous success, with all productions selling out, some within 48 hours. According to surveys conducted at the theater, half of the ticket buyers were new to the Signature, a quarter earned less than $50,000 a year, and a fifth were under 35.

“We worked very hard to reach audiences and communities that just don’t think about going to the theater because they’ve been priced out,” Mr. Houghton said at a news conference.
424 2007-06-14 Ariane Anthony is probably the only New York choreographer and performance artist who could get away with portraying, on the same evening, an at least superficially earnest lecturer on global warming and a glamorous gardener who eventually falls in love with the snails she intends to exterminate. Ms. Anthony did both, and more, in “Snail and other spirited dances and films” on Sunday night at the Construction Company on East 18th Street in Manhattan.

In “Global Crisis” Ms. Anthony was Shirley Sturm, a dowdy young environmental activist and “sex-

positive feminist” with the soul of a burlesque queen. Some of Shirley’s lecture was more sad than funny. Some was hilarious, as when she lip-synced an over-the-top pop song about loving the world.

And there were a few chilling moments, as when Shirley left the stage singing what she described as a paraphrase of a love song she had written. “Ocean blue, ocean blue, you’re a long way from Kalamazoo,” she sang, then paused and peered earnestly at her audience. “It’s true,” she said. “At least for now.”

In “Snail” Ms. Anthony slowly moved around the stage in a fantastical piece of looping, wearable sculpture of yarn, rope, twine and wire, created by Agata Oleksiak. Ms. Anthony talked of gardening and snails as she moved, eventually becoming both woman and snail, to an atmosphere-setting score by John Stone, her longtime collaborator. She wrote the witty, wistful text, as well as the script for “Global Crisis.”

The program’s other highlight was “Airmail Dance,” created by Ms. Anthony and Bryan Hayes from dance-plotting drawings by Remy Charlip, which he mails to performers interested in the piece. Set to a tangy, dusky original score by Carolyn Lord and performed stylishly by Monica Olsson and Vincent McCloskey, the duet resembled a series of flowing calligraphic shapes that were also provocative choreography.
425 2007-06-14 FASHION, depending on which designer you ask, is currently about futurism, romanticism, athleticism or the revival of 1980s-ism. Funny how no one ever mentions hippies.

Looking back at spring’s free-floating dresses, or the mysterious emergence of beaded headbands chez Miuccia Prada, or the countless amoebic prints (and paisleys!) coming from Dries van Noten for fall, it seems odd that the hippie undercurrent has gone largely unnoticed, even as we approach the 40th anniversary of the Summer of Love. Stefano Pilati of Yves Saint Laurent practically banged the message over editors’ heads with a spring runway strewn with violets and a man’s jacket printed with a crowd photograph of Woodstock. Mellow!

Nostalgia for hippie fashion can be seen more obviously this summer with the emergence of fun little bracelets made of braided leather and beads. They can be seen as a sweet ode to summers past, recalling friendship bracelets and vacation souvenirs. And when liberally piled on, they evoke a studiously messy hippie spirit.

Anne Slowey, the fashion news director of Elle, says the naturally bare looks of summer allow more liberties with accessories. “As your arms are exposed, bracelets make more sense and can be a little sloppy,” she said. “And this trinket jewelry is so personal. You look down at your arms, and it reminds you of your own soulfulness.”

The summer bracelets here, hanging as casually on the wrist as girls on Strawberry Fields, look organic, synergistic, carefree — or whatever term a hippie may prefer. And while you may not find a peace march or macramé circle to join any time soon, the difficult-to-navigate buttonhole closures of many of the bracelets may mean you’ll have to get by with a little help from your friends.
426 2007-06-14 A glance at the thermometer will tell you that the mercury is once again creeping into the 80s. And a perusal of the air-conditioned sale racks at Jeffrey New York will tell you that designers are doing the same.

If this season’s ahead-of-the-curve men’s wear — the clothes that flew off the rack as well as the lingerers — is any indication, the fashion-o-meter that tracks whichever decade is influencing edge-of-fashion designers has finally clicked over, from the 1970s to the ’80s. The shift has been coming for a few years, with designers like Hedi Slimane and Alexandre Plokhov referencing the style of bands from the late ’70s and early ’80s like Blondie, the Ramones, Elvis Costello and the Attractions, and the Clash. But now the waffling is over.

This spring, fashion enthusiastically revisited the ’80s with neon-bright colors, abstract and ethnic prints, blousy silhouettes, crazy asymmetrical graphics, impractically high-tech fabrics and New Wave accessories. Designers like Kim Jones, stores like Seven New York, European fashion magazines like Numero and Hercules, and New York hipsters like Geordon Nicol of the MisShapes are all waving, as Yaz sang in 1982, “Goodbye Seventies.”

If it all sounds a little much, that’s the point. At a time when so much men’s wear is relatively safe, and so many of the same looks can be found at Barneys New York and H&M, some guys are itching for a style, or even a T-shirt, that unequivocally pushes the envelope instead of being quietly, stylishly ironic. At the same time, many 20-year-olds, having missed much of the Us decade the first time around, have a highly romanticized view of the early ’80s, and are, as Devo sang in 1981, “Through Being Cool.”

“I’m a huge fan of Day-Glo,” said Will Granlund, 26, an artist in Manhattan. “I wear something fluorescent every day. The ’90s, they were such angst-ridden, drab times. I think it is time for something a little more lighthearted.”

“Eighties fashion wasn’t necessarily flattering,” he added, “but it didn’t matter. It was done in this spirit of not really caring.”
427 2007-06-14 Everything Wall Street has been worried about in the last week — rising bond yields, high inflation, the strength of the economy — seemed to weigh less heavily on investors today, and stocks began to recover.

After hitting a five-year high yesterday, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which influences the interest rates banks charge for home mortgages and almost all other long-term loans, fell today. The rising 10-year yield has helped feed a sharp sell-off on Wall Street that began last week.

But investors seemed more at ease today as a new batch of economic data suggested that consumers are showing little sign of fatigue, even as gas prices rise and property values sink in many parts of the country.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite all rose considerably in trading.

The rise in stock prices appeared to be a response to a report from the Commerce Department that said retail sales last month rose by the largest amount in nearly a year and a half. The 1.4 percent jump in May was far larger than what Wall Street was expecting, and it came after a decline in spending in April.
428 2007-06-14 THERE were no turtle rumps, dormice or sows’ vulvas in the freezer of Jesse Browner’s Chelsea kitchen recently, but there was boar meat, and his pantry — a swell pullout number hidden in a cabinet — held a whiffy bottle of garum, a fish-infused oil that smells something like a restaurant’s Dumpster on a really hot day.

Mr. Browner is the author of “The Uncertain Hour,” a new novel about the last meal of the Roman satirist Petronius, which — as Mr. Browner imagines it — included all of the above ingredients and then some. For some time now, Mr. Browner, 46, a food historian and translator, has been investigating ancient Roman haute cuisine, which was marked, he said, by the use of strange body parts, sharp seasonings like coriander and cumin, and spices like rue, pennyroyal and lovage, as well as garum, which he described cheerfully as “salted and fermented fish guts” while brandishing the little bottle of tobacco-colored oil.

Accused of a plot to murder the Emperor Nero, Petronius, Nero’s adviser on all things luxurious and the writer of the “Satyricon,” was allowed to be the architect of his own punishment (death by suicide) and the author of his last meal. This idea — the attempt at a perfectly crafted event — is one that fascinates Mr. Browner, who sees all “these unbelievable neuroses at work” in the preparation of food, at least the passionate form that he practices.

“It’s complicated,” he said, “and quite pessimistic and tied to all sorts of character flaws and childhood traumas.” Mr. Browner likes to say that next to writing, cooking is as close as one can get to creating a perfect world. “Everything in a meal is here because I brought it here,” he said.

He designed his all-white kitchen, with the help of an architect friend, Laura Kurgan, in support of that idea of perfection. It is the main event of the West 15th Street loft where Mr. Browner lives with his wife, Judith Clain, a book editor, and their two daughters, and the first thing you see when you walk in the door.

What you won’t see is a dish rack, overhead cabinets, Mr. Browner’s extensive armory of tools or much of anything on the counters, even when he is presenting, as he did a few weeks ago, a four-course Roman banquet for 12. He prefers not to cook in front of guests, he said: “I want to maintain the sense of magic.”
429 2007-06-14 The meatpacking district vibrates and throbs with so much trendiness and so many models and tan people that it has become an epicenter of conspicuous taste that rivals Robertson Boulevard in Los Angeles. And Theory is like the area’s City Hall.

Founded in 1997 by Andrew Rosen, Theory is owned by Link Theory Holdings, a Japanese company that recently bought and revamped Helmut Lang. It moved to this corner building in November. Viewed from outside, it looks governmental, but as you roam the gorgeous first floor, you sense that above you, every detail of your experience has been carefully planned.

Considering the cost of the renovation, Theory must be doing something right. It seems to have found a niche for itself: a contemporary clothing brand that is just a tiny silk thread away from being a designer label but isn’t one. The clothes stay as basic as Banana Republic for the small/medium/large mind-set while trying to be as distinctive as a designer brand like Marc Jacobs, which these clothes seem to emulate in both their understated preppie-cool style as well as their price tags.

It is here that you can get your basic white V-neck T-shirt in a soft cotton fabric for $65. Or, over in the women’s section, a black silk blouse for $275 and a tiny cropped black leather bomber for $815.

These garments are given names that sound like the monikers of models who work and party outside its doors: Danton, Ares, Zander. The fabrics and colors get special titles, too, so a pair of brown shorts are not just shorts, but Jace in Quest fabric and Coffee Bean color.

BUT no matter how seductive the feel, particular the fit or ingenious the categorization, I can’t get over how expensive these clothes are. But then, I am not someone who can just order drink after drink at the Hotel Gansevoort with cavalier joy and talk about how fun it is to be tricoastal.

For me, high prices are justified if I can fool myself into thinking that something is a luxury brand or created by some mastermind with a unique vision of the world. The clothes here do not offer as much wit, passion or unity of theme as could be had for the same amount at, say, Marc by Marc or John Varvatos. One rack, for instance, held business shirts in sullen blue and gray checks and stripes. They fit nicely, but couldn’t I go online to Lands’ End and custom-order something similar? That way I would at least have the satisfaction of getting more attention to personal detail.

Then something scary happened to me. The longer I was in the store, the more I began to internalize the inflated prices. My basic scale of value was unmoored, and as I searched a rack of sober blue shirts, I started justifying the prices. “Wow! This is only $145! That’s way less than the $225 shirt a rack away! It’s a steal!”

This led me to buy the stretchy Klaus shirt in Studio with Black Ticing (a cotton/poly/nylon weave in a thin black and white stripe) and the Kale in a Bengal Stripe of White/Sapphire, basically a cotton button-down in the conservative blue and white stripe of a banker. They seared my credit card as if it were a tuna steak.

For all my griping, I do kind of love what I bought. I wore my Klaus shirt that night and felt pretty special. For Leo, who will probably stop by between scenes, coming here may be like me lazily going to Old Navy or Target. Sick of free Valentino and Louis Vuitton, he can dash in for mandles, flip-flops and new duds for Clooney’s Italian mansion party. See? Everyone needs basic knock-around clothes, even here in the excessive Bizarro World economy of the meatpacking district.
430 2007-06-14 HOSPITAL CARE CHARGES -- Stark evidence that high medical payments do not necessarily buy high-quality patient care is presented in a Pennsylvania hospital study. Of the hospitals that perform heart bypass surgery, the best-paid hospital received ...
431 2007-06-14 The eviction of a newspaper reporter from a baseball press box for blogging about a game while it was in progress has stirred a debate about First Amendment rights, intellectual property rights and contract law.     The National Collegiate Athleti...
432 2007-06-15 New York City is giving away 1,000 branded bicycle helmets in Central Park on Saturday....
433 2007-06-15 First there was the official New York City memorabilia. Then there was the official New York City condom. Now there's the official New York City bike helmet. This morning, the city transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, and the parks and...
434 2007-06-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
435 2007-06-15 In an attempt to clear Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's path toward the Democratic party's presidential nomination of any potential conflicts of interest, Bill and Hillary Clinton have dissolved a blind trust that once held millions of dollars of ...
436 2007-06-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
437 2007-06-15 A hedge fund has called for the sale of Sunrise Senior Living, citing problems with management and accounting at the large U.S. owner of assisted-living and nursing homes. In a letter to Sunrise made public Thursday, Millennium Partners, which hol...
438 2007-06-15 The Federal Trade Commission reportedly wants to take a look at a few online advertising acquisitions, not just Google's planned deal to acquire DoubleClick. The regulatory agency also plans to look into Microsoft's $6 billion deal to buy aQuantiv...
439 2007-06-15 While Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, has offered warnings about China's market, Indian indexes have hit new highs, drawing in foreign investors and Wall Street banks. Many Indian companies are looking to take advantage...
440 2007-06-15 The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil suit Thursday against two lawyers, one a former enforcement official for the commission, charging that they had played important roles in a penny stock fraud that cost investors at least $160,00...
441 2007-06-15 Players of interactive online games and the avatars, gear, spells, skills and identities they forge to represent themselves....
442 2007-06-15 The West African man who lost his wife and four children in a Bronx fire in March that claimed 10 lives in all asked immigration officials yesterday to allow him to stay in the United States now that he has returned from burying his family in his homeland of Mali. The man, Mamadou Soumare, 48, is an illegal immigrant, and he received temporary travel permission for the trip. One of Mr. Soumare’s lawyers asked the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to grant his case “deferred action” status, which removes the threat of deportation. A spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services said the request is being reviewed.
443 2007-06-15 “This is a positive step forward in addressing the underlying structural problems that have negatively impacted our state’s competitiveness,” the governor said in a statement.

Under the agreed-upon legislation, the threshold will rise to $3 million in the New York City area, $1.5 million in downstate suburbs and $500,000 upstate.

“We trust all the players that are involved this time around, and that’s why we wanted to negotiate a good bill,” said Larry S. Bulman, secretary-treasurer of the New York State Pipe Trades Association, which includes plumbers, steamfitters and other groups affected by the law.

“It was a fair compromise,” Mr. Bulman said, though he added that the increased thresholds were “a tough part for us to swallow.” Mr. Bulman, who said he was asked to join the reform negotiations three months ago, said that Mr. Spitzer’s arrival in Albany allowed the bill to go through. “We had no faith in the previous governor,” he said.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had called for a full repeal of the measure but said he was pleased by the compromise. “The agreement announced today will allow over 70 percent of city projects to move forward without the Wicks restrictions,” the mayor said in a statement.

The agreed-upon legislation has not come up for a vote in either the Senate or the Assembly, but it is virtually assured of passage next week because of the support of the legislative leaders.

While the Wicks Law agreement was the most prominent news during the public meeting between the governor and top lawmakers on Thursday, emotions ran highest when Mr. Bruno offered a spirited critique of Mr. Spitzer’s campaign finance plan.

He said that lowering the state’s contribution limits — which are far higher than federal limits — was akin to infringing on First Amendment rights of citizens. He raised questions about fund-raisers held by the governor and his wife, whom he referred to as the “missus.” And he implied that the governor was a hypocrite for offering his top fund-raisers access to him if they “bundled” donations from other donors. “You set a limit on yourself, Governor, at $10,000. O.K.? But you have a fund-raiser to bundle a million dollars and you reward people for bundling a million dollars,” he said. “Sounds great,” he said of the $10,000 limit the governor has imposed on himself. “Good press release. So what?”

Governor Spitzer has limited his donors to not giving more than $10,000 individually to his campaign, and his legislation calls for the same limits on other statewide candidates.

The governor said he was “as close to a First Amendment purist as you will find, but this issue of campaign contributions is entirely different. This is an issue of the integrity of government.”

He added, “I think there is an overwhelming agreement among the public at large that far lower limits would increase our capacity to be open and honest.”
444 2007-06-15 Three Lexington lawyers illegally kept $65 million in settlement money that should have been distributed to their clients, according to an indictment for wire fraud issued by a federal grand jury in Covington. The money was part of $200 million settlement of a civil suit claiming that about 440 people had been injured by the diet drug fen-phen. The lawyers, William J. Gallion, Shirley A. Cunningham Jr. and Melbourne Mills Jr., were entitled to about a third of the settlement but took twice that, the indictment said. The lawyers have denied criminal wrongdoing.
445 2007-06-15 A federal jury convicted James F. Seale, a reputed Ku Klux Klansman, of kidnapping and conspiracy in the 1964 deaths of two black teenagers in southwest Mississippi. Mr. Seale, 71, had pleaded not guilty to charges related to the deaths of the teenagers, Charles E. Moore and Henry H. Dee, both 19. The men disappeared from Franklin County on May 2, 1964, and their bodies were found in the Mississippi River. Federal prosecutors indicted Mr. Seale in January, almost 43 years after the slayings. When he is sentenced Aug. 24, he faces life in prison on the two counts of kidnapping and one count of conspiracy.
446 2007-06-15 One worker died and another was missing after a column under construction collapsed on a newly opened bridge, sending nine workers plunging into the Bay of St. Louis, officials said. The workers involved in the accident on the U.S. 90 bridge, a two-mile span that partly opened to traffic last month, were employed by Granite Archer Western, the contractor for the bridge. Workers were pouring concrete on the north side of the bridge when a column form failed, said a spokeswoman for the State Transportation Department. Two of the bridge’s four lanes opened May 17, replacing a bridge that Hurricane Katrina destroyed. The bridge connects Bay St. Louis with Pass Christian to the east.
447 2007-06-15 A double-digit jump in the price of gasoline pushed inflation at the wholesale level up in May, but tame increases for most other goods suggested that price increases were largely contained and businesses would not react by raising prices.

The Labor Department said yesterday that the Producer Price Index, a national survey of prices before they reach retail buyers, accelerated 0.9 percent in May, from 0.7 percent in April. From May 2006 to May 2007, they rose 4.1 percent.

But the gains in wholesale inflation were not as great as the numbers might suggest, economists said. The core level of producer inflation, which excludes food and energy costs, rose by a relatively mild 0.2 percent, a sign that inflation had been contained last month.

“The thing to notice is that core Producer Price Index has been almost flat for three straight months,” Kevin Harris, chief economist with Informa Global Markets, said. “There’s very little evidence that producers are pushing prices forward from the intermediate level to the consumer. They’re just not doing it, and that is a definite shift.”

Except for a reading of 0.4 percent in February, core producer prices have not risen faster than 0.2 percent a month since November. At the same time, core consumer prices have registered monthly increases of 0.1 percent to 0.3 percent since October. The Labor Department today is to release the Consumer Price Index data for May, which economists and investors will study for clues about whether inflation is indeed settling down.
448 2007-06-15 Restrictions are being debated in the Central Valley towns of Lathrop, Escalon and Lodi. In most cases, brick-and-mortar businesses resent the competition. Many observers say the taco truck issue illuminates far more complex dynamics, from the perils of rapid urban development to hidden resentments toward, and among, Hispanics.

“It’s rarely if ever discussed, but there are obvious racial undertones,” said David LeBeouf, a lawyer for about 100 food vendors here and in several Central Valley cities.

The ordinance would phase out mobile and stationary catering vehicles, most of which are taco trucks, by 2011, and would restrict how, when and where 240 pushcart vendors could sell cold prepared foods.

“Of course I’m worried,” said Mr. Martínez, who at 36 is saving to buy a home. “It’s my job, my livelihood.”

Salinas officials say the proposed ordinance was not intended to shut down the vendors. “We don’t want to put these people out of business,” said the senior deputy city attorney, Chris Callihan. “We want to move them off the street and put them into brick and mortar establishments.”

Concern about mobile vendors escalated in 2005 when a trade group, the Salinas United Business Association complained about a proliferation of taco trucks, some run illegally, in east Salinas, a hardscrabble area that is slated for modest improvements, including new landscaping and a promenade.

The harshest complaints came from restaurateurs, who said that the trucks had an unfair competitive advantage, fostered urban blight, blocked traffic and were sometimes unsanitary.

“We all love Mexico, but once you jump on a plane you leave Mexico behind,” said Antonio Campos, the owner of a Mexican restaurant here. “Once you are in America, you have rules, regulations and standards.”

Taco trucks “should go to the fields and feed the agriculture guys,” said Mr. Campos, 29, a Salinas native of Mexican descent.

Mr. Campos and others want taco trucks off east Salinas streets. “If they are mobile vendors, keep them mobile. We have way more overhead and the competition is not on a level playing field,” Mr. Campos said.

Vendors pay $25,000 to $50,000 for trucks and about $1,000 for permits.

The vendors say critics are trying to undo the reputation of their businesses as clean, safe and respectable, known to provide a vital service to cash-strapped farm workers and to a growing legion of out-of-town food fanatics. The vendors have protested, circulated petitions and, as of May 31, hired Mr. LeBeouf.

Vendors “are very angry, very upset,” Teresa Hernandez, a volunteer spokeswoman, said. “That group’s whole argument is that the vendors are in the way of revitalization.”

Mr. Callihan said the city’s main concern has always been on public health and safety, especially since an E. coli scare last fall when tainted spinach was traced to farms in this region.

“There is a huge concern around here because of E. coli,” Mr. Callihan said. “It happened after the vendor issue came up. But it fed into it and our need to make sure food is safe.”

City officials, though, note that no Salinas vendor has been linked to a health scare, prompting some taco truck advocates to call the rationale for the ordinance “a smoke screen.”

“It really comes down to competition,” said Melanie Wong, a Salinas native and a frequent blogger on Chowhound.com. “Why should one class of merchant roll over for another class of merchant?”

Mr. LeBeouf said the ordinance’s rules on how far vendors must be from restaurants and that set hours of operation from 3 p.m. to 6 a.m., were unrelated to health and safety.

“It’s a restraint of trade and you cannot do it,” Mr. LeBeouf said. “The city may be banking on the fact that the vendors don’t have the money or motivation to challenge it. That’s not the way you make good law.”
449 2007-06-15 It said that Phillip W. Offill Jr., a Texas lawyer who formerly worked as an enforcement official in the commission’s Fort Worth office, had set up a sham company at Mr. Stocker’s request as part of the plan. Mr. Stocker was said to have received legal fees of $32,000; Mr. Offill’s compensation was not stated in the suit, which was filed in federal court in Michigan.

AVL was thus able to issue millions of shares of stock, most of which went to Peter W. Fisher, who controlled most of the company’s stock. Mr. Fisher was then able to sell it into the market. The commission also sought an injunction against and penalties from Mr. Fisher and his son, N. Tyler Fisher, who had been AVL’s president.

“The public markets rely on the integrity of attorneys and other gatekeepers,” said Linda Chatman Thomsen, the commission’s director of enforcement. “This case shows that the commission will pursue not only those who perpetrate penny stock fraud but also those who facilitate such schemes.”

The younger Fisher settled the case, agreeing to pay a $25,000 civil penalty, and consented to an order barring him from serving as an officer or director of a public company, or participating in a penny stock offering, for five years.

Under normal circumstances, companies that issue stock to the public must register it with the commission and disclose information about the company. Otherwise, the shares cannot be traded in public markets. But there are exceptions, and Mr. Stocker’s letters claimed AVL’s offerings qualified for one such exemption.

That enabled company insiders to “unload their stock without accurately informing investors of the company’s true financial state,” said Helane L. Morrison, the regional director of the commission’s San Francisco office.

Mr. Stocker had been involved in other penny stock offerings that drew official attention, including one in which two promoters pleaded guilty to criminal charges and were sentenced to prison. In that case, the shares were sold through the use of spam e-mail messages promoting the stock, and his letters enabled the stock to be sold in the public market. He did not face any civil or criminal accusations in those cases.
450 2007-06-15 CHICAGO, June 14 (AP) — Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings raised its bid for CBOT Holdings, parent of the Chicago Board of Trade, for the second time in five weeks, adding a $485 million dividend to its earlier $10.19 billion proposal.

The dividend offer Thursday was designed to stave off a higher bid from IntercontinentalExchange, an electronic energy exchange based in Atlanta. Previously, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange was offering 0.35 share of its stock for each CBOT share, valuing the exchange at $192.94 a share. Now, the Mercantile Exchange would also pay a dividend of $9.14 a share to CBOT shareholders before the deal closes, adding $485 million in cash to the deal.

Even with the dividend, however, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s combined offer of nearly $10.7 billion is less than the $11.09 billion cash and stock offer from IntercontinentalExchange.

Nonetheless, the CBOT, which has supported the Chicago Mercantile Exchange bid all along, continued to do so Thursday. In a statement, the Chicago Board of Trade recommended that shareholders approve a tie-up with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange at a July 9 vote.

Bernard W. Dan, chief executive of the CBOT, said Intercontinental’s revised proposal “did not adequately address important strategic and operational concerns, such as integration and execution risk.”

CBOT said joining forces with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange made more sense because it is a better business fit than IntercontinentalExchange would be. Intercontinental- Exchange operates an electronic mart focusing on contracts tied to oil prices, and this year bought the New York Board of Trade.

Terrence A. Duffy, chairman of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings, said the one-time dividend helped improve an offer it already considered preferable to the unsolicited proposal from Intercontinent- alExchange.
451 2007-06-15 The tax reduction is a two-part plan. The first piece would require cities and counties to roll back rates this fall and impose a cap on future spending that local government bodies could override only with a supermajority.

The second, more contentious piece of the plan is a proposed constitutional amendment for a “supersized” homestead exemption. It would shield from taxes 75 percent of the first $200,000 in assessed property value, and 15 percent of the next $300,000.

Should the amendment pass, homeowners could choose instead to keep their current exemption of $25,000 a year and a cap that prevents assessments from rising more than 3 percent a year for a primary residence. Those measures, in place since 1995, have kept property taxes low for longtime homeowners but not for part-time residents whose primary homes are elsewhere, or for business owners or recent home buyers. They are the ones who have clamored for change.

The plan would save property taxpayers an average of $174 this year, and, if voters approve the constitutional amendment, $948 in 2008, lawmakers said.

“I am so impressed,” Mr. Crist said in a news conference after the vote, indicating he would approve the first piece. Because the second piece requires a public referendum, it does not need Mr. Crist’s approval — perhaps providing him political cover if it proves unpopular down the road.

The vote on the property tax amendment is scheduled for Jan. 29, the same day as Florida’s presidential primaries. If approved, it would take effect in November, the start of the next budget year for local governments.

But counties, cities, teachers unions and Democrats who oppose the plan say they will strive to persuade voters to reject the proposed amendment. It would reduce public school spending by as much as a $7.2 billion.

“I think we could really devastate education,” said Representative Shelley Vana, a Democrat from Lantana and former teacher. “I think we are going off the deep end.”

But Mr. Rubio and other architects of the plan said that somehow — they would not provide details — the Legislature would bridge the difference.

Mr. Crist has repeatedly said property-tax cuts would not force layoffs, but local government and union officials insist otherwise.

“They are huge cuts, the largest we’ve ever seen,” said Andy Ford, president of the Florida Education Association, predicting that the cuts would block school districts from hiring new employees, from teachers to bus drivers to cafeteria workers. “It will affect absolutely everybody.”

The real estate and building industries, which are suffering from the housing slump, lobbied relentlessly for the cuts. The revenue that Florida collects from real estate transactions dipped 25 percent over the last year, causing overall tax revenue to fall for the first time since the 1970s. This year the Legislature approved a series of measures to reduce home insurance rates, which have soared as major hurricanes have struck in recent years. But many homeowners are finding the savings to be much smaller than they had hoped.
452 2007-06-15 Michael A. Cardozo, New York City’s corporation counsel, said on Thursday that to the contrary, “this is a critical decision for the rule of law.”

Mr. Cardozo, the city’s top lawyer, who argued the case in April, called the decision “groundbreaking.”

The only issue before the Supreme Court was whether the federal courts had jurisdiction to hear such a case. With its jurisdiction established, the Federal District Court in Manhattan will now proceed to decide whether the two countries actually owe taxes and, if so, how much.

A declaration that taxes are due would not, by itself, be enforceable. The city would not be able to foreclose on the property at issue, India’s 26-story building on East 43rd Street and Mongolia’s six-story building on East 77th Street.

But the city’s expectation is that in the face of a court’s declaration of liability, the governments will pay.

Further, its hope is that the decision, Permanent Mission of India v. City of New York, No. 06-134, will remind the 190 other foreign missions in the city of their obligations.

For the last few years, a federal law, the Foreign Operations Appropriations Act, has included an amendment that penalizes countries with unpaid tax obligations by withholding from their foreign aid 110 percent of the amount they owe.

Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who sponsored that provision, said on Thursday that the Supreme Court had “sent a loud and clear message: ‘Diplomats are not above the law.’ ”

Under New York State’s tax law, property owned by a foreign government is exempt from taxation if it is used exclusively either for diplomatic offices or as housing for an ambassador or a senior minister.

India uses 20 floors of its building to house lower-ranking employees, and Mongolia uses three of its six floors for that purpose.

When the two missions declined to pay the tax bills from the city, New York put a tax lien on the buildings and went to court for a declaration that the liens were valid.

The missions argued that they were immune from suit under a 1976 federal law, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act.

Under that law, foreign governments are presumed to be immune from suit unless the case falls under one of the statute’s specific exceptions.

New York, in turn, cited the “immovable property” exception, under which foreign governments are not immune in a case in which “rights in immovable property situated in the United States are in issue.”

The question for the Supreme Court was therefore whether a tax lien puts a property right at issue. India and Mongolia argued that the exception covered only suits about the ownership or possession of property, not taxes.

As had the lower courts, the Supreme Court disagreed.

Justice Thomas observed that a lien “runs with the land” and limits the ability of an owner to sell the property to someone else.

“A tax lien thus inhibits one of the quintessential rights of property ownership — the right to convey,” Justice Thomas said, adding, “It is therefore plain that a suit to establish the validity of a lien implicates ‘rights in immovable property.’ ”

In the dissenting opinion, Justice Stevens, joined by Justice Breyer, said the court’s analysis opened the door too widely by allowing the existence of a tax lien to invoke the property exception.

New York law allowed tax liens for a variety of landlord-tenant problems, he said, adding, “If Congress had intended the statute to waive sovereign immunity in tax litigation, I think it would have said so.”
453 2007-06-15 The frothy share prices and large initial offerings are intensifying a debate in India.

Market bulls say a fundamental shift is under way as consumers tie their personal wealth more closely to India Inc., paving the way for a more prosperous middle class.

“There has been a sea change in the way people are approaching savings and investments,” said Sanjay Prakash, head of HSBC’s mutual fund business in India. In the last five years, he said, a lot of people became very rich.

But bears have begun to talk about a bubble fed by naïve optimism and day trading. Indian investors have forgotten, critics say, the heavy losses they suffered after fraud depressed the markets in the early 1990s and the technology bubble burst a few years ago.

“It’s a bubble to the extent that we lack depth and breadth in the market,” said Prithvi Haldea, a founder and managing director of New Delhi’s Prime Database, which tracks issues and trends in the markets. About three-quarters of the daily volume comes from day trading, he said. “It’s more of a casino,” he said. If you ask those traders what they know about a stock, “they can’t answer you,” Mr. Haldea said.

While the argument intensifies, the recent growth and volatility are undeniable. In 2004, the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensex Index passed what was seen as the psychologically crucial 4,000 mark. It closed Thursday at 14,203.73, and many traders expect it to hit 15,000 this year. In the 12 months ended June 8, India’s market indexes have risen 45.6 percent, HSBC said. In addition, the amount of household savings invested in the equities and mutual funds has risen to about 5 percent from about 1 percent four years ago.

In May, the market cap of companies on the Bombay Stock Exchange crossed $1 trillion, putting India second only to China among emerging markets. But in recent weeks, the Sensex Index has yo-yo’ed, dropping as much as 1 percent in a day.

Stock watching has become an obsession in India, one that rivals cricket and Bollywood. India has three national business television news channels and another in the planning, four national daily business newspapers and dozens of business magazines. In The Hindustan Times, a daily newspaper that claims 14 million readers, the “World News” is tucked behind the business section.

Believing in India’s stock markets means believing in India itself — and the country’s ability to transform its combination of young population, dilapidated infrastructure, chaotic streets and unbridled optimism into a corporate superpower.

The market is “fundamentally going to rise,” said D. K. Malhotra, a 46-year-old bank manager whose household has about 50 percent of its savings in the markets. Sureha, his wife, a 41-year-old homemaker, does the trading, he said, and makes her own decisions. The Malhotras have put all their investments in blue chips, companies like Reliance Industries and Maruti.

“This is not a fad,” Mr. Malhotra said. “We sleep quiet at night, no problem.”

Even Bollywood has joined in. “Guru,” a 2007 film about an Indian villager turned business tycoon, neatly sums up the ethos of the time. At a pivotal point, a taxi driver tells the chief executive and hero, “I got my three daughters married” thanks to your stock shares. At the close of the film, the hero promises to make India’s largest company a global powerhouse, yelling to a stadium of gleeful shareholders, “Tell the world we are coming.”

In the Delhi headquarters of Angel Broking, across the hall from the Uzbekistan national airline, young male traders pack into computer-lined rooms that are frostily chilled against the heat outdoors. The brokerage house, which has 76 branches, has 220,000 clients and is growing 30 percent a year.

“The risk appetite here is greater than in developed countries,” said Dinesh Thakkar, founder of the brokerage firm, which is soliciting bids for a foreign partner. “If you’ve already got wealth, you don’t want to take risks,” he said, “but if you’re aspiring to be wealthy, you’re willing to do so.”

Younger investors, he said, are more willing to take risks than previous generations, and they understand the products. Investors, in general, he said, are financially savvy because many of them have run or have grown up around small businesses.

Even mutual funds, which have had a difficult time attracting assets in India, are growing.

While Mr. Haldea has expressed concern about day traders, he acknowledges that his son is active in those very markets. “He’s earning tons of money and is willing to put it into the capital markets,” Mr. Haldea said. “With a growing population, there are new suckers every year.”

Most Indian investors, though, are expressing nothing but optimism. Indian corporations are “buying companies bigger than themselves, and have confidence,” said Raman Verma, a trader who started with family money and now trades for several clients. “In two or three years, the market may be saturated, but not now.”
454 2007-06-15 NATO did not issue a specific endorsement of placing the elements of the system in former Soviet satellite states in Central Europe. But it announced an effort that in essence was an agreement that the system would be deployed: a study of how proposed shorter-range NATO missile defense systems would be incorporated in the long-range American antimissile program. That American system will include 10 missile interceptors in Poland and a network of radar defenses in the Czech Republic.

“There were no criticisms by any of the NATO allies of our missile defense proposals or of our moving forward,” Mr. Gates said. “There obviously is interest in trying to encourage the Russians to participate with us, to make the system complementary to NATO shorter-range missile defenses, and for transparency.”

These systems would be “bolted on” to the American system, which is designed to counter long-range missiles, in particular a potential threat from Iran, alliance officials said.

“The NATO road map on missile defense is now clear,” said Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, the NATO secretary general. “It’s practical, and it’s agreed by all.”

A senior American official, who described the closed-door debate under standard diplomatic rules of anonymity, was even more explicit than Mr. Gates in summarizing NATO’s support. “What you see here is allies agreeing to adapt NATO’s work to the reality that there will be a long-range system, as well,” the official said.

NATO was already studying a theaterwide missile defense system, and the decision made Thursday alleviates the alliance of the financial and political costs of creating long-range missile defenses.

The NATO study is to be completed by February. Its military experts will work on blueprints for short- and medium-range missile defense systems to shield allies not under the cover of the system proposed for Central Europe, including Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey.

In an unexpected development sure to be scrutinized by the Kremlin, Mr. Gates indicated an interest in pushing cooperation on missile defenses even further into the former Soviet hemisphere of Eastern Europe by raising the prospect of future discussions with Ukraine.

Ukraine is not a NATO member, but is part of an alliance dialogue, the NATO-Ukraine Commission. Mr. Gates said that on Thursday he “indicated a willingness to share information, data with Ukraine” on the missile defense efforts in Poland and the Czech Republic.

Russian officials have complained that the proposed system is a Trojan horse designed to counter Moscow’s strategic rocket forces, although Mr. Putin shifted the debate with a proposal last week to link the American system to a radar in the former Soviet republic of Azerbaijan.

At the session of the NATO-Russia Council on Thursday, Mr. Serdyukov, the Russian defense minister, “made no threats” about the American plans, said senior American officials who had attended, speaking anonymously under diplomatic rules.

While the United States, Poland and the Czech Republic are all alliance members, the negotiations on missile defense bases are being carried out in bilateral talks outside the NATO framework.
455 2007-06-15 “I love you, Paul,” someone shouted, halfway through Paul McCartney’s unadvertised set at the Highline Ballroom on Wednesday night. Well, more than one: A lot of people were shouting that. They couldn’t help themselves. He was right in front of them.

“I love you too,” Mr. McCartney answered, but almost as a defensive block. He put on a Tony Soprano accent, and he kept a straight face. “It’s the beauty of these intimate shows, you know,” he followed, dryly. “You get to have intimate conversations with the audience. How ya doin’? You’re the man! Naw, you’re the man!”

Cheery, but essentially trying to get his work done, Mr. McCartney presided over a formal facsimile of intimacy: 90 minutes long, in a 700-capacity room full of press, assorted V.I.P.’s, contest winners and stand-in-line-for-a-long-timers who had heard about the show only a day or two before.

The gig was a promotion for his new album, “Memory Almost Full” (Hear Music), and he put on a similar show at the Electric Ballroom, a slightly larger club, in London last week. (He has not announced plans for a proper tour.) It’s not unusual these days for big acts to play a promotional show at clubs they’ve outgrown; the same night in New York Franz Ferdinand played a secret gig at the Bowery Ballroom, and ditto with Interpol last week.

But for Mr. McCartney, who can sell out stadiums at hundreds of dollars a ticket, this was unusual. He used no pyro or video backdrop, and the audience stood close enough to its hero that it could hold nonconversations with him. He played beautifully, in tight control of his voice (even in high range) and his musicianship, through a clutch of new songs and some of the oldest Beatles repertory.
456 2007-06-15 Jody Oberfelder’s new piece, “The Title Comes Last,” establishes her as one of the funniest modern-dance choreographers in New York. Performed on Wednesday night at the Flea Theater, this trio is essentially an unspooling skein of pure movement, much of it acrobatic. The dance tells no story. But fleeting bits of mime — a fist tapping upward on another dancer’s chest, a bite into a pear — work together to suggest much about everyday encounters and the sensual impulses that lurk among them.

Best of all, there is not a single predictable moment in the piece. The dancers’ individuality anchors their pell-mell interactions. Carlton Ward is weary but willing to rumble one more time with the girls. Rebekah Morin is a wide-eyed, subversive sprite. And Elise Knudson is a mysterious player whose duet with an apple speaks clear volumes about the pleasures of sensation.

The score includes music by Debussy, the Tango Group and Fischerspooner, and bits of taped text from Fodor’s Living Language. None of it fits neatly together, but the music and sounds bump the flowing sections along smoothly. All is illogical in “The Title Comes Last.” And that logical illogic is one of Ms. Oberfelder’s great gifts. Somehow the sequences combine to create a sense of momentum that is crucial to dance.

“Heavy Light,” which opened the program, presented another kind of mystery, namely how anyone who created “Title” could have choreographed this work. Set to music ranging from Bach to John King, “Heavy Light” was billed as a tragi-comic piece inspired by Horace Walpole’s trenchant observation that “life is a comedy for those who think, and a tragedy for those who feel.”

Falling and piling newspapers suggested dance by Anna Sokolow at her most dire. But the rest was tedious meandering, though well danced by Ms. Oberfelder, Ms. Morin, Brandin Steffensen, Luke Gutgsell, Ms. Knudson and Mr. Ward.
457 2007-06-15 Rising energy prices pushed inflation at the producer level up significantly in May, the government said today.

But the measure of core producer prices, which is calculated by removing volatile food and energy costs, registered a small increase, which suggests that high gasoline prices are not affecting the cost of other goods.

The Labor Department said that the producer price index, a survey of prices before they reach consumers, rose 0.9 percent in May, compared with 0.7 percent in April. The core index, however, rose 0.2 percent after no increase in April.

Economists generally viewed the tame core level of inflation as a sign that wholesale price increases should remain contained overall and not put pressure on consumer prices.

Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist with Global Insight, said the low core reading “underscores the ability and willingness for producers to absorb temporary, albeit dramatic, swings in relative energy prices.”
458 2007-06-15 CHICAGO, June 14 (Reuters) — Johnson & Johnson said on Thursday that its Cordis unit, which makes cardiovascular devices, has resolved its issues with the Food and Drug Administration, clearing the way for the introduction of new products.

Cordis, best known for its Cypher drug-coated heart stent, has been operating under a warning from the F.D.A. since April 2004. Regulators cited problems with internal procedures, including many issues with manufacturing processes.

Resolving the issues with the F.D.A. means the company can now introduce the next generation of its Cypher stent, a tiny, tubular device that props open diseased arteries and delivers drugs to the site to prevent the vessels from clogging again.

The Cypher stent competes in the United States with the Taxus drug-eluting stent by Boston Scientific. Medtronic and Abbott Laboratories are expected to introduce similar products in the United States over the next few years.

But the use of such devices, initially hailed as revolutionary, has declined over the last few quarters amid controversy that they may pose serious risks of deadly blood clots.

And drug-eluting, or coated, stents, which have been lucrative for the manufacturers, came under fire when a study suggested the devices were no better than standard drug treatments in reducing deaths and heart attacks in patients with minor chest pain.

Cordis said the penetration of drug-eluting stents was down to the mid-60 percent range as of April, from a peak in the mid-80 percent range a few years ago.
459 2007-06-15 With those photos, she said, the mother is saying, “These are my kids, this is my life — you may think I’m here at work, but I have a second shift, and here it is, represented.”

It may sound “so horrible,” Dr. Birndorf said, but “the husband becomes a little ancillary.”

And oh Dad, poor Dad? Why is the schnook still putting up photos of the whole family?

Fathers are “a little more traditional,” she said. “They think it’s a symbol, as one of my colleagues said, that they’ve made it. It’s a status. The family’s intact.”

As for herself, being a psychiatrist, “I, of course, have no pictures up in my office.” Too personal. “But my husband, who’s a surgeon, has a picture of me and my kids up in his office,” she said. (We were tempted to point out that she said “my kids” and not “our kids,” but decided that this was a road best not traveled.)

Similar thoughts were offered by Dr. Harold S. Koplewicz, director of the New York University Child Study Center, who says that, yes, he has pictures of his wife and three children in his office.

Women, whether they stay at home or go to an office, are more likely to make the children a priority, he said. Men today may do more around the house than in the past. But traditional roles — Pop as chief breadwinner, Mom as nurturer — have hardly disappeared.

With the photos, Dr. Koplewicz said, “men are taking tremendous pride in the fact of, ‘This is my family. These are the people benefiting from my work.’ It’s very different from the mind-set of a woman who’s saying, ‘These children are my primary responsibility.’ ”

Even at home, the father is often missing from family photos. A technology company in New York called SharedBook, which turns digital data into book form, did a survey two years ago of Americans’ picture-taking habits. It found that the person who appeared most frequently in family shots was the mother, followed by the daughter and then the son.

Who brought up the rear? Dad, of course. Even the dog showed up more than he did.

One reason may be that “the father tends to take most of the pictures,” said Caroline Vanderlip, SharedBook’s chief executive. That said, “it’s more often the mother who puts them in a photo album or on a mug or makes a photo book.”

“Women tend more to be the harvester of memories,” Ms. Vanderlip said.

The father may be missing for a reason beyond the probability that he’s snapping the pictures. He is absent from photos because he is often absent, period. While fathers today are more involved in their kids’ lives, Dr. Koplewicz said, they are still far less likely than mothers to be on hand for Kodak moments: the kindergarten graduation, the school play, the midweek soccer game.

But there are, as we said, exceptions.

We are familiar with a father who has been photographed many times, from various angles. He has attended his daughter’s high school performances and taken her on college tours. He has cheered on his son at football. For sure, he has had rocky times with them and with his wife. Still, when last seen, they were all gathering for dinner. He seemed content with them, and they with him.

But enough about Tony Soprano.
460 2007-06-15 Equilibres  Matthew Marks Gallery  523 West 24th Street, Chelsea  Through June 30    Books, Editions and the Like  Swiss Institute  495 Broadway, near Broome Street, SoHo  Through July 14       The Swiss team of Peter Fischli and David Weiss have ...
461 2007-06-15 Frank Bensel, an assistant club professional at Century Country Club in Purchase, N.Y., spent his opening nine holes on the leader board of the championship, only to see his round disintegrate in a maze of mistakes.     Bensel shot even-par 35 on ...
462 2007-06-15 HIGHER YIELDS TO HIT HOMEOWNERS The fallout from the increasing yields on the 10-year Treasury note -- a benchmark that influences many long-term interest rates, including home mortgages -- is likely to be widespread, and felt most immediately by ...
463 2007-06-15 “Eagle vs Shark” is one of those movies that invite you to laugh at its misfit characters and empathize with them at the same time....
464 2007-06-15 The West African man who lost his wife and four children in a Bronx fire in March that claimed 10 lives in all asked immigration officials yesterday to allow him to stay in the United States now that he has returned from burying his family in his ...
465 2007-06-15 Three Lexington lawyers illegally kept $65 million in settlement money that should have been distributed to their clients, according to an indictment for wire fraud issued by a federal grand jury in Covington. The money was part of $200 million se...
466 2007-06-15 APPLEBY--William R., 92, passed away at home on June 14th. He is survived by his beloved wife Elinor, sons Peter, Richard, and John, by his daughter-in-law Stephanie Raia and his grandchildren Kyra, David, and Gabriel. He was treasured by his exte...
467 2007-06-16 The novelist Cathleen Schine reads from her latest book before an audience of 80 adults, and half as many dogs....
468 2007-06-16 Could congestion pricing become the next big campaign issue in the state? The downstate suburbs and New York City’s outer boroughs, hotbeds of anti-congestion-pricing sentiment, are also home to many Senate Republicans considered vulnerable to a...
469 2007-06-16 OAKMONT, Pennsylvania, June 16 (Reuters) - Australian Aaron Baddeley burst out of a four-way tie on Saturday to grab a two-stroke lead over Tiger Woods going into the final round of the U.S. Open at Oakmont.

The 26-year-old Baddeley made back-to-back birdies from the 12th to seize the lead, then bounced back from bogeys at 15 and 16 with a birdie at the last to post an even-par 70 and a two-over-par 212 total.

Woods, playing a near-perfect round from tee to green, took five on the 484-yard 18th for his only bogey in a rock steady round of one-under-par 69 to stand at four-over 214.

"You always dream of playing in majors and having a chance to win going into Sunday," Baddeley told reporters.

"I can only focus on what I'm doing. Today I felt really calm out there and peaceful. My game felt nice. I wasn't trying to press or do anything special."
470 2007-06-16 PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, June 15 (AP) — Five soccer players for Haiti’s World Cup-bound national youth team who mysteriously disappeared during a stopover in New York returned home to Haiti on Friday, the government said as it announced an investigation into what had happened.

Haitian Sports Minister Fritz Belisaire did not say whether the five were being punished. On the team of 18, they were among 13 who briefly vanished.

Five different players flew from Haiti to New York on Thursday to join the rest of the team, Felix Augustin, the Haitian consul general, told The Associated Press. The team arrived Friday in South Korea to play an exhibition tournament ahead of the World Cup.

The team members, all of whom are under 17, missed their original flight on Wednesday when the 13 players disappeared during an overnight stopover in New York. They all returned by Thursday.

No reason has been given for their disappearance, but Mr. Belisaire said Haitian authorities were investigating claims that adults helped the youngsters flee.

But one player told Haiti’s largest newspaper, Le Nouvelliste, that the group simply got lost, and said some players ended up sleeping at Kennedy International Airport before reuniting with team officials.

“We did not intend to flee,” the player, Pierre Elusma, said in comments published Friday. “The airport is very big, and we wanted to look around. But we got lost and couldn’t find the rest of the group.”
471 2007-06-16 Colombia is set to become the first Latin American country to give established gay couples the same rights to health insurance, inheritance and social security benefits as heterosexual couples under a bill passed by Congress and expected to take effect soon. Some states and cities in Latin America, among them Mexico City and Buenos Aires, have passed similar laws, but no other country in the overwhelmingly Roman Catholic region has done so at a national level, said Marcela Sánchez of the gay rights group Colombia Diversa. Congress’s lower house passed the bill, 62 to 43, late Thursday. The Senate passed a similar version in April. The two chambers must now agree on a unified text before sending it to President Álvaro Uribe, who backs it.
472 2007-06-16 Switzerland opened the 21.5-mile Lötschberg Tunnel beneath the Alps, the world’s longest railway land tunnel and part of the country’s plan to shift freight traffic off the roads and speed up passenger transportation. It joins Frutigen near the capital, Bern, in the north with Raron in the Rhône Valley to the south, cutting travel time for trains crossing from Germany to Italy by about 90 minutes and bringing skiers to resorts like Zermatt more quickly.
473 2007-06-16 Now the judges are hearing the merits of the case, Mr. Khan said. He said the chief justice could win because of what he called the weakness of the charges, and because of the way Mr. Chaudhry was treated on March 9.

The use of force and the presence of the three powerful intelligence chiefs, Mr. Khan said, proved that the president was not only raising issues of misconduct and accountability but also seeking to force the chief justice to resign.

Mr. Chaudhry has said in an affidavit that he was restrained against his will at the president’s office for several hours on March 9, as the country’s three intelligence chiefs tried to force him to resign. He was then kept under house arrest with all communications cut for two days until lawyers mounted demonstrations around the country.

Supporters of the chief justice and opposition politicians have accused General Musharraf of seeking to remove him and replace him with a more pliable judge before elections this fall. General Musharraf is likely to face challenges in the Supreme Court if he tries to stand for another presidential term and keep his post as chief of army staff.

Mr. Khan described the current charges against the chief justice as “quite minor.”

The list of charges leveled by the government includes misuse of office, like charging his family’s gasoline bills to the Supreme Court, demanding grander cars and motorcades and insisting that government guesthouses be at his disposal; intimidating the police and bureaucrats; and showing bias in appointing judges.

If the court dismisses the government’s case, Mr. Chaudhry will automatically be reinstated, Mr. Khan said. There will be no further appeal, because a full bench of the Supreme Court is the highest court of the land, he said.

Wasi Zafar, the law minister, said Sunday that the government was preparing a second set of accusations against Mr. Chaudhry because of his political activity since March, but Mr. Khan dismissed that as an effort to increase the pressure on the chief justice. “I don’t think there is any substance” to another set of charges, he said.

Mr. Chaudhry has toured the country since his dismissal, speaking to huge crowds of lawyers and members of bar associations, but he has kept his speeches to legal topics. Political parties have held rallies alongside his events.

In recent weeks the government has cracked down. Qasim Zia, a member of the legislature in Punjab Province and a member of the Pakistan People’s Party, the country’s main opposition group, said hundreds of opposition party workers had been arrested across Punjab, the country’s most populous province, in the past few weeks.

“Arrests are going on,” Mr. Zia said in a telephone interview from Lahore. “We don’t know why. The authorities have given us no reason. These are unnecessary arrests. There has been no call by us to break the law.”

On Thursday, one of the party’s workers, Sarmad Mansoor, 54, died of a heart attack while in Kot Lakhpat Jail in Lahore after the authorities ignored complaints of his ill health, the party said in a statement.

Mr. Mansoor, finance secretary of the party in Punjab’s Gujrat District, was arrested on June 6 and was sent to Kot Lakhpat for 90 days, according to the police.

“Mansoor was detained despite his poor health condition,” said Sherry Rehman, the party’s central information secretary. “Repeated requests by his family seeking his release on medical grounds were rejected by the jail authorities and the Punjab government.”

Party leaders demanded an inquiry and action against the jail officials, calling his death a murder.

There was no official reaction from the Punjab government.
474 2007-06-16 Wall Street barreled higher again yesterday after the week’s most anticipated economic reading indicated that inflation excluding the price of gasoline remained tepid last month, easing some concerns that have jolted stock and bond markets in recent sessions.

The Dow Jones industrial average in the last three days has surged more than 344 points, the biggest three-day point gain since November 2004.

The blue-chip index is now less than 40 points below its record close reached June 4.

The three major stock indexes finished the week higher, even as yesterday’s Consumer Price Index showed prices rose at the fastest pace in 20 months in May as the cost of gas jumped. Investors were enthusiastic that the core index, which excludes food and energy prices, rose 0.1 percent. The figure, which the inflation-wary Federal Reserve watches closely, was below the 0.2 percent increase Wall Street expected.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 5.16 percent yesterday from 5.22 percent Thursday after release of the price report helped ease concerns that the Fed might raise interest rates this year. The note’s price rose 15/32, to 94 29/32.

The notion of a rate increase gained traction last week when inflation concerns sent the yield on the 10-year note above 5 percent for the first time since last summer. Subsequent spikes in bond yields, which move in the opposite direction from prices, roiled stock markets last week and early this week.
475 2007-06-16 Rice, with a team earned run average of 2.83, thought it had the arms to quell Louisville’s offense.

But Louisville, which had 77 runs in eight N.C.A.A. tournament games, took leads of 5-0 and 10-4 before Scott Lonergan and Bobby Bramhall combined to hold the Cardinals scoreless the last four innings.

Rice used a three-run fifth and home runs by Joe Savery in the sixth and Aaron Luna in the seventh to get to 10-9.

“Coming back from six runs down, that’s something not a lot of people — including people on the team — probably thought we could do,” Savery said.

The Tar Heels (54-13), the 2006 C.W.S. runner-up, spotted the Bulldogs a 4-0 lead before rallying with four hits, two hit batters, a walk and an error to chalk up their fifth come-from-behind victory in six N.C.A.A. tournament games.

The Tar Heels, who entered the sixth down 4-2, sent 11 batters to the plate against Mississippi State starter Justin Pigott (7-7) and two relievers.

A fielding error by third baseman Russ Sneed and Benji Johnson’s run-scoring double tied it, then John Lalor hit Reid Fronk with a pitch with the bases loaded to force in the go-ahead run.

Adam Warren (11-0), normally a starter, turned in the longest relief performance of his career after starter Robert Woodard got roughed up. Warren allowed three hits while holding the Bulldogs scoreless in four and one-third innings.

Mississippi State, trying for its first win over Carolina in four N.C.A.A. tournament games since 1989, chased Woodard in the second inning

The Tar Heels’ career wins leader went just one and two-thirds innings, the shortest outing in 51 career starts.
476 2007-06-16 MOSCOW, June 15 — Russia’s intelligence service said Friday that it had opened a criminal investigation into British espionage here in Russia, based on statements and undisclosed evidence provided by a businessman who is accused of poisoning Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former K.G.B. officer and a Kremlin critic.

The announcement by the Federal Security Service, the domestic successor of the Soviet K.G.B., further confused a murder investigation that has soured relations between Russia and Britain. The countries have staked out starkly different positions regarding the killing of Mr. Litvinenko and the motives behind it.

Mr. Litvinenko died in London in November after ingesting a radioactive isotope, polonium-210. Last month, British prosecutors accused a business associate of his, Andrei K. Lugovoi, of carrying out the poisoning, and demanded his extradition.

Mr. Lugovoi has denied the accusations. Two weeks ago, he held a theatrical news conference in which he accused Britain’s foreign intelligence service, MI6, of orchestrating the whole affair and recruiting Mr. Litvinenko and a prominent Russia tycoon in self-exile, Boris A. Berezovsky. He said they had conspired with British intelligence operatives to provide compromising information about President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

Mr. Lugovoi’s assertions were the basis for the new investigation, the Federal Security Service said Friday, though its one-sentence statement did not mention who was the focus of any potential espionage charges.
477 2007-06-16 “We’ve paid our debt, and here comes the Israeli politics of the Israel Broadcasting Authority, like an overweight person who decides to lose weight by having a haircut,” Mr. Botstein said in a telephone interview from Budapest.

The Israeli government, citing inefficiency and overstaffing at the authority, has slashed the agency’s budget by a total of some 40 percent over four years, said Moshe Gavish, the authority’s chairman.

But Yossi Tal-Gan, the orchestra’s director general, said the decision would not solve the authority’s own financial woes, since its support for the orchestra is less than 2 percent of the agency’s total budget.

Mr. Gavish said the authority could no longer shoulder the cost of the orchestra.

“We cannot pay for this when we cannot pay for all the other things we are responsible for paying,” he said, adding that it was unclear if authority employees would be paid on time in July.

Mr. Gavish suggested that the city of Jerusalem and the culture ministry increase their own small contributions to the orchestra to offset the cuts.

Orchestra players and officials countered that the symphony was an easy target for budget cuts compared with powerful labor unions, which would battle over salaries. They said with some bitterness that with the Israeli economy thriving, it was sad that money could not be found to support one of the nation’s founding cultural institutions.

The orchestra, which operates in the shadow of the more famous and established Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, sees itself as having two main roles: to play for the radio audience and to be a central force for culture in Jerusalem, an increasingly poor and religious city that has seen its base of secular cultural institutions begin to dwindle.

The orchestra differentiates itself from the Israel Philharmonic, which celebrated its 70th anniversary in 2006, by playing a more diverse and less traditional repertory. It has been a home for pieces by Israeli composers and lesser-known or more challenging modern works.

One of Mr. Botstein’s innovations was to introduce a thematic approach to programs, with one of music written in the aftermath of World War II, for example, or another of music of the late 19th century inspired by Shakespeare.

On Wednesday and Thursday the orchestra is scheduled to play a program titled “Music and the Macabre,” including Aaron Copland’s “Grohg,” about female vampires, and Bartok’s “Miraculous Mandarin” (Op. 10), about a prostitute in league with robbers and the otherworldly man they lure to his death.

Marina Schwartz, a violinist in the orchestra who immigrated to Israel from St. Petersburg, Russia, in the early 1990s said there was a scrappy resourcefulness to the symphony that was part of its charm. “There are problems all the time, and yet we keep fighting on,” she said. “This makes me proud.”

Mr. Botstein pleads that the fate of the orchestra is linked with Israel’s cultural future. “We as a Jewish people always valued learning and culture,” he insisted. “In the end is all that is interesting to the state of Israel soccer? Is this the dream of the founders of the state?”
478 2007-06-16 The standard advice for those caught on the treadmill of “getting and spending” could come straight from the mouth of the ant: material kicks don’t pay off in the end, so mend your ways, plan ahead and financial prudence eventually will be its own reward. But this sort of finger-wagging makes few converts in the grasshopper world.

A more compelling approach may be to focus more on what makes you happier — because investing in your own well-being and quality of life may turn out to be more prudent and more profitable than you thought.

Tim Kasser, an associate professor of psychology at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., studied 200 people who embraced Voluntary Simplicity, a movement focused “less on materialistic values — like wanting money and possessions and status — and more on what we called intrinsic values or goals,” Professor Kasser said. The three main intrinsic values were being connected to family and friends, exploring one’s interests or skills and “making the world a better place,” he said.

He conducted the study in 2005 with Kirk Brown, an assistant professor of psychology at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond. The researchers compared the attitudes and behaviors of this group with a matched sample of 200 mainstream Americans.

Although the mainstream group’s income was much higher, an average of about $41,000 a year compared with $26,000 for those aiming to live more simply, “we found the people in the Voluntary Simplicity group were much happier and more satisfied with life,” Professor Kasser said.

THAT doesn’t mean frugal people are happier, said Professor Kasser, adding that research findings on this topic are mixed. But the study found that when people invested more in intrinsic values, like relationships and quality of life, and less in consumption, it seemed to increase their happiness. And, the study suggested, there may be a financial gain to doing so. Those in the simplicity group were far more likely than the control group to say that they were careful about their spending, Professor Kasser said.

Christopher K. Hsee, a professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, has observed a similar pattern. He points out that when people use their purchases as a semaphore of status, there is “no natural stopping point;” there will always be a bigger house, a fancier car, a more expensive watch to go after.

When it comes to more basic needs, like food or sleep or friendship, most people naturally reach a point of satisfaction. “Consequently, people who value these types of goods may be financially better off,” Professor Hsee said.

As someone who struggles against her own grasshopper nature, wishing she had the foresight and impulse control of the ant, I like the idea that there’s another path to fiscal prudence. Working hard and being practical are ideal skills to have in life, but if those aren’t your bag, investing in a happier way of life may offer the same financial dividend. Too bad the ant didn’t know about that.
479 2007-06-16 Declining inflation is what Fed officials have sought as they raised interest rates for two years before stopping last summer. Since then, they have left the benchmark short-term interest rate on hold at 5.25 percent, saying that inflation was still too high for them to consider lowering rates.

Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist with High Frequency Economics, said in a research report today that falling core inflation raises “the question of just how long the Fed can credibly continue to argue that there is upside inflation risk.”

Wall Street would cheer an interest rate cut. Indeed, much of the turmoil in the stock market last week and early this week was over worries that the Fed might raise rates. But a low reading on the core producer price index yesterday, which surveys prices at the wholesale level, and a report from the Fed that showed few signs of inflation in the central bank’s 12 regional districts went a long way toward calming those fears.

But economists said that an interest rate cut is probably far off. “It’s too early to say that inflation isn’t an issue,” said James Knightley, senior economist with ING Wholesale Banking.

While core inflation is falling, that is likely of little comfort for Americans who are paying near-record prices to fill up their vehicles with gasoline. Gas prices jumped 10.5 percent last month, compared with an increase of 4.7 percent in April.

Higher gas prices were the primary reason wages for the average American worker fell last month after inflation is taken into account — meaning that most Americans have seen an effective pay cut. In a separate report, the Labor Department said today that real average weekly earnings for workers in nonmanagement jobs declined 0.2 percent last month.

Pressuring consumers further, food prices continued to rise, though not as sharply as a few months ago. This year so far, beef prices are up 5.1 percent, poultry prices 4.3 percent and pork prices 3.4 percent.

As prices climbed, consumer confidence took a hit. The University of Michigan reported that its index of consumer confidence fell this month to a 10-month low. At the same time, the expectations that Americans have for inflation edged higher.

“If you drive or eat, hold on to your wallets,” said Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors. “Over the year, gasoline prices have jumped 6 percent while food is up about 4 percent. This is a real problem for many households.”
480 2007-06-16 Photo shows Thailand's former prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, speaking by video link to about 15,000 supporters in Bangkok...
481 2007-06-16 APPLEBY--William. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed former member William Appleby. We extended our deepest condolences to his family. N. Barry Ross, President Jeffrey Levy, Secretary     $(6$)APPLEBY--Wi...
482 2007-06-17 Ángel Cabrera became the first player from Argentina to win the U.S. Open and the first to win a major since Roberto De Vicenzo won the British Open in 1967....
483 2007-06-17 The increasing numbers of veiled Muslim women are fueling the debate over the role of Muslims in British life....
484 2007-06-17 By our grandfather's cabin, on the high ridge, opposite a slope of buckeye trees, Claire sits on her horse, wrapped in a thick blanket. She has camped all night and lit a fire in the hearth of that small structure our ancestor built more than a generation ago, and which he lived in like a hermit or some creature, when he first came to this country. He was a self-sufficient bachelor who eventually owned all the land he looked down onto. He married lackadaisically when he was forty, had one son, and left him this farm along the Petaluma road.

Claire moves slowly on the ridge above the two valleys full of morning mist. The coast is to her left. On her right is the journey to Sacramento and the delta towns such as Rio Vista with its populations left over from the Gold Rush.

She persuades the horse down through the whiteness alongside crowded trees. She has been smelling smoke for the last twenty minutes, and, on the outskirts of Glen Ellen, she sees the town bar on fire -the local arsonist has struck early, when certain it would be empty. She watches from a distance without dismounting. The horse, Territorial, seldom allows a remount; in this he can be fooled only once a day. The two of them, rider and animal, don't fully trust each other, although the horse is my sister Claire's closest ally. She will use every trick not in the book to stop his rearing and bucking. She carries plastic bags of water with her and leans forward and smashes them onto his neck so the animal believes it is his own blood and will calm for a minute. When Claire is on a horse she loses her limp and is in charge of the universe, a centaur. Someday she will meet and marry a centaur.

The fire takes an hour to burn down. The Glen Ellen Bar has always been the location of fights, and even now she can see scuffles starting up on the streets, perhaps to honour the landmark. She sidles the animal against the slippery red wood of a madrone bush and eats its berries, then rides down into the town, past the fire. Close by, as she passes, she can hear the last beams collapsing like a roll of thunder, and she steers the horse away from the sound.

On the way home she passes vineyards with their prehistoric-looking heat blowers that keep air moving so the vines don't freeze. Ten years earlier, in her youth, smudge pots burned all night to keep the air warm.

Most mornings we used to come into the dark kitchen and silently cut thick slices of cheese for ourselves. My father drinks a cup of red wine. Then we walk to the barn. Coop is already there, raking the soiled straw, and soon we are milking the cows, our heads resting against their flanks. A father, his two eleven-year-old daughters, and Coop the hired hand, a few years older than us. No one has talked yet, there's just been the noise of pails or gates swinging open.
485 2007-06-17 Ángel Cabrera became the first player from Argentina to win the United States Open and the first to win a major since Roberto De Vicenzo won the British Open in 1967....
486 2007-06-17 DALLAS, June 16 (AP) — Choosing a wealthy retired businessman over an openly gay city councilman, voters elected Tom Leppert as Dallas mayor Saturday by a wide margin.

Capping a swift rise from political unknown to the top office of the nation’s ninth-largest city, Mr. Leppert won the most expensive mayoral race in Dallas history. He received about 58 percent of the vote in the final but unofficial results of the runoff, beating Ed Oakley by more than 13,000 votes.

“I understand the trust and confidence they’ve placed in me,” Mr. Leppert, 53, said. “I am eager to fulfill that trust and confidence.”

Mr. Oakley said it was not possible to say what it had been like to “serve Dallas, change Dallas and put Dallas on a path of greatness. I truly believe I’ve been part of that.”

Mr. Leppert, a former head of the Turner Corporation, a construction firm, had never run for elected office.
487 2007-06-17 With 32 career goals, Donovan moved within two of Eric Wynalda’s United States record. It was the 10th Gold Cup goal for Donovan, who moved ahead of Wynalda into second place in tournament history, two behind Mexico’s Luis Roberto Alves.

“I don’t want to downplay it because, obviously, it’s cool,” Donovan said. “But in the context of what’s going on with the team, it pales in comparison.”

Donovan also scored on a penalty kick in injury time in Tuesday’s 4-0 victory against El Salvador in group play.

The defending champion Americans, who jumped to 16th from 29th in the latest FIFA rankings, need to improve on finishing their scoring chances. In the first half yesterday, Taylor Twellman missed three good opportunities and Donovan said he had two “great” chances.

“It was just one of those days, but we won, so who really cares?” said Twellman, a member of the New England Revolution of Major League Soccer.

Blas Perez scored for 57th-ranked Panama, which lost to the United States on penalty kicks in the 2005 final of the Gold Cup, the championship of North and Central America and the Caribbean. Perez’s goal was the first allowed by the United States in this year’s tournament.

The United States improved to 8-0-1 since Bradley took over as coach from Bruce Arena. The Gold Cup winner qualifies for the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup in South Africa.

U.S. WOMEN BEAT CHINA Abby Wambach scored twice on headers in the second half to give the United States women’s national team a 2-0 victory against China in Cleveland.

The match was the first in a six-game exhibition series for the United States leading up to the women’s World Cup in September in China.

Wambach outjumped goalkeeper Zhang Yanru in the 67th minute to convert a looping free kick from 35 yards by Kristine Lilly. The ball caromed off the back of Wambach’s head and inside the near post.

“We were a step off and slow to get going,” Wambach said. “But we’ve worked hard on set pieces. I believe set pieces are what will win or lose the World Cup.”

In the 88th minute, Wambach scored on another set piece, diving headfirst to redirect a corner kick by Stephanie Lopez. It was Wambach’s 73rd goal in 91 games for the national team, putting her two behind Cindy Parlow for fifth place on the team’s career list.

The Americans improved to 8-0-2 this year, including three victories against China. They are 34-0-7 over all since Greg Ryan took over as coach in March 2005.

The Americans will play Brazil at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., next Saturday.

BECKHAM SET TO PLAY David Beckham has recovered from an ankle injury and will play for Real Madrid against Mallorca today in a match that will determine the Spanish league title.

Madrid is tied with Barcelona with 73 points, while the Union of European Football Association Cup champion Sevilla has 71. Madrid will clinch its record 30th league title if it wins because it holds a tie breaker against Barcelona.
488 2007-06-17 “The governors feel very strongly that the commissioners will implement this immediately,” perhaps as early as this week, she said.

But Richard L. Brodsky, a New York assemblyman and a frequent critic of the Port Authority, said the governors’ proposals, which call for an amendment of the authority’s bylaws, did not go far enough.

“That’s a way for governors to keep legislatures out of the picture,” said Mr. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester.

Rather than rely on the authority to change its practices, he said, both states should pass laws to require more accountability from the Port Authority and to appoint an inspector general to investigate wrongdoing. The authority, Mr. Brodsky said, has been an agency “uncontrolled by laws or democratic institutions.”

The authority has an operating budget of more than $5 billion. It operates Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark Liberty International airports; a seaport at the Port of Newark; the bus terminals in Midtown Manhattan and at the George Washington Bridge; the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels and the George Washington Bridge; and is overseeing rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, which it owns.

Stephen Sigmund, chief of public and government affairs for the authority, said, “We continue to make the Port Authority more open and more transparent, and we will continue to work with” the governors “to implement these changes in the coming weeks.”

The governors’ proposal is intended to correct a quirk in the running of the authority, which was established 86 years ago.

Even though New York and New Jersey have similar laws reducing secrecy in government, those laws do not apply to the authority, which is a bistate agency with headquarters in Manhattan. Its decisions, like a short-lived plan to place a Geico billboard at the George Washington Bridge toll plaza, have occasionally annoyed lawmakers of one or both states.

Last October, Mr. Coscia, the chairman, ordered less secrecy in governance, but the policies could conceivably be rescinded by his successor. The governors want the changes to be made permanent through an amendment of the authority’s bylaws.

In their letter, the governors proposed that the authority’s audit committee “conduct an external audit of the Port Authority annually.”

The governors also wanted the commissioners to disclose “any outside business dealings that Board members, their employers, or their immediate family members have had with the Port Authority during the previous year, and require executive staff to do the same.”

The governors also wanted the board to “identify, list the compensation of, and set forth the educational background and professional experience of the 20 highest-paid Port Authority executive staff members.”
489 2007-06-17 “I get a little peace knowing the U.S. Open is going to eliminate more than half the field before the first day, because they’re out there hitting balls, hitting balls and chipping and putting and talking themselves into how hard it’s going to be and everything else,” he said.

The cerebral Janzen shared a little secret he learned on his way to prevailing at the 1993 Open at Baltusrol and five years later at the Olympic Club in San Francisco.

“A straight shot still goes on the fairway, and a well-struck iron is still below the hole and so on,” he said. “It’s just that the guys that aren’t used to making bogeys don’t know what to do on the next hole.”

If Janzen has flown under the radar on the Tour for the past two years — his best finish in 11 starts in 2007 is a tie for 16th — it is because he has been revamping his swing. It has taken 19 months, but he seems comfortable with the changes.

“I won the U.S. Open twice not swinging probably as good as I’m swinging now,” he said. “Technically speaking, I’m better.”

He added: “If I don’t ever win it again, I’ve still done it twice, and that’s elite company. There’s only five people who have ever won more. Tiger Woods hasn’t won any more than I have. Yet.”

ENGINEERING ANOTHER COMEBACK Steve Stricker followed one of the worst shots of his round at the United States Open with one of the best of his career.

After his shot from a fairway bunker landed well back in the middle of the 18th fairway, Stricker holed a lob wedge for a birdie to finish the third round Saturday with a two-under-par 68. He trails the leader, Aaron Baddeley, by four strokes. He stood at six-over 216, tied for seventh with Jim Furyk and Ángel Cabrera.

“What a way to finish,” the 40-year-old Stricker said. “Icing on the cake for me.”

Stricker, who has never won a major and has not won a PGA Tour event since 2001, nearly bungled the 484-yard par-4 18th hole. His drive ended up on the edge of a bunker and his second shot fell well short of the green.

“I tried to hit a hero shot,” he said. “I didn’t pull it off.”

The good news was that his distance from the pin was 74 yards.

“The numbers were good,” Stricker said. “You don’t expect to hole it, but I thought I could get it close to try to get a par.”

Stricker has seen his game respond after poor play in 2004 and 2005. He lost his privileges as fully exempt on the PGA Tour after the 2004 season, when he finished 151st on the money list.

He was voted the Tour’s comeback player of the year last season, when he finished tied for sixth at the United States Open and tied for seventh at the P.G.A. Championship.

“Tomorrow is about handling your nerves and the situations,” Stricker said about the final round Sunday. “I’ve played with some winners in this event in prior years, or guys that have come close.

“I’ve been able to watch how they’ve done it, and hopefully I can apply that to myself tomorrow.” DAMON HACK

TWO BRITONS AIM FOR TITLE Paul Casey and Justin Rose, both Englishmen, will continue their bids to end Europe’s drought in golf’s major championships Sunday, when they go into the final round of the United States Open three shots off the lead.

Casey has already shown that he has what it takes to tame the Oakmont course; his 66 on Friday in the second round was the best score of the tournament on this fearsome par-70 layout.

Rose has shown the steadiness that is always cited as the key to victory in the Open. Of a possible victory, Casey said: “What would it mean? It would mean the world. It would mean everything.”
490 2007-06-17 The heart of the American buildup of 30,000 extra troops is the deployment of five American brigade combat teams, a fighting core of more than 20,000 soldiers. Along with an additional Marine Expeditionary Unit, the last of those forces arrived in the past few days, bringing the total number of American troops in Iraq to about 155,000.

The additional American forces, General Petraeus said Saturday, would allow the United States to conduct operations in “a number of areas around Baghdad, in particular to go into areas that were sanctuaries in the past of Al Qaeda.”

Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a largely Sunni Iraqi group thought to have foreign leadership, has intensified its bombing campaign recently. Its attacks are thought to include the bombing this week of the Shiite shrine in Samarra, which was heavily damaged in a previous bombing last year.

Shiites have been the most heavily hit by the insurgent attacks, and officials in the Shiite-led government have bluntly said that no political deal with Sunni Arabs would be possible until the violence eases.

The scope, timing and details of the new American operations are classified. But one sign of the stepped-up activity was apparent in a recent operation reported by the Third Infantry Division, which is operating in the Sunni Arab belts south of the capital. In that case, American attack helicopters and Iraqi forces struck an insurgent cell, killing several and capturing others.

The decision to mount more attacks in the Sunni belts is a trade-off in a military sense because it will limit the number of American forces available to secure neighborhoods in the capital. General Petraeus appeared to allude to that on Saturday.

“There has never been a military commander in history who wouldn’t like to have more of something or other,” he said. “That characterizes all of us here.

“The fact is, frankly, that we have all that our country is going to provide us in terms of combat forces — that is really it, right now.”

This is not the first time that American forces have taken on Qaeda strongholds. Over the past year, for instance, the military has had success in driving insurgents out of Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province, west of Baghdad.

The military has also begun working with Sunni tribes in Anbar who oppose Al Qaeda, and is hoping to expand this approach to other areas.

But even that partial success has highlighted the flexibility of the insurgents. As gains have been made in Anbar, commanders say, the group has shifted their fighters to Diyala Province and elsewhere, flowing away from pressure and creating new pockets of violence.

In the Baghdad news conference, Defense Secretary Gates insisted that the military buildup was beginning to show dividends.

“The full impact of the surge is just beginning to be felt,” said Mr. Gates, who was making his fourth visit to Iraq in his six months as defense secretary.

Mr. Gates arrived in Iraq to express Washington’s disappointment with the pace of political reconciliation under Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, and to urge accelerated efforts to reach a series of political benchmarks to lower tensions among Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds.

Mr. Gates also met with the American ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker, who said that no outside power could compel the Iraqis to reach accommodation.

“These have to be Iraqi decisions and Iraqi compromises if they are really going to take effect,” Ambassador Crocker said. “We can’t come up with solutions as the United States and expect to impose them or impose timelines and say, ‘You’ve got to do this for the future of your country.’ ”

Earlier Saturday, Mr. Gates visited a joint security station in the Karada region of southeastern Baghdad, where American forces conduct missions along with Iraqi military and police units from inside a secured, walled compound.The American commander at the compound, Maj. Christopher Wendland, of the Second Battalion, 17th Field Artillery, said attacks in his area had dropped to 5 or 6 per week from 15 to 16 per week about a month ago. But at the same time, the number of improvised bombs planted in the area had gone up.

Earlier, in the news conference, General Petraeus acknowledged that the results of the Baghdad security push had been mixed so far.

“We are ahead in some areas and behind in others,” he said.

He said troops would continue operating in neighborhoods of Baghdad to calm Sunni-Shiite tensions and “ensure that fault lines do not once again produce a spiral of violence.” In addition, the general said, Iraqi and American forces will be operating more intensively in larger population centers outside of Baghdad, like Diyala Province and other areas where Al Qaeda has moved in.
491 2007-06-17 At Harvard, Dr. Remington also began his friendship with Vladimir Nabokov, a serious amateur lepidopterist. Dr. Remington was a kindred spirit who understood the joy of a particular catch, what Nabokov once referred to as a “fellow sufferer.”

In 1948, Dr. Remington began teaching at Yale, where with his bolo ties he cut a colorful figure among more buttoned-down colleagues.

He often told his students of how, while stationed in the Philippines, he was awakened from sleep by “a fiery pain” in his armpit. Digging about in his bedclothes, Dr. Remington found the culprit: a giant centipede, about 8 inches long. Not only did Dr. Remington catch the beast and write a scientific article on its nasty bite, he had the good sense to preserve it for years so he could dangle it before awestruck students.

Today the more than one hundred students that he guided in scientific research at Yale head research programs from Harvard to Stanford and include well-known figures in the butterfly world like Lincoln Brower, a monarch biologist at Sweet Briar College, and Robert Michael Pyle, the Northwest nature writer.

Less well known is Dr. Remington’s evolutionary research, initially well received, in which he suggested that there were geographic regions where species tended to hybridize. In these areas, which he called suture zones, he suggested that species of all different sorts — plants, insects, mammals and so on — might be found hybridizing with close relatives.

The idea was soon considered discredited. But in recent years others have revived the concept, and new, more extensive studies suggest that Dr. Remington may have been right in thinking that suture zones do exist and may be an important evolutionary phenomenon.

As curator at the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale, Dr. Remington is credited with creating one of the nation’s premier insect collections. Beyond having huge numbers of specimens, the collection is known for its unique holdings, from the insects used by the famed ecologist G. Evelyn Hutchinson to develop the modern concept of the ecological niche to curiosities like the world’s largest collection of insects whose bodies are part male and part female, known as gynandromorphs.

Dr. Remington’s marriage to Jeanne Remington of Boulder, Colo., ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Ellen Mahoney of North Haven, Conn; his three children from his first marriage, Eric Remington, of Saratoga, Calif., Sheldon Remington, of Hilo, Hawaii, Janna Remington, of Boulder, Colo.; and three grandchildren.

Dr. Remington established the world’s first — and probably only — preserve for the Magicicada, a cicada that appears by the millions but only once every 17 years. When the cicadas last emerged in Connecticut in 1996, Dr. Remington took advantage of the windfall on the 90-acre preserve to carry out experiments both scientific and culinary.

“You know the slight sweetness that’s in good, young venison?” said Dr. Remington, who arranged a taste-testing of the cicadas both boiled and fried. “Well, that’s what the 17-year cicada tastes like.”
492 2007-06-17 Eight teams are in Omaha this weekend, hoping to win a national title in the Nebraska city that has been home to the College World Series since 1950.

“But it all started in Kalamazoo,” said Norm Felske, who was Yale’s catcher. “There’s no doubt about it.”

The former California coach Clint Evans is often credited with the concept of a College World Series, and his Jackie Jensen-led Bears team swept Ethan Allen’s Yale squad in a best-of-three series for the first national title.

“It was a landmark situation to have the first one and to be on the team that won it, especially with Clint being instrumental in putting it together,” said the former Cal outfielder Lyle Palmer, now 82 and living in Pleasant Hill, Calif.

The former baseball commissioner Happy Chandler threw out the ceremonial first pitch, and the major league umpires Ed Hurley and Bill McKinley worked the two games.

“It made you feel kind of important,” Palmer said.

Bush, who recently celebrated his 83rd birthday, remembers the excitement of playing for a national title.

“We thought about it a lot and talked about it in the locker room,” he said. “A lot of us on the team were veterans and we had come back from the war, so maybe that made it a little less apprehensive. On the other hand, it didn’t deduct from our enthusiasm and our desire to win, which we did not do.”

Instead, the title went to the California team led by Jensen, the Bears’ ace pitcher, who starred as an outfielder in the majors. The Bears won the first game; the first few innings were played in a steady rain. Yale led, 4-2, before some strategy by Allen, a former major leaguer, backfired in the seventh inning.

“We walked the eighth hitter to get to the pitcher, and it was Jackie Jensen,” Bush said. “He hit one that’s still rolling out there in Kalamazoo.”

That big hit tied the game, and the Bears scored twice more in the eighth before breaking it open with an 11-run ninth.

“That was a real shame because it was a close game up until that point,” Felske said, the disappointment in his voice still evident.

Jensen went 2 for 2 with two runs batted in in the series and started the second game on the mound. He was the 1958 American League most valuable player and a three-time All-Star for the Boston Red Sox before retiring after the 1961 season. He died in 1982.

“We knew that Jensen played football at Cal,” said Felske, 83, who lives in Montauk, N.Y. “I don’t think he was that well known as a baseball player. But after that series, we all sure knew him.”

Yale rallied in the second game from a 7-2 deficit and tied the score in the sixth inning, but Cal went ahead to stay the following inning. Felske tried to throw out Palmer at second base, but the ball got away from shortstop Art Moher. John Ramos scored from third with what ended up being the winning run in an 8-7 victory.

“We’ll get together every now and then and it still comes up, even though there aren’t too many of us left,” Palmer said.

Yale found its way back to Kalamazoo the next year. Southern California came out on top in three games, with the final game ending on a triple play — with Bush on deck.

“It was a traumatic experience and letdown for Yale,” Bush, the team captain, said. “All of us felt that way. You learn to go with the flow and get on with your life, and that’s what all of us did.”

After he became president in 1989, Bush kept his baseball memories close by. Tucked in his Oval Office desk was his Yale first baseman’s mitt.

“He was a good teammate and he was even a sort of politician then,” Felske said with a laugh.

Allen regarded Bush as one of the best defensive first basemen he had seen. But he was quick to point out to scouts that Bush was “all glove and no hit” — a label Bush disputes.

“I think it was grossly unfair because I think my average was about .240 or .250,” he said with a chuckle. “And I think if I were playing today in the bigs, I’d probably get about eight million bucks a year for that.”

When asked if he might have had the bat to go with the glove had he used aluminum like today’s college players, Bush said: “Hey, I might have. I hadn’t thought about that.”

Palmer did not realize he had played against Bush until several years later when a former teammate showed him the box scores.

“He didn’t do very well,” Palmer said, pointing out Bush went 0 for 7 against Cal. “That’s all right with me because I’m not a Republican.”

Politics aside, the players in that first series share a bond.

“When you go to the Yale Club, you go in the bar and you’ll see pictures of the 1947 and 1948 Yale baseball teams,” Felske said. “With a few breaks, we probably would’ve won at least one of those years. But, when you think about it, our first baseman became president. Wow, how about that?”
493 2007-06-17 But if the president does take the legal route, invoking executive privilege to protect his right to receive unfettered advice from his aides, he risks looking like he is stonewalling — at the very moment that he is trying to salvage his domestic agenda by working with Democrats on issues like immigration and the reauthorization of his signature education bill, No Child Left Behind. Democrats, meanwhile, run the risk of looking like they are waging a fishing expedition.

“There’s a big problem for both the White House and Congress on these subpoenas, and that is that everybody looks bad,” said Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush’s first press secretary. “The White House doesn’t want to get into a visible public executive privilege court fight because it makes it look like they’re hiding something. Congress shouldn’t go down this subpoena line because they’re only cooking their own goose. It’s great for the base, but lousy for the country.”

At issue is who drafted a plan to dismiss eight federal prosecutors, and why. Democrats want to know if the White House allowed politics to interfere with the Justice Department. Copies of e-mail messages already released by the department show Ms. Miers and Ms. Taylor helped orchestrate the ousters, despite early insistence from the White House that its officials had not been involved.

Mr. Bush said in March that he was willing to make his top aides, including Mr. Rove, available for interviews with lawmakers — but only if the interviews were not under oath, not in public and not transcribed. Democrats balked at those terms and, after fruitless attempts to engage the White House, decided this week to issue the subpoenas instead. That Mr. Rove did not receive one was not lost on fellow Republicans.

Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is leading the investigation in the Senate, said it made sense for lawmakers to “go to the underlings first.” But Charles Black, a Republican strategist close to the White House, characterized Mr. Rove’s absence from the subpoena as a delaying tactic intended to keep the controversy alive.

“I think the Democrats have a three- or four- or five-act play scripted here,” Mr. Black said, “and Karl is probably Act 5.”

Mr. Bush has already said he would not stand for top aides like Mr. Rove being dragged up to Capitol Hill for “show trials” under “the klieg lights.” And Dana Perino, the deputy White House press secretary, complained on Friday that the Democrats’ “obsession with trying to get Karl Rove is bordering on the weird.”

Now the president must decide how aggressive he wants to be about defending his right to receive confidential advice, from Mr. Rove or anyone else in his inner circle. Mr. Bush has assiduously protected presidential prerogatives. He has expanded presidential powers, claiming authority to try terror suspects in military tribunals and eavesdrop on Americans without court warrants — and without the knowledge of Congress.

Some allies of the White House say an executive privilege battle is the next logical step.

“I think they have excellent prospects of winning in court,” said David Rivkin, who served in the White House counsel’s office under the first President Bush. Mr. Rivkin said he saw no political downside to a fight: “This has become very sharply edged, very partisan. People who do not like the administration will say he is stonewalling no matter what.”

One possible way out of the impasse would be for the White House to agree to interviews with transcripts, in exchange for Democrats’ withdrawing the subpoenas.

Two leading lawmakers, Mr. Schumer and Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, have said they might agree to such terms. And Ms. Perino hinted Friday that the White House would like to find a graceful exit, though she would not put Mr. Fielding, the White House counsel, on the phone to discuss the possible alternatives.

“I think there’s a variety of things we feel we can do; we’d like to be able to give them the information they want,” she said, adding, “The smart lawyers are thinking through that right now.”
494 2007-06-17 New Jersey Attorney General Stuart Rabner, who is Gov. Jon Corzine’s choice for chief justice of the state’s Supreme Court, is viewed as a nonpolitical straight arrow with no tolerance for ethical shortcomings. That is an essential character trait in New Jersey, given the state’s record of corruption. But it is not the only quality the state’s top judge must have.

Last week, Democrat Nia Gill of Essex County, apparently irritated by efforts to move the nomination quickly through the Senate, indicated that she might use her power as Mr. Rabner’s home county state senator to prevent approval. Another Essex senator, Ronald Rice of Newark, who leads the legislature’s black caucus, faulted Mr. Corzine for not consulting him before making the nomination.

Although any attempt by a single senator to block Mr. Rabner would be an abuse of power, it would also be wrong to rush the nomination through. Mr. Rabner’s integrity and strong record as a former career prosecutor are impressive, but not much is known about his judicial philosophy.

The Senate Judiciary Committee should question him closely about his views during confirmation hearings. Mr. Rabner is only 46 and could be chief justice for a generation until he reaches the mandatory retirement age of 70. New Jersey residents have a right to learn more about what he thinks.
495 2007-06-17 The Rev. Dr. Elizabeth Sidar Hall, a Presbyterian minister, and Pamela Mary Palumbo were joined in a civil union ceremony yesterday. The Rev. Jean A. F. Holmes, a Presbyterian minister, officiated in Califon, N.J., at the home of Rev. Jean Johnston and Dr. Edward Johnston, who are friends of the couple.

Dr. Hall is 58 and is the executive director of Homeless Solutions, a nonprofit organization in Morristown, N.J., where Ms. Palumbo, 52, is the director of fund-raising.

Dr. Hall graduated from Alfred University and received a Master’s in Divinity from Drew University and a doctorate from Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia.

She is the daughter of Jean W. Sidar of Basking Ridge, N.J., and the late Alexander G. Sidar Jr. Her mother retired as a vice president and the secretary of Rutgers University in New Brunswick; she was responsible for dealing with the board of governors and the board of trustees, of which she was also the secretary. Dr. Hall’s father retired as the president of the New Jersey Association of State Colleges and Universities in Union, N.J. Dr. Hall’s previous two marriages ended in divorce.

Ms. Palumbo graduated from Seton Hall, where she also received a master’s in public administration.

She is the daughter of the late Irene P. Palumbo and Anthony F. Palumbo who lived in Newark. Her father was a founder and owner of Platronics, a metal finishing company that was in Linden, N.J.
496 2007-06-17 Bosede Ikeolu Gbadegesin, a daughter of Felicia and Segun Gbadegesin of Mitchellville, Md., was married yesterday afternoon to Oreoluwa Adetunji Adeyemi, the son of Kemi and Solomon Adeyemi of Greensboro, N.C. The Rev. Joel Ojelade, a Baptist minister, performed the ceremony in Memorial Chapel at the University of Maryland in College Park, Md.

The couple have known each other since elementary school in Ile-Ife, Nigeria. Both of their families immigrated to the United States, and the couple met again as college students in Cambridge, Mass. She was at Harvard and he was at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Ms. Gbadegesin, 29, was, until May, a senior international lawyer at the Millennium Challenge Corporation, a government agency that provides grants to poor countries. She will begin working next month as an associate in the London office of the New York law firm White & Case. She received bachelor’s and law degrees from Harvard and graduated magna cum laude from both schools. Her father is a professor of philosophy at Howard University in Washington and was chairman of the philosophy department. Her mother is a special-education teacher at Moten Elementary School in Washington.

Mr. Adeyemi, 30, is an investment banking associate at HSBC in London. He received both a bachelor’s degree and an M.B.A. from M.I.T. His father retired as an associate professor of chemistry at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University in Greensboro, and is the senior pastor at Christ Apostolic-Mount Bethel Church in Greensboro.
497 2007-06-17 Amanda Attilia McCormick, the daughter of Suzanne C. McCormick and Dr. James B. McCormick of Chicago, was married yesterday afternoon to Matthew Jack Bacal, the only son of Gail S. Bacal of Fairfield, Conn., and Jules M. Bacal of New York. The Rev. Wayne F. Prist, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at Queen of All Saints Basilica in Chicago.

The bride, 28, is the director of marketing at Michael Kors, the fashion house in New York. She is a member of the Young Lions Committee of the New York Public Library. She graduated from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from Columbia.

Her father is the past president and chief executive and former director of laboratories of the Swedish Covenant Hospital in Chicago, and is the chairman of the board of directors of the Swedish Covenant Hospital Foundation. He is the chief scientific officer of McCormick Scientific in St. Louis, which develops tissue-sampling tools for cancer screening. Her mother and father founded and operate Science Heritage Limited in Chicago, which reproduces antiquarian texts and antique medical instruments related to the evolution of medicine.

The bridegroom, also 28, is an associate in the corporate intellectual property group at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York. He graduated magna cum laude from Princeton and has a J.D. from Columbia.

His mother is an independent executive recruiter in Fairfield. His father was, until 2001, a chairman and the creative director of the Griffin Bacal advertising agency in New York and until 1998 held the same position at Sunbow Productions in New York, which produced children’s television shows, including “Transformers” and “G.I. Joe.” He is developing a new film company, Wildstar International. The bridegroom is the stepson of Anne Newman Bacal.
498 2007-06-17 “Educating people on the issues is critical,” said Thomas L. Seidenberger, superintendent of Brick Township Public Schools in Ocean County, where a $4.4 million bond issue for roof work at five schools passed in April. “We did a lot of work. We sent out letters, and we met with people.

“Most people understood the problem, but there are some people who just view this as school districts getting deeper into their pockets.”

In April, 16 of 18 school bond issues on the ballot around the state passed, with $82 million approved by voters. Projects ranged in cost from $997,000 for renovations in Hamilton Township in Atlantic County to $23 million for renovations and additions in the Town of Boonton in Morris County.

Last year, only 60 percent of 52 bond proposals were approved. But so far this year, in three days of bond elections, 73 percent of 26 bond issues have passed.

The April vote this year represents “a real turnaround,” said Frank Belluscio, spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association. But because school construction and renovation is such a local issue, it is uncertain whether the high approval rating will continue, he said. His organization encourages districts to spend at least a year preparing for a bond vote.

Bond approvals started dropping after 2003, when nearly 80 percent of 93 bond issues passed. In 2004, the approval rate dropped to 67 percent of 71 proposals. In 2005, it was just under 59 percent of 89 proposals.

School budgets saw a similar trend. In 2003, 62 percent of the budgets in New Jersey’s school districts passed. In 2006, that figure was 53 percent. But this April, 78 percent passed. An increase in state aid may have helped more budgets get through, Mr. Belluscio said.

Much of the 2003 bond success came when $8.6 billion was made available by the state through the Schools Construction Corporation. That money, which was fully committed by 2005, allowed districts to apply for a percentage of the cost of repairs, renovations or new school construction once they passed a bond issue. The state’s poorest districts were able to get 100 percent funding for projects, while suburban districts could get up to 40 percent.

More than 80 percent of the state’s 600 districts used money from the Schools Construction Corporation between 2002 and 2005, said Larry Hanover, a corporation spokesman.

Bond elections are allowed five days a year, in January, March, April (when school budgets are voted on), September and December.

While only about 15 percent of New Jersey voters typically come out for school budget and school board elections, the turnout for bond issues is usually about 28 percent, Mr. Belluscio said. “There’s a lot more excitement with them,” he said, because it is easier to explain a bricks-and-mortar proposition.

But educators said the pressure is on to explain the issues, or voters will reject the tax increases that accompany most bonds.

“You have to get a buy-in from many groups, and you have to take your story on the road,” Dr. Shaddow said, adding, “You have to listen as much as you talk.”

Voters in Ewing Township passed a $14 million bond issue in April that allowed the district to cancel a lease-purchase agreement on existing buildings and refinance debt. Only 272 of the 1,881 people who voted said no.

Even though the bond did not increase taxes, it would not have passed without an effort to communicate information to the community, said Dennis Nettleton, the Ewing Public Schools business administrator and board secretary. Mr. Nettleton and Raymond Broach, the superintendent, met with more than 15 school and community groups to explain the proposal.

“You have to sell a bond issue harder than a budget,” Mr. Nettleton said.

The average New Jersey school building is 50 years old, so bond votes will not be going away. Public school enrollment also continues to increase, to almost 1.4 million last year from 1.1 million in 1986.

Brick Township administrators are beginning research this summer on another bond issue that will face voters in the next year or two, said Dr. Seidenberger, the superintendent.

“The next challenge is Brick High School, which was built in 1958,” he said. “You have to do it right, and there can’t be any excess on the project. You have to be open and honest and people need to see the value. You have to give people the facts.”
499 2007-06-17 She has appeared on television with Oprah Winfrey, Barbara Walters and Katie Couric, but said it was her interaction with, and affect on, noncelebrities that mattered most. “I’m such a believer in taking care of ourselves,” she said. “Happiness should be everyone’s goal. What a privilege it is to help people transform and attain it, which I truly believe is possible.

“Do I sound kooky and idealistic?” she added, laughing. “Well, that’s because I am.”

Dressed in a bright silk Oriental jacket as vibrant as she is, Ms. Stoddard, a 65-year-old grandmother of three who also has a Manhattan apartment, recently shared some of the suggestions she offers in her latest book to a crowd of more than 75 at R. J. Julia bookstore in Madison. Looking more like a ballerina at the barre than an author at a lectern, Ms. Stoddard seemed to captivate both the men and women in the audience. Her straight, shoulder-length brown-and-gray hair bounced wildly as she explained why she tries to skip instead of walk, jump rather than stand. “You have to grasp the enthusiasm of life,” she said, her face and hands as expressive as her words.

Many leaned in and nodded as she spoke.

With chapters in “Choices” like “Have as few regrets as possible” and “Faster isn’t better,” her advice is more philosophical than practical, Ms. Stoddard explained. But that is because, when it comes to happiness, each person needs to find his or her own way. “I don’t believe in sharing recipes,” Ms. Stoddard said, “because the things that make one person happy may not work for another — though, obviously, I do share the things that work for me.”

Those things — surrounding herself with flowers; working less and reading more; indulging in travel and treats — have led to some criticism. Several customer reviews of her books posted to Amazon.com call her advice “unrealistic” and “unattainable” for anyone without a large bank account, or who struggles to make ends meet.

Yet don’t tell that to Jane Kahn, 46, a schoolteacher in Greenwich. Not only has she read “at least 20” of Ms. Stoddard’s books, but she has taken time off from work to travel as far as Washington to see her speak. For Ms. Stoddard’s talk at R. J. Julia, Ms. Kahn arrived more than two hours early to assure a front-row seat.

“I guess you could call me a ‘devotee,’ ” said Ms. Kahn. “Really, Alexandra has changed my life — not just with her words, but with her energy. She’s taught me not to save the special moments for special occasions. Instead, to see every day as special.”

The owner of R. J. Julia, Roxanne Coady, said she believed that many people were hungry for the more enjoyable and meaningful life that Ms. Stoddard encouraged, but needed guidance on how to attain it.

Mary Sullivan, 62, who lives in Connecticut and Florida, said she had been a fan of Ms. Stoddard’s for four decades. The best advice she has taken from her is this: Choose well most of the time. “That means you don’t need to be perfect, but do the best you can,” she said. “That’s down to earth, and something you can attain.”
500 2007-06-17 “Our salt marsh dragonfly population has crashed, and we don’t know why,” Mr. Penny said. Though there is no evidence that the use of methoprene was responsible, he said, the decline coincides with the use of the larvicide.

“It’s very troubling,” he said.

East Hampton is not alone in its concerns. The State Department of Environmental Conservation, which manages about 2,320 of the 17,000 acres of saltwater wetlands in Suffolk, is setting a high standard for methoprene use on those lands. A temporary permit the state issued to Suffolk for the state-managed wetlands in April allows methoprene “only when a threat to human health exists, but not for routine mosquito-control purposes,” the department said in a statement. A criterion is whether West Nile virus or the far more rare Eastern equine encephalitis is found in mosquitoes trapped in the state-managed wetlands.

Nassau County, which has a less extensive mosquito control program and less acreage to cover than Suffolk, also uses methoprene as a backup for Bti, when Bti is not enough.

For 2006, New York reported two human cases of West Nile virus in Suffolk County and five in Nassau to the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta; none were fatal. No cases of Eastern equine encephalitis were reported on the Island.

Suffolk’s health department said 57 mosquito samples tested positive for West Nile last year.

Suffolk health officials said methoprene protects the public from mosquito-borne diseases, principally West Nile virus, and limits the need for adult pesticide spraying later on.

“We have the duty to protect the public health,” said Mr. Dawydiak of the county health department.

Scott R. Campbell, the chief of the county’s Arthropod-Borne Disease Laboratory, said the methoprene dosages the county applied were so small that only the specific mosquito larvae were affected. He said he had seen no study showing that methoprene was harmful in such amounts.

Other agencies take a more conservative view. The Fire Island National Seashore follows a policy for methoprene similar to the state’s. “We avoid it as much as we can and only want it used when there is an actual disease threat present,” said Michael T. Reynolds, the superintendent.

Methoprene prevents mosquito larvae from maturing into adults while remaining as food for mosquito predators.

In March, the Suffolk County Legislature approved the new long-term plan despite recommendations from its own Council on Environmental Quality that methoprene use be restricted in saltwater wetlands. The legislators for Suffolk’s five East End towns and parts of Brookhaven, the Republicans Edward P. Romaine of Center Moriches and Jay Schneiderman of Montauk, voted against the plan. The council also called for a clearer distinction between pesticide use for disease control and for nuisance control.

Mr. Dawydiak, the plan’s project manager, said modeling by the county showed that without methoprene, mosquitoes would increase fivefold, pesticide use on adult mosquitoes would double and death and illness from West Nile virus would soar.

Kevin McAllister, the president of Peconic Baykeeper, a nonprofit conservation group in Quogue that has opposed county policies on mosquito control and wetlands management, said, “Obviously it’s in their interest to cloak themselves in the public health issue.” He added, “It’s alarmist behavior to instill fear.”

Mr. Penny, East Hampton’s director of natural resources, said the town had no human cases of West Nile virus, no history of mosquito-related health problems and few complaints about mosquitoes.

Mr. Dawydiak concedes that West Nile virus is “not commonly found” in salt marsh mosquitoes.
501 2007-06-17 “Sure?” Mike asked him as they climbed the stairs to Westie’s top-floor apartment.

“Positive,” Allan replied, hoping he had convinced his friend.

They stood for a moment outside Westie’s door, catching their breath, eyes locked on each other. Then Mike gave a slow nod before ringing the bell, and Allan went back to the important job of controlling his heart-rate. Westie, however, looked more nervous than either of them, something Mike was quick to point out.

“Your fault,” the student snapped back. “Know how much sleep I’ve had this past week? I’m running on caffeine, cigarettes and the odd Bloody Mary.”

“Tabasco or Worcestershire Sauce?” Allan asked. Westie just glared at him. They were in the living room by now. It smelled of fresh paint, varnish, wood. Westie had used old wood where possible for the stretchers — no need for frames, they would be swapping them on the day. Where old wood hadn’t been available, he had stained new wood with several coats of instant coffee.

“Works like a charm,” he explained. He actually seemed prouder of this than of the copied paintings themselves, but as Allan studied them, he could see they were marvelous, and this was the very word he uttered, Mike making a noise of agreement while Westie just shrugged.

“Told you I could do it,” he said, lighting a cigarette from the butt of an old one. He gave a hacking cough, and pushed the hair back from his eyes.

“Just as soon,” Mike continued, “as you’ve done No. 8.”

“Another shareholder has come on board.”

The two of them began to argue, Allan watching in silent appraisal of Mike. His friend had changed, had grown into the role he was now playing — deal maker, tough guy, criminal. Maybe he had been spending too much time with Chib Calloway, but Allan thought it went further. Mike was enjoying himself, for the first time in an age. The electricity that surged through Allan’s body was surging through Mike’s too, but to very different effect. Mike was ready for anything.

A tall man, Mike had always had a slightly round-shouldered posture, as if embarrassed by his size. But now he was more comfortable, shoulders back, spine stiffened. He made eye contact more readily and spoke slowly but with authority. This was what he was like in business, Allan thought. This was how he got where he was. Which meant that selling the company had brought Mike cash, but only at the cost of his vigor. Problem was, Allan liked this new Mike a little less. In the past, they had gossiped like fishwives, telling jokes and sharing anecdotes. Now it seemed the heist was their only currency. And afterward — was it likely to galvanize their friendship or drive a wedge into it? Allan was almost afraid to ask. So he watched and listened instead and wondered about Chib Calloway. He had argued against the gangster’s involvement until giving in to the combined will of Mike and the professor. Still, he knew it was a mistake.

Mike had brought photocopied sheets with him, detailing the paintings whose replicas were now lined up on separate easels in front of them. Gissing would give final approval — he, after all, was the expert — but Mike wanted to check that Westie hadn’t been tempted to add any flourishes to the forgeries: no soft-drink cans or airplanes tucked into a corner of the canvas.

“These are good,” Mike said. Westie accepted the reiterated praise with a slight bow, and Allan knew the artist would complete the necessary eighth canvas. Mike had brought along five possibles, cherry-picked by Gissing as being valuable but obscure and relatively easy to copy. Westie was sifting through the photos of the candidates.

“I like this,” he said, waving one toward Mike.

“Whichever’s easiest,” Mike replied. Then to Allan: “What do you think?”

Allan was caught unawares by the question. “Think?” he echoed.

“Marvelous,” Allan could only repeat, studying the canvases and aware of Mike’s eyes on him. But then he caught a movement and straightened up.

“Smile for the birdie.” Allan heard the voice of a young woman. She was standing in the doorway, a video camera aimed into the room.

“This is Alice.” But it was the young woman who answered. She was lowering the camera now. “And you’re Mike and Allan. Thing is, you know Westie, know his full name, where he lives . . . and he knows almost nothing about you.”

Mike looked at Westie. “Anything you’ve not told your girlfriend?”

“Why would he keep a secret from me?” She sauntered into the room, making a show of perusing the paintings before pecking Westie on the cheek. “So, so talented.” She turned to Mike. “The camera’s by way of insurance: our way of making sure we’re all in this together.”

“I’m just looking out for Westie’s best interests,” Alice said.

“I know you,” Allan stated quietly. “I’ve seen you at the Filmhouse.”

She acknowledged this with a smile but was not to be deflected. “Westie says you offered him a cash payment. As you can see, he’s earned every penny. He also — against my wishes — wants to play a part in the raid, and for that you’ll give him a painting. Is that how you understand it?”

“You want it in writing?”

She shook her head. “But something up front would seem to be in order . . . shall we say 12 and a half?”

Mike patted his pockets. “I don’t seem to have that sort of cash on me.”

“You could write a check, but that would mean us knowing your surname.” Her smile now was full of mischief. Mike’s face hardened, and he slipped his hands into his pockets. Allan could imagine the right hand curling into a fist. When Mike spoke, his voice was an ominous monotone.

“I can get you the money, but I’d want something in exchange.”

“This?” Alice guessed, waving the camera. Mike nodded slowly. “It’s a nice piece of kit,” she said, examining it. “Not sure I could bear to part with it.”

“Your decision,” Mike stated, brushing something invisible from his tailored jacket. “Just so long as you know. . . . ” He paused for effect. “You’re part of this now, and that means our futures are linked.”

“That’s right,” Mike answered, and though his eyes were boring into Alice’s, Allan couldn’t help feeling the whole exchange could just as easily be aimed at him.

“Your boss is getting good at losing us,” Detective Inspector Ransome said. He was seated in a coffee shop on the High Street, just up from the Scottish Parliament, talking into his cellphone. The man he was talking to was seated three tables away. They held eye contact and their phones to their faces but couldn’t risk an actual meeting.

“That’s because he won’t let Johnno or me drive,” Glenn said.

“If I thought he was on to me, I’d have packed my passport by now.”

“He’s the one who’ll be going away, Glenn,” Ransome said. “Leaving his empire going begging.”

“And you’ll just let me take over? How do I know you won’t try shafting me, same as you’re doing to him?”

“I will try shafting you, Glenn,” Ransome said with a grin. “But you’ll be top dog, not just a bag-carrier. And you’ll be wise to me.” He broke off eye contact long enough to lift his coffee mug to his mouth. The liquid was scalding and tasted mainly of frothed milk.

“Sounds disgusting.” Ransome wiped foam from his upper lip. “So what’s Chib up to, Glenn?”

“No need to get sarcastic,” Glenn said. “He’s up to something, though.”

“You just said he wasn’t.”

“What I said was, I don’t know what he’s up to.”

Glenn nodded. The door opened and both men looked around, checking the new arrival. Just a young mother pushing a buggy.

“They should ban kids from places like this,” Glenn said, staring at the table of mothers and infants who were greeting this latest arrival.

“And students,” Ransome added, looking to where a solitary teenager, small coffee long finished, had spread laptop and coursework over a table intended for four. “But then the place would be half-empty,” the detective relented, “and we’d stick out all the more.”

“So, now . . . maybe we can get back to your employer?”

“He’s keeping me and Johnno out of it.” Glenn sounded aggrieved, and Ransome knew now why the man had asked for a meeting: he had some steam to blow off. “But a couple of the pubs we’ve been to, he’s been asking about kids.”

Glenn saw that he had been misunderstood. “Hooligans. Tearaways. Not kiddie kids.”

Glenn shook his head. “They’re just first names, Billy and Teddy and things like that.”

“So what does he want them for?”

“Are you being put out to pasture, Glenn?”

Even at a distance, Ransome felt the power of the big man’s stare. “Nobody’s putting me out of the game, Mr. Ransome.”

“All the same, he’s gathering up a team; got to be a reason.”

“I’ll keep my ears open.” Glenn seemed to hesitate. “Could be he’s offering a hit.”

“Might not be . . . but there’s this big tattooed guy, a foreigner. . . . He’s here to collect a back payment.”

“Four apprentice thugs with pool cues might be his way of thinking.” Glenn paused again. “I don’t think they’d cause Hate too many problems, though.”

Ransome thought he had misheard. “Hate?” he repeated.

“Chib was disappointed,” Mike said, “when I told him the National Collection doesn’t stretch to Vettriano.”

Robert Gissing snorted into his drink. The two men were seated in an anonymous Edinburgh bar near the railway station. It was a no-nonsense place, meant for drinkers only: no TV or jukebox; potato chips alone to stave off hunger. Three old-timers were seated on stools at the bar itself, while Mike and Gissing had taken the table farthest from the door.

Gissing gave a twitch of the mouth by way of agreement. “So what exactly is our gangland friend settling for?”

“Good riddance.” Gissing took another gulp of sour red wine. He looked ready to explode, while Mike was growing calmer with each passing day.

“My boy, of course it will.” The professor broke into a smile. “You don’t think I’m having doubts?”

“A lot could go wrong. Chib says he’s hand-picked the crew to help us, but all the same. . . . ”

“Stolen this morning and safely garaged. Fake license plates are probably being installed as we speak.”

“Surprised you’re not there to watch, Michael. You do seem to have developed a . . . taste . . . for all of this.”

“You’ll be sorry when it’s over?”

Mike just shrugged. “Either that or a convicted felon with Chib Calloway as my unhappy cellmate.”

Gissing raised a hand. “Let’s not even go there.”

The two men laughed and concentrated on their drinks. One more day to go. Mike didn’t know how he would pass the hours. They had gone over the plan a dozen times. They knew what they had to do, and how much time would be available. But there were factors they couldn’t control. Mike wondered if that was why he felt so calm: a case of que sera sera. All he knew was when Chib delivered the guns and handed him the Browning pistol, he felt a thrill of pleasure. The weight and heft, the oiled blackness: a work of art in itself. He wasn’t allowed toy guns as a kid his mother’s ruling but bananas, bits of wood, even a boomerang sent by an aunt in Australia had served the same purpose.

Shifting against the back of his chair, he could feel the Browning tucked into his waistband. When the door to the bar opened, admitting another drinker, Mike thought back to that day in the auction house.

When one door opens, another closes. . . .
502 2007-06-17 The South Bank of the Thames in London — home of the Tate Modern and Shakespeare’s Globe theater — welcomed a new version of an old favorite on June 11 with the reopening of the Royal Festival Hall.

A two-year, $220 million refurbishing of the hall (boxes at right), which was built in 1951, not only enhanced acoustics, legroom and audience access, but brought several new bars and two new restaurants — Skylon and Canteen — and a new education center with music and dance studios.

Some of the first performances to be held at the hall include the ex-Pulp star Jarvis Cocker’s eight-day Meltdown festival this week (June 16 to 23), and Bryn Terfel as Sweeney Todd (July 5 to 7). Later this summer (July 25 to Sept. 2), “Carmen Jones,” Oscar Hammerstein’s adaptation of Bizet’s “Carmen,” will be performed. For details, see: www.SouthBankCentre.co.uk

A short stroll down the riverfront promenade from the hall is the British Film Institute (www.BFI.org.uk), which also reopened in March following a revamping in which it replaced the National Film Theater.
503 2007-06-17 Bosede Ikeolu Gbadegesin, a daughter of Felicia and Segun Gbadegesin of Mitchellville, Md., was married yesterday afternoon to Oreoluwa Adetunji Adeyemi, the son of Kemi and Solomon Adeyemi of Greensboro, N.C. The Rev. Joel Ojelade, a Baptist mini...
504 2007-06-17 The Rev. Dr. Elizabeth Sidar Hall, a Presbyterian minister, and Pamela Mary Palumbo were joined in a civil union ceremony yesterday. The Rev. Jean A. F. Holmes, a Presbyterian minister, officiated in Califon, N.J., at the home of Rev. Jean Johnsto...
505 2007-06-17 Players of interactive online games and the avatars, gear, spells, skills and identities they forge to represent themselves....
506 2007-06-18 In my Findings column, I report the possible sighting of a "true altruist," a being that some have argued is even rarer than the one sought by Diogenes (the ancient Greek eccentric who went around with a lamp, fruitlessly searching for an honest m...
507 2007-06-18 Mitt Romney's positions are again under scrutiny. Update: The Romney campaign responds....
508 2007-06-18 Presidential hopefuls have been traveling hat in hand to Greenwich, Conn., usually leaving with wads of hedge-fund money. But the town's own public golf course has been far less successful at prying cash out of the hands of Greenwich's well-heeled...
509 2007-06-18 Goldman Sachs's alternative investment funds, including its hedge funds, experienced net inflows of zero in the latest quarter for the first time since the bank began reporting such data in 2004, the Financial News said. Last year, by comparison, ...
510 2007-06-18 Buyout talks between Cadence Design Systems, one of the largest makers of the software used to design computer chips, and two private equity firms appear to have stalled over price, The New York Times reported. Though negotiations between Cadence ...
511 2007-06-18 The hedge fund administrator GlobeOp is planning to make an initial public offering on the London Stock Exchange. GlobeOp said it hoped to get $102 million for the 20.4-million-share offering. A Boston buyout specialist, TA Associates, and Mezzani...
512 2007-06-18 As Bear Stearns struggles with big losses at one of its hedge funds, MarketWatch notes that the troubled fund has ties to Everquest Financial, a company that filed plans for an initial public offering last month. On Thursday, Bear Stearns, the sec...
513 2007-06-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
514 2007-06-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
515 2007-06-18 WASHINGTON, June 18 — A passenger as well as a driver has the right to challenge the legality of a police officer’s decision to stop a car, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously today.

The ruling came in the case of Bruce E. Brendlin, who was a passenger in a car that was stopped by a deputy sheriff in Yuba City, Calif., on Nov. 27, 2001. The deputy soon ascertained that Mr. Brendlin was an ex-convict who was wanted for violating his parole. An ensuing search of the driver, the car and Mr. Brendlin turned up methamphetamine supplies.

Eventually, Mr. Brendlin pleaded guilty to a drug charge and drew a four-year prison sentence. But he continued to appeal on the issue of whether the evidence of drugs found on him resulted from an illegal search and should have been suppressed because of the Fourth Amendment’s protection against unreasonable search and seizure.

The California Supreme Court found that, consitutionally speaking, only the driver had been “seized” by the stop, and that therefore Mr. Brendlin had no basis for challenging the search that turned up the drugs. The State of California made that argument again when the case was heard before the United States Supreme Court on April 23.

But Mr. Brendlin’s lawyer, Elizabeth M. Campbell, argued that when an officer makes a traffic stop, “he seizes not only the driver of the car, but also the car, and every person and every thing in that car.”
516 2007-06-18 Nathalie Loiseau, a spokeswoman at the French Embassy in Washington, said European officials, with full French support, were working with Congress to help “enhance trans-Atlantic relations and not to put more obstacles before people who wish to travel to the U.S.”

But an American official said last week that the online registration would be a “convenient” process, taking five minutes or less, and causing no one to miss a flight.

While the mechanics of the online registration are yet to be set, said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, in practice, online registration could be done fewer than 48 hours before departure. “The concept is that whenever the ticket is purchased,” he said, “there’s a quick ‘ping’ to give us advance notice on who’s going to travel to the U.S.”

Earlier information on travelers’ identities, he said, should mean fewer flights delayed — or even turned back — for security reasons. The process would involve sharing no more data than from a passport, he said.

American officials have long seen the waiver program as politically vulnerable. If someone entering the country from a visa-waiver country should launch a terrorist attack, Mr. Knocke said, “the rush in Congress to shut this program down altogether would be fast and furious.” Thus the tougher standards set by the proposed change could make it easier to bring in new countries, he said.

Along with online registration, the updated program would require new and existing member countries to improve data-sharing, more rigorously report lost and stolen passports (not just blank passports), and guarantee they will repatriate citizens who are ordered out of the United States.

But tied in to legislation that has passed the Senate and been introduced in the House is the question of the entry standards for countries eager to join the program.

Current members are judged as among the most reliable American travel and business partners. Membership requires, among other things, a record of extremely low rejection by American consular officials of the visa applications from a country’s citizens — less than 3 percent of the total. In the past, a low total mainly reflected a small probability of a country’s citizens’ overstaying visas. But since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, terrorism concerns have played a growing role.

The new European Union countries tend to have rejection rates far higher than the 3 percent threshold. Estonia had a rejection rate last year of 7.1 percent; the Czech Republic, 9.4 percent; Hungary, 12.7 percent; and Poland, 26 percent, according to State Department figures.

The European Union has urged Congress to extend the waiver program to all of its citizens based on individual eligibility without regard to nationality.

The countries now in the waiver program are Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Britain, Brunei, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.
517 2007-06-18 Chris Dominguez hit two homers and Justin Marks allowed only two singles before taking a hard shot to his left leg in the sixth inning as Louisville eliminated Mississippi State from the College World Series yesterday with a 12-4 victory in Omaha.

Louisville (47-23), in its first series appearance, plays tomorrow in an elimination game against North Carolina, which lost last night to Rice, 14-4. Mississippi State (38-22) went two games and out for the first time in seven appearances since 1971.

With the wind at Rosenblatt Stadium blowing out at up to 25 miles an hour, the conditions were right for another big offensive performance by Louisville. The Cardinals hit four homers yesterday, and have 7 home runs, 33 hits and 22 runs in their first two Series games.

RICE 14, NORTH CAROLINA 4 Rice jumped out in front with a six-run second inning and Joe Savery pitched six-plus solid innings to make the lead stand up.

The Owls, who have scored 29 runs in their first two series games, next play on Wednesday against the winner of tomorrow’s game between Louisville and North Carolina. A win would put Rice (56-12) in the best-of-three final, which starts Saturday.
518 2007-06-18 The cost of closing the 90-year-old Fort Monmouth Army post has more than doubled to almost $1.5 billion since a federal commission voted to close it in 2005, a new budget report showed. The report, the Army’s budget request for the 2008 fiscal year, obtained by The Asbury Park Press, attributed the spike to a 571 percent increase in the cost of moving the United States Military Academy Preparatory School to West Point and an 85 percent increase in the cost of military construction at Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland. The federal commission voted two years ago to shut down Fort Monmouth and to move most operations to Aberdeen by 2011. Compiled by John Sullivan
519 2007-06-18 Now Mr. McCain is jetting to 35 fund-raising events in the 30 days of June, hoping to raise more than $100,000 at each from small groups of big donors. He is passing the hat in six states — Georgia, Texas, Arizona, Alabama, Massachusetts and Florida — in just the five days ending Tuesday.

Nor has he shied away from his sponsorship of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law intended to curb the power of big donors, even as he races through his monthlong fund-raising spree.

“There are plenty of Republicans who don’t think McCain-Feingold has accomplished what it was designed to accomplish and it is infringing on free speech,” said Lawrence E. Bathgate, a New Jersey real estate mogul and former Republican party finance director who is a top fund-raiser for Mr. McCain. “I feel that way. But he is still my candidate.”

His presidential campaign did receive more first-quarter money than any other candidate from telephone utilities — $123,000, out of a total take of $12.5 million — who fear his power as an influential former chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee. As chairman, he often pushed for rules that would help the Bell telephone companies compete against the cable companies to provide Internet access and other services.

But Mr. McCain also frequently irked the telephone industry by taking the side of consumer advocates, including trying to end the “universal service” fees the phone companies tack onto consumers’ bills. He earned the lasting enmity of the cable companies by attacking them as price-gouging, unregulated monopolies. He was the only Republican to vote against the 1996 telecommunications overhaul, bucking virtually the entire industry on the grounds that the legislation neglected consumers. His most recent Senate campaign received less from the telephone companies than many others in Congress, including Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the New York Democrat.

“He wants to be independent, to make decisions free from the influence of special interests — God bless him,” said Kim Bayliss, a Democratic telecommunications lobbyist. “But those are the people with money, and they are only going to give their money because you have been with them or you are going to be with them.”

There is of course a political benefit to Mr. McCain in being seen as untrustworthy to those who control big pools of corporate and special interest money. But there is little doubt that his record in Congress has made remaining financially competitive in the presidential race more difficult.

Once the presumptive Republican front-runner, Mr. McCain stunned political analysts with a first-quarter fund-raising total that badly trailed his leading rivals, admitting disappointment and vowing to catch up. Bu the McCain campaign brought in just $7 million in April and May, one person familiar with the campaign’s internal tallies said, speaking anonymously because the totals are confidential.

Trying to manage expectations, his advisers are saying publicly that their only goal is to exceed the $12.5 million Mr. McCain brought in the first quarter. But that result would do nothing to narrow the gap behind the growing war chests of his main rivals for his party’s nomination, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, who expect to exceed their first quarter totals as well.

The sprint for big checks is a stark contrast to his insurgent campaign for the Republican nomination eight years ago, when Mr. McCain relied more than any candidate on anonymous small donors mailing in checks. Out of about $29 million in total contributions to his 2000 campaign, about a third of his donors gave less than $200 and fewer than about a third gave more than $1,000, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.

Those small donors applauded his attacks on special interests, but the same crusades can be liabilities with the big Republican fund-raisers, contributors and political action committees he is courting to remain competitive, his advisers say.

All campaigns play up their fund-raising challenges in order to cast their ultimate totals in the best light, but both campaign finance records and the views of Washington lobbyists suggest that Mr. McCain has consistently turned off the constituencies that have been expected to make up his financial base.

The military industry and its lobbyists, for example, always give heavily to the handful of lawmakers who control military spending; that is what fuels their business.

Last year, for example, the industry gave $244,000 to the chairman of the House armed services committee at the time, Representative Duncan Hunter, even though he faced scant opposition in his California district.

But military industry lobbyists say they have long dreaded the prospect that Mr. McCain might ascend to the chairmanship of the committee, much less the presidency. He is the Senate’s most outspoken critic of military procurement policies, big Pentagon contracts, and especially earmarks — the Congressional add-ons to military spending bills that contractors crave.

“McCain has been a one-man wrecking crew,” said a prominent military lobbyist, speaking on condition of anonymity because he lobbies the committee.

Mr. McCain has sometimes chalked up his fund-raising problems to his own lack of enthusiasm for the asking for money. “When you don’t like to do something,” he told reporters on an April bus trip through New Hampshire shortly after the disclosure of his disappointing first quarter, letting his voice trail off. “But we’re doing better. I’m working a lot harder at it. We’ll do better. We’ll do a lot better.”

If Mr. McCain feels any pressure, he does not show it, some fund-raisers said. Minutes before the start of a $2,300-a-head fund-raiser last Sunday at the Sonoma Valley home of the venture capitalist J. Gary Shansby, Mr. McCain was picking and eating berries as though he had not a care in the world, said Mr. Shansby, who has committed to raise $1 million.

Several fund-raisers said Mr. McCain was no more likely to tailor his messages to his donors in person than he has been in the Senate.

“I tell him all the time: ‘Everyone knows where you are on Iraq. Let’s talk about the environment, pork barrel spending, health care, dependence on foreign oil,’ ” Mr. Shansby said, reflecting the concerns of wealthy Sonoma Valley Republicans — many of whom are skeptical of the war.

Mr. McCain nonetheless made his support for the war the centerpiece of his fund-raiser. “He gets very agitated about a few issues,” Mr. Shansby said, “the war, immigration reform, campaign finance.”
520 2007-06-18 Cabrera, who trailed the overnight lead by four shots, shot a final-round 69 to defeat Woods (72) and Furyk (70) by a stroke. His five-over-par 285 on the difficult Oakmont course matched the winning score from last year’s championship at Winged Foot.

Cabrera, the only player to break par in two rounds, became the first player from Argentina to win the United States Open and the first to win a major since Roberto De Vicenzo won the British Open in 1967.

For Woods, who was bidding for his 13th major title, Oakmont was the site of his second consecutive runner-up finish in a major, after he closed 2006 by winning the British Open and the P.G.A. Championship. For Furyk, who grew up in the Pittsburgh area, it was his second straight runner-up finish in the Open.

In holding off Woods, the No. 1 player in the world, and Furyk, the No. 3 player, Cabrera, 37, also overcame the tough setup at Oakmont and his own nerves. He had never won a PGA Tour event, let alone a major, and yet he held on.

“I was definitely feeling nervous, but I assumed that this is the same sensation everybody was having,” he said through an interpreter. Later, he added: “There are some players that have psychologists. I smoke.”

Not everyone handled the emotion of a Sunday at Oakmont. Aaron Baddeley, who slept on a two-shot lead over Woods, stumbled at the start. He missed the fairway on the par-4 first hole when his tee shot sailed right, and he missed the green short and right with his approach. He hit his chip shot so far to the left that it rolled off the green and left his next chip shot about 10 feet short.

He took three more putts and walked away with a triple-bogey 7, the beginnings of a lost day playing alongside Woods.

At one point, Baddeley, Cabrera, Woods, Stephen Ames and Steve Stricker shared the lead on the front nine. That’s when Cabrera, one of the longest hitters in the game, began to make a move. After a birdie at No. 11, he nestled an iron to the 500-yard par-4 15th to 2 feet. He raised his eyebrows when he saw where his ball landed and put his hand on his head.

The birdie gave him a three-shot lead over Furyk and Woods, but they, too, started to get warm. When Furyk birdied the 15th hole for his third birdie in a row and Cabrera bogeyed No. 16 with a three-putt, Furyk was one shot back. When Cabrera missed an 8-foot putt for par on the 313-yard par-4 17th, they were tied.

Furyk, who often plays conservatively, turned aggressive. He took out a driver on No. 17 and launched his tee shot into the rough.

When he hit his pitch shot, he left it in the rough. His next attempt skidded 10 feet past the cup. Furyk, with many in the gallery pulling for him, lipped out the par putt, falling a shot behind Cabrera.

Furyk said he was surprised his drive on No. 17 flew as far as it did, “a little pea-shooter like myself.”

After Furyk made par on No. 18, only Woods could catch Cabrera. He had turned back a double bogey on No. 3, where he hit two awful chip shots, to come within a whisker of winning his third United States Open.

He made back-to-back par-saving putts on Nos. 16 and 17 and found the first cut of rough with his tee shot on the 18th. From 154 yards out, he hit a pitching wedge that was heading toward the flag, but it bounded long to the back of the green.

“Second shot was not easy, because I had to come out steep to get over the grass and still send it straight up in the air,” he said. “And I did a good job of that, I thought, but it flew a little too far and then I had to putt.”

Woods circled the green and studied the bend of the grass from both sides. He squatted next to his putter, barely even blinking his eyes.

When it missed, Cabrera returned to the walkway above the 18th green. It was sunset. Cabrera removed his hat to reveal gray at his temples. He looked out at Oakmont again.

“I watched all the majors on TV when I was a kid,” he said. “I never thought I would be here at this moment.”

Ángel Cabrera collected $1.26 million. He also earned a five-year exemption on the PGA Tour, an exemption into the Open for 10 years, and a five-year exemption into the Masters, British Open, P.G.A. Championship and Players Championship.
521 2007-06-18 The problem of wealthy interests’ trying to influence court decisions by pouring money into state judicial elections continues to escalate, according to a newly released report. So does the threat to the impartiality, independence and integrity of the nation’s courts. If the courts are going to pursue justice rather than advance special-interest agendas, states must either adopt public financing and strict fund-raising rules for judicial elections or switch to a nonelective merit selection system.

Thirty-nine states elect at least some of their judges. The report — released by the Justice at Stake Campaign, the Brennan Center for Justice and the National Institute on Money in State Politics — found that by 2004, the amount raised by candidates for states’ highest courts had reached nearly $47 million nationwide, up from $29 million in 2002. In 2006, total fund-raising decreased to $34.4 million, largely owing to a decrease in the number of contested races. But the median amount raised by individual candidates in 2006 soared to nearly $244,000 — from the 2004 median of about $202,000.

Television ads, until recently a rarity in top-level state court races, are now the norm. Such ads ran last fall in 10 of the 11 states where such judges were up for election, compared with just 4 of 18 states in 2000. Average spending on television airtime per state was also up, much of it for 15- and 30-second attack ads. In the race for Alabama’s chief justice seat, the second-most-expensive judicial race ever, 17,830 spots were run on behalf of candidates.

By far the biggest spenders in the 2006 judicial elections were business interests. They contributed $15 million to the 88 state supreme court candidates who raised funds in the latest election cycle, about 44 percent of all contributions, and far more than the roughly $7 million that lawyers gave.

There were a few encouraging developments. Raising the most money correlated with victory in 68 percent of judicial races in 2006, down from 85 percent in 2004. But the overall picture is bleak enough that states need to act quickly to stop special-interest money from becoming, in the words of the report, “a permanent national campaign against impartial justice.”
522 2007-06-18 “It is going to be really difficult to maintain our academic success,” said Ms. Polin, whose program relied on $206,000 in federal funds administered by the state. “There is nothing I can do now to replace that kind of funding. I’m just surprised that something so successful is allowed to end with a thud.”

In New York City, there are 118 after-school programs, serving almost 20,000 children, that are facing the financial crunch, said Lucy Friedman, the executive director of the After-School Corporation, a nonprofit group that helps programs with financing and advice. Most of them are run in a partnership with community-based groups.

While people unfamiliar with them might believe the programs are merely fun and games, they offer children a safe environment while their parents are working. They also provide academic tutoring and classes in subjects like art and music that have often been cut from the regular school day.

“The hours from 3 to 6 used to be a family’s responsibility, when moms were at home,” Ms. Friedman said. “But dynamics have changed, and both parents often have to work. To not continue funding this violates a trust and takes away something parents have come to expect.”

At many schools around the city, summer is being greeted with trepidation as administrators and parents consider the possible dismantling of the after-school programs when they return in September.

Intermediate School 238, in Hollis, Queens, is a place of accomplishment. Administrators said that in the late 1990s, I.S. 238 was the worst school in its district. Today, test scores and attendance have improved, and the school regularly sends several dozen eighth-grade graduates to specialized high schools. Posters brag that the school is “the Home of Scholars and Champions.” And instead of bells or buzzers, the change of periods is marked by the “Jeopardy” theme.

Joseph Gates, the principal at I.S. 238 since 2003, credits much of the improvement to the variety of academic and cultural activities offered after school. Every day, children take 90 minutes of music, dance or drama as well as 90 minutes of academics. It adds up to 20 extra school days a year.

“This has become part of the culture of our school,” Mr. Gates said. “I have over 70 percent of my kids below the poverty level. This program results in academic excellence. We’re very proud of it.”

If he cannot come up with the $220,000 that the federal government had provided, I.S. 238 will have to cut many of its cultural programs. The school will be able to continue some of its academic offerings thanks to other grants. Still, Mr. Gates and his colleagues see the cutbacks as a blow to a school that has gotten used to having a student orchestra and a dance troupe that has performed at Walt Disney World.

At Public School/Middle School 20 in the Bronx in early June, children intently painted summery beach scenes or scampered about the gym in a soccer game that more closely resembled a free-for-all. Others did homework or learned about healthy eating habits. By late afternoon, their parents — themselves tired from work — were dropping by to take the children home.

“I’m upset,” said Shantina Ramos, who will have two children at the school next year. “There are a lot of working families here. This is going to be difficult for me. If they are not in a program, then we’re going to have to bring them home, bathe them, feed them and help them their homework, too. That’s a lot for a working parent.”

After-school programs in New York City are financed through a patchwork of sources, with the lion’s share coming from city government. According to figures compiled by Ms. Friedman’s group, the city contributed $113.5 million this school year, with the state adding $25.1 million. The federal government’s contribution is $66.2 million, much of it from the 21st Century Community Learning Centers program that helps schools serving poor children.

The federal grants are distributed by state education authorities in a competitive process. The 207 schools that have been receiving grants for the past four and a half years in the program’s first phase will end their participation this month. Several hundred other schools that started receiving money later will continue to receive grants for several years.

After-school program advocates and school administrators said they had been led to believe for much of this school year that programs like the one at Lower East Side Preparatory High School, which received money during the first phase, would be eligible for renewed financing.

But in mid-February, they were told by state officials that the money would not be renewed. By then, advocates said, it was too late to line up alternatives. Instead, the advocates have been joined by parents, students and administrators in urging the Legislature and Governor Eliot Spitzer to add $30 million to the state budget to give the programs an extra year to find new sources of support. So far, the Legislature has allocated only $7.5 million.

Tom Dunn, a spokesman for the New York State Education Department, said there was never a commitment that financing would continue. The programs had always been urged to locate alternative funds, he said.

“We funded as many as we could,” Mr. Dunn said. “We did everything possible to keep them fully funded in the face of limited federal funds.”

Advocates and program administrators said the current financing structure — a mix of public and private sources — is complicated and inefficient. They said a streamlined approach, coordinated at the state level, would allow them to serve more young people without necessarily increasing budgets.

“The long-term problem is all of these programs have a cycle and a time period under which the funds come down,” said Jim O’Neill, executive director of the Sport and Arts in Schools Foundation, a Queens group that is among the city’s largest after-school providers. “Once they are established, staffed and running, how do you sustain them when there is no consistent source of money? Right now, this is going to affect thousands of kids in New York City, and it’s difficult once you close or cut the program to get them started up again.”

Cutting the after-school performing arts program at I.S. 238 in Hollis, for even a year, would mean having to start over. On a recent afternoon, Mr. Gates, the principal, settled into a chair in the school’s auditorium, where dancers were going through a final practice while a theater group sat in the audience and rehearsed lines from “The Taming of The Shrew.”

“This,” he said, “is the vision I always had for this school.”

Music welled up as dozens of dancers streamed toward the stage from the side aisles. Heads held high and arms held out, they began to sing.

“We’re all in this together,” they sang. “Together. Together. Together.”

Mr. Gates smiled, like someone who knows exactly what he has.
523 2007-06-18 DALLAS, June 17 —Voters here on Saturday chose a retired businessman as their next mayor, ending a bid by a three-term city councilman who if elected would have become the first openly gay elected leader of a major American city.

The retired businessman, Thomas C. Leppert, former chief executive of one of the world’s largest construction firms, was elected on Saturday in a runoff against the city councilman, Ed Oakley, who owns a small construction contracting business.

Mr. Leppert, 53, a Republican, received almost 58 percent of the 85,600 votes cast in the runoff.

It was the most expensive political race in Dallas history. Mr. Leppert’s campaign spent “well over $2 million,” a campaign aide said, including a $600,000 loan from Mr. Leppert himself, who retired from the Turner Corporation in December and serves on the boards of the Washington Mutual Bank and other businesses. Mr. Oakley spent about $1.8 million on his campaign.

“We clearly brought new leadership, and the people of Dallas were looking for that,” Mr. Leppert said Sunday in a telephone interview. “We did it in a way that was positive and bridged some of the divides. I don’t think Dallas has seen anything like it.”

Dallas, with a population of about 1.2 million, is the ninth-largest city in the United States.

This is Mr. Leppert’s first elected political office. His promise of a fresh start at City Hall, his business leadership background and his efforts to reach out to minority and poor residents in the city’s southern section resonated beyond the traditional voting stronghold of the business elite in affluent north Dallas.
524 2007-06-18 Buyout talks between Cadence Design Systems, one of the largest makers of the software used to design computer chips, and two private equity firms appear to have stalled over price, according to people close to the matter.

Though negotiations between Cadence and the two firms, the Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, may resume at some point, it appears that the discussions have been suspended for now, these people said.

Price has been among the chief concerns in the negotiations. Private equity has been pushing into markets it once shunned, including technology, but a buyout of Cadence would represent a risky bet on a volatile industry that is dependent on research and development spending. With a market value around $6.5 billion, Cadence may be too expensive for the equity firms to wring out lucrative returns.

Blackstone may already be troubled by another of its bets over the last year. The firm and its partners agreed to pay $17.6 billion for Free- scale Semiconductor, only to see that chip maker report lower sales in the first quarter of 2007.

Concerns over Cadence’s price were compounded by a recent jump in its stock price, fueled by a report on June 4 in The New York Times that the company was in talks with Blackstone and Kohlberg Kravis. The stock closed up nearly 6 percent that day, at $24.22.

Shares in Cadence have since declined nearly 4 percent, closing on Friday at $23.30.

Started in 1983, Cadence has grown into one of the largest makers of chip design software, having made a string of acquisitions. Since 2004, it has acquired four companies and invested heavily in several others.
525 2007-06-18 In exchange, contestants were sent a ring tone of a popular song in “Spring Awakening” and a photograph from the show to use as wallpaper on their phones. Both of the souvenirs are potential conversation starters with friends, whom the producers think of as would-be ticket buyers.

“Those are numbers talking to numbers talking to numbers,” said Damian Bazadona, president of Situation Marketing, who is working with the producers and the owner of the theater, Jujamcyn Theaters, on the pilot program. “A year or two years down the road, that’s how you’re talking to markets.”

Americans sent 18.7 billion text messages in December 2006, nearly double the 9.7 billion that were sent the previous December, according to CTIA, a wireless industry trade group. While various companies have tried to beat a path from consumers’ phones to their wallets, theater promoters, weary of phones ringing infuriatingly during denouements, have held back.

“There’s a tendency for Broadway not to be an early adopter, but that’s changing,” said Jordan Roth, vice president of Jujamcyn, which owns five theaters in New York, including the Eugene O’Neill Theater, where “Spring Awakening” is being staged. “Most producers now are really looking for new ways to communicate with our audience.”

The musical’s producers are sharing data with Jujamcyn, which is signing up participants for Broadway Phone, its wireless service for ticket deals and show information. Since the production draws young audiences with its themes of adolescent angst, it was chosen for the maiden cellphone effort. “But our goal is to expand what we’re doing to many shows,” Mr. Roth said.

As for whether this will result in more ringing during performances, Mr. Roth said that it has not been a problem, but that the promotion might not suit every production. “Will it interfere with the show?” he said. “Yeah, that is one of the things that is open for discussion.”

About 8.5 percent of audience members have been sending text messages in the 14 contests that the production has done so far, but organizers expect participation to reach 10 percent.

For a similar promotion with a tour of the rock-oriented theatrical production Blue Man Group, an average of 16 percent of audience members sent text messages, Mr. Bazadona said.

In a tour that covered 60 cities in 90 days, about 50,000 people sent text messages. “This means that each night, 16 percent of the house is leaving the theater with Blue Man Group somehow represented on their mobile phone,” Mr. Bazadona said.

At the Eugene O’Neill Theater that afternoon, the two students were enjoying their behind-the-scenes access when Stephen Spinella, who plays several characters in the musical, strode onto the stage on his way out of the theater. He asked Ms. Mitchell what she had done to win the contest.

“I texted,” she replied. “One of my favorite things.”
526 2007-06-18 BANKING ON A NEW NAME -- Bank of America built its brand as a financial supermarket that could be all things to all people. But it is looking to the U.S. Trust name to help burnish its private bank's reputation in catering to the very rich. [Page ...
527 2007-06-18 APPLEBY--William. Billy, I will miss your insouciant charm and loving friendship. Helene...
528 2007-06-19 Senator John McCain is warning that as president he "will not passively await the long-overdue demise of the Castro dictatorship" in Cuba, in a speech on Latin America that he plans to deliver in Palm Beach, Fla., on Wednesday afternoon....
529 2007-06-19 Intelsat, the world's largest satellite operator, said Tuesday it had agreed to sell a majority stake of the company to a group led by a London private equity firm, BC Partners, for $5 billion. BC Partners and other investors will buy 76 percent o...
530 2007-06-19 The private equity firm owned by Daniel Snyder, owner of the Washington Redskins, agreed on Tuesday to buy Dick Clark Productions for $175 million, acquiring a library of live music shows including "American Bandstand." The fund, Redzone Capital, ...
531 2007-06-19 Sanford Weill, the retired chairman of Citigroup, recently told Bloomberg News that the bank's enormousness isn't a disadvantage. "Being large and having a strong balance sheet enables a company to withstand the financial turmoil that happens ever...
532 2007-06-19 One of the most anticipated initial public offerings of the year may arrive sooner than expected. The Blackstone Group will price its share offering on Thursday, The Associated Press reported citing one of the offering's underwriters, Morgan Stanl...
533 2007-06-19 K2 Network, an online game publisher that has been bringing multiplayer Asian games to the United States market, said it won $16 million in a second round of funding led by Intel's venture capital arm. The round included new investors Khosla Ventu...
534 2007-06-19 JOHANNESBURG, June 18 — Members of Zimbabwe’s government and its political opposition met in Pretoria over the weekend for their first face-to-face talks since South Africa was asked in March to mediate between them.

Both sides have agreed not to reveal details of the talks, which are aimed at establishing rules for Zimbabwe’s presidential election, scheduled for March 2008. But one person knowledgeable about the negotiations said the meeting had been a preliminary session, held to set the agenda for further talks.

That person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because negotiations were still under way, said there had been some evidence of progress at the meeting.

Efforts to make peace between the government and the opposition have been virtually stalled since Zimbabwe’s president, Robert G. Mugabe, agreed to the talks under pressure from southern African political leaders at a regional meeting in March.

Leaders of the opposition, the Movement for Democratic Change, had gone to Pretoria to begin the talks several weeks ago, but government negotiators did not show up. Last week, the police confiscated the passport of one of the opposition leaders, Arthur Mutambara, the head of a breakaway faction of the opposition group.
535 2007-06-19 The decision “eliminates the huge risk to forming capital in this country that was posed by conflicting and overlapping regulatory regimes,” Robin Conrad, executive vice president of the National Chamber Litigation Center, said on Monday.

The losers in the case included not only the plaintiffs but the United States, which in a brief filed by Solicitor General Paul D. Clement tried to sell an awkward compromise between the competing views of two federal agencies. The Justice Department’s antitrust division wanted to support the plaintiffs, while the Securities and Exchange Commission supported the defendants in arguing for immunity from the antitrust laws.

The government told the justices that neither of the two lower courts had “adequately accommodated the interests of the two critical statutory frameworks at issue.” While the court of appeals decision “fails to provide adequate protection for the securities laws’ policy of encouraging certain types of collaborative activity,” the solicitor general’s brief said, the lawsuit should not be dismissed; rather, the plaintiffs should be permitted to refine their complaint and resubmit the case.

Justice Breyer said the government’s position “does not convincingly address the concerns we have set forth here,” namely “the difficulty of drawing a complex, sinuous line separating securities-permitted from securities-forbidden conduct.” The line should be drawn by experts and not by juries, Justice Breyer said.

A main theme of the opinion was that to permit juries rather than expert regulators “to distinguish what is forbidden from what is allowed” in the context of securities underwriting would be to invite “unusually serious mistakes,” different outcomes in different courts for the same conduct. Justice Breyer said such inconsistency and unpredictability would result in over-deterrence of “syndicate practices important in the marketing of new issues.” Successful plaintiffs in antitrust suits win triple damages.

Justice Stevens, in his separate concurring opinion, criticized this analysis. Justice Stevens said that rather than focus on whether the securities and antitrust laws were compatible or incompatible, the court should simply have ruled that the defendants’ underwriting practices were not an antitrust violation.

“After the initial purchase, the prices of newly issued stocks or bonds are determined by competition among the vast multitude of other securities traded in a free market,” Justice Stevens said, adding, “To suggest that an underwriting syndicate can restrain trade in that market by manipulating the terms of I.P.O.’s is frivolous.”

In his dissenting opinion, Justice Thomas said that the securities laws, when properly understood, preserved the ability to seek remedies under other laws, like the antitrust laws.

Justice Breyer said the court had rejected that analysis in previous decisions.

Wall Street welcomed the news. “This decision is very important because it reaffirms the primacy of the S.E.C. in supervising the I.P.O. process,” said Stephen M. Shapiro, a partner at Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw who tried the case for the defendants. “The trial lawyers tried to make an antitrust issue out of a securities issue and the court said no.”

The plaintiffs in this case described several practices that they claimed were anticompetitive, including soliciting promises from prospective purchasers to buy more shares after the initial offering at higher prices, or to buy stock in other companies in exchange for being allocated more shares of the new issue. The result, the plaintiffs contended, was to inflate the commissions earned by the underwriters.

Justice Breyer said that the challenged practices “lie at the very heart of the securities marketing enterprise,” over which the S.E.C. “has continuously exercised its legal authority.” To the extent that underwriters cross the line, he said, it is a line that is often ambiguous and that the S.E.C. is in the best position to define and enforce. Because “securities law and antitrust law are clearly incompatible” in this context, Justice Breyer concluded, antitrust law had to give way.

In other action on Monday, the court declined to weigh in on an increasingly disputed question of state tax law: whether the Constitution permits states to impose corporate income and franchise taxes on companies that have no physical presence in the state.

The justices made no comment in turning down appeals filed nearly simultaneously by companies challenging rulings by appellate courts in West Virginia and New Jersey. In the West Virginia case, MBNA Bank, which has its principal place of business in Delaware and is now owned by the Bank of America Corporation, was seeking refunds of nearly $500,000 in taxes it had been assessed on income from its credit card customers in West Virginia.

The challenge to the New Jersey taxes was brought by Lanco Inc., which holds the trademarks and other intellectual property once owned by Lane Bryant, the women’s clothing retailer. Lanco, incorporated in Delaware, is known as an “intangible property holding company,” or I.H.C. It receives monthly royalties based on sales by Lane Bryant in New Jersey but has no presence in the state itself.

The issue in both cases, MBNA America Bank v. Tax Commissioner, No. 06-1228, and Lanco Inc. v. Director, Division of Taxation, No. 06-1236, was whether the Constitution’s Commerce Clause allowed states to impose taxes under these conditions. In 1992, the Supreme Court maintained a “physical presence” test for imposing sales taxes; the question is whether the same rule applies for corporate taxes. With a growing conflict among state courts, the justices are likely to take up the issue eventually.
536 2007-06-19 Last week, the Audubon Society released a new report describing the sharp and startling population decline of some of the most familiar and common birds in America: several kinds of sparrows, the Northern bobwhite, the Eastern meadowlark, the common grackle and the common tern. The average decline of the 20 species in the Audubon Society’s report is 68 percent.

Forty years ago, there were an estimated 31 million bobwhites. Now there are 5.5 million. Compared to the hundred-some condors presently in the wild, 5.5 million bobwhites sounds like a lot of birds. But what matters is the 25.5 million missing and the troubles that brought them down — and are all too likely to bring down the rest of them, too. So this is not extinction, but it is how things look before extinction happens.

The word “extinct” somehow brings to mind the birds that seem like special cases to us, the dodo or the great auk or the passenger pigeon. Most people would never have had a chance to see dodos and great auks on their remote islands before they were decimated in the 17th and 19th centuries. What is hard to remember about passenger pigeons isn’t merely their once enormous numbers. It’s the enormous numbers of humans to whom their comings and goings were a common sight and who supposed, erroneously, that such unending clouds of birds were indestructible. We recognize the extraordinary distinctness of the passenger pigeon now because we know its fate, killed off largely by humans. But we have moralized it thoroughly without ever really taking it to heart.

The question is whether we will see the distinctness of the field sparrow — its number is down from 18 million 40 years ago to 5.8 million — only when the last pair is being kept alive in a zoo somewhere. We love to finally care when the death watch is on. It makes us feel so very human.

Like you, I’ve been reading dire reports of declining species for many years now. They have the value of causing us to pay attention to species in trouble, and the sad fact is that the only species likely to endure are the ones we humans manage to pay attention to. There was a time when it was better, if you were a nonhuman species, to be ignored by humans because we trapped, shot or otherwise exploited all of the ones that got our attention. But in the past 40 years, we have killed all those millions of birds or, let us say, unintentionally caused a dramatic population loss, simply by going about business as usual.
537 2007-06-19 MILAN, June 18 — An Italian judge on Monday suspended the kidnapping trial of 25 Central Intelligence Agency operatives, a United States military officer and some of Italy’s former top spies, to await a ruling on whether prosecutors overstepped their bounds and violated state secrecy laws as they gathered evidence.

Judge Oscar Magi delayed the trial, which began June 8, pending a decision from the Constitutional Court on whether prosecutors had the right to use wiretaps of secret service agents and classified documents as evidence to prosecute the 26 Americans and seven Italian agents. They are accused of abducting an imam who was suspected of being involved in terrorist activity, seizing him as he walked to his mosque in Milan in February 2003.

The kidnapping was the first documented case in Western Europe of an “extraordinary rendition,” the American program in which terrorism suspects are abducted and then interrogated in other countries, some of which permit torture.

The imam, Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr, known as Abu Omar, said he was sent to Egypt and tortured for four years. He was released in February.

The case is highly sensitive because it could make public the inner workings of the American program, as well as any intrigue between the American and Italian governments.

The Italian government is contending in arguments before the Constitutional Court that prosecutors should not have been allowed to conduct wiretaps and should not have been privy to some documents covered by state secrecy laws. The court is expected to rule in October, and any decision to suppress evidence could have a decisive impact on the trial, which Judge Magi scheduled to resume on Oct. 24.

The government’s challenge has exasperated prosecutors in Milan, who contend that they fully complied with the law.
538 2007-06-19 BOSTON, June 18 — Gov. John Baldacci of Maine signed a bill on Monday establishing how the state will reduce pollution and cap power plant emissions in a regional effort to reduce carbon dioxide output.

Maine is one of 10 Eastern states in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or R.G.G.I. (pronounced “Reggie”), which is intended to lower carbon dioxide output from power plants.

Maine is the third state to enact a law outlining a plan to reduce emissions and use the money, known as allowances, paid to the state by companies that emit carbon dioxide.

Under the regional initiative, other states, including Maryland, can put into effect their rules through their environmental protection departments rather than their legislatures. “Maine is leading by example, and R.G.G.I. is a crucial step,” Mr. Baldacci, who committed Maine to the pact in 2005, said in a statement. “These investments will improve the competitiveness of Maine’s businesses and lower electricity rates for consumers, individuals and businesses.”

Maine accounts for 3 percent of United States carbon emissions. It will cap its emissions at 5.9 million tons in 2009, and reduce them 10 percent by 2019.

Under the new law, six power plants will start paying allowances to the state in 2009 that let them emit carbon dioxide. One allowance will pay for one ton of carbon dioxide emitted, with the price of each allowance dictated by a market in which companies can buy and sell the allowances.
539 2007-06-19 Mr. Rizzo, an agency lawyer for three decades who is known for his dapper dress and his discretion, will probably be questioned in open and closed sessions about the most contentious policies: holding terror suspects in secret; subjecting them to tough physical treatment, including the simulated drowning technique called waterboarding; and delivering some to countries that routinely practice torture.

“He’ll be the piñata,” said A. B. Krongard, executive director of the C.I.A. from 2001 to 2004, who remains a strong defender of the detention and interrogation program.

Mr. Krongard said Mr. Rizzo worked hard to see that the program was lawful, insisting on written legal opinions from the Justice Department.

“He did everything possible to get it right,” Mr. Krongard said. For any legal faults, he added, “Rizzo can be held accountable, I guess, but nowhere near as much as the Justice Department.”

Committee Democrats said they planned tough questioning for Mr. Rizzo, who was a crucial link between the interrogators and the Justice Department lawyers who gave their approval.

“I have serious concerns about this nomination,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who said she wanted to gauge Mr. Rizzo’s precise role in what she believed were deeply flawed legal justifications.

Gen. Michael V. Hayden, C.I.A. director since May 2006, strongly defended the program and Mr. Rizzo’s role in shaping it.

Paul Gimigliano, an agency spokesman, said, “Mr. Rizzo knows better than anyone the full range of complex legal issues that influence intelligence operations in a democracy.”

Mr. Rizzo has earned a reputation for helping overseas operatives find a legal way to do what they feel is necessary. But officials said he did reject some proposed interrogation methods as excessive and illegal.

John Radsan, who worked as a C.I.A. lawyer from 2002 to 2004 but is critical of the detention program, said Mr. Rizzo “bears a share of responsibility” for the program and perhaps should have counseled against actions that were “technically legal but wrongheaded.”

But Mr. Radsan said top Bush administration officials deserved greater blame “for asking to push things right to the point of illegality.”

Mr. Rizzo, who is not granting interviews before his confirmation hearing, is no stranger to the agency’s legal controversies. A graduate of Brown University and the George Washington University Law School, he joined the agency in 1976, when the Church Committee of the Senate had just unearthed the agency’s involvement in assassination plots.

In the 1980s, he worked for the C.I.A.’s inspector general, investigating accusations of wrongdoing at agency stations abroad. He later became the agency’s point man for outside investigations into the Iran-contra affair, in which three agency officers were charged with crimes.

Since 1995, as senior deputy general counsel, Mr. Rizzo has often filled in as acting general counsel for months at a time. That was the case from November 2001 to October 2002, when top C.I.A. officials were negotiating the placement of secret jails abroad.

Interrogation was uncharted territory for most serving C.I.A. officers. A 1963 agency interrogation manual described the infliction of pain, including the use of electrical shock, but such techniques were banned by the 1980s, and by 2001, few C.I.A. officers had any experience in questioning suspects.

Mr. Krongard said deciding the limits of interrogation for Al Qaeda’s top operatives was not easy. “Can you slap someone in the face? Maybe,” he said. “But can you hit them as hard as you can? Maybe not.”

The approved options were first applied after the capture in March 2002 of Abu Zubaydah, a senior Qaeda figure. Mr. Rizzo was responsible for the legal advice to the officers holding him in Thailand as they escalated physical and mental pressure.

But colleagues said Mr. Rizzo insisted on Justice Department approval for actions they knew might be second-guessed.

“We were always conscious in the agency that we are judged not by the standards of today, but by the standards of tomorrow,” said Robert Richer, who retired in 2005 as second in command of the C.I.A.’s clandestine service.

The intelligence officers’ conviction that the political and legal winds would shift has proved accurate. A Justice Department memorandum in 2002 declared that nothing short of the pain associated with organ failure constituted illegal torture; the department later withdrew it and Congress set new limits on interrogation last year with the Military Commissions Act.

Since then, the C.I.A. has awaited White House approval for a new set of interrogation methods. It will again be up to Mr. Rizzo, if he is confirmed, to tell the agency what is and is not permitted.
540 2007-06-19 WASHINGTON, June 18 (AP) — E-mail records are missing for 51 of the 88 White House officials who had electronic message accounts with the Republican National Committee, the House Oversight Committee said Monday.

The Bush administration may have committed “extensive” violations of a law requiring that certain records be preserved, the committee chairman, Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, said.

An interim report from the panel said the number of White House officials who had accounts at the Republican group and the number of messages sent and received were more extensive than had been thought. The White House said about 50 officials had accounts in President Bush’s tenure. The House panel found at least 88.

The Republican group has preserved messages by some of the heaviest users, including 140,216 sent or received by Karl Rove, the top political adviser in the White House.

The report said “the R.N.C. has preserved no e-mails for 51 officials,” including Ken Mehlman, a former White House political director who reportedly used his account frequently.
541 2007-06-19 A family court judge in Vermont on Friday dissolved a civil union between two women whose fight over their daughter had attracted national attention and for a time put a judge in Virginia at odds with one in Vermont over whether a child can have two mothers.

The Vermont judge, William D. Cohen of Rutland Family Court, affirmed that the two women were legal parents of Isabella Miller-Jenkins, 5. But Judge Cohen awarded sole physical and legal custody of Isabella to her biological mother, Lisa Miller.

Judge Cohen ordered Ms. Miller, who now lives in Virginia, to allow her former lesbian partner, Janet Jenkins, to spend alternate weekends and some holidays with Isabella.

The ruling was a relatively routine one, as higher courts had decided the larger questions in the case. In August, the Vermont Supreme Court ruled that the two women were legal parents. A few months later, an appeals court in Virginia, reversing a lower court judge there, accepted that ruling. The Virginia Supreme Court has not yet weighed in.

In April, the United States Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the Vermont decision.

A lawyer for Ms. Miller, Rena M. Lindevaldsen, said her client welcomed aspects of the decision but believed that she alone should be able to decide who spent time with her daughter. Ms. Lindevaldsen said Ms. Miller would continue to fight for legal recognition as Isabella’s sole parent by appealing to the Vermont Supreme Court and, if necessary, to the United States Supreme Court.
542 2007-06-19 Re “After the Bomb,” by William J. Perry, Ashton B. Carter and Michael M. May (Op-Ed, June 12):

Where do we find volunteers for a response team to help after a nuclear attack? Look first to our older citizens. They are retired, post-procreation and are less likely than their juniors to worry about delayed radiation effects. The same argument can be applied with only a little less force to teams responding to a chemical or biological attack.

I am a healthy octogenarian with some background in radiation medicine. Where do I sign up?

A high priority in preparing for a terrorist nuclear attack should be the identification and hardening of critical assets, many of which might survive if outside the zone of maximum destruction. These assets include hospitals and fire stations, but also museums and libraries, which contain irreplaceable cultural objects.

The most delicate parts of many of these structures are the glass windows, which shatter during an explosion, injuring those within and allowing radioactive material to enter the building. Plastic-laminated glass windows, such as those used in hurricane prone environments, should be mandated for critical buildings.

Looting is also a major post-detonation concern, which can be mitigated by strengthened structural components on the lower floors of hospitals and museums.

William Warmus

Lansing, N.Y., June 12, 2007

The writer was the curator of modern glass at the Corning Museum of Glass.
543 2007-06-19 As an American Jew who shares Thomas L. Friedman’s critical assessment of Israel’s policies toward the occupied territories, I am very slow to equate criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism. Nonetheless, like Mr. Friedman, I have been unable to come up with a better explanation for the proposed British academic boycott of Israeli universities.

The idea is spectacularly wrongheaded, not only for the examples of selective sympathy that Mr. Friedman enumerates (and many more that could be added), but also because boycotts are so antagonistic to the ordinary ethics of the academic community.

Israeli universities are no more complicit in the injustices wrought by their nation’s government than are the universities of any nation — including our own — whose government is rightfully subject to serious criticism.

And if any effort is warranted to prompt Israeli scholars to oppose their government more forcefully, that initiative should surely take the form of engagement and dialogue, not ostracism.

Peter M. Shane

Columbus, Ohio, June 17, 2007

The writer is a professor at Moritz College of Law, Ohio State University.

While Thomas L. Friedman’s column rightly points out the inconsistency of boycotting Israel’s academics, the charge of anti-Semitism is unsubstantiated and should not have been raised. Rather, he could have suggested that British academics boycott themselves for their government’s involvement in the war in Iraq.
544 2007-06-19 The use of antibiotics in the first year of life is associated with an increased risk for asthma at age 7, a new study has found, and the reason may be that antibiotics destroy not only disease-causing microbes, but also those that are helpful to the developing immune system.

Antibiotic use had a greater impact on children who would otherwise be considered at lower risk — children who lived in rural areas and those whose mothers did not have asthma — than on those who were already at increased risk because of an urban environment or genetic predisposition.

Studies of antibiotic use and asthma have been complicated. Because antibiotics are used to treat respiratory illnesses, which are often precursors of asthma, it has been difficult to determine the effect of antibiotics alone. But this study, of 13,116 Canadian children, found that the risk of asthma increased even in children treated with antibiotics for nonrespiratory illnesses in the first year of life. The study appears in the June issue of Chest.

Anita L. Kozyrskyj, the lead author and an associate professor of pharmacy at the University of Manitoba, said the findings supported what scientists call the microflora hypothesis — that “you need good bacteria in your digestive tract for normal development of the immune system so that you don’t end up with asthma,” as she put it.

The researchers tracked medications by examining prescription records, and determined asthma status by treatment for asthma or any asthma drug use in the year following the seventh birthday. Six percent of the children developed asthma by age 7.
545 2007-06-19 Having a hostile attitude may affect your breathing, a new study reports.

Using a sample of 4,629 healthy adults ages 18 to 30, researchers determined hostility using a 50-item questionnaire and then administered breathing tests to record objective measures of breathing efficiency and lung capacity. The study appears in the May issue of Health Psychology.

After controlling for age, height, socioeconomic status, smoking and asthma, high scores on the hostility test were consistently associated with low scores on the measures of lung function in black men and women and in white women. The more hostile the person was, the more lung function declined. For each one-fifth increase in scores on the hostility questionnaire, there was a corresponding decrease in scores on the breathing tests. The association was not statistically significant in white men.

The reasons for the link are unclear. The researchers did not examine environmental influences on lung function other than smoking, so it may be that some unknown environmental factors lead to both poor lung function and increased hostility, or even that poor lung function causes hostility.

“This is suggestive,” said Dr. Benita Jackson, the lead author and an assistant professor of psychology at Smith College, “but we don’t know for certain that hostility causes lung function decline. That’s where more research is needed.

“The good news here is that unlike other exposures, like air pollution or genetic predisposition, hostility is something that can be changed.”
546 2007-06-19 Regular aspirin use may significantly reduce the incidence of both cancer and heart disease, according to a large new study, but other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or Nsaids, have no effect.

Researchers studied 22,507 postmenopausal women, following them for 10 years. All reported their aspirin and Nsaid use as part of a detailed physical and behavioral health questionnaire. None of the women had cancer or heart disease at the start of the study.

After controlling for age, exercise, diet and other factors, those who used aspirin had a 16 percent reduced risk of getting cancer, and a 13 percent reduced risk of cancer death, compared with women who never used it. Aspirin use was also associated with a 25 percent reduced risk of dying from coronary artery disease and an 18 percent reduction in all-cause mortality compared with those who never took aspirin. But use of other Nsaids like ibuprofen (Advil and other brands) and naproxen (Aleve and others) had no effect, and there was no significantly reduced risk among aspirin users who were currently smoking. The study was published in the June issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute.

The authors acknowledged that the study was not a randomized trial, that the questionnaire did not assess duration of aspirin use, and that the participants were all postmenopausal women, most of whom were white.

“It would be premature at this point to advise women to take aspirin,” said Dr. Aditya Bardia, the lead author and a resident in internal medicine at the Mayo Clinic.

“The study does produce provocative evidence that aspirin can reduce mortality, but for now it would be best that women talk to their health care provider about the risks and benefits of aspirin use.”
547 2007-06-19 Regular aspirin use may significantly reduce the incidence of both cancer and heart disease, according to a large new study, but other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or Nsaids, have no effect.     Researchers studied 22,507 postmenopausal w...
548 2007-06-19 To the Editor:     Re ''A Boycott Built on Bias'' (column, June 17):...
549 2007-06-19 Imagine that you are depressed and see a psychiatrist who explains that you have clinical depression and would benefit from an antidepressant. So far, so good. But then the doctor tells you there is a 60 percent chance that you'll feel better with...
550 2007-06-19 CONCERN OVER CHINESE-MADE TOYS There have been 24 safety recalls of toys this year so far and all of the toys have been manufactured in China -- a record that alarms consumer advocates, parents and regulators. Some contend the United States govern...
551 2007-06-19 To the Editor:     Re ''After the Bomb,'' by William J. Perry, Ashton B. Carter and Michael M. May (Op-Ed, June 12):...
552 2007-06-20 Fund-raising -- in this critical month at the end of the second-quarter -- is really tough, the senator says....
553 2007-06-20 Bloomberg, good for the Democrats? First Read, the blog of the NBC News political unit, speculates that a Michael Bloomberg presidential candidacy would help the Democratic nominee in November 2008: "Why? It's simple - the South. The irony of a Bl...
554 2007-06-20 The public can view the Governors Island proposals at a hearing tonight; a new audit suggests the pace on the park space project has been sluggish....
555 2007-06-20 The Romney camp strikes back....
556 2007-06-20 Beset by shrinking advertising revenues, newspaper companies have been flailing to find solutions to prop up their income. One solution that McClatchy, the company that bought Knight Ridder last year, is now entertaining: selling its stake in Care...
557 2007-06-20 There are two new managing directors in Credit Suisse's investment banking group. The firm said in an internal memo that Tom Delbrook, previously the vice president of finance at the shipping giant UPS, would join the firm's general industrial and...
558 2007-06-20 The troubles at Bear Stearns have shown that even bulge-bracket investment banks can find themselves in a jam when their investments go south. But Bear is just dealing with a troubled hedge fund - what would happen in a broader market collapse, or...
559 2007-06-20 Last week's surprise out of Washington - a bill that could jack up the tax rate for publicly traded private equity firms - does not seem to be much of a concern for the Blackstone Group's underwriters. Or Fortress Investment Group's shareholders, ...
560 2007-06-20 The story of Ajaz Rahim, a former executive at Faysal Bank in Pakistan, and his friend Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, a Credit Suisse banker who American prosecutors allege provided Mr. Rahim with insider information for stock trades, is a timeless...
561 2007-06-20 As financial services becomes a hot sector for leveraged buyouts, Cerberus Capital Management has hired a longtime bank executive to run the division in charge of those businesses. Alvaro de Molina, formerly Bank of America's chief financial offic...
562 2007-06-20 An effort to save a troubled hedge fund at Bear Stearns hit a major hurdle Tuesday when Merrill Lynch signaled that it would move forward with plans to auction $850 million in subprime securities that had been held as collateral, The New York Time...
563 2007-06-20 Despite some high-profile setbacks in its target market of mobile virtual network operators, Visage Mobile closed a $10 million fifth round of venture capital, bringing total investment in the six-year-old company to more than $80 million to enhan...
564 2007-06-20 Barclays, the British bank that is bidding for ABN Amro, is considering dropping its eagle logo because of concerns by ABN Amro that it could remind some clients of the Nazi regime, The New York Times reported. The Barclays logo, which dates back ...
565 2007-06-20 Maj. Gen. Don T. Riley, the head of civil works for the Corps, said in an interview that local leaders were initially wary of the report and how it would be used, and some said, “Oh boy, I’m not sure we can do this — because we’re trying to get people to move back in.” But, he said, “after we worked with them and showed them, they said, ‘this can really be a good tool for planning.’ ”

The analysis of the city’s risk, more than a year behind schedule and still a work in progress, is an enormously ambitious attempt to figure out just how risky it is to live in New Orleans, and is the first time the Corps has released such a tool to the public anywhere in the nation. The Defense Department’s supercomputers analyzed scores of different types of storms, estimating wind speeds, storm surges and pathways and how they would affect every street in the city.

Some of the risk to New Orleans has clearly been reduced, largely because of the construction of enormous gates across the mouths of the city’s three main drainage canals, which raised the level of protection significantly. In other parts of the greater New Orleans area, where the hurricane protection system was restored but not upgraded in a major way, the probability of damage does not shift nearly as much: large parts of the Upper Ninth Ward could be expected to have two to four feet of water in a one-in-50 flood, then and now.

A flood with a 1 percent chance of occurring would leave much of the Garden District relatively dry, as it remained during Katrina, though a smaller patch of the neighborhoods to the north would be expected to flood.

City officials said the new tools would help them plan the city’s halting recovery. Edward J. Blakely, the hurricane recovery chief for New Orleans, said that while the maps show that “quite a bit of the city” remains vulnerable to storms, the dangers would diminish over time as further protection is built. Eventually, he said, “the risks aren’t going to be different from those of a city in Florida.”

Karen Durham-Aguilera, the civilian director of the Corps’ Task Force Hope, the nearly $6 billion hurricane protection system work in New Orleans and southeast Louisiana, suggested that the facts about New Orleans presented in the report were anything but bad. “This is good, because it shows a lowered risk,” she said. “There’s no place where you can say the risk is absolutely zero,” she added.

While voluminous, the report will nonetheless seem incomplete to many in New Orleans. The Corps is not releasing the data on how the system to protect against 1 percent floods will perform, although officials said Monday that portion of the report would be ready within weeks. That is the information that many in New Orleans desperately want, since they know that what they have so far is not adequate, but also might be willing to gamble that a monster storm will not hit before 2011, when the stronger system is scheduled to be in place.

The data from the report will be used to help the Corps determine what level of protection will be necessary as it upgrades the New Orleans levees, floodwalls, pumps and gates. President Bush and Congress have committed the Corps to bring the level of hurricane protection up to the point that they could withstand the kind of storm that would have only a 1 percent chance of striking — work that is slated to be complete by 2011. And Congress has also ordered the Corps to study ways of improving protection further still — a study that is commonly referred to as the “Category 5” study, referring to the strongest storms.

The risk analysis will be used by other agencies as well; the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for example, will use it to determine the one-in-100 flood level for insurance purposes.

It is not clear yet, however, that the computer model accurately represents what might happen in a storm — whether the Corps has captured the complexity of a storm and the ability of the hurricane protection system to stand up to it. Engineers have said that little is known about the rate of erosion by levees under attack from water pouring over the top, and what elements of the system will function properly in a storm.

Federal officials acknowledged that it would not be easy to get suspicious local residents to trust the new maps.

“The real issue is going to be, are the local people going to look at these maps and believe them?” asked Donald Powell, the head of Gulf Coast reconstruction for the Bush administration. “And if they trust the maps, will they act upon the information?”

One of the biggest problems, he said, is that people have lived in New Orleans for generations and believe that the city would have been largely undamaged if the levees had not breached. But the new report says that Katrina’s raw strength would have caused extensive damage even if the levees had held.

“It’s that tension,” he said, “between trust and reality and history.”

William Borah, a New Orleans lawyer and citizen activist on planning issues, said that while he has not yet seen the risk analysis, anything from the Corps is going to be “taken with a grain of salt” since the failure of the of the levees.

“Anybody that doesn’t question what the Corps does subsequent to Katrina just hasn’t been around,” he said.

But Ed Link, the director of the Corps investigation into the levee failures, said the report gives a “huge advantage” to New Orleans that no other city has.

“I don’t see it as putting a big target on New Orleans and chasing people away,” he said. “I see it as showing that New Orleans is getting its arms wrapped around this issue for the future.”
566 2007-06-20 The Human Rights Council, created to be an improvement on the discredited Human Rights Commission, which seldom exposed notorious rights violators, marked the end of what critics called a disappointing first year by abolishing independent rights monitors for Belarus and Cuba. The Geneva-based council did maintain monitors for 10 countries, including Cambodia, Myanmar North Korea and Sudan, and agreed to new rules obliging all 47 member states to have their rights records scrutinized.
567 2007-06-20 McLEAN, Va., June 19 (AP) — RedZone Capital, the investment company owned by the Washington Redskins’ owner, Daniel M. Snyder, bought Dick Clark Productions, the TV production company, for $175 million in a deal that brings the Redskins and the television show “Bloopers” into the same corporate family.

Under the deal, RedZone Capital acquires a 60 percent stake in Dick Clark Productions for $135 million. The publicly traded amusement park operator Six Flags — where Mr. Snyder serves as board chairman and RedZone is the largest individual shareholder — will control the remaining stake for $40 million.

The deal expands Mr. Snyder’s presence in the entertainment world. In addition to his investment in the Redskins and Six Flags, Mr. Snyder is a partner in a film production company co-owned by the actor Tom Cruise. Mr. Snyder’s company also owns the Johnny Rockets chain of ’50s-style diners and several sports-themed radio stations in the Washington media market.

Dick Clark Productions, based in Los Angeles, produces or holds rights to a stable of television programming, including the “New Year’s Rockin’ Eve” broadcast that has regularly featured Mr. Clark counting down the ball drop in Times Square.

Dick Clark Productions had been a publicly traded company, with Mr. Clark controlling 70 percent of the shares, until 2002, when a group of investors took it private for $140 million. Mr. Clark, who had a stroke several years ago, no longer has a management role with the company.
568 2007-06-20 LONDON, June 19 (Reuters) — The private equity firm BC Partners agreed on Tuesday to buy Intelsat, the world’s largest commercial satellite operator, in a deal that values the company at about $5 billion.

The current owners, the private equity firms Apax Partners, Permira, Apollo Management and Madison Dearborn Partners, would retain a 24 percent stake after being paid $4.6 billion cash for the rest. They bought Intelsat for $3.1 billion in August 2004.

Including Intelsat’s $11.4 billion in debt, the implied enterprise value is $16.4 billion. As part of the acquisition financing, the company would take on another $3.85 billion in debt. The deal is the largest in the history of BC Partners, which is based in London.

Intelsat’s chief executive, David McGlade, is expected to stay in that role.

BC Partners received $5.11 billion of financing commitments from Credit Suisse, Banc of America Securities and Morgan Stanley. Credit Suisse advised Intelsat and Merrill Lynch and Perella Weinberg Partners advised BC Partners.
569 2007-06-20 Ángel Cabrera’s victory in the United States Open on Sunday attracted an average of 9.5 million viewers, 37 percent more than last year, and the most since Tiger Woods’s victory in 2002. While the final round produced a 6.4 rating, the final half-hour, in which Cabrera watched from the clubhouse as Woods missed a birdie putt to tie the tournament, spiked to a 10.1.
570 2007-06-20 Now, fearing that his Pakistani origins might be enough to land him in an American jail, Mr. Rahim has returned to his hometown, Lahore, a city in northeast Pakistan, say people who have been briefed on his whereabouts.

Mr. Rahim’s lawyer, Spencer C. Barasch, declined to comment on his client’s whereabouts, saying only that Mr. Rahim was not hiding but was “letting the legal process work itself out.” Mr. Barasch said his client was innocent and would fight the charges against him.

The circumstances are more dire for Mr. Naseem, the former banker at Credit Suisse who is accused of feeding Mr. Rahim inside information on at least nine deals. Released on bail of $1 million, his passport confiscated and his assets frozen, Mr. Naseem remains confined to his home in Rye Brook, N.Y.

While the Pakistani locale may be unusual, the story of Mr. Rahim and Mr. Naseem revolves around themes of hubris and aspiration that are timeless. And it is one in a recent spate of such incidents. While many have involved Americans, others have spanned the globe, from Hong Kong to Croatia to Pakistan.

Mr. Rahim is one of a new generation of market players who have seen their fortunes soar as a wave of capital has propelled emerging markets to new highs, from China to India and most starkly Pakistan, where the stock market has jumped more than 800 percent since 2001.

Far removed from the insider trading scandals of the 1980s, these investors have become enthusiastic speculators on overseas markets. But, as they have taken on more risk, regulators say that some are violating American securities laws, prompting the authorities to range far and wide to try to catch them.

Since the attacks of Sept. 11, $10 billion in American aid, a stream of money from oil rich investors and a pro-economic reform government supported by Pakistan’s president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, have produced the most explosive bull market in the country’s history.

This year the market is up 35 percent, shrugging off suicide bombs in Karachi and civil unrest protesting the rule of General Musharraf.

While there is no evidence that Mr. Rahim used inside information in the local market, legal specialists in Pakistan say that lax regulation has created a permissive trading environment.

“There is a culture of noncompliance in Pakistan,” said Tariq Hassan, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. “If you can’t get caught, then you have the incentive to make a quick buck.”

Mr. Rahim, 44, and Mr. Naseem, 37, could not be more different from each other.

Known for his love of Cuban cigars and sleek automobiles, Mr. Rahim seems a caricature of the classic Wall Street deal maker. His social network extended deep into Pakistan business circles, and he developed a reputation as an expansive host who held frequent parties.

As the markets boomed, so did his wealth. “How much do you think I’m worth,” his associates recall him asking during a recent dinner party. “$30 million,” guessed one. “Higher, higher,” Mr. Rahim responded, according to one person who was there.

Mr. Barasch, the defense lawyer, says that while people have tried to guess his client’s wealth, Mr. Rahim has never talked specifically about his net worth.

Mr. Naseem, the son of a civil servant, had little of his mentor’s panache. He came to know Mr. Rahim while the two worked at American Express in Lahore in the late 1990s. In 2002, Mr. Naseem came to the United States to get a business degree at New York University. After a stint at JPMorgan, he joined Credit Suisse. He lives in a rented home in Westchester County, where he cares for a child who has cerebral palsy.

At the time Mr. Naseem left Pakistan, Mr. Rahim’s fortunes were at a low ebb. American Express was closing its operations in Pakistan, and Mr. Rahim had suffered deep losses from his investments in plummeting American technology stocks.

In 2002 he got a break, landing a job at Faysal Bank, a small commercial bank majority owned by the Dar al-Maal al-Islami Trust, an Islamic investment conglomerate in Geneva founded by Prince Muhammad al-Faisal al-Saud, a senior member of the Saudi royal family and an advocate of Islamic-based finance principles.

A spirited man who sports a French beard and enjoys a glass of whiskey, Mr. Rahim stood out among his more conservative colleagues within the Dar al-Maal al-Islami group, the slogan of which is “Allah is the purveyor of all success.”

People who know him say that he always envisioned himself as a market-savvy deal maker, and when capital began flowing into Pakistan after Sept. 11, Mr. Rahim, put in charge of managing Faysal Bank’s stock portfolio, became an influential investor in the local market.

He was promoted to head of investment banking in 2005 by Faysal’s chief executive, Farook Bengali.

Feeling flush with success, Mr. Rahim burnished his public image by financing the building of a hospital in Karachi, named after his mother. And in 2006, he led the bank’s push into real estate by investing in development projects in Lahore and Islamabad.

Unlike many investors in Pakistan who stick to the market they know, Mr. Rahim fancied himself a global investor, regardless of his losses in 2000, say people who know him.

In April 2006, according to the government’s complaint, he began an extraordinary investment run by taking positions in nine American companies just before they were involved in takeovers or deals that allowed him to cash out quickly, culminating in the TXU trades in February.

In each case, the government accuses Mr. Naseem, who had joined Credit Suisse in March 2006, of tipping off Mr. Rahim that these companies would be taken over. He is accused of illegally retrieving the information from a database of Credit Suisse, which was an adviser in each deal.

“Let the fun begin,” Mr. Naseem wrote in an e-mail message that he sent to a brokerage house in Karachi, asking to open up an account, according to the complaint.

A lawyer for Mr. Naseem, Michael F. Bachner, said that his client “denies all allegations that he engaged in any wrongdoing,” and that he would contest the charges in court.

For his defense, Mr. Rahim is expected to argue that before the TXU trades, he had read a UBS research report, which said the stock sell-off represented a buying opportunity. People briefed on his defense strategy say that he also consulted a report on the Motley Fool investor Web site, as well as several articles on The Street.com.

Indeed, while the chronology of telephone calls and stock purchases seems persuasive on the surface, Judge James C. Francis IV, in Federal District Court in Manhattan cast some doubt on the government’s case at a recent hearing, calling the evidence “plainly inferential.”

Arif Habib, a prominent investor in the Pakistan market, says that Mr. Rahim was known for his propensity to pass along stock tips, although Mr. Habib says that he himself never acted upon them.

“He used to say that there were good opportunities in international markets,” said Mr. Habib, the chairman of a securities firm that bears his name. “He had the habit of talking about everything.”

In its complaint, the Security and Exchange Commission contends Mr. Rahim passed along Mr. Naseem’s tips to “certain of his associates in Pakistan, including bank officers, bank directors and brokerage officials,” and that these people also traded before the merger announcements.

While it is unclear if any further Pakistani executives will be named, Mr. Rahim’s web of relationships reached all corners of the country’s business world, and such a prospect has created anxiety in a financial community that has not been exposed to any serious regulatory scrutiny.

Reached on his cellphone, Mr. Bengali, the head of Faysal Bank, said that Mr. Naseem had never passed on any overseas stock tips to him and that Mr. Rahim had never used Faysal’s capital to trade illegally.

He was adamant in saying that Mr. Rahim’s days at the bank are over. It is a reality that is underscored by the swift disappearance of Mr. Rahim’s picture from the bank’s Web site, where he was once featured standing next to the man who had given him a second lease on his career.

“He has resigned and he is no longer with us,” Mr. Bengali said. “None of us are aware of such happenings. It’s a complete shock.”
571 2007-06-20 LONDON, June 19 — Barclays, the British bank that is bidding for ABN Amro, is considering dropping its eagle logo because of concerns by ABN Amro that it could remind some clients of the Nazi regime, two people close to both banks said.

The Barclays logo, which dates back 300 years and has been simplified several times since then, may be seen as bearing some similarities to the German eagle holding a swastika that was used as a symbol by the Nazi regime, said the two people, who spoke under the condition of anonymity because no decision has yet been made.

Barclays is considering using ABN Amro’s logo of a green and yellow shield for the combined group in the Netherlands, which was occupied by the Nazis during World War II and where people may be more sensitive to the eagle symbol.
572 2007-06-20 A federal district judge in New York upheld the patent on the anti- clotting drug Plavix, removing a weighty uncertainty for Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi-Aventis, the companies that market the widely used product. Even though the ruling had been anticipated, Plavix is such an important product for both companies that their shares rose yesterday. The judge prohibited the generic-drug producer Apotex from selling its copy of the drug in the United States. [C3.]

HOME DEPOT SELLS A BUSINESS Home Depot agreed to sell its Home Depot Supply Unit, which analysts had always found to be a poor fit alongside the retail operations, to a group of private equity firms for more than $10.3 billion. [C1.]

BAILOUT OF HEDGE FUND HITS SNAG An effort to save a troubled hedge fund at Bear Stearns hit a major hurdle when Merrill Lynch signaled that it would move forward with plans to auction $850 million in subprime securities that had been held as collateral. [C8.]

ANGER OVER SALES OF BLOOD The indigenous peoples of the Amazon are ideal for certain types of genetic research because they are isolated and extremely close-knit populations. But some tribes have discovered that their blood and DNA are being sold by an American concern to scientists around the world for $85 a sample. [A1.]

TAX BREAKS FOR ‘CLEAN COAL’ The Senate Finance Committee approved $28 billion in tax breaks to underwrite renewable fuels and “clean coal” technology, all at the expense of the oil industry. [C3.]

NO CHANGE IN FARM SUBSIDIES The House panel that oversees subsidies to farmers voted to maintain the status quo by extending current policies another five years, despite calls for changes in farm policy. [C3.]

SHOWDOWN OVER LABOR BILL Senate Democratic leaders moved to force a vote on organized labor’s top legislative priority, a bill that would make it far easier to organize workers. But Republican leaders vowed to kill the measure. [A16.]

The Blackstone Group, whose initial public stock offering is one of the most eagerly awaited events on Wall Street this year, will price its offering tomorrow night, according to the Web site of Morgan Stanley, one of the underwriters. [C2.]

ORDER FOR 50 MORE 787S International Lease Finance Corporation, the world’s largest commercial jet leasing company, signed an agreement with Boeing for an order of 50 787 Dreamliners. [C8.]

NETWORKS BENEFIT BY CHANGING The willingness of the big broadcast television networks to embrace change — by making it easier to watch shows online and by adopting new types of ratings — is contributing to stronger demand for commercial time ahead of the fall season. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]
573 2007-06-20 Richard Blumenthal, the Connecticut attorney general, said that as a result of pressure from the states, the Bush administration had taken a position closer to that of the states that found merit in Google’s complaint.

”The Justice Department has moved and so has Microsoft,” Mr. Blumenthal said.

Attorney General Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California said: “This agreement — while not perfect — is a positive step towards greater competition in the software industry. It will enhance the ability of consumers to select the desktop search tool of their choice.”

Bradford L. Smith, the general counsel at Microsoft, said the company was “able to reach an agreement with all the states and the Justice Department that addresses their concerns so that everyone can move forward.”

David Drummond, Google’s chief legal officer, said that the remedies “are a step in the right direction, but they should be improved further to give consumers greater access to alternate desktop search providers."

Google has sought to keep a low profile in the dispute, in part because the Federal Trade Commission has recently opened a preliminary antitrust investigation into Google’s proposed $3.1 billion acquisition of DoubleClick, an online advertising company.

The changes to Vista would allow consumers to decide which desktop search program they want to use, and selection of the software from Google or some other company would no longer slow down the computer as it does now. It would also give computer makers broader discretion about which company’s desktop search program to install as the default. Microsoft said it would make some of the changes to the operating system in a previously scheduled update to Vista later this year called Service Pack 1 that users will be able to download over the Internet.

The settlement closes another contentious chapter in the long-running antitrust proceedings involving Microsoft, which have been marked by tension between federal and state prosecutors.

In a letter sent to state prosecutors early last month, Mr. Barnett, the Justice Department’s top antitrust lawyer, urged the rejection of Google’s complaint, state officials said. Google had circulated a white paper outlining its complaint to federal and state prosecutors a few weeks earlier.

But the Justice Department reversed course after state attorneys general reacted angrily to Mr. Barnett’s letter and said they would proceed against Microsoft without the Justice Department. The change in position was a rare recent instance in which the Justice Department’s antitrust division toughened its position in response to pressure from the states.

State officials said they were angered by Mr. Barnett’s letter in large part because before he joined the Justice Department, he had been the vice chairman of the antitrust department at Covington & Burling, a law firm that represented Microsoft and played a central role in settling the antitrust case. While at Covington, Mr. Barnett did not work on the antitrust case, although he did represent Microsoft in other matters.

During his first year at the Justice Department, and for several months as the head of the antitrust division, Mr. Barnett avoided working on any Microsoft matters. Officials said he has worked on the case since he received permission from government ethics officials. But state officials said his letter supporting Microsoft was the first time they knew of his involvement in the case.

Desktop search programs have become popular as the volume of information stored on personal computers has multiplied. The big money in the fight between Google, Microsoft and Yahoo is over advertising revenue from Web search engines. But desktop search programs help to build loyalty toward a particular search company.

Google maintained that its desktop search program, available as a free download, was slowed by an equivalent feature built into Vista. When the Google and Microsoft search programs run simultaneously, their indexing programs slow the operating system considerably, Google contends. As a result, Google has said that Vista violated Microsoft’s 2002 antitrust settlement, which prohibits Microsoft from designing operating systems that limit the choices of consumers.

Microsoft has replied that Vista was in compliance with the consent decree and that the company had already made many modifications to the operating system, including some that had been sought by Google. In a recent interview, Mr. Smith, the general counsel at Microsoft, said that the new operating system was carefully designed to work well with software products made by other companies, and that an independent technical committee had spent years examining Vista for possible anticompetitive problems before it went on sale.
574 2007-06-20 So the league and its players union broadened programs to help smooth the move from on the field to off it. In the past few years, they have pushed hundreds of players in a management and entrepreneurial program and shepherded many of them to college courses and internships. The broadcast camp was introduced this year.

“If you talk to a lot of guys, they say they know what they want to do,” said Michael Haynes, the N.F.L. vice president for player and employee development. “But ask them what they are doing to prepare themselves for it, and they haven’t been doing very much.”

While the point of the broadcast camp is education — on Tuesday’s first day, players mostly learned that broadcasting was harder than it looked — it also has the uneasy feeling of an audition or casting call. Some of football broadcasting’s top executives, producers and on-air personalities lead seminars. Players who perform at ease in front of millions of fans fought their nerves Tuesday under the hot lights of a near-empty studio, their typical coolness undone by a single red light atop a television camera.

“As a football player, you feel you’re good enough,” said the Giants backup quarterback Tim Hasselbeck, comparing the adrenaline rushes of playing and broadcasting. “You feel you’re qualified to be doing what you’re doing.”

Jones and Hasselbeck were part of Group D, one of the five-member groups rotating through a round robin of seminars. They began in the editing room, reviewing a 25-yard completion from Colts quarterback Peyton Manning to Dallas Clark against the Patriots in last season’s American Football Conference championship game. The clip was embellished with on-screen labels next to certain players, arrows showing the pass routes, and the ball arcing in a blue glow. It just needed a voiceover.

The group was ushered to a class about show preparation, where the NFL Network executive producer Eric Weinberger and the Fox analyst Brian Baldinger stressed the advantage that players had over anyone else hoping to become an on-air talent covering football: they play the game, and they can provide in-depth analysis that others cannot.

But they warned of the narrow view of their perspective. Ex-quarterbacks, Baldinger said, often see the game only on its edges, through formations and defensive coverages. Ex-linemen tend to view football inside out, from the trenches. The best analysts see it from all angles, players were told.

Radio broadcasters explained the nuances of their profession — the need for detailed description, the quest for appropriate excitement levels and the endless search for balance between objectivity and permissible rooting for the home team.

In another session, ESPN’s Ron Jaworski started, stopped, reversed, paused and played the Manning-to-Clark play with a remote control, as the players dissected the play the way Jaworski does on “NFL Matchup.” They politely argued about terminology and formations, much to the glee of the executive producer Greg Cosell. Disagreements make for good television, he said.

Jaworski later said he wished there were some version of the boot camp offered when he retired as the Eagles’ quarterback a generation ago.

“The things these guys are going to learn in three days, I learned in three years,” he said.

After lunch, members of Group D were escorted to the makeup room, where their faces were patted and powdered to an unnatural chalky dullness. Then they nervously sat in a green room to wait a turn on the set, knowing the broadcasting experts would analyze their performances later.

One by one, they entered the studio and sat behind the desk alongside the CBS studio host James Brown. With the cameras on and producers spinning it all into a glossy television segment from a nearby control room, Brown led each player into a discussion of Dolphins linebacker Joey Porter, who was involved in a fight in Las Vegas this off-season and swept into the N.F.L. commissioner’s new personal-conduct counseling program.

It made for fascinating backstage theater, since Porter was standing in the control room. No one blasted Porter, but it struck a common theme of the sessions — how to criticize a player, especially a former teammate or current friend.

Brown moved each player to an analysis of the Manning-to-Clark play. Many stammered or lost their momentum during awkward pauses. Hasselbeck, who took deep breaths and drank water to relieve his cottonmouth before entering the studio, gave one of the sharper performances.

Hasselbeck is not sure what he wants to do when his career ends, but he served as an analyst for a pair of NFL Network broadcasts of N.F.L. Europa games this spring. His wife, Elisabeth, is a co-host on “The View.”

“I know that whenever I’m on TV next to her, I look really bad, awkward and uncomfortable,” he said when asked if the broadcasting field had room for both of them. “There’s probably room for both of us, but not next to her.”

Hasselbeck has a deeper understanding of N.F.L. career arcs than most. His brother Matt is the Seahawks’ starting quarterback; his father, Don, is a former N.F.L. tight end. Hasselbeck knows that the end of careers rarely go as planned. So he is planning for the end, however it comes.

“Ninety-nine percent of players think they are going to play three more years than they are going to,” he said.

Hasselbeck’s hold on his own six-year N.F.L. career has been tenuous. Primarily a backup, and a third-stringer last year, he has not entered a game in the past couple of seasons. The Giants signed quarterback Anthony Wright this spring to back up Eli Manning, presumably leaving Hasselbeck and Jared Lorenzen fighting for one roster spot.

His career might last 7 years or 10 years, he said. Maybe it stops at six. Standing in a dark suit, his face caked in a layer of makeup, he looked prepared for the day, whenever it comes.
575 2007-06-20 The wait for one of the most eagerly awaited initial public stock offerings of the year got a couple of days shorter yesterday.

The Blackstone Group will price its initial offering tomorrow night, according to the Web site of Morgan Stanley, one of the underwriters. The offering was originally scheduled to begin sometime next week.

Investors should avoid the temptation to divine something significant in the earlier date, said David Menlow, president of the research firm IPOfinancial.com.

“I wouldn’t say this is a defining event for the stock,” Mr. Menlow said. “At this point, I believe the deal is going to be on all institutions’ must-buy list.”

Since March, Blackstone, one of the world’s biggest buyout firms, has garnered an extraordinary amount of attention over its plans to sell 12.3 percent of its management company. Last month, the Chinese government took a $3 billion nonvoting stake in a private placement.
576 2007-06-20 NEWARK, June 19 — Ending a weeklong silent protest, a New Jersey state senator withdrew her objection on Tuesday to Gov. Jon S. Corzine’s nominee for chief justice of the State Supreme Court.

The nominee, Stuart J. Rabner, who is New Jersey’s attorney general, had been opposed by State Senator Nia H. Gill, a Democrat from Essex County, who — in one of the more unusual political episodes in recent Trenton memory — refused to say publicly why she objected to Mr. Rabner’s nomination.

Senator Gill, who withdrew her objection shortly after meeting with Mr. Rabner on Tuesday, declined to comment, as she has since word of her opposition was disclosed last week.

While Ms. Gill declined to specify the reasons for her opposition, some other lawmakers, who were granted anonymity because they were revealing internal party discussions, said that she had been concerned about Mr. Rabner’s lack of experience as a judge. Ms. Gill, who is African-American, was also said to have questioned why a minority candidate apparently was not considered for the post. Mr. Rabner is white.

Despite Ms. Gill’s objections — whatever they may have been — Mr. Rabner’s nomination was never considered to be in serious jeopardy. However, the episode proved nettlesome and embarrassing for Mr. Corzine, who, 18 months after assuming the governorship, is still widely viewed as an outsider in the insular world under the State House dome.
577 2007-06-20 Nike said it had no plans to drop Michael Vick from its roster of endorsers, despite a request from the national Humane Society to cut ties with Vick over his suspected involvement in dogfighting.

Wayne Pacelle, the president and chief executive of the Humane Society of the United States, yesterday released a letter that he sent to Nike. “We trust that Nike does not want to be associated with any celebrity who is linked to this odious form of animal cruelty,” he wrote.

Dean Stoyer, a spokesman for Nike, said the company planned to honor its contract with Vick, the Atlanta Falcons’ quarterback, who worked with the company to design a line of athletic shoes and has been used prominently in advertising campaigns.

EAGLES’ LONG SNAPPER RETIRES Mike Bartrum, a tight end and long snapper for the Philadelphia Eagles, retired yesterday, ending a 13-year career that included appearances in the Pro Bowl and the Super Bowl.

Bartrum, 36, spent the last seven years of his career with the Eagles after signing with them as a free agent in 2000. He played in 107 games for the Eagles and made the Pro Bowl in 2005 as a special teams selection.

Bartrum signed as an undrafted free agent with Kansas City in 1993 and played 188 games with the Chiefs, Green Bay Packers, New England Patriots and the Eagles. He played in Super Bowls with the Patriots and the Eagles.
578 2007-06-20 Mr. Rizzo has been acting general counsel on and off for much of the last six years, working without Senate confirmation.

The most pointed moments of the hearing occurred when lawmakers asked Mr. Rizzo whether he had endorsed a 2002 Justice Department memorandum that gave legal guidance for the detention program.

The memorandum argued that nothing short of the pain associated with organ failure constituted illegal torture.

Mr. Rizzo said that he raised no objections at the time to the legal reasoning in the memorandum. But he said the language was “overbroad for the issue that it was intended to cover.”

Human rights advocates who have long said Congress has failed to investigate adequately the detention practices expressed disappointment with the public part of the hearing.

“It was not the kind of questioning that could either produce more information on what the C.I.A. has done or that would result in people being held accountable,” said Christopher Anders, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union.

Mr. Anders said Mr. Rizzo was “up to his eyeballs in developing and implementing the government’s detention and torture program” and added that his promotion “should have been a nonstarter.”

The Intelligence Committee is not expected to vote on the nomination until next week at the earliest.

The lone committee member who expressed reservations about voting for Mr. Rizzo was Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California.

Ms. Feinstein said she had concerns about Mr. Rizzo’s role in creating the detention program.

“I believe that one of the reasons we are so hated abroad is because we appear to be hypocrites,” she said. “We say one thing and we practice another.”

The tone of the hearing remained civil throughout.

Toward the end, Mr. Rizzo agreed with Senator Christopher S. Bond of Missouri, ranking Republican on the panel, that too many classified details were leaking out to the news media.

Mr. Rizzo said that trend was causing significant damage to intelligence operations.

He added that members of the executive branch needed to be more disciplined about protecting classified information.

“Far too many people,” Mr. Rizzo said, “know far too much.”
579 2007-06-20 GENEVA, June 19 (AP) — Pro cycling’s governing body said Tuesday that it had asked riders to sign an antidoping charter and stake a year’s salary on the pledge that they are not involved in the use of banned substances.

By signing the charter, cyclists promise to cooperate with doping investigations, including the Spanish inquiry known as Operation Puerto. They also agree to forfeit an amount equivalent to a year’s salary if they break their pledge.

“The line has definitely been drawn in the sand,” said Pat McQuaid, the president of the governing International Cycling Union. “We’ll have no more rampant doping.”

Although the federation cannot force riders to sign the document, officials said they would ask team managers to bar from competition any rider who does not sign or who is under investigation for doping.

The federation’s move encouraged the head of cycling’s biggest race, the Tour de France, to show support. Christian Prudhomme, the director of the Tour, told Agence France-Presse on Tuesday that the Tour would refuse entry to any rider or team failing to sign the antidoping pledge. “We will block their entry to the race,” Prudhomme said.

Riders have until July 7 — the start of the Tour — to sign the document. Their names will be published on the federation’s Web site. Team officials, doctors and other staff members will be asked to sign a separate charter later.
580 2007-06-20 Mr. Doud traced the bad blood between the brothers to a childhood spat, and learned they had been feuding for years over everything from what crops to plant to when to irrigate them. Most important, Mr. Doud knew that the parents, basking in retirement in a faraway location, still owned the business.

So he hopped in his car, drove to their home, told them what was going on and asked them, “How important is it to you to keep the farm together?”

The father, Mr. Doud recalled, replied: “We don’t care. We did what we wanted to; now, they should do what they want to do.” This was news to his two sons, who, when they heard it, split up the property. They have since become friends.

Mr. Doud has a huge storehouse of anecdotes about putting out fires in family firms, and the lesson he draws from most of them is pretty much the same: Figure out what is eating the kinfolk, tell them what he has learned and let them work out a solution.

“Families left to their own devices often fail to have the conversations they should be having,” he said. “It’s our job to nudge them into talking about it.”

Listening to him got me to thinking about a larger question: the foolishness of trying to solve all your problems without outside help. Tenacity alone can’t always win the day. A healthy dose of pragmatism is called for, and turning to experts in times of trouble should be the first reflex, whether it be a friend or colleague or a professional consultant like Mr. Doud. There are other options, including seeking advice at Small Business Development centers (www.sba.gov/sbdc/) that the Small Business Administration operates in every state, enrolling in a crash course in entrepreneurship at a nearby university, or seeking out a specialist at a national network of volunteer business counselors known as Score (www.score.org).

Joey Tamer, president of S.O.S. Inc. in Marina del Rey, Calif. (www.joeytamer.com), said one path to wisdom for fledgling entrepreneurs would be to offer their services to a start-up company for stock instead of salary. That way, they can get a crash course in crisis management.

Early in her consulting career, Ms. Tamer said, she helped inventors, curators and artists build businesses from scratch to the point where they could quit their day jobs. Without her intervention, she believes, many would have floundered.

“My secret: I was a realist,” she said. “Most entrepreneurs are dreamers. But dreaming doesn’t pay the rent. I’d say: You have to do these eight things. I’d know when they should turn down a contract. I also gauged their personalities; I could tell whether somebody did or didn’t have the discipline and perseverance to follow a project through to the end.”

The big challenge at many family firms is maintaining the peace. Mr. Doud says a grievance can fester for years or even decades until the right words bring it out into the open and pave the way to a resolution.

He recounted the story of a family business that owned a huge expanse of property in California, whose patriarch had put one of his sons in charge. Under his stewardship, the firm lost money year after year, exasperating his siblings and their adult children, or nearly 30 heirs in all.

Invited to the annual family retreat to help get to the root of the predicament, Mr. Doud interviewed the clan one by one. He heard a great deal of carping about the chosen son’s supposed incompetence, but paradoxically, also got the message that the family didn’t want him to rock the boat.

His very presence, however, forced a showdown. The manager, aware of what was going on around him, stood up at one point during the retreat and revealed a long suppressed secret. “I know you all think I’m a lousy manager, and you’re probably right,” he said, according to Mr. Doud. “I’d have to be dead to miss the signals.

“But I want you to know that, 25 years ago, I was a young naval officer with a wife and a new baby and I was doing exactly what I wanted to be doing. Then one day, I got a call from Pop. He said, ‘I need you at the ranch.’ I resigned my naval commission, and I have been here ever since. But the first time I was ever able to make my own decision was last December, on the day that Pop died.”

In an instant, Mr. Doud said: “All the tension in the room crumbled into dust. Everybody rushed over to him and surrounded him, giving him their sympathy and support. It was because he spoke the truth.”

That short speech changed everything. The family sold off most of the land, reinvested the money in real estate, parceled out management of it and began receiving checks in the mail instead of paying off loans.

There you have it: another happy ending. If like Mr. Doud’s clients, you had to call in an outsider to rescue you from a looming crisis, tell me all.
581 2007-06-20 PARIS, June 19 — International Lease Finance Corporation, the world’s largest commercial jet leasing company, signed an agreement Tuesday with Boeing for an order of 52 787 Dreamliners, raising the total number of orders for the hot-selling wide-body plane to 634.

The deal, which was announced on the second day of the Paris air show, brings the value of Boeing’s order book for the 787 to more than $100 billion at published list prices, dwarfing the 127 firm orders for Airbus’s rival plane, the A350 XWB.

Airbus, meanwhile, announced orders for 20 new A330-200 freighter jets and 23 A330-300 planes, valued at a combined $7.9 billion.

The leasing company’s order for the 787 adds to a previous purchase of 22 of the planes and will make the company, based in Los Angeles, the largest operator of 787s, surpassing the plane’s initial customer, All Nippon Airways, which has ordered 50. It was part of a 63-plane deal by the leasing company for Boeing aircraft worth $8.8 billion at published list prices.

Airbus has been in an intense competition with Boeing for the contract. Steven F. Udvar-Hazy, the chairman and chief executive of International Lease, is considered to be one of the most influential players in aviation. Mr. Udvar-Hazy’s sharp criticism of Airbus’s initial version of the A350 is understood to have been central to the European manufacturer’s decision to overhaul its design last year.
582 2007-06-20 Open the CD booklet of “Person Pitch” (Paw Tracks), the marvelous recent album from the Animal Collective member known as Panda Bear, who played the Bowery Ballroom on Monday night, and you won’t find any song lyrics. Instead, you’ll find collages and two pages of acknowledgments. On one page Panda Bear thanks Mom and Dad and lots of other people who know him by his real name, Noah Lennox. On the other he lists more than 100 musical acts.

Mr. Lennox made “Person Pitch” while living in Lisbon, his adopted home, and it’s a summery, lightheaded album, full of sweet vocal harmonies and gurgling instrumental fragments. So it’s no surprise to find Syd Barrett, the Beach Boys and the Grateful Dead on his list. But when it comes to newer acts, the list reveals an unexpected obsession with hard, beat-driven music: apparently he has been listening to the severe German minimalist Wolfgang Voigt; the off-kilter house-music producer Moodymann; and the futuristic dance-music duo Basement Jaxx. Maybe “Person Pitch” isn’t quite as bucolic as it first seems.

On Monday Mr. Lennox showed fans that he wasn’t merely name-dropping. (The show began a short East Coast tour that ends on Saturday night back at the Bowery Ballroom.) For about an hour he manned a table of electronics, twiddling, tapping and singing his way through a rhythm-heavy set that included most of “Person Pitch” and some sneak peeks of the new Animal Collective album, due in September.

It felt like a D.J. set, partly because there was little to see and partly because of the way the musical elements were recombined and overlapped. Early on he triggered a hollowed-out dub reggae beat, built to a scary cacophony of looped sounds, then introduced a brisk rhythm and familiar melody. Fans whooped as they recognized the second part of “Take Pills,” which provides an oasis of clarity in an artfully addled album. “I don’t want for us to take pills anymore/Not that it’s bad,” he sang, and then crash-landed into the barrage of digitally processed tabla drums that begins “Good Girl.”

Whereas Animal Collective often builds to peaks of jam-bandish excitement, with members furiously drumming and strumming and chattering, Panda Bear’s show felt more subdued and, despite the kaleidoscopic array of beats and sounds, single-minded, the way solo projects often do.

Was it ever boring? Only if you weren’t really paying attention. Mr. Lennox found ways to underscore elements hidden in plain sight on the album, like the rippling trebly rhythm of “Carrots,” which eventually became a sinister hip-hop beat. He saved the song’s last part for later, savoring the contrast between the petulant lyrics (“Get your head out from those mags/And Web sites who try to shape your style”) and the cheerful ice-cream-truck bells.
583 2007-06-20 It turns out that maybe crime does pay, at least if it’s in Grand Theft Auto.

Grand Theft Auto IV, the latest installment of that popular video game series, is not scheduled to hit stores until the fall, but Take-Two Interactive Software, which owns the franchise, is set to collect $50 million from Microsoft for subsequently producing two downloadable episodes exclusively for Microsoft’s Xbox 360.

When it comes out in October, Grand Theft Auto IV will be available for both Microsoft’s Xbox and Sony’s PlayStation 3. The two companies have been caught up in a heated console war for popularity. By locking up the two downloadable add-ons as exclusives for its Xbox Live Internet service, Microsoft is hoping to establish dominance over PlayStation among hard-core gamers. A third console, Nintendo’s Wii, seems to have captured the casual and mass-market gaming audience.

Take-Two executives explained the payment in a conference call with financial analysts last week. The $50 million will come in two $25 million installments as the episodes are released, starting in March 2008.

A Take-Two spokesman declined to elaborate on the conference call. Despite the success of Grand Theft Auto, Take-Two has struggled financially and recently faced a shareholder revolt that ended with Strauss Zelnick, a longtime media executive, taking over as chairman.

Microsoft refused to discuss its financial relationship with Take-Two. In a statement, Microsoft said, “The quality, depth and breadth of our Xbox 360 portfolio is a testament to the great relationships we’ve established over the years with our third-party partners.”
584 2007-06-20 WHEN a fistfight breaks out between two men in the office, you have to figure that the ill feeling between them runs deep.     Especially if they are brothers and business partners who are duking it out in front of their horrified employees....
585 2007-06-20 The Human Rights Council, created to be an improvement on the discredited Human Rights Commission, which seldom exposed notorious rights violators, marked the end of what critics called a disappointing first year by abolishing independent rights m...
586 2007-06-20 DETROIT RETHINKS ITS POSITION American automakers have reversed years of stalwart opposition to any legislation to increase fuel economy standards, and are now willing to accept a modest increase in mileage standards in the hopes of silencing call...
587 2007-06-20 Microsoft has agreed to make changes to its Windows Vista operating system in response to a complaint by Google that a feature of Vista is anticompetitive, lawyers involved in the case said on Tuesday.     The settlement, reached in recent days by...
588 2007-06-21 Starting Monday, Janette Sadik-Khan, the city’s transportation commissioner, will be answering questions from City Room readers through the week....
589 2007-06-21 Who Buys Universal Services stock?...
590 2007-06-21 Mike Wallace, a historian of New York City, answers readers' questions on his writing; on public health and public schools; on the meaning of the name "Manhattan"; and on the cyclical nature of history....
591 2007-06-21 Dr. Frank Sulloway In a recent study on birth order and intelligence, Norwegian researchers report that eldest children have higher I.Q.s than their younger siblings. Why would that be? There are as many guesses as there are scientists. "Virtually...
592 2007-06-21 They did it. Overcoming a series of challenges and catcalls that would have derailed many a market debut, the Blackstone Group pulled off its initial public offering late Thursday. And remarkably, despite all the flak it has encountered in Washing...
593 2007-06-21 Language in a bill pushed by lobbyists for Microsoft, which critics say would gut the state’s voting-machine integrity law, is probably a nonstarter in Albany....
594 2007-06-21 New shows in New York include "Behind the Lid" and "Radio."...
595 2007-06-21 Click to enlarge. Mary McCarthy, were she alive, would be 95 today – she was born on June 21, 1912. The ad at left is for her fourth book, "Cast a Cold Eye," a collection of stories published in 1950, when she was 38. The book is mostly forgotte...
596 2007-06-21 The high-stakes game of brinksmanship began early yesterday on Wall Street, and continued throughout the day. Bankers traded telephone calls, frenetically negotiating the fate of Bear Stearns two hedge funds. All wanted to avoid a fire sale in the...
597 2007-06-21 Federal prosecutors are close to bringing criminal charges against as many as a dozen current and former Wall Street employees in connection with a kickback scheme involving loans of stocks and bonds to hedge funds and short sellers, BusinessWeek ...
598 2007-06-21 Alcan, seeking to fend off a $27.7 billion hostile bid from Alcoa, has given BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto Group access to its financial data, according to The Sydney Morning Herald. BHP and Rio, the world's largest and third-largest mining companies...
599 2007-06-21 Deutsche Bank and four hedge funds including GLG Partners were fined a combined 6.25 million euros ($8.4 million) by France's market regulator after an insider trading investigation into a Vivendi Universal securities sale in 2002. The Paris-based...
600 2007-06-21 Lone Star Funds, the buyout firm whose attempt to sell Korea Exchange Bank last year was blocked by a legal dispute, offered an 11.3 percent stake in the company for as much as $1.1 billion. Lone Star is offering 73.09 million Korea Exchange share...
601 2007-06-21 Man Group, Europe's largest publicly traded hedge fund, said Thursday it expects its United States brokerage to price its shares at $36 to $39 each when they list on the New York Stock Exchange. The price range values the entire business at as muc...
602 2007-06-21 The merger of the United States brokerage industry's two major watchdogs finally has a name: the Securities Industry Regulatory Authority, or SIRA. NASD's chairman, Mary L. Schapiro, announced the new name Wednesday and described the approach SIRA...
603 2007-06-21 Whole Foods Market, the largest American natural-foods grocer, agreed yesterday to sell 35 of Wild Oats Markets' stores to the private equity firm Apollo Management. The sale of the stores, Henry's Farmers Market and Sun Harvest, will occur only i...
604 2007-06-21 The London Stock Exchange said it was discussing a possible merger with Borsa Italiana in its latest attempt to head off expansion of the combined New York Stock Exchange and Euronext. Massimo Capuano, the chief executive of Borsa Italiana, was considering a merger of Borsa Italiana, Euronext of France and Deutsche Börse of Germany before the N.Y.S.E.-Euronext merger. Euronext tried to lure Borsa Italiana to join the N.Y.S.E.-Euronext group, but Mr. Capuano preferred a bigger say in a European combination.
605 2007-06-21 The Chinese legislature plans a review next week of the Finance Ministry’s plans for a bond issue to raise money for a new state-run foreign investment fund, the government said. The fund agreed last month to acquire a nonvoting stake of nearly 10 percent in the Blackstone Group. By selling yuan-denominated bonds to buy foreign currency for overseas investments, the fund would be partly replacing similar bond sales and currency purchases conducted until now by the central bank. While Chinese officials have said that it is not their intention to drive down the value of the dollar, economists are waiting to see whether the new investment fund will allocate as much of its bond proceeds to dollar-denominated purchases as the central bank has; more than two-thirds of the $1.2 trillion in reserves managed by the central bank are thought to be in dollars.
606 2007-06-21 The chief of the Roscoe-Rockland Fire Department, Steve Chesney, said the Beaverkill Creek began flooding shortly after 6 Tuesday night, with water rising eight feet within a span of 15 to 20 minutes. In a telephone interview, he estimated that at least five homes, including two mobile homes, had been knocked off their foundations. The raging floodwaters destroyed a bridge on the Beaverkill and swept away at least a dozen cars and trucks.

Earlier in the day, state officials had said as many as seven people were missing. But two people initially unaccounted for after the floods had been found by early evening, according to The Associated Press.

Ten search teams — made up of local police officers and state troopers, and fire and environmental personnel — fanned out across the swollen streams and dense woods to search for the missing. The 75 or so people joining the rescue effort were concentrating their search along a six-mile stretch of Route 206 that had sustained the most damage.

Aerial video on the Web site of a local newspaper, The Times Herald-Record of Middletown, showed that huge chunks of Route 206 had been shorn away, and cars and vans lay toppled in ditches, or were submerged in the floodwaters.

The storm, which brought a moderate amount of rain to New York City, ravaged other areas of upstate New York besides Colchester, with wind gusts of up to 65 miles per hour and hail reportedly the size of baseballs. The Associated Press reported that a 100-foot-tall tree in Rochester toppled during the storm, striking and killing a man who was riding a recreational vehicle along the Genesee River.

Ms. Banks identified one of the two mobile homes that had washed away as belonging to Elaine and George Finkle, and the other, next door, as belonging to Mr. Finkle’s parents. The Times Herald-Record reported that an elderly woman, identified as Ms. Finkle’s visiting mother, was missing and feared dead after she was unable to reach a rescue rope.

Ms. Banks said the Shuttses did not get out much because of poor health. “He was on oxygen full time because his lungs were bad,” she said. At the time their house was swept away, she said, firefighters were in the area rescuing other people.

Rescue workers called off the search for the night around 8. They were expected to resume it at 7 this morning.

A school in Roscoe was set up as a shelter, and 30 residents were there yesterday afternoon.

The heaviest downpours, part of a strong cold front, battered Sullivan and Delaware Counties between 6 and 10 Tuesday night.

While most of the area had one to three inches of rain, some spots received more than five inches in two hours, said Todd Miner, a meteorologist with Pennsylvania State University. Some radar reports indicated that as much as 10 inches of rain fell in isolated places over the course of the storm, he said.

“When you get that kind of rain coming down in such a short period of time, that’s a recipe for a flash flood,” Mr. Miner said. “It’s also an area that’s hilly, and terrain can enhance flash flooding.”

Downed power and telephone lines made rescue efforts harder, and a local utility, New York State Electric and Gas, reported that 45 power poles and seven transformers were damaged, said Dennis J. Michalski, a spokesman for the New York State Emergency Management Office.

The Shuttses were largely retired, Ms. Banks said, though Ms. Shutts still did some occasional cleaning to earn money. Mr. Shutts had worked as a carpenter and a bus driver, she added. They had lived in their small modest home with a full basement for decades.

The house, which had previously belonged to Mr. Shutts’s parents, was tucked between two mountains, near a small picturesque brook.

“They were right on the brook that was flooding,” Ms. Banks said.
607 2007-06-21 Concern over the Bear funds, along with a drop in energy stocks and uptick in yields, helped drive down stocks yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 20.86 points, to 1,512.84 , and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 146 points, to 13,489.42.

In the last week, escalating problems at the Bear Stearns High Grade Structured Credit Strategies Enhanced Leveraged Fund and a related fund have jarred investors into confronting systemic risks in the once booming market for bonds that are backed by mortgages to homeowners with weak, or subprime, credit. Last year, more than $483 billion of such bonds were issued, up 5 percent from 2005.

The deal that JP Morgan Chase reached with Bear Stearns Asset Management allowed it to sell $400 million collateral back to the hedge funds for cash, according to people briefed on the matter. It was not clear what price the two banks agreed to.

Goldman Sachs and Bank of America reached similar deals, though details remained unclear. Also unclear is what price the assets will eventually fetch for the Bear funds and what types of losses investors, who have been unable to redeem their investments since May, will face.

The securities causing the greatest concern within the Bear Stearns funds are known as collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.’s. Run by portfolio managers, these complex instrument are akin to mutual funds in that they buy stakes in a variety of bonds backed by mortgages.

They often invest in the riskiest portion of the bonds, usually with a hundreds of millions or billions in borrowed money. Some simply buy stakes in other C.D.O.’s. About $316 billion in C.D.O.’s specializing in mortgages were issued last year, up from $178 billion in 2005.

The leveraged fund at Bear Stearns, which is 10 months old, made a particularly big bet on these C.D.O.’s. But that strategy soured as more homeowners fell behind on loan payments and foreclosures surged. In many regions, home prices are falling and the number of properties for sale are growing.

Traders and industry executives who saw lists of C.D.O.’s on offer from the Bear Stearns funds say that even as the manager of the funds, Ralph Cioffi, bought some protection against a deteriorating housing market, on balance his investments seem to be based on a belief that the subprime market would not crumble, or at least not soon.

“This is some of the more aggressive stuff that has been issued in the last couple of years and is not indicative of what most people have been invested in,” said a portfolio manager who did not want to speak for attribution because his firm may make bids on some of the assets.

He said it would take time — perhaps several days — for potential buyers to drill down into some of the more complex securities in order to value them before any bids could be prepared. From 33 to 45 percent of the $2 billion in C.D.O.’s on offer by the funds early yesterday were investments in other C.D.O.’s, according to officials who have seen the bid lists.

One worry about the possible unwinding of the Bear funds is that it will cascade into larger liquidations by other investors who hold similar securities at far higher prices. Accounting rules require investment banks to mark the value of the investments to the price of similar assets trading in the market. Many mortgage-related securities, and C.D.O.’s in particular, do not trade frequently, making them hard to value.

“I think people are nervous and trying to figure out what the best course of action is here,” said Jeffrey Gundlach, chief investment officer at the TCW Group, an investment management company with $85 billion in mortgage- and asset-backed securities. “Do you want to be the first one out and perhaps cause the lows to be hit in the market, or do you want to wait and see how this all plays out?”

In fact, rather than aggressively selling the assets it has seized, Merrill is quietly showing it to a small group of potential buyers, according to a person briefed on the process.

Such an approach helps to keep the pricing of the securities under wraps, allowing Wall Street firms to avoid marking down their own stakes. Keeping the sales price quiet also means that the firms may not have to add collateral immediately to shore up their portfolios.

At the end of the day, Merrill sold only a small portion of the $850 million in assets it had seized from the Bear funds as collateral. Traders said what did sell was the less risky, well-collateralized securities and that those sold near or at par in many cases. It is unclear whether Merrill intends to hold onto the remaining securities or whether it will try to sell them again down the road.

Yet another emerging worry is that the big investment banks that until now have generously lent billions of dollars on good terms to traders and portfolio managers are pulling back or demanding stricter terms.

One industry executive, who asked not to be named because of the delicacy of the subject, said the banks involved in the Bear funds could collectively lose $1 billion on their lendings to the Bear funds. While the amount is not itself significant given the size of these banks, it suggests the potential for bigger losses down the road.

“We have heard that lenders have already reduced the amount that they are willing to lend against C.D.O.’s,” said Timothy Rowe, a portfolio manager at Smith Breeden Associates.

Still, analysts note that credit remains easy by historical standards and the market seems to be weathering the current storm well.

“Yes, there was too much leverage in the market. Yes, there was too much appetite for risk and yes, that risk was underpriced,” said Mark Adelson, a senior analyst at Nomura Securities in New York. “But there has not been a lick of spillover of this situation in the corporate bond market or stock markets so I don’t think people need to start hoarding food, water and ammunition because the end is coming.”
608 2007-06-21 ALBANY, June 20 — Gov. Eliot Spitzer was trying to reach a broad deal Wednesday to end the legislative session by linking together three contentious issues, people with knowledge of the negotiations said. The issues included his own campaign finance reform plan, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s congestion pricing proposal and a measure to grant pay raises to lawmakers.

But the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, cast doubt on whether an accord could be reached by the end of the session on Thursday.

“The governor seems to keep circling and swirling about the one issue he’s obsessed about, campaign finance reform,” Mr. Bruno said. “If everything gets held hostage subject to an agreement on campaign finance reform on their terms, the executive’s terms, well then we are at a stalemate.”

By linking issues together, the governor appeared to be hoping to give a carrot to every side at the negotiating table. The Democratic-led Assembly has been the most vocal opponent of congestion pricing, while the Republican-led Senate has opposed the governor’s campaign finance proposals.

Both sides, though, have long sought a pay raise, and the governor has said he would consider granting one if the Legislature approved his agenda.
609 2007-06-21 Maj. Gen. Don T. Riley, the head of civil works for the corps, said in an interview that local leaders were initially wary of the report and how it would be used, and that some said, “Oh boy, I’m not sure we can do this — because we’re trying to get people to move back in.” But, he said, “after we worked with them and showed them, they said, ‘this can really be a good tool for planning.’ ”

The analysis of the city’s risk, more than a year behind schedule and still a work in progress, is an enormously ambitious attempt to figure out just how risky it is to live in New Orleans, and is the first time the corps has released such a tool to the public anywhere in the nation. The Defense Department’s supercomputers analyzed scores of different storms, estimating wind speeds, storm surges and pathways and how they would affect every street in the city.

Some of the risk to New Orleans has been reduced, largely because of the construction of enormous gates across the mouths of the city’s three main drainage canals, which significantly raised the level of protection. Elsewhere in the greater New Orleans area, where the hurricane protection system was restored but not upgraded in a major way, the probability of damage does not change nearly as much: large parts of the Upper Ninth Ward could be expected to have two to four feet of water in a 1-in-50 flood, then and now.

A flood with a 1 percent chance of occurring would leave much of the Garden District relatively dry, as it remained during Hurricane Katrina, although a smaller patch of the neighborhoods to the north would be likely to flood.

City officials said the new tools would help them plan the city’s halting recovery. Edward J. Blakely, the hurricane recovery chief for New Orleans, said that while the maps show that “quite a bit of the city” remains vulnerable to storms, the dangers would diminish as further protection was built. Eventually, Mr. Blakely said, “the risks aren’t going to be different from those of a city in Florida.”

Karen Durham-Aguilera, the civilian director of the corps’ Task Force Hope, a nearly $6 billion hurricane protection system project in New Orleans and southeast Louisiana, suggested that the facts about New Orleans presented in the report were anything but bad. “This is good, because it shows a lowered risk,” Ms. Durham-Aguilera said.

“There’s no place where you can say the risk is absolutely zero,” she added.

As voluminous as it is, the report will nonetheless seem incomplete to many in New Orleans. The corps is not releasing the data on how the system to protect against 1 percent floods will perform, although officials said Monday that that portion of the report would be ready within weeks. That is the information that many in New Orleans want, because they know that what they have is not adequate but they might be willing to gamble that a major storm will not hit before 2011, when the stronger system is to be in place.

The data from the report will be used to help the corps determine what level of protection will be necessary as it upgrades levees, floodwalls, pumps and gates. President Bush and Congress have committed the corps to bring the level of hurricane protection up to withstand the kind of storm that would have only a 1 percent chance of striking — work that is to be complete by 2011. Congress has also ordered the corps to study ways of improving protection further, commonly referred to as the Category 5 study, referring to the strongest storms.

The risk analysis will also be used by other agencies. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, for example, will use it to determine the 1-in-100 flood level for insurance purposes.

It is not clear, however, whether the computer model accurately represents what will happen in a storm — whether the corps has captured the complexity of a storm and the ability of the hurricane protection system to stand up to it. Engineers have said that little is known about the rate of erosion of levees from water pouring over the top and what elements of the system will function properly in a storm.

Federal officials acknowledged that it would not be easy to get suspicious local residents to trust the new maps.

“The real issue is going to be: Are the local people going to look at these maps and believe them?” said Donald Powell, the head of Gulf Coast reconstruction for the Bush administration. “And if they trust the maps, will they act upon the information?”

One of the biggest problems, Mr. Powell said, is that people have lived in New Orleans for generations and believe that the city would have been largely undamaged if the levees had held, but the new report says that the force of Hurricane Katrina would have caused extensive damage even if the levees had held.

“It’s that tension,” he said, “between trust and reality and history.”

William Borah, a New Orleans lawyer and an activist on planning issues, said he had not seen the risk analysis but that anything from the corps would be “taken with a grain of salt” because of the failure of the levees.

“Anybody that doesn’t question what the corps does subsequent to Katrina just hasn’t been around,” Mr. Borah said.

But Ed Link, the director of the corps’ investigation into the levee failures, said the report gave a “huge advantage” to New Orleans that no other city has.

“I don’t see it as putting a big target on New Orleans and chasing people away,” Mr. Link said. “I see it as showing that New Orleans is getting its arms wrapped around this issue for the future.”
610 2007-06-21 The New York Times Company will increase the newsstand and home-delivery prices for the newspaper next month, the company’s chief executive said at an investor conference yesterday.

The increases will produce an additional $7 million to $8 million in revenue this year and $14 million to $16 million a year after that, the chief executive, Janet L. Robinson, said at the conference, which was sponsored by the Newspaper Association of America.

Home-delivery rates for The Times will increase 3 percent to 4 percent nationwide starting in July, Catherine J. Mathis, a spokeswoman for the Times Company, said. The cover price will increase to $1.25, from $1, beginning July 16. Sunday newsstand prices will increase to $4, from $3.50, on July 15 in the New York area.

The last increases in the newsstand price were in 1999 for the New York area and in 1995 for the rest of the country, she said.

Newspaper publishers are seeking ways to replace revenue lost as advertisers continue to shift their focus to the Internet and away from print. The Times Company reported last week that its advertising revenue declined 8.5 percent in May compared with sales in the month a year earlier. It is down 4.4 percent so far this year.
611 2007-06-21 Federal government agencies have risked exposing millions of Social Security numbers to identity thieves by including the numbers in federal liens notices that are sent to local governments and are often made available over the Internet, federal investigators said in a report expected to be released today.

The report, by the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office, said that recent federal efforts to mask the Social Security numbers by truncating them were not totally effective because thieves could reconstruct the full numbers using other public sources of information.

A liens notice usually includes a name, a Social Security number, an address and an amount of debt. Tax liens and other public records have always been available in county courthouses and government record centers. But in recent years, these offices have begun to make records much more accessible to the public through the Internet or private data services, increasing the potential for identify theft.

Last year in Hamilton County, Ohio, for example, federal law enforcement officials arrested a ring of identity thieves who used the Social Security numbers from records found on a local government Web site to create fake IDs and rack up almost $500,000 in charges.

The Internal Revenue Service started truncating Social Security numbers to the last four digits in all notices it sent out after Jan. 1, 2006. But from 2002 to 2005 the I.R.S. sent out more than two million tax liens that contained full Social Security numbers. Many of those documents are still available, government investigators found.
612 2007-06-21 DuPont and Environmental Defense, one of the nation’s largest environmental groups, plan to release jointly developed guidelines today for evaluating the safety and environmental risks of nanotechnology products.

The guidelines are the most extensive effort yet to address a vexing issue surrounding the rapidly expanding field of nanotechnology: the lack of information about whether materials in such minute sizes can pose novel or unexpected hazards.

Nanotechnology usually refers to materials with at least one dimension measured at 100 nanometers or less (a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter), a scale so small that the behavior of individual molecules begins to affect how the material performs. While particles of soot and other materials occur naturally on a nanoscale, businesses are now exploiting a recent explosion in the number of tools available to engineer nanoscale products.

In doing so, they have shown that familiar materials sometimes have astonishing strength, flexibility, reactivity or other useful characteristics when manipulated in tiny dimensions. Hundreds of products, including stain-resistant clothing and textiles, advanced microchips and clear sunscreens already incorporate such technology.

Technology skeptics have contended that some innovations are being deployed with too little attention to potential negative consequences. Scattered laboratory research programs have suggested that nanoscale particles can lodge in the brain, lungs and other organs, although the effects of that are not known. Tests also show that some may be toxic to plants and other organisms.
613 2007-06-21 CUPERTINO, Calif., June 20 (AP) — The eagerly awaited iPhone will be able to play YouTube videos when it ships next week, Apple announced Wednesday.

About 10,000 YouTube videos will be available for the iPhone’s introduction, according to Apple’s statement. YouTube, a subsidiary of Google, will be recoding the rest of its videos into the H.264 format used by the iPhone by fall.

The iPhone will be the first cellphone to use H.264, Apple said.

The iPhone will use a relatively slow cellular data network provided by AT&T, and streaming video is likely to tax it, but the iPhone will also be equipped with Wi-Fi, providing faster speeds in hot spots.

Apple also said YouTube videos were now available on its Apple TV device, a small computer that connects to a TV.

Until now, the Apple TV has mainly been able to show videos from the user’s iTunes library, and some movie trailers from Apple’s site. Apple had previously announced that it was working on adding the feature.
614 2007-06-21 John D. Feerick, chairman of the State Ethics Commission, said yesterday that he had selected Herbert Teitelbaum, a New York lawyer, as executive director of the commission. He also said he would recommend Mr. Teitelbaum for the same post at a soon-to-be-created public integrity commission combining the existing ethics and lobbying commissions. When the merger takes place, David Grandeau, the executive director of the Temporary State Commission on Lobbying, will probably be out of a job. “I met with John Feerick about a month and a half ago, once, and it was very clear to me that he was intent on choosing someone other than me,” Mr. Grandeau said. Mr. Teitelbaum is a senior partner in the New York office of Bryan Cave. His wife, Ruth J. Abram, founded the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, which has lobbied extensively in Albany. Mr. Feerick said that he was “enormously impressed” by Mr. Teitelbaum and that a spouse’s work should not be held against a candidate.
615 2007-06-21 Nuveen Investments, a leading manager of closed-end mutual funds, agreed yesterday to be acquired for $5.75 billion by investors led by the private equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners. It would be one of the largest buyouts of an asset manager.

The investors offered $65 a share for Nuveen, 20 percent above the company’s closing price on Tuesday. They also agreed to assume $550 million of debt.

Nuveen, whose clients include institutions and wealthy investors, becomes the latest financial services company to agree to a buyout in 2007. The company’s $53 billion of closed-end fund assets, which trade over exchanges, are not subject to withdrawals and thus can generate steady fee income.

“The appeal is that the business doesn’t require much capital and generates significant amounts of free cash flow,” said Chris Hagedorn, a portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati, which owns Nuveen shares.

Nuveen and Madison Dearborn are based in Chicago. Other investors include affiliates of Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Wachovia.

The buyout is expected to close by year-end. Nuveen said its board, with the assistance of Goldman Sachs, was entitled to solicit better offers through July 19 and planned to do so.
616 2007-06-21 ATLANTA, June 20 — The Red Sox have carved out a large lead in the American League East largely because of a starting rotation that has for the most part stayed healthy. Aside from a blister that cost Josh Beckett two starts, the starters have hummed along and the team has received sensational late-inning relief from the rookie Hideki Okajima.

The Red Sox, however, have hit a bump in their quest for a division title. Curt Schilling, who is 6-4 and nearly pitched a no-hitter against Oakland on June 7, will be placed on the 15-day disabled list Friday with what the club is calling a sore right shoulder. He will miss at least two starts.

Alarms went off here Monday night, when Schilling was roughed up by the Braves for 10 hits and 6 runs in four and a third innings. That followed a start against Colorado in which he gave up six runs in five innings. Schilling, who normally throws around 93 miles an hour, could not get out of the mid-80s Monday and was sent to Boston on Tuesday for an evaluation.

“The ball was not coming out real good,” Manager Terry Francona said.

Schilling, 40, said on his radio show Wednesday morning that he believed tendinitis was behind his problems. “This has been going on,” Schilling said. “I have not felt right this year. It had an immense amount of influence on the inconsistency I have gone through. That’s the disappointing part.”

Schilling had a magnetic resonance imaging test Tuesday that was negative, though he did receive a cortisone shot.
617 2007-06-21 MEXICO CITY, June 20 — Hoping to raise Mexico’s tax collection rate to offset future declines in oil revenue, President Felipe Calderón presented a tax package to Congress Wednesday that seeks to close many of the loopholes that businesses have used to avoid paying taxes.

Mexico collects less than 11 percent of its gross domestic product in taxes, well below the average of about 16 percent for South American countries and 25 percent for developed countries.

The finance minister, Agustín Carstens, estimated that the tax measures, to be phased in through Mr. Calderón’s term, would raise collection by an additional 3 percentage points of G.D.P.

The government has made up for its tax shortfall by heavily taxing the state oil monopoly, Petróleos Mexicanos, which last year financed 40 percent of government spending. Starved for investment money, Pemex, as the company is known, now faces stagnant production and declining oil reserves.

Mr. Calderón, a member of the conservative National Action Party, won election last July by a tiny margin against a left-wing candidate after a bitter election that highlighted the country’s stubborn poverty. Mr. Calderón is under pressure to address that poverty, but he is hamstrung by the lack of money.
618 2007-06-21 The merger of the United States brokerage industry’s two major watchdogs finally has a name: the Securities Industry Regulatory Authority, or SIRA.

NASD’s chairman, Mary L. Schapiro, announced the new name yesterday and described the approach SIRA would take after her organization merges with NYSE Regulation, the New York Stock Exchange’s in-house watchdog.

SIRA will be the regulator for all securities brokers and dealers doing business with the public in the United States. Wall Street firms had pushed for a merger to eliminate the overlap of NASD and NYSE Regulation, saying it was time-consuming and costly to answer to both.

Bylaw changes for SIRA must be reviewed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which will supervise the watchdog group, before the consolidation is complete.
619 2007-06-21 Toby Keith is No. 1 on the Billboard chart this week with “Big Dog Daddy” (Show Dog Nashville), though in what has become a familiar pattern for the music industry, record sales were low across the board. “Big Dog Daddy” sold 204,000 copies in its first week, according to Nielsen SoundScan. The Brooklyn rapper Fabolous reached No. 2 this week with his new “From Nothin’ to Somethin’ ” (Def Jam), selling 159,000 copies. Paul McCartney’s “Memory Almost Full” (Hear Music) remained at No. 3 with 107,000, a decline of 34 percent from last week. DJ Khaled’s new “We the Best” (Koch) reached No. 8, and “The Traveling Wilburys Collection” (Rhino) opened at No. 9.

Correction: June 23, 2007 

 A report in the “Arts, Briefly” column on Thursday about the weekly Billboard album chart misstated last week’s ranking of Paul McCartney’s new album, “Memory Almost Full,” which was No. 3 this week. It was No. 3 last week as well, not the top seller. (The No. 1 album last week was T-Pain’s “Epiphany.”)
620 2007-06-21 YOKOHAMA, Japan, June 20 (AP) — Nissan’s chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, told shareholders Wednesday that the Japanese automaker’s board members will forgo their bonus pay to take responsibility for poor performance.

At a hall in Yokohama, Mr. Ghosn acknowledged that the company had not met its goals for the 2006 fiscal year. “We are taking our responsibility seriously,” he said.

In the fiscal year ended in March, the Nissan Motor Company, based in Tokyo, reported its first profit drop in seven years — the first time earnings have slid under the turnaround efforts led by Mr. Ghosn, who is also chief executive at Renault of France.

Mr. Ghosn told reporters after the meeting that Nissan was not in talks about expanding the alliance it already has with Renault.

He also said he had no interest in buying the Jaguar and Land Rover brands that the Ford Motor Company has expressed interest in selling.

At the meeting, Mr. Ghosn tried to assure shareholders by saying that Nissan was investing aggressively in the future, including opening plants in emerging markets, introducing new models, developing environmentally friendly technology and building brand image.
621 2007-06-21 The government said it was doing everything to find “an early resolution of the strike” and warned Nigerians against unlawful behavior.

“Government wishes to warn, however, that while it respects the right of any worker to embark on a strike action, that right should not be used as an excuse to instigate a breakdown of law and order,” said the statement, signed by Babagana Kingibe, secretary of the government.

Organizers say the strike will go on until fuel prices return to 65 naira a liter (about $1.80 a gallon).

Many of Nigeria’s 140 million people back the unions’ opposition to fuel price increases, but would prefer to work and earn money.

“We are in support of the labor unions’ strike,” said Nicholas Faleye, 46, a salesman, whose daily buying and selling of small items is his family’s main income. “But we need our daily bread, so we come out. Our daily bread is more important than anything.”

Nigeria is under intense international pressure to remove hefty fuel subsidies that have cost the government millions. Though Nigeria is Africa’s largest oil producer, most Nigerians live in poverty and believe the least their corrupt rulers can offer them is affordable fuel.

Previous strikes over fuel prices under Mr. Obasanjo have run for up to two weeks. Crude oil prices are already over $70 a barrel, largely because of attacks on supply from Nigeria’s oil-rich delta, and a long-running strike could further disrupt supply.

For Nigerians, effects of the strike have been compounded by a two-day-old strike by fuel tanker drivers. Motorbike and car drivers jostled for position in growing lines that snaked for several blocks through Lagos streets.

President Yar’Adua, who took office on May 29, has promised to improve the Nigerians’ lot, but the elections that brought him to power were internationally condemned as a sham.

“We don’t have a very strong opposition,” said Moses Osundele, a 60-year-old security guard, as heavy seasonal rain filled the open sewers to overflowing outside his hut. “It is only the groups like the labor unions that can fight for the masses.”

John Odah, secretary general of the Nigeria Labor Congress, said, “Nigerians are just completely angry with this fuel price increase, which has an effect on their life in so many ways, and with their leadership, which has failed to provide people even the most basic services.”
622 2007-06-21 The Chinese legislature plans a review next week of the Finance Ministry’s plans for a bond issue to raise money for a new state-run foreign investment fund, the government said. The fund agreed last month to acquire a nonvoting stake of nearly 10 percent in the Blackstone Group. By selling yuan-denominated bonds to buy foreign currency for overseas investments, the fund would be partly replacing similar bond sales and currency purchases conducted until now by the central bank. While Chinese officials have said that it is not their intention to drive down the value of the dollar, economists are waiting to see whether the new investment fund will allocate as much of its bond proceeds to dollar-denominated purchases as the central bank has; more than two-thirds of the $1.2 trillion in reserves managed by the central bank are thought to be in dollars. KEITH BRADSHER

Deutsche Telekom agreed with the Ver.di union on terms to transfer 50,000 workers to jobs that pay less, paving the way to end five weeks of strikes at the company. The employees will take a 6.5 percent pay cut and lengthen the workweek by four hours, Deutsche Telekom’s personnel chief, Thomas Sattelberger, said at a news conference with Ver.di in Bad Neuenahr, Germany. The deal allows Deutsche Telekom to set up T-Service, a customer service unit that is part of a cost-cutting program aimed at saving 900 million euros ($1.2 billion). As many as 16,000 workers a day have gone on strike across Germany since May 11 to protest Deutsche Telekom’s initial plan to cut pay by 9 percent. As part of the agreement, Deutsche Telekom would raise the “variable” portion of workers’ salary and promised it would not sell the service unit before 2010. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

The London Stock Exchange said it was discussing a possible merger with Borsa Italiana in its latest attempt to head off expansion of the combined New York Stock Exchange and Euronext. Massimo Capuano, left, the chief executive of Borsa Italiana, was considering a merger of Borsa Italiana, Euronext of France and Deutsche Börse of Germany before the N.Y.S.E.-Euronext merger. Euronext tried to lure Borsa Italiana to join the N.Y.S.E.-Euronext group, but Mr. Capuano preferred a bigger say in a European combination. (REUTERS)
623 2007-06-21 The session, legislators said, was one of the most emotional in recent memory.

Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, the first openly lesbian member of the Assembly, who is known for her toughness behind the scenes, found herself choking up. “I love my partner and I want to know that if anything happens to me that she is protected,” Ms. Glick, a Manhattan Democrat who co-sponsored the bill, said, her voice breaking slightly.

The tone ranged from the reverent to the comical. Assemblyman Dov Hikind, a Brooklyn Democrat and an observant Jew who said he opposed gay marriage on religious grounds, said he would not vote for the bill “unless God sends a message to me during the next two hours of the debate.” Moments later, thunder from a passing storm resonated in the chamber as lightning flashed outside.

Mr. Hikind chuckled when he was asked about the incident yesterday. “I was going to get up and say, ‘Hey guys, you get it? This is a message for you,’ ” he said.

As the debate ended, Assemblyman Matthew J. Titone, a Staten Island Democrat who is also gay, held up his cellphone and announced that his partner had just proposed. “Now everyone’s asking, ‘So when’s the wedding?’ ” Mr. Titone said yesterday, “and my response is, ‘We’ll have to ask Joe Bruno when it will be.’ ”

On the floor of the Assembly yesterday, having returned to more mundane matters of governance, Ms. Sayward said in an interview that she had not prepared her speech beforehand.

“I’m the mother. I just told my story,” she said, looking out on the chamber from her back-row perch. The speech was “difficult” to deliver, she said, only because of the reaction she expected from her heavily Catholic district, around Willsboro, near Lake Champlain.

“I have received some indications that I may not have the votes that I had the last time,” Ms. Sayward said.

Ms. Glick said she had not expected the debate to be so emotionally exhausting. “I also hadn’t realized how tense I was, and it was an enormous sense of relief,” she said.

She celebrated the vote with a small crowd of Democratic lawmakers at a restaurant. The soundtrack? Gloria Gaynor’s “I Will Survive,” Ms. Glick reported with a smile. “Most appropriate.”
624 2007-06-21 Thomas L. Friedman (“A Boycott Built on Bias,” column, June 17) says the British University and College Union’s proposed academic boycott of Israeli universities is based on false logic and motivated by anti-Semitism.

As many of the U.C.U.’s own members have publicly stated, such a boycott would also be a dangerous attack on academic freedom.

In the sphere of higher education, the appraisal of any professor at any institution should be based not on political arguments but on academic criteria — whether that professor is an effective teacher whose scholarly research is deemed by peers to make an important contribution to a field of study.

Moreover, the integrity of any college or university depends on the unquestioned ability of the scholars based there to engage in the full, free and responsible exchange of theories and ideas internationally with the colleagues in their discipline, and on campus with the students in their classroom. Judith Shapiro
625 2007-06-21 Archos has always been the underdog in the portable media player race. While it manufactured some of the first real MP3 players, its products have been overshadowed by the iPod. With its new 605 Wi-Fi, this wallflower is hoping to be the belle of the ball.

The 605, which will be available later this summer, has a 4.3-inch touchscreen. There is a built-in PDF and photo viewer, and an optional DVR allows you to schedule recordings of live television for later consumption.

The most interesting feature, however, is Wi-Fi. The 605 can browse the Internet, download audio and video from distant servers and even play back video from services like CinemaNow and YouTube. An optional $30 Web browser can handle Adobe’s Flash media format and renders Web pages just as they would appear on a PC, a large improvement over the oddly laid-out pages found on most mobile devices.

The Archos 605 is available with hard drives holding 4 gigabytes ($230), 30 gigabytes ($300) or 160 gigabytes ($400). There is even an optional remote control with a standard keyboard, which you might use to tap out requests to your favorite online radio station. JOHN BIGGS
626 2007-06-21 Even before Hurricane Katrina the Preservation Hall Jazz Band had been reviving. Now, touring heavily, making new records and collaborations, and perhaps carrying a sharper mandate of cultural preservation — because the New Orleans we knew really is gone — the band has become worth another hearing.

The band was still playing old New Orleans repertory from the first half of the 20th century at its Town Hall concert on Tuesday night, the first big concert of the JVC Jazz Festival. It had drive, and funk, and, believe it or not, youth.

Before the band came on, a young quartet called the New Orleans Bingo Show warmed up the audience, setting up in the front rows and playing like a theatrical street band: whiteface makeup, vintage suits, a ukulele, kazoos, fake tap dancing. It was a good starting place, drawing a link between the old music to come and the mysterious-funhouse atmosphere that continues in New Orleans.

John Brunious is the Preservation Hall band’s leader, singer, trumpeter. He kept the band on the up-and-up, playing a kind of solemnized Armstrong style, an orderly presence in the contrapuntal scrimmage of horns at the end of “Bourbon Street Parade.”

But much of the action was in the rhythm section. The drummer Joe Lastie played like a dream, with a heavy bass-drum foot and a tiny cymbal; he could put funk in the slowest songs. (One of the things this band preserves is slow tempos: In “Just a Closer Walk With Thee” it found a crawl that you don’t really find in jazz anymore.) And one of the band’s post-Katrina changes is the addition of the bassist Walter Payton, a beloved player and teacher in New Orleans. He played calmly with a big tone, bumping the music along, while Ben Jaffe, the son of the group’s founder, Allan Jaffe, played tuba for most of the night, doubling the music’s low end.

Some guests fed the band’s machine, making it play harder. The violinist Jenny Scheinman — who plays in a much more flowing, finely wrought style than the abrupt staccato of old New Orleans phrasing — joined it for “St. James Infirmary,” with Mr. Brunious singing the lyrics and the Cab Calloway “hi-de-hi-de-hi-de-ho” refrain. Ms. Scheinman dug into her melody and variations, playing long notes and repeated phrases. And Steve Wilson played soprano saxophone with a strong, broad tone on “Shake That Thing.” A product of the competitive, studious New York jazz scene of the last few decades, he was practically supersonic compared with the earthy, chuckling sound of the band’s regular saxophonist, Darryl Adams. But the band loved both musicians and enveloped them in the songs.
627 2007-06-21 Normally, because it is easier to copy someone else’s innovation than to generate new ideas, as countries get richer and more productive, their growth rates slow. Other countries may have much faster growth than the United States, but once their income gets close to ours, their growth slows substantially. This is the law of convergence.

The data has mostly backed up the notion of convergence among rich countries for decades. The United States miracle of the 1990s was that our productivity began growing faster than that of other countries, even though we were the richest to start with.

The popular explanation, of course, pointed to information technology and, specifically, to the fact that the price of semiconductors began falling at an even more rapid rate than they had been, starting in the 1990s.

Rather than a traditional drop of 20 percent a year, computer prices began falling more like 30 percent a year. This may sound subtle, but it couldn’t be more dramatic. After 10 years of such declines, the 20 percent rate would have left computer prices almost four times higher than the 30 percent rate did. Low computer prices drove mass adoption of technology and, hence, the productivity miracle was born. Or so the story goes.

The only problem is, the explanation doesn’t work, according to John Van Reenen at the London School of Economics. Professor Van Reenen is a leader of a new generation of economists studying the differences in economic performance across countries and businesses.

He said that the prices of information technology fell in Europe, too. And Europeans bought information technology. But they had no productivity miracle.

To explain the experience in the United States, one would have to believe that Americans have some better way of translating the new technology into productivity than other countries. And that is precisely what Professor Van Reenen’s research suggests.

His paper “Americans Do I.T. Better: U.S. Multinationals and the Productivity Miracle,” (with Nick Bloom of Stanford University and Raffaella Sadun of the London School of Economics) looked at the experience of companies in Britain that were taken over by multinational companies with headquarters in other countries. They wanted to know if there was any evidence that the American genius with information technology transfers to locations outside the United States. If American companies turn computers into productivity better than anyone else, can businesses in Britain do the same when they are taken over by Americans?

And in the huge service sectors — financial services, retail trade, wholesale trade — they found compelling evidence of exactly that. American takeovers caused a tremendous productivity advantage over a non-American alternative.

When Americans take over a business in Britain, the business becomes significantly better at translating technology spending into productivity than a comparable business taken over by someone else. It is as if the invisible hand of the American marketplace were somehow passing along a secret handshake to these firms.

Companies like Wal-Mart seem to be more adept at translating technology into productivity than anyone else. The Asda supermarket chain in Britain, for example was a middling fourth in its home market before it was taken over by Wal-Mart in 1999. Asda proceeded to grow, sharply, and has taken the No. 2 spot.

Throughout the service-based economy, American companies have proven remarkably adept at adjusting to new conditions and incorporating technology. Since these industries represent a large majority of our economy, the news is rather good.

The real question is whether this advantage will last. In an interview, Professor Van Reenen observed that there are two possible outcomes. One is that the last 10 years were an aberration, a one-time happenstance whereby the United States took advantage of the drop in computer prices to pull away from the competition. Under this theory, the United States will soon return to its normal long-term productivity growth rate as the rest of the pack catches up and copies what the American companies did — the same old convergence story.

But there is a chance that the 1990s represent a fundamental shift in the global economy. Perhaps the greater amount of uncertainty and churn in the world economy in the 1990s is the new norm. Perhaps the 21st century will continually favor those who adjust best to changes. As Professor Van Reenen put it, “If the world has become one in which everyone is trying to hit a moving target, it certainly helps to be the best at changing one’s aim.”

But that is, of course, the paradox of the American position. We hate experiencing major adjustments and industry transformations that force people to look for new jobs. That experience has made many skeptical about the future of the United States in the world economy. Yet the evidence seems to show that for all our dissatisfaction, we are the most flexible economy around and may be best poised to take advantage of the coming changes on a global scale precisely because we are so good at adjusting.

Perhaps the lesson from the research can be boiled down to something most Americans clearly understand: The world economy may be tough on your industry but look on the bright side: you could be French.
628 2007-06-21 HIGHER TAXES FOR FINANCIERS Leaders of the tax-writing committees in Congress are considering a new proposal to end a little-known tax break that has allowed wealthy financiers who run private equity firms and hedge funds to cut their total income...
629 2007-06-21 To the Editor:      Thomas L. Friedman (''A Boycott Built on Bias,'' column, June 17) says the British University and College Union's proposed academic boycott of Israeli universities is based on false logic and motivated by anti-Semitism....
630 2007-06-21 ASIA     CHINA: INVESTMENT FUND PLANS BOND ISSUE...
631 2007-06-21 Gov. Eliot Spitzer was trying to reach a broad deal Wednesday to end the legislative session by linking together three contentious issues, people with knowledge of the negotiations said. The issues included his own campaign finance reform plan, Ma...
632 2007-06-21 On Saturday, three private gardens in the Bronx will be open to the public for the first time when the Garden Conservancy's Open Days program comes to New York City. One of them, the Byrns Garden, an acre and a half above the Hudson River, culmina...
633 2007-06-21 John D. Feerick, chairman of the State Ethics Commission, said yesterday that he had selected Herbert Teitelbaum, a New York lawyer, as executive director of the commission. He also said he would recommend Mr. Teitelbaum for the same post at a soo...
634 2007-06-21 Americans' anxiety level over  competitiveness with  other nations has grown in recent years. A large number of Americans appear to believe that the United States will not be able to succeed in an open world market, and they argue in favor of redu...
635 2007-06-21 Toby Keith is No. 1 on the Billboard chart this week with ''Big Dog Daddy'' (Show Dog Nashville), though in what has become a familiar pattern for the music industry, record sales were low across the board. ''Big Dog Daddy'' sold 204,000 copies in...
636 2007-06-22 Moving to placate lenders and stabilize what has become an embarrassing situation for the investment bank, Bear Stearns said Friday that it would provide a secured loan of up to $3.2 billion to one of two troubled hedge funds. Bloomberg News descr...
637 2007-06-22 George Clooney has gone from Hollywood heartthrob to neighborhood Nimby. The movie star is protesting a $16 million development that he says will ruin the beauty and serenity of his favorite retreat - Lake Como - where he owns a lakeside villa. Th...
638 2007-06-22 Ritchie Capital put two of its Ireland-based funds into bankruptcy protection Thursday, marking the latest setback for the hedge-fund firm founded by A.R. Thane Ritchie, a former college football star. The funds lost more than $700 million investi...
639 2007-06-22 Just how immune is the Blackstone Group to the slings and arrows of Congress? So far this morning, the private equity firm was looking fairly Teflon-coated: Its units began trading on the New York Stock Exchange at $36.45, up 18 percent over its o...
640 2007-06-22 Seeking to stave off disaster, Bear Stearns plans to take on $3.2 billion of loans to stop creditors from seizing assets of one of its money-losing hedge funds in the biggest fund bailout since 1998, Bloomberg News reported. The firm told lenders ...
641 2007-06-22 NYSE Euronext has joined the bidding fray for Italian markets operator Borsa Italiana, which is currently considering an offer from the London Stock Exchange Group reportedly worth $2 billion, according to The Wall Street Journal. As the Borsa Ita...
642 2007-06-22 Nelson Peltz, the activist investor, does not like Fruity Pebbles cereal or Maxwell House coffee. That is what he is preparing to tell Kraft Foods, having quietly acquired a 3 percent stake in the company, according to The New York Times. Mr. Pelt...
643 2007-06-22 It has become a journalistic cliché and therefore an inevitable part of the prerelease discussion of “Sicko” to refer to Michael Moore as a controversial, polarizing figure. While that description is not necessarily wrong, it strikes me as self-fulfilling (since the controversy usually originates in media reports on how controversial Mr. Moore is) and trivial. Any filmmaker, politically outspoken or not, whose work is worth discussing will be argued about. But in Mr. Moore’s case the arguments are more often about him than about the subjects of his movies.

Some of this is undoubtedly his fault, or at least a byproduct of his style. His regular-guy, happy-warrior personality plays a large part in the movies and in their publicity campaigns, and he has no use for neutrality, balance or objectivity. More than that, his polemical, left-populist manner seems calculated to drive guardians of conventional wisdom bananas. That is because conventional wisdom seems to hold, against much available evidence, that liberalism is an elite ideology, and that the authentic vox populi always comes from the right. Mr. Moore, therefore, must be an oxymoron or a hypocrite of some kind.

So the table has been set for a big brouhaha over “Sicko,” which contends that the American system of private medical insurance is a disaster, and that a state-run system, such as exists nearly everywhere else in the industrialized world, would be better. This argument is illustrated with anecdotes and statistics — terrible stories about Americans denied medical care or forced into bankruptcy to pay for it; grim actuarial data about life expectancy and infant mortality; damning tallies of dollars donated to political campaigns — but it is grounded in a basic philosophical assumption about the proper relationship between a government and its citizens.

Mr. Moore has hardly been shy about sharing his political beliefs, but he has never before made a film that stated his bedrock ideological principles so clearly and accessibly. His earlier films have been morality tales, populated by victims and villains, with himself as the dogged go-between, nodding in sympathy with the downtrodden and then marching off to beard the bad guys in their dens of power and privilege. This method can pay off in prankish comedy or emotional intensity — like any showman, Mr. Moore wants you to laugh and cry — but it can also feel manipulative and simplistic.

In “Sicko,” however, he refrains from hunting down the C.E.O.’s of insurance companies, or from hinting at dark conspiracies against the sick. Concentrating on Americans who have insurance (after a witty, troubling acknowledgment of the millions who don’t), Mr. Moore talks to people who have been ensnared, sometimes fatally, in a for-profit bureaucracy and also to people who have made their livings within the system. The testimony is poignant and also infuriating, and none of it is likely to be surprising to anyone, Republican or Democrat, who has tried to see an out-of-plan specialist or dispute a payment.
644 2007-06-22 The London Stock Exchange was considering making a bid of $2 billion to acquire Borsa Italiana, the operator of the stock exchange in Milan, two people close to the companies said. The two exchanges discussed a potential merger and were set to continue discussions today, a spokesman for Borsa Italiana said. The spokesman, Alessandro Pavesi, said the proposal from the London exchange is the only one being considered. Both exchanges have fended off takeover approaches in the last year, and a merger might help them avoid a takeover in the future, said Rupak Ghose, an analyst at Credit Suisse in London. “It is not surprising that the L.S.E. is looking at different alternatives to become larger and hence avoid becoming acquired,” Mr. Ghose said in a note to investors.
645 2007-06-22 And many are looking to Mr. Schumer, the one they know and finance the best. That in turn puts Mr. Schumer in a tough spot. He raises a lot of money from Wall Street and has been quick to tap into the geyser of wealth made by the private equity and hedge funds.

In the 2003 and 2004 election cycle, Mr. Schumer raised $54,500 from leading private equity firms, more than twice that of any colleague on the Senate Finance Committee (not including John Kerry, who was running for president), according to the Center for Responsive Politics.

Since Mr. Schumer took the helm of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 2005, Wall Street-sponsored fund-raisers seem as frequent as Broadway openings. In the 2005 and 2006 cycle, Mr. Schumer helped the committee raise $385,450 from the top private equity players, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. He knows hedge funds give more to Democrats than Republicans and has capitalized on that.

But he is also concerned about keeping the New York markets competitive. In January, Mr. Schumer and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York released a report concluding that New York could lose significant ground to foreign capital markets if certain issues — regulation and litigation, for example — were not quickly addressed.

Mr. Schumer wants to protect the city’s pre-eminence in the finance world, and raising taxes on its fastest-growing industries cannot be at the top of the to-do list.

From that perspective, Mr. Schumer should logically be opposed to tax increases on an industry that is already complaining it is losing ground to overseas markets (yet making more money than it has ever made, but that’s another story).

But here’s the rub for Mr. Schumer. There is a good chance raising taxes on really rich people will come attached to bills to provide education credits or tax relief to the not so rich. Those items, as a Democrat, would be hard for him to vote against.

Private equity and hedge fund officials say privately that Mr. Schumer says he is looking for ways to oppose significant tax increases, like carried interest at higher rates.

Revenue estimates for carried interest and the deferral offshore of hedge fund compensation are not complete, enabling everyone to assume a “wait and see” stance. All of which puts Mr. Schumer in a conflicted position: tell the megarich you are doing everything even as you continue to hold fund-raisers.

“The senator is mindful of the importance of this industry to New York and is making sure that all sides get an opportunity to be heard by the policy makers in Washington while he studies the issues carefully,” a spokesman for Mr. Schumer, Andrew Koneschusky, said.

Mr. Schumer is not alone. Another close friend to the hedge fund industry is Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, who also happens to be running for president. He and Senator Richard C. Shelby, a Republican from Alabama, sent a letter Wednesday to the Securities and Exchange Commission, asking that they weigh the impact of the bill, which many on Capitol Hill hoped to mean that Mr. Dodd could oppose any such measure (he has not taken a position).

Meanwhile, as Blackstone starts to trade as a public company, the fight on Capitol Hill has reached a fever pitch.

When Mr. Dodd and Mr. Shelby wrote to the S.E.C. and Treasury, Team Blackstone assumed the letter would slow any bill.

But Team Taxation claimed victory when a freshman from Vermont introduced legislation that would immediately raise taxes on publicly traded private equity firms, rather than after a five-year phase in.

Team Blackstone insists that the publicly traded partnership bill is losing steam because no one has endorsed it. Team Taxation extols the fact that no one has opposed it.

The emotion should not come as a surprise. Taxes hit everyone close to home, including very rich people.

At that Regency fund-raiser, maybe the Wall Street types didn’t ask about taxes because they did not want an answer. Or maybe they were silent because the guest speaker that night, Warren E. Buffett, mentioned that he believed even much higher taxes do not cause people to work less hard and will not dampen the entrepreneurial spirit in America.

That, from someone who is really, really rich.
646 2007-06-22 Under skies so blue they seemed almost mocking, given the task at hand, more than 100 firefighters, police officers and National Guardsmen, along with scores of volunteers, combed the wreckage along Route 206, a two-lane road that runs north-northwest from the hamlet of Roscoe. Many sections of the road had collapsed or were upended by the force of the water. Felled trees, random pieces of furniture, crumpled cars and migrant boulders lay by the roadside for miles.

Some parts of Route 206 were still giving way, and downed wires made the search difficult. Dogs sniffed along the banks of streams, workers used fence posts to hack at mounds of debris and scuba divers descended into a newly formed pond near Beaverkill Creek.

The floods caught even these flood-weary residents off guard. Meteorologists said that five to eight inches of rain had fallen over two to three hours in isolated spots of Sullivan and Delaware Counties. Most of that water coursed down the mountains that rise up on either side of the winding road, engorging the Beaverkill Creek and other brooks.

Lajos and Susanna Erdos, a retired mechanic and retired librarian, were trapped in their car for 12 hours, with water up to their chests at times, as they drove home from visiting friends in Walton, just northwest of here, to Ellenville, about 50 miles southeast. “The water just kept coming,” Mrs. Erdos said in a telephone interview. “It’s a miracle we’re alive.”

A muddy torrent whisked the Erdoses’ 2005 Buick off Route 206 about 7 p.m. Tuesday, and when it came to rest in the woods, the doors were forced shut by water and uprooted trees. The engine was dead, and the couple’s cellphone had no service. They flicked the dome light on and off until, in the middle of the night, a man found them.

Rescuers smashed the car window and pulled the couple out Wednesday morning.

Several residents recounted seeing a wave as high as four or five feet appear from nowhere on Tuesday night, followed by others. Three houses and several outbuildings vanished in the floods on Tuesday night, while at least a dozen other homes were pushed off their foundations, the police said.

“All of a sudden I walked out the front door and it looked like a beach,” Susan Farrell said. “There was a wave pouring down the road and then I saw cars started coming down, bouncing off of everything, and then I saw houses coming down the road.”

Paul Piatek, who lived across the street from the Shuttses, also emerged from his house amid “nonstop thunder” and gusty winds.

“The creek started rising and within two minutes — I looked at the clock — it rose like three feet,” he said. “Then the wave came and took everything: my garage, my cars, everything.”

Mr. Piatek’s house was spared, but he watched in horror as a wall of water lifted up the Shuttses’ home and smashed it against a nearby bridge. “It just shattered,” he said of the house.

At a news briefing Thursday afternoon at a makeshift command post in Roscoe, Capt. Rodney Campbell of the New York State Police said that workers were searching for three elderly people but declined to identify them. Two of the missing were in separate houses when the flood arrived, while the third was in a car; searchers found the vehicle but not the driver.

Captain Campbell said workers were concentrating on a mile-long stretch of Route 206.

Along several miles of roadway, workers patched together preliminary repairs to provide emergency workers access to the flood zone. And crews were starting the task of replacing at least 70 utility poles that were either damaged or ripped away by the floods, said Jim Salmon, a spokesman for New York State Electric and Gas; there were 160 customers without power.

Dennis J. Michalski, a spokesman for the New York State Emergency Management Office, said state officials had contacted the Federal Emergency Management Agency to ask for a preliminary damage assessment.

This corner of New York has been devastated by repeated floods in recent years. Amid days of rain last June, a 15-year-old girl was killed when her house washed away in nearby Livingston Manor, while two truck drivers died after driving off a precipice on a flood-damaged section of Interstate 88.

Some have accused New York City of contributing to past floods with its policy of keeping its reservoirs at full capacity, but local and state officials said the reservoirs had no role in this week’s flood, which was the worst in memory.

“It’s almost like it got to that one spot of the mountain, like a microburst, and got stuck there,” Mr. Govern said.
647 2007-06-22 The governor has not made a final decision on the expansion plan, and state officials have told executives in the trade show industry that it might be two to three months before he does.

The two executives involved in the review of the Javits center project said the latest proposal would add 550,000 square feet of exhibit space and meeting rooms, up from about 300,000 square feet in the current plan, and would renovate the old structure. The new plan would also entail a vertical expansion, adding three levels to the three already there, an unusual feature in an industry that favors long horizontal spaces.

Asked about the new proposal, Senator Charles E. Schumer, who has pressed for the expansion, said it was the first he had heard of it. Hotel and convention executives say they were also unaware of the proposal.

“We should be able to get a lot more for $4 billion than just another floor on top of the existing convention center,” Mr. Schumer said. “In fact, a whole new convention center would cost $4 billion.”

Things cost more in New York, but a $4 billion expansion would be at the outer range of convention centers built in the United States, experts say. Boston completed a new exhibit hall three years ago with 716,000 square feet of meeting and exhibit space at a cost of $850 million, or $1,187 a square foot. The new plan in New York, by comparison, would cost $7, 272.73 a square foot.

For a projected $4.8 billion, Boyd Gaming is planning the Echelon complex in Las Vegas, which includes 5,000 hotel rooms, a casino, two theaters and a 750,000-square-foot convention center.

“This would be one of the larger investments ever made in the convention and exhibition industry,” said Michael Hughes, associate publisher of Tradeshow Week, an industry magazine. “The issue for New York comes down to a return on investment. New York is the most underserved North American city in terms of exhibition space.”

The two executives did not say how high the cost would have to go before the Javits expansion became prohibitive.

The project has long been troubled, with seemingly widespread support but never enough propulsion to get off the ground. Almost from the day the complex opened in 1986 with 760,000 square feet of exhibit space and 30,000 square feet of meeting rooms, exhibitors and hotel owners were lobbying to expand the complex to attract larger trade shows and meetings.

Despite a leaky roof and a faulty air-conditioning system, the Javits center is one of the busiest convention halls in the country.

An effort to double the size of the center in 1997 ran afoul of wrangling between the state and the city. Governor Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, with the support of community groups and unions, developed the current plan to expand. But it still took six months to get legislative approval.

By 2006, the projected cost had risen to $1.68 billion, from $1.4 billion, while the size of the expansion shrank. The proposal also came under severe criticism from trade show managers and users of the center, who complained that the design would increase the cost of producing shows and still not provide enough room to attract larger conventions.

The expansion plan calls for extending the center two blocks north to 40th Street and adding a ballroom that could be divided into meeting rooms. The New York Police Department had imposed new security measures for trucks entering the center that increased the cost at one point by $100 million, but it has since reduced its requirements.

The Spitzer administration has tried to balance the demands of the trade show industry with the city’s insistence that the center sell its truck marshaling yard, between 39th and 40th Streets, and build an eight-story garage at the site’s north end. Critics said the garage would eat up what should be exhibit space, but the Bloomberg administration wanted the trucks off the local streets, which have been rezoned for a commercial and residential district.

Last month, Governor Spitzer appeared to favor a whole new plan in which a new $3.8 billion convention center would be built over the nearby railyards, while the land beneath the center would be sold to developers to offset the costs. But he suddenly abandoned that plan after a meeting with city officials.

The latest expansion proposal would bring the total size back to 1.34 million square feet, the executives said. It would also put a security screening system for the trucks in the yard between 39th and 40th Streets. The state would then sell the development rights overhead to residential and commercial builders.
648 2007-06-22 Each year Bob Wills teaches hundreds of people who work on the subway tracks how to do their jobs without getting hit by a train — and he likes to tell them that they are going to fail his class.

What he means is that during the walk through a working subway tunnel that winds up the class, he will manage to get them to step onto the tracks without looking to see if a train is coming — the single most common mistake, which has meant death for dozens of subway workers .

It seems so simple, a lesson we all teach our children: Look both ways before crossing.

And, in practice — when you are in a hurry, when you are following an order, when you think it is safe — it is so simple to forget.

That is the lesson of the track safety class, which a group of reporters attended Wednesday: It is very easy to make that one fatal mistake.

“It takes less than a second for somebody to be hit by a train, and the reason is they walk right into it without even looking,” Mr. Wills, an instructor at a New York City Transit training center in Brooklyn, told the class.
649 2007-06-22 The same agencies have until June 30, 2010, to develop recommendations for reaching the reduction goals for 2050.

“This is a vital step in protecting our state’s environmental resources and the health of New Jerseyans,” said Assemblyman John F. McKeon, an Essex County Democrat who was one of several sponsors of the bill. “New Jersey’s aggressive protection of its resources will help set a national tone.”

The bill also establishes a statewide greenhouse-gas monitoring program that will include pollution emitted by out-of-state power plants that export electricity to New Jersey. A plan to collect fees from every company that emits greenhouse gases — chiefly carbon dioxide — to support the monitoring program was dropped after industry opposed it.

The lack of specifics about how emissions would be cut has been a concern of New Jersey’s business leaders. “For a state trying to hold on to manufacturing and high-paying jobs, we’re worried about the effect those regulations would have on electricity rates and our competitiveness,” said Sara Bluhm, assistant vice president for energy affairs at the New Jersey Business and Industry Association.

In a letter to legislators last month, the association said the bill “drives up the cost of electricity, and does so with no global environmental benefit.” It also called the bill premature because other major initiatives have not been put into practice.

One of those programs is the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a pact among 10 Northeastern states, including New Jersey, to reduce emissions from power plants 10 percent by 2019. That agreement also establishes a “cap and trade” mechanism for buying and selling pollution allotments among the 10 states that is intended to soften the effect of the regulations on industry.

Jeffrey R. Holmstead, the former chief of air and climate change programs at the federal Environmental Protection Agency and now head of the environmental strategies group at Bracewell & Giuliani, said that without a cap and trade program or specific regulations for emissions reductions, New Jersey’s efforts were unlikely to be successful.

“Having spent a lot of years working on these issues, I can see the political appeal of doing these things,” Mr. Holmstead said. “But to willy-nilly go out and set goals that can’t be met, and assign another group to figure out how to get there, doesn’t make any sense to me.”

Suzanne Leta Liou, global warming and clean energy advocate for Environment New Jersey, a lobbying group, said a cap and trade program was not necessary.

Ms. Leta Liou said conservation and alternative energy sources, like offshore wind turbines, could substantially reduce emissions and could, in the end, save consumers money. Some conservation measures could be directed at government and industry, and others could affect consumers, like requiring that low-resistance replacement tires be sold in the state.

Dale S. Bryk, a senior lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said actions like New Jersey’s would increase the pressure for national standards.
650 2007-06-22 STRASBOURG, France, June 21 — EBay is on track to rejoin the online auction business in China this summer, with tight restrictions on sellers to clamp down on sales of counterfeit goods, the company’s chief executive said this week.

Meg Whitman, the chief executive, said eBay’s partnership with TOM Online would start within a few months, somewhat later than first planned. It is eBay’s second attempt to break into the Chinese market after the collapse of the company’s EachNet venture, and the first with a local partner.

To win shoppers’ trust, the venture, TOM eBay, has decided to use an escrow service, where payments will be held until buyers are satisfied with their purchases. The venture will also do more to assure the reliability of those holding the auctions and will institute restrictions on the number of luxury goods any individual can sell.

“Whatever we do elsewhere to assure trust and safety, in China we have to do more,” Ms. Whitman said during an interview on a trip to Europe.

Despite eBay’s previous failure in China, Ms. Whitman said the partnership with TOM Online, which owns 51 percent of the venture, might crack the increasingly wired Chinese market. “We have a good shot at it,” she said.
651 2007-06-22 WASHINGTON, June 21 — The No. 2 official in the Justice Department said Thursday that he told the truth in February when he testified at a Senate hearing that the White House had limited involvement in the dismissal of federal prosecutors, an assertion that proved incorrect.

The official, Paul J. McNulty, who is stepping down as deputy attorney general this summer, told a House Judiciary subcommittee that when he testified on Feb. 6 he did not know the extent of the White House role in the ousters, but conceded that his testimony was incomplete.

Justice Department documents disclosed since then show that White House officials first suggested removals after the 2004 elections. In addition, the documents indicate that officials like Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel, and Karl Rove, the senior political adviser, were informed of the process.

Mr. McNulty’s appearance on Thursday before the House Judiciary Commercial and Administrative Law Committee was prompted in part by testimony last month by Monica M. Goodling, a former aide to Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales. Ms. Goodling questioned the accuracy of Mr. McNulty’s Senate testimony, calling it “incomplete or inaccurate in a number of respects.”

Ms. Goodling’s accusations reflect antagonisms within the senior ranks of the department over who is to blame for the uproar caused by the dismissals. Some of Mr. McNulty’s allies have privately said Ms. Goodling and D. Kyle Sampson, Mr. Gonzales’s former chief of staff, are at fault for pushing ahead with a flawed plan and failing to disclose quickly all that they knew about it when lawmakers began asking questions.
652 2007-06-22 The result has been a deeply convincing three-year run through the pre-regattas and the challengers series known as the Louis Vuitton Cup, which has earned the team a rematch with Alinghi in the America’s Cup, which is set to begin Saturday.

“It’s been great for us to be able to look outside our own borders to strengthen the team, because we needed to,” said Shoebridge, New Zealand’s director of sailing and operations. “A lot of Kiwis had either gone to Alinghi or Oracle or to other teams, so we needed to bolster up our own numbers with experience that we didn’t have in the country at the time.”

Hutchinson, the team’s tactician, is a compact, occasionally combustible 39-year-old package of nervous energy from Annapolis, Md., who exudes the backslapping self-confidence of a navy pilot. Hall, the navigator, is a more reflective 38-year-old. The son of doctors from Ventura, Calif., he chooses his words and conclusions with care, perhaps because he learned early on that sailing success was a bonus after he had testicular cancer in his early 20s.

“That pretty much turned everything upside down for me for a little while,” Hall said. “That said, looking back, it changed me a lot for the better, and it’s a little bit clichéd perhaps, but it very much was a gift and an opportunity in the sense that I really had to stare my priorities in the face and decide what they were. Competing was really important to me, and I probably took it a little too seriously. I defined myself way too much by athletics and not enough by the other parts of my life.”

Hutchinson and Hall had already sailed in two America’s Cups in New Zealand. They began with Paul Cayard’s AmericaOne team in 1999 and then went their separate ways with different American syndicates in 2002. Hutchinson called tactics for Team Dennis Conner, and Hall navigated for Seattle-based OneWorld Challenge.

Hall and Hutchinson have known each other since 1984, when they competed in a national youth regatta in Milwaukee. They were sometimes rivals in college when Hall was at Brown University and Hutchinson was at Old Dominion, where he was twice named the college sailor of the year.

They have been among the best American sailors for years, with Hutchinson winning three world championships and Hall competing in the 2004 Olympics in the Finn Class. But with American options and influence much more limited during this Cup cycle, each decided that after living in New Zealand, it was time to sail for New Zealand. The two of them, each powerfully built and slathered in what appears to be equator-strength sun block, have spent much of the competition side by side in the stern of NZL 92.

Hall joined the team first after being recruited by Shoebridge, a Kiwi who worked with him at OneWorld.

“I’m definitely not here to right a wrong from last time,” Hall said. “I didn’t have to bail a boat on an unfortunate day and all that. I guess I’m here because it’s the pinnacle of our sport.”

Hutchinson came next, in June 2004, after becoming frustrated with the pace of negotiations with BMW Oracle Racing, the San Francisco-based challenger owned by the software mogul Larry Ellison and run by the New Zealander Chris Dickson.

Dickson no longer has a job after BMW Oracle crashed out in the semifinals of the Vuitton Cup, and Hutchinson clearly takes satisfaction in having picked the right horse, whatever its provenance.

“I’m as red, white and blue as they come,” Hutchinson said. “I have a huge amount of internal national pride for the U.S., and at the same time I have a huge amount of respect and pride in the fact we are representing a nation of three and a half million people who are passionate about sailing.”

The nationalistic tenor of the Kiwi campaign has made it all the more important that Hutchinson and Hall assimilate. Adam Beashel, another member of the afterguard, is Australian but also holds a New Zealand passport. The other 14 men on board are all Kiwis.

“I think it’s taken awhile, but eventually, Terry and Kevin really grasped hold of Kiwi-ness,” Davies said with a laugh. That still does not stop Hutchinson’s teammates from calling him Seppo, a term of alleged endearment for Americans down under that is short for septic tank.

Hutchinson, a self-confessed hothead prone to raising voice and hackles, arrived knowing that he had to temper his behavior in a group in which the tone is generally more understated.

“I think I was potentially a high risk candidate for Grant, so when I came into this team, I was hugely aware of any perceived labels I had with me and some of it was true,” he said. “I’ve had to curtail some of my emotional side, because I knew the culture wouldn’t stand for it, and the best thing about it is that it’s by far made me a better sailor. ”

For Hall, adapting has been more about adjusting his antennas.

“They communicate a lot, the Kiwis, but a lot of it is a little bit roundabout,” he said. “It’s not, Great job, or Terrible job. It’s a little bit in a making-fun-of-somebody-but-you’re-actually-quite-serious-about-it way. And it takes a long time to learn the scale of what’s been discussed, and that’s been the challenge.”

It is hardly the biggest challenge Hall has faced in his sailing career. His cancer not only caused him to lose his testicles. It has also complicated his professional life, requiring him to seek special exemption from the International Olympic Committee to receive weekly injections of testosterone, which he no longer produces naturally after his operations but which remains a banned substance.

While Hall was working through those issues on his way to the 2004 Olympics, he was also going through the process of adopting a child with his wife, Amanda.

“It dredged up a lot of this stuff again, because I was trying to get the eligibility,” Hall said.

The Halls have since adopted two boys, who are 2 years and 8 months old, and the family has set up a temporary base in Valencia. So have Hutchinson, his wife and their three children, who range in age from 3 to 8 and are enrolled in Spanish schools. That, Hutchinson says, is much more of a culture shock than having to learn not to high-five.

“The truth is, the All Blacks high-five, so I don’t quite buy into it,” Hutchinson said. “I think the guys make a bigger deal out of it than it actually is.”
653 2007-06-22 “I think the hypocrisy is the hallmark of what Republicans are all about,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the House majority leader, whose office issued a paper noting that Mr. Nussle served as budget chairman while federal surpluses turned into deficits and spending rose an average of 7 percent annually.

Once the bread and butter of lawmakers, home-state projects have become something of a liability as critics blame them for breaking the budget and fostering corruption. After feuding about disclosure, some lawmakers are trying to get ahead of the curve by disclosing their own lists. Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, became the first presidential contender to do so this week when he put his 113-item list online.

Within hours of Mr. Nussle’s nomination, Democrats and others were scouring past news releases, which showed he pursued the usual array of road, bridge and development projects — $1 million for sewer reconstruction in Davenport, $19 million for street improvements in Dubuque and millions to convert unused space at the Rock Island Arsenal for potential commercial use.

Republicans say Mr. Nussle had a strong record as a foe of excess spending and sought only a fair share of earmarks for his state and district when broad efforts to curb them failed.

Rob Portman, who is stepping down from the budget director’s position this summer, said in an interview Thursday that he did not believe Mr. Nussle’s own support for earmarks contradicted the administration’s new push to rein in federal spending and the number of lawmakers’ projects contained in budget bills.

“He is totally committed to full transparency,” Mr. Portman said.

Mr. Portman, a former Republican House member from Ohio known for close relationships with members of both parties, came to Capitol Hill to meet with lawmakers and assure those leery of the nomination.

Mr. Nussle, who lost his race for Iowa governor last year, had a reputation as an occasionally brusque and partisan lawmaker who relished confrontation. Republicans said that image was exaggerated.

Still, Democrats in both the House and Senate took Mr. Bush’s selection of Mr. Nussle as a provocative gesture, given threats to reject any spending measures that exceed the administration’s limit. While Democrats acknowledge he is likely to be confirmed, he is certain to hear plenty about his — and the White House’s — record during confirmation hearings.

“This is a guy who was not only a partner in deficit spending, but someone who mastered the world of earmarks,” said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the Democratic Caucus.

Mr. Nussle, who turns 47 next week, was elected to the House in 1990 at the age of 30, the youngest member of the 102nd Congress. The next year, he drew attention when he placed a paper bag over his head on the floor of the House, urging Democratic leaders to fully disclose overdrafts that contributed to the House banking scandal.

He retired last year to run for governor, but lost his bid for statewide office by 10 points in a race that became, in part, a referendum on federal spending in Washington. He was serving as a senior adviser to the Republican presidential campaign of Rudolph W. Giuliani when he was nominated this week to become budget director.

Mr. Nussle immediately began working to soothe any testy relations he might have had with Democrats and has been making phone calls and personal visits as he prepares for his confirmation hearings. As he made the rounds Thursday, he did not take questions from reporters, saying simply that he was seeking “advice and counsel” from members of both parties.

Because of his reluctance to fight earmarks, Mr. Nussle had received poor marks from the Club for Growth, a conservative watchdog group dedicated to fiscal discipline.

“Republicans took earmarking to a whole new level that made the bridge to nowhere famous, but times change and the atmosphere changes,” said Pat Toomey, president of the organization, which is not challenging Mr. Nussle’s nomination. “We welcome converts.”
654 2007-06-22 Even an extremely cool customer like Ms. Sadik-Khan — who earned her law degree at Columbia and returned to city government last month only because she wanted to innovate alongside an envelope-pusher like Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg — works up a sweat simply sitting at her desk in her minimally air-conditioned corner office at 40 Worth Street. But her tweed jacket stays on. Ms. Sadik-Khan, 47, athletic in her off-hours, is office formal: skirts and hosiery are de rigueur.

“Dumb it down,” she repeats, buying a little time as she attempts to puzzle out a simple answer to a convoluted question. She twiddles her black enamel bracelet, a banged-up, 22-year-old relic that was the first-ever gift to her from Mark Geistfeld, the fellow law student (now a law professor at New York University) who became her husband. The joke around the D.O.T. is that she named their 11-year-old son, Max, after the light rail system in Portland, Ore., and that, had they had more children, she would have opted for Bart (San Francisco’s system) or Marta (Atlanta’s). Not true, but amusing.

Nor did she name him for Peter Max, an artist she charmed into designing posters for the Art in Transit program she initiated during a four-year stint at the United States Department of Transportation, where, as chief financial officer, she managed the agency’s $4 billion capital construction budget.

Her frown recedes, a sure signal that she’s come up with the words she needs to remain on-message, albeit in layman and commuter terms, about Mr. Bloomberg’s panacea for what ails Midtown on weekdays.

“Here’s what congestion pricing is: it’s urban acupuncture,” she says, smiling again. “On the streets, it’s a way of dealing with the chronic pain imposed by gridlock; it’s a way of easing traffic congestion, improving air quality, and reducing travel time. It’s a way of dealing with pressure points in the system and a way of looking to relieve the pain. We haven’t seen a better way to do it.”

And she’s been at it for 17 years: in 1991, as a D.O.T. policy maker in the Dinkins administration, she helped produce, and saw mothballed, her first congestion pricing project: tolls at the East River bridges. She still has the report: right intentions, wrong technology. The report is dusty and smells musty, but she keeps it around for balance’s sake; the same goes for “Traffic, Pedestrians, and Bicyclists: The Urban Juggle,” one of umpteen articles she’s written on transportation, finance and project management issues.

“I’ve been on this page, stuck on this page, for a long time,” she says of congestion pricing. “I’ve been at it since the days when people thought of the term intelligent transportation as an oxymoron.” And have they gotten past that? “Metropolitan areas are starting to understand that you can’t build your way out of gridlock anymore.”

LEAVE it to a woman who, as a senior vice president at Parsons Brinckerhoff, an international engineering firm, from 1997 to 2007, was in Hong Kong at this time last year lecturing to the traffic-challenged Chinese on congestion pricing, to use the somewhat exotic analogy of acupuncture to explain its virtues. She told the Chinese that congestion pricing works. She says she hopes New Yorkers decide it can work here as well — alleviating traffic jams AND contributing $640 million annually to projects like the Second Avenue subway and improvement of the Long Island and Metro North railroad conduits.

As for the invasion-of-privacy aspect of the cameras that will record users of the congestion zone: “Oh come on, we’ve already crossed that bridge with the E-ZPass system, which 71 percent of commuters use,” she says.

An urbanite whose parents divorced when she was 7, Ms. Sadik-Khan bounced between two households: her mother, Jane McCarthy, is a writer who covered City Hall for The New York Post. Her hyphenated surname comes from her father, who retired as a managing director for Paine-Webber; the strict type, he once told her he would rather have seen her come home from Occidental College a Communist than a vegetarian. She has since loosened up on the palate principle.
655 2007-06-22 W. D. Gosling, a member of the Gosling banking family, commissioned the portrait, then had it framed with oak timbers salvaged from the H.M.S. Téméraire, a warship that fought alongside Lord Nelson’s Victory in the Battle of Trafalgar. The portrait is expected to sell for $800,000 to $1.2 million.

The sale has another monumental Newfoundland, this one waiting patiently by the door for his master; it was painted by Jean-Léon Gérôme. There are also a pair of King Charles spaniels by Richard Ansdell (once in the Von Bulow collection); “The New Arrivals: Fox Terrier Puppies” by Arthur Wardle; and a charming portrait of the mongrel Pointy, painted by John Singer Sargent as a gift to its owner, his friend Louise Burckhardt. (His portrait of her hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.) You don’t have to love dogs to appreciate the quality of this art.

Tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. the Shaker Museum and Library of Old Chatham, N.Y., is sponsoring an open house at the nearby Mount Lebanon Shaker Village, a National Historic Landmark District. The public is invited to tour the site and meet preservation students working on the buildings this summer. The village is one mile east of New Lebanon on Route 20, at the New York-Massachusetts border. (Directions are at shakermuseumandlibrary.org.)

This bucolic tree-lined hamlet, with austere Shaker wood-frame buildings backing onto Columbia County’s verdant farmlands, was America’s first major Shaker village, active from 1787 to 1947.

“From this location Shaker leaders directed the expansion of the society into a national organization, first throughout New England and then subsequently into the Ohio Valley and western locations,” Dr. Stephen J. Stein, a museum director, writes in the handout to visitors. “This village occupied a pre-eminence without parallel in the hearts and minds of Shakers.”

By 1860 Mount Lebanon was home to 600 believers who lived and worked in more than 120 buildings and farmed 6,000 acres.

“At New Lebanon alone the Shakers operated a tannery; a chair factory; a blacksmith shop; a spinning, dyeing and weaving shop; and a garden-seed industry,” Amy Stechler Burns and Ken Burns write in “The Shakers: Hands to Work, Hearts to God” (Portland House). “Among other crops, the village produced in one year over 3,000 bushels of potatoes.”

Mount Lebanon’s Shakers originated the idea of selling seeds in paper packets; by 1800 they offered 70 varieties, including melon, mustard, parsnip, beans, cabbage, peppers, cucumbers, tomatoes and parsley.

Today the village retains 40 original buildings, some privately owned. In 2001 the Shaker Museum received a $750,000 grant from Save America’s Treasures, a public-private partnership, to study the feasibility of restoring the rest of the buildings. In 2004 and again in 2006 the World Monuments Fund put Mount Lebanon on its watch list of the world’s 100 most endangered sites.

The fund, in conjunction with the museum, has initiated a long-term plan to preserve the site under the supervision of Cooper Robertson & Partners, architects and city planners. The firm asked a Manhattan restoration architect, Page Ayres Cowley, to record the condition of 11 of the buildings, creating measured drawings and field notes, photographs and materials analysis.

The focus this summer is on the 40,000-square-foot 1859 stone dairy barn, which once housed 75 cows and included a hayloft, a water-powered turbine to pump water to the cattle, a tank to hold and cool the milk and a rail system to remove refuse from the basement. It is thought to be the largest stone barn in America.

A suspicious fire destroyed most of the barn in 1972. Today only its walls, five stories tall, remain, exposed to the elements. The Shaker Museum plans to move its large collection of archival materials and Shaker objects (80 percent from Mount Lebanon) into the barn once it is rebuilt.

“That barn is like the Pyramids to the World Monuments Fund,” said Dennis Wedlick, an architect. Mr. Wedlick helps raise money to support the summer school that the fund and the museum organized to teach preservation students traditional building trades, like masonry and carpentry, that are essential for restoring historic buildings. The students come from the American College of Building Arts in Charleston, S.C., and the University of Florida.

John Beaty, an instructor, said the school was now studying the barn’s method of construction, then and now considered a feat of engineering.

“We already know a lot because we have copies of the original architectural plans, historic photos and descriptions by visitors, but we will learn still more,” said Brian Robinson, a returning student who is working on a doctorate in preservation. “We will work with a lime mortar specialist to study the composition of the mortar and why it failed.”

Jerry V. Grant, the research director at the museum, added, “Students will test and sample and repoint sections of the walls, send mortar samples to a firm in Virginia that can match the lime content, and plug holes.”

Bonnie Burnham, president of the World Monuments Fund, underscored the need for people skilled in traditional construction methods. “A prime example of Shaker craftsmanship and ingenuity, Mount Lebanon is an ideal venue for training a new generation of artisans to care for our heritage,” she said. “We’re very happy to be back for a second season.”
656 2007-06-22 “Manufacturers were all the more eager to sell planes to airlines that were still expanding, from Asia and the Middle East to the low-cost airlines in Europe,” he said. Some of these airlines, of course, are more financially stable than others.

At the Paris air show this week, Airbus, a unit of the European aerospace consortium EADS, especially benefited from orders by carriers in fast-growing markets: FlyAsianXpress, a Malaysian start-up, ordered 15 Airbus planes. A young Indian domestic carrier, Kingfisher Airlines, ordered 50 and Qatar Airways ordered 80.

The demographics and economic predictions for some of the emerging markets are so positive that no one is predicting a collapse in plane prices or a glut. But as India’s airline industry shows, there will be a few hiccups along the way as carriers in crowded emerging markets consolidate and untested business models are tried in a cyclical business.

Any extra planes that come onto the market now can be quickly absorbed by another emerging market airline, or even one of the traditional carriers, specialists say. But a series of consolidations or anything that dampens consumer demand in a broad way could spell trouble.

Some of the froth in the market is being fueled by wide-open capital markets and a growing reliance on a financing tool called “sale leasebacks.” Using that tool, airlines order a new plane, then sell it to a financier for cash when it is delivered, lease it back and pay rent. This type of financing has been used for decades, but it is being applied more aggressively than before, as a result of a model in India that is spreading.

Indian airlines have financed as much as 100 percent of their fleet, which helps them increase the number of flights and passengers quickly — with little cash on hand. In the past, airlines commonly financed half their fleet or less. Now, lenders say, imitators of this Indian tactic have sprouted around the world.

The new Indian carriers lease the planes “soon after commencing operations,” said Michael Weiss, the head of aircraft finance at Investec Bank in London. They place significant orders with airline manufacturers, which allow them to get discounts on list prices. Then, after they sell the planes to leasing companies at market value, the airline entrepreneurs put the difference toward daily operations, Mr. Weiss said.

“Over time,” Mr. Baggaley of Standard & Poor’s say, “there has been a trend toward greater emphasis on aircraft itself as collateral, rather than the airline that uses it.”

Airbus executives say they are not concerned that much of the growth in orders is from start-ups and emerging markets. “It is more attractive to buy a new aircraft,” said Paul Kiteley, senior vice president for leasing markets at Airbus. “They have much lower fuel burn and they have a honeymoon period on maintenance,” clear advantages over used planes.

Boeing executives also say they have no reason to worry. Still, they are calling for caution. “People think that the more airplanes I order, the more money I can take upfront,” said Dinesh A. Keskar, Boeing’s commercial airline vice president for sales, adding, “You have to pay sooner or later.”

Passengers on the low-cost and emerging market airlines can be among the winners. Traveling on a start-up airline once meant boarding a plane that had a new coat of paint and an old everything else. Now, in many countries, the cheapest flights will be on new planes, while some established carriers are saddled with the old ones.

Fast-growing airlines in developing markets tend to have newer fleets than their competitors in countries where air travel is well established. The average age of China Airlines’ fleet is 5.1 years, for example, and that of Emirates is 5.4 years — about half that of Western carriers like American Airlines or British Airways.

The aircraft leasing market has finally recovered from the terrorist acts of 2001. Leasing plummeted 79 percent in 2001 from the year before, to $2.8 billion, according to Dealogic. Last year, it grew to $8.2 billion, and is on track to equal that this year. Investors from hedge funds and private equity have jumped in, and many banks have rebuilt their businesses. The figures from Dealogic do not take into account leasing deals with companies that are not publicly traded, which adds billions to the total.

“There is a lot of liquidity in the leasing markets in aircraft across the world right now,” said Hylton Heard, a director at Fitch Ratings. “There is a huge demand out there for aircraft and for aircraft financing, and a lot of money chasing it.

“It is a very volatile market and the performance of this debt goes up and down according to world travel demands. As quickly as this market has shown improvement, it can go the other way.”

Mr. Baggaley, at Standard & Poor’s, agreed. “Focusing on the aircraft works in the strong times,” he said. “How well it works in a downturn depends on how global the downturn is and how dark it gets.”
657 2007-06-22 In the other direction, it's hard not to be impressed with 165-foot-deep Quechee Gorge east of Woodstock on Route 4 (www.vtstateparks.com/htm/quechee.cfm).

Walk across the bridge for a dizzying view or hike down the short trail to Dewey's Mill Pond dam or downstream to watch the water run through rippled rocks.

Smaller children will enjoy the train ride at Quechee Gorge Village (www.quecheegorge.com), the country store with free samples of Vermont's Cabot cheeses and specialty sauces or watching a real blacksmith forging iron in the blacksmith's shop.

For families with high-climbers (or kids that just want to try), the Wall (in nearby Taftsville) is a climbing wall that's part of the Woodstock Recreation Center (802-457-1502). On the weekend the cost, including equipment, is $20 a day for an adult and $18 a day for those 18 and under.

It's easy to get lost in the past at F.H. Gillingham & Sons (16 Elm Street, 802-457-2100, www.gillinghams.com), whose aisles are stocked with everything from Vermont honey to toilet seats and fertilizer. If you want it, Gillingham's — a combination grocery, hardware, kitchen and farm store — has it.

A few miles west, along Route 4 and the river, is the Bridgewater Mill Marketplace, a converted mill that now houses Charles Shackleton Furniture and Miranda Thomas Pottery (The Mill, Route 4, Bridgewater, 802-672-5175; www.shackletonthomas.com). Watch the Shackleton craftspeople construct a table or dresser, or the pottery artisans create stoneware and porcelain. Miranda Thomas's stoneware is particularly compelling, with elegant beige or black-colored bowls, plates, cups, vases and other pottery, decorated with subtly etched peonies, rabbits, foliage and more. (They also have a small retail shop in Woodstock at 23 Elm Street, 802-672-5175.)

Sugarbush Farm (591 Sugarbush Farm Road, Woodstock, 802-457-1757; www.sugarbushfarm.com), in a rambling farm house, is a family-run farm and syrup house. The drive alone is worth the trip. Sample a range of its famous waxed cheeses or different grades of maple syrup (my family's favorite was grade B).

Start off with breakfast at the Eagle Café in the lobby of the Woodstock Inn. The Eagle serves a nice, informal breakfast (as well as lunch and dinner) with child-friendly specialties like hot chocolate and a variety of pancakes ($7.25), including chocolate chip, banana, strawberry and pancakes of the day (perhaps mango or pumpkin). If you're there for lunch or dinner, the Fox Hollow mustard and maple-glazed chicken sandwich is delicious ($10.75). The Eagle is also good if you have smaller children but still want to order an elegant dinner, since it serves the same menu as the Woodstock Inn's formal dining room next door.

An interesting and dramatic alternative for lunch or dinner is the Simon Pearce Restaurant, located at the Mill, a few miles east along Route 4 in Quechee (802-295-1470; www.simonpearce.com). Not only does the dining room overlook the rushing water and falls of the Ottauquechee River, but you can also explore and watch artisans creating hand-blown glassware. Try the crispy roast duckling with vegetable fried rice and mango chutney sauce ($28) or Misty Knoll chicken scaloppine ($24). Children can have the standards (peanut butter and jelly, grilled cheese, etc) or a junior version of Simon Pearce's shepherd's pie.

Just west of town on Route 4, the White Cottage Snack Bar (802-457-3455) is a great place for a late lunch, an early dinner or a double scoop of ice cream. If you're really hungry, try the banana split or cooling frappe.

The Prince & the Pauper (24 Elm Street, 802-457-1818; www.princeandpauper.com), in an old blacksmith shop, uses seasonal ingredients and local producers to offer both a prix fixe dinner menu and a bistro menu with everything from pizza Margherita ($13) to pecan-smoked babyback ribs ($15).

For a nice lunch and dinner menu that's elegant without being pretentious, try the relatively new 24-seat Pleasant Street Bistro (61 Pleasant Street, 802-457-1900) on the less polished east end of town. For dinner, Mom and Dad can dine on grilled vegetable Napoleons and couscous ($15) while the kids have Vermont macaroni gratin (Vermont cheddar, cream, ham, $11).

For the quintessential New England hotel experience, it's hard to beat the Woodstock Inn (14 the Green, Woodstock; 800-448-7900; www.woodstockinn.com). On the village green and within walking distance of everything in the town, the inn has a classic resort-hotel feel, with a roaring fireplace, a cozy library filled with games and books, and elegant dining. Double rooms start at about $219.

The Shire Riverview Motel (46 Pleasant Street, Woodstock, 802-457-2211; www.shiremotel.com) is in the heart of the village. The wraparound porch in the back overlooks the lazy Ottauquechee River and has rocking chairs. The rooms are tidy and have refrigerators. Doubles start at $128 in the high season.

For a B&B experience, the Deer Brook Inn (535 Woodstock Road, Woodstock, 802-672-3713; www.deerbrookinn.com), five miles west of Woodstock village, has a suite that includes a sofa bed for the children and a three-course breakfast featuring organic eggs from a neighbor's farm. Rooms range from $105 to $175 per night.
658 2007-06-22 BLACKSTONE SETS ITS PRICE The Blackstone Group set the price of its eagerly awaited initial public offering at $31 a unit, at the top of its range, raising $4.13 billion. But its archrival in the world of private equity, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, i...
659 2007-06-22 It has become a journalistic cliché and therefore an inevitable part of the prerelease discussion of ''Sicko'' to refer to Michael Moore as a controversial, polarizing figure. While that description is not necessarily wrong, it strikes me as self...
660 2007-06-22 The London Stock Exchange was considering making a bid of $2 billion to acquire Borsa Italiana, the operator of the stock exchange in Milan, two people close to the companies said. The two exchanges discussed a potential merger and were set to con...
661 2007-06-23 A baby girl found on a doorstep in Wooster does not belong to a missing pregnant woman, the Wayne County Sheriff’s Department said. The baby was discovered about 45 miles from the home of Jessie Davis, who was nine months pregnant with a girl when she disappeared last week. A woman admitted leaving the newborn on the doorstep, said Sheriff Thomas Maurer of Wayne County. Ms. Davis, 26, was reported missing on June 15.
662 2007-06-23 SAN FRANCISCO, June 22 (Reuters) — EBay, the online auction company, said Friday that it planned to resume placing Web advertising through Google, but that it would rely on alternative advertising services to a greater degree.

EBay is one of the biggest buyers of keyword ads on Google’s leading pay-per-click advertising system, AdWords, using them to promote its online auctions. It canceled all Google ads 10 days ago to protest Google‘s bid to woo eBay customers to a rival payment system.

Hani Durzy, a spokesman for eBay, said Friday that his company would resume advertising on Google, but at reduced levels. EBay, which is based in San Jose, Calif., had been buying tens of millions of keyword ads on Google each year.

“I will tell you it will be in a much more limited way than it was before,” Mr. Durzy said. “What we found is that we were not as dependent on AdWords as some people thought.”

EBay owns PayPal, which, with 143 million accounts, is the world’s most popular online payment service among merchants and consumers. Last year, Google introduced an alternative payment system called Google Checkout and has been seeking to woo eBay merchants to accept direct payments via the rival service.

Now eBay plans to rely to a greater degree on competing advertising systems from Yahoo, MSN from Microsoft, AOL from Time Warner and Ask.com from IAC/InterActiveCorp.
663 2007-06-23 Working with intensity, she needed to produce 700 of her trademark huaraches, the bean-filled cakes, for her weekly booth at a farmer’s market and hundreds more for Carnaval San Francisco festivities over Memorial Day weekend. She also prepared fish and shrimp ceviche as an employee stirred 30 gallons of carnitas in a brazing skillet for a catering job for 100 people.

“I come here to learn all the business, and I need to learn more every day,” Ms. Salazar said, while dicing pounds of tomatoes for a salsa roja. “Tomorrow, I have three parties. So if I do this tomorrow, I know I can do something by myself.”

The specialty foods prepared here are a reflection of the ethnic makeup of La Cocina’s participants. More than half the women are Latina, with another 8 percent African-American. The rest are Asian or Caucasian. Their products, both fresh and packaged, range from Mexican street fare to Irish chocolates, vegetarian sushi, South African meat pies and Brazilian cakes.

La Cocina has opened its own booth at the high-end Ferry Building Marketplace, where it sells its participants’ packaged products along with house-made charcuterie, pricey olive oils and $8-a-dozen organic eggs.

Every day La Cocina’s calendar is replete with participants preparing packaged products and hot food for catering jobs, coffee shops and a busy farmer’s market near the airport. Anna Shi’s Gourmet has a standing weekly order for 900 of her vegetarian tofu egg rolls for the Berkeley school district. Maria del Carmen Flores sells 1,500 of her yucca and plantain chips in 50 stores. Independent grocers around the Bay Area and Whole Food Markets throughout the state have picked up many of La Cocina’s specialty products.

“The really cool thing about a business incubator is that when you get entrepreneurial people in one place, there’s a synergistic effect,” said Tracy Kitts, vice president and chief operating officer of the National Business Incubation Association, a nonprofit membership organization. “Not only do they learn from staff, they learn tons from each other, and this really contributes greatly to their success.”

The association estimates there are 1,200 incubation programs in the United States. Only 19 of them are kitchen incubators, Mr. Kitts said, because the start-up and operating costs are much higher than for a mixed-use space. Eight of those programs are in urban areas, including Rochester, New York City, Denver and Minneapolis.

La Cocina is housed in a starkly modern structure wedged among tattered row houses and apartment buildings in the Mission District. Residents are primarily low-income people from Mexico and El Salvador, where Ms. Perez Ferreiro says there is a strong tradition of entrepreneurship.

La Cocina was created by the California Women’s Foundation in response to a survey that indicated that 90 percent of women in the Mission District said they needed adequate equipment and proper permits to run their businesses, but that commercial kitchen space in San Francisco was either unaffordable or geographically inconvenient. Many of them said they were cooking illegally out of their homes.

The foundation and government grants make up more than three-quarters of La Cocina’s $575,000 annual budget. About 17 percent of its funding comes from rent charged to six commercial tenants (including men), who pay $30 to $40 an hour, depending on the type of equipment being used. The program participants pay $8 to $10 an hour for the space, utensils and small ware.

“We are not creating a parallel nonprofit world where they are in a sheltered workshop,” Ms. Perez Ferreiro said. “The reason we charge a fee is that we want them to have a business model that is sustainable. If they don’t incorporate the cost of doing business, it’s artificial, and it’s going to crumble.”

To avoid that, Jason Rose, La Cocina’s culinary director, and Caleb Zigas, the program director, both of them bilingual, meet weekly with the women to review food costs, recipes and sales and marketing plans. Participants also pair with consultants from partner organizations who work on finances and cash flow statements.

Ms. Salazar of El Huarache Loco employs five family members at her booth at the Alemany Farmers’ Market, where Mr. Zigas says she takes in $3,000 every weekend. Costs of goods, licenses, employee wages and kitchen rental means she nets $1,000. But he points out that Ms. Salazar will soon be able to afford to buy a home; he is searching for commercial space for her to open a restaurant, a prospect he calls “thrilling.”

“It’s the translation from informal economy, which is cash-in, cash-out, to a formal economy, which is concept, then investment, then growth,” Mr. Zigas said. “It’s a really hard conceptual translation to make, to go from knowing how much you’re making every day to thinking about money in a longer-term vision.”

When Jill Litwin applied to La Cocina, she had abundant vision but needed help with what she calls her “road map.” Ms. Litwin is the owner of Peas of Mind, a line of frozen organic toddler food that she developed in Vermont.

At first, she was only capable of making 12 mini-casseroles at a time. The staff brought in a food scientist to help Ms. Litwin recalibrate her recipes so that each batch would turn out 400. They also introduced her to a human resources specialist and made a critical introduction to a food buyer for Whole Foods Market.

“They are helping people produce products that are high quality and of great integrity,” said Justin Jackson, executive coordinator for purchasing at Whole Foods in Northern California. “If it wasn’t well thought through and executed properly, our interest wouldn’t be what it is.”

Peas of Mind is now in 80 stores in California, 20 of them Whole Foods Markets, which is discussing plans to take her product national. Ms. Litwin says she has doubled her 2006 sales in the first quarter of this year.

“If you are an entrepreneur, you are in your own world and you never know if you’re on the right track,” Ms. Litwin said. “This is definitely a community you can bounce ideas off of. And if they don’t know the answer, they’ll find somebody who does.”
664 2007-06-23 WASHINGTON, June 22 — William E. Colby faced an uneasy decision in late 1973 when he took over the Central Intelligence Agency: whether to make public the agency’s internal accounting, then being compiled, of its domestic spying, assassination plots and other misdeeds since its founding nearly three decades earlier.

Mr. Colby decided to keep the so-called family jewels a secret, and wrote in his memoir in 1978 that he believed the agency’s already sullied reputation, including a link to the Watergate scandal, could not have withstood a public airing of all its dirty laundry.

So why, at a time when the agency has again been besieged by criticism, this time for its program of secret detentions and interrogations since the Sept. 11 attacks, would the current director, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, decide to declassify the same documents that Mr. Colby chose to keep secret?

In an appearance Thursday where he announced that the “family jewels” would be released next week, General Hayden said it was essential for the C.I.A., an organization built on a bedrock of secrecy, to be as open as possible in order to build public trust and dispel myths surrounding its operations. The more that the agency can tell the public, he said, the less chance that misinformation among the public will “fill the vacuum.”

It was this outlook that General Hayden, whose public relations skills are well known in Washington, brought to an earlier job. There, as director of the National Security Agency, he tried to overhaul the N.S.A.’s public image — that of the shadowy, menacing organization portrayed in the movie “Enemy of the State” — by inviting reporters to briefings and authorizing its officials to speak to the author James Bamford for his book on the agency, “Body of Secrets.”
665 2007-06-23 But with gasoline at $3 per gallon, the industry hemorrhaging jobs and foreign manufacturers producing cars that get better mileage, advocates of increasing the mileage standards were able to stitch together a potent coalition behind an increase.

“The time has come for us to speak for the American people and not the car manufacturers,” Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, said earlier in the week as he inspected new plug-in, hybrid electric cars in a park adjacent to the Capitol.

If the Senate bill becomes law, new cars, light trucks and S.U.V.’s will have to get an average of 35 miles per gallon by 2020, compared with roughly 25 m.p.g. today. Automakers had sought not only more time to reach the higher standard, but they had also lobbied, unsuccessfully, for a separate, and more relaxed, S.U.V. requirement of 30 m.p.g. by 2025. S.U.V.’s now must achieve an average of 21.3 m.p.g.

The outcome left industry allies in Congress scrambling Friday to try to head off a similar result in the House, where the influence of the automotive industry is declining as well. They acknowledged a very real image problem for the car industry but said moving too quickly was unfair to American industries that had higher labor and benefit costs than their foreign competitors. And they said oil industry allies had purposefully put the Senate spotlight on automobiles to protect oil and gas companies from new regulation.

“The reality is that Big Oil would like to keep the focus off of them,” said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan.

Backers of the bill suffered two major defeats. Republicans blocked a proposal to impose about $32 billion in new taxes on oil and gas companies to subsidize production and research of renewable energy sources. Lawmakers also prevented a vote on a plan to require utilities to produce 15 percent of their electricity with renewable fuels by 2020.

But Democrats promised on Friday to continue to pursue those initiatives and said they had the votes to prevail eventually. And they hailed the bill that passed as a major step forward, pointing to new energy efficiency standards for appliances and the federal government as well as a requirement for the annual use of 36 billion gallons of alternative fuels like ethanol by 2022.

“Beyond petroleum has to be more than a television commercial,” said Senator Maria Cantwell, a Washington Democrat who played a central role in securing the votes for the measure.

Some interest groups criticized the bill as not doing enough while Republicans said it could drive up the price of gasoline at the pump while doing nothing to promote more domestic oil and gas production.

“This is really an anti-energy bill,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.

But the chief development by far was the approval of the automotive mileage changes over intense lobbying by the auto industry. Lawmakers and Senate officials said they quickly heard from angry representatives of the major car manufacturers and unions, who complained that the mileage rules gave Nissan, whose fleet already comes close to meeting the new mileage standard, an advantage. This helped pick up the votes of senators from Tennessee, where Nissan has plants.

At the same time, auto industry allies said provisions on flexible-fuel vehicles that favored domestic companies were watered down, removing a potential competitive advantage by Detroit over its foreign rivals.

Ms. Stabenow said members of the Michigan Congressional delegation met Friday to plot strategy for the upcoming House energy fight and to try to win improvements in the mileage rules and perhaps some help for the industry.

Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and the senior member of the House, has long been able to thwart efforts to increase mileage standards. But Mr. Dingell and Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California have bumped heads on the issue, and momentum is building in the House for an aggressive package of energy initiatives.

Mr. Reid, the majority leader, predicted Friday that the House and Senate would be able to reconcile their differences quickly, allowing Congress to deliver a final bill to the president in the near future.
666 2007-06-23 “The real reason for the extreme hostility to the wearing of the S.R.T. purity ring is the dislike of the message of sexual restraint, which is ‘countercultural’ and contrary to societal and governmental policy,” Ms. Playfoot said in a written statement to Britain’s High Court.

“It is this message from the Judeo-Christian position that is suppressed: exemptions are allowed or permitted for other messages,” she said, arguing that her school “doesn’t offer equal rights to Christians.”

Her remarks showed another aspect of a tangled debate here that has largely centered on concern among British leaders that the Muslim full-face veil has become what Prime Minister Tony Blair called a “mark of separation.” That led some Muslims to say they were the object of discrimination.

But Ms. Playfoot’s remarks suggested that Christians like her see themselves as being treated unfairly.

Much of the debate hinges on whether the purity ring is a religious requirement.

In a statement to the court, Leon Nettley, principal of the school, Millais, said, “It is not a Christian symbol, and is not required to be worn by any branch within Christianity.”

“It is never simple to draw boundaries,” he continued. “If we allow one set of pupils to wear rings symbolizing one particular message, when that item of jewelry is not required by their religion, then doubtless other pupils will then demand to be able to wear jewelry symbolizing other messages.”

Mr. Nettley acknowledged that Ms. Playfoot had been punished for wearing the ring in May 2005 by being separated from other students for an afternoon. And, he said, he had permitted students of other faiths to wear items like a Muslim head scarf, known as a hijab, and kara bangles, worn by Sikhs.

But, he said, he believed that such items were a religious requirement, while Ms. Playfoot’s ring was “just one of several methods of publicizing a specific view within the Christian faith.”

In an interview with BBC Television before the court hearing, Ms. Playfoot said the ring “says that I’m not going to have sex until I’m married and I’m going to stay sexually pure until I’m married.”

“In the Bible it says you should remain sexually pure,” she said, “and I think this is a way I want to express my faith.”

The ring is engraved with a reference to a biblical verse enjoining believers to “keep clear of sexual sin.”

Mr. Nettley also accused the Playfoot family of using the young woman to seek publicity.

“I do wonder whether this legal action is brought more for the purpose of generating publicity for the Silver Ring Thing movement in the U.K. than for any practical outcome for Lydia, who leaves my school this month in any event,” he said.

It was not clear when the court would rule in the case.
667 2007-06-23 ATHENS, June 22 (AP) — Immigrant groups on Friday opened the first formal Muslim prayer site here since rule by the Ottoman Empire ended more than 170 years ago.

Plans by Greece to build a mosque for tens of thousands of Muslim immigrants living in Athens have stalled, so businesspeople in Arab countries paid for the downtown cultural center in a former factory.

“This is the first time in all the 35 years I’ve lived in Greece that we have a proper place to pray,” said Naim el-Gandour, head of the Muslim Association of Greece.

International human rights reports had criticized Greece for failing to provide an official prayer site for Muslims in Athens.
668 2007-06-23 David Toms shot a five-under-par 65 yesterday to move into a tie for the second-round lead at a blustery and rainy Travelers Championship in Cromwell, Conn.

Toms, who has had five top-10 finishes this year, shares the lead at eight under with Jay Williamson, who shot a 66 for the second day in a row while playing in only his second PGA Tour event of the year.

Toms, who started on the back nine, went to nine under after an eagle on the par-4 second hole, holing his approach shot from 84 yards. But after a 21-minute rain delay, he bogeyed the seventh hole to fall back into the tie.

He said he failed to adjust to the slower greens after the rain.

Williamson closed his round with birdies on Nos. 17 and 18 while playing into a 25 mile-an-hour wind.

Rain delayed play briefly for the second consecutive day.

Williamson, ranked seventh on the Nationwide Tour money list, would earn a PGA Tour exemption with a victory here. Williamson, who is playing the tournament on a sponsor’s exemption, missed the cut in his other Tour appearance this year, at the Honda Classic in March.
669 2007-06-23 Larry Little is among the nation’s early retirees who are barely clinging to their health insurance.

Mr. Little says he chose one of his company’s best health plans when he retired in 2004 at age 55 after 32 years as a tire factory worker in Charlotte, N.C. But now, the plan’s fees have soared and he is having a hard time paying his bills.

“The premiums skyrocketed,” he said, “and prescriptions, which had been really cheap, went to about $75 each.”

He says he feels especially vulnerable because he had triple bypass surgery shortly after he retired. Under his current coverage, he is required to pay an annual deductible of $500 for doctor visits and $1,000 for hospitalization.

In January, his former employer, Continental Tire North America overrode the objections of its main union, the United Steelworkers, and set an annual cap of $3,000 on the company’s contribution to health coverage for its retirees of all ages. The retirees must pay the rest of the annual premium, which typically exceeds $7,500 for an individual.
670 2007-06-23 WASHINGTON, June 22 — The Bush administration’s nominee to be the Justice Department’s third-highest official withdrew his name from consideration on Friday in advance of a scheduled confirmation hearing on Tuesday.

The official, William W. Mercer, who has held the job of associate attorney general on a temporary basis since September 2006, will return to his job as United States attorney in Montana, which he kept pending his confirmation.

Although Mr. Mercer is staying at the agency, he is the sixth official to step down from a senior post at its headquarters in the uproar over the dismissals of federal prosecutors.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Judiciary Committee, which was to hold next week’s hearing, called Mr. Mercer’s withdrawal an effort to keep information about the dismissals from the panel.

“The White House has found many ways to keep sunlight from reaching some of the darker corners of the Bush Justice Department, but this is a new one,” Mr. Leahy said. “With a confirmation hearing looming next Tuesday, they have withdrawn this nomination to avoid having to answer more questions under oath.”

Mr. Mercer appeared to have played a peripheral role in talks that led to the ousters, but he exchanged messages with several prosecutors after their dismissals and his name was on some of the e-mail disclosed by the department.
671 2007-06-23 Norman Hackerman, a noted chemist and a former president of both the University of Texas at Austin and Rice University, died June 16 in Temple, Tex. He was 95 and lived in Austin.

The cause was heart failure, his son, Stephen, said.

Dr. Hackerman was president of the University of Texas at Austin from 1967 to 1970 and of Rice, which is in Houston, from 1970 to 1985. After his tenure at Rice, he returned to the University of Texas, and was still teaching chemistry until last month.

In the 1960s, Dr. Hackerman focused his research on metal corrosion, particularly on the electrochemistry of oxidation and on processes that prevent or slow corrosion. His findings contributed to the development of products that retard corrosion and to techniques for the manufacture of corrosion-resistant metals. Before his work, manufacturers, including the auto industry, had primarily relied on protective coatings. Dr. Hackerman first became involved in corrosion research in 1943 while working on the Manhattan Project, which developed the first atomic bomb.

In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him to the National Science Board, which helps devise research and education programs for the National Science Foundation; he was chairman of the board from 1974 to 1980. President Bill Clinton awarded him the National Medal of Science in 1993.

Born on March 2, 1912, in Baltimore, Dr. Hackerman was the only son of Jacob and Ann Raffel Hackerman, immigrants from what are now Estonia and Latvia, respectively. His father was a tailor. Dr. Hackerman earned his bachelor’s degree at Johns Hopkins University in 1932 and a doctorate there three years later.

Besides his son, who lives in Houston, he is survived by three daughters, Patricia Berry of Carmel, Calif.; Sally Myers of Temple; and Katherine Walker of Austin; 10 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren. His wife of 61 years, the former Gene Coulbourn, died in 2002.

After working on the Manhattan Project, Dr. Hackerman was hired as an assistant professor at the University of Texas. By 1966, he was the vice chancellor. That year, he reversed a controversial ruling by a dean who had barred a grand dragon of the Texas Ku Klux Klan from speaking on campus. “By no means is this to be construed as an endorsement of the speaker’s statement or views,” he said.
672 2007-06-23 HIS ideas and opinions aside, nobody has done more than Lawrence Lessig to help people understand the profound effects of technology on the laws governing intellectual property. He is, as Wired magazine called him in 2002, “the Elvis of cyberlaw” (wired.com).

But now, Mr. Lessig, a professor at Stanford Law School, is leaving the building, or at least the room. “I have decided to shift my academic work, and soon, my activism, away from the issues that have consumed me for the last 10 years,” he announced this week on his blog (lessig.org/blog) and last week in a speech at the iCommons Summit in Croatia (available via youtube.com).

His new mission, for at least the next decade, he says, is to combat the influence of money on politics, which yields bad laws — and not just the bad laws governing intellectual property.

“Politicians are starved for the resources concentrated interests can provide,” he wrote. “In the United States, listening to money is the only way to secure re-election. And so an economy of influence bends public policy away from sense, always to dollars.”

Mr. Lessig rose to national prominence in 1997, when Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson appointed him special master in the federal government’s antitrust case against Microsoft. An appeals court removed him from the case, but by then his expertise on the legal implications of technology had become widely recognized.
673 2007-06-23 In “A Maid’s Escape Plan in Malaysia” (photo, June 18), you featured a domestic worker in Malaysia escaping an abusive employer through a 15th-story window.

She is far from an isolated case. Every month 1,200 domestic workers run away from their employers in Malaysia, many complaining of unpaid wages, inadequate food, confinement in the workplace and in some cases physical or sexual abuse.

Just last week, the State Department ranked Malaysia in its lowest category for efforts against human trafficking, in significant part because of labor and immigration policies that place domestic workers at risk of abuse and forced labor.

Malaysia and other countries with similar problems, such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Lebanon and Singapore, should extend protection of their labor laws to domestic workers, ensure that they can keep their passports, and reform immigration laws that leave them at the mercy of unscrupulous employers.

The writer is a senior researcher in the women’s rights division at Human Rights Watch.
674 2007-06-23 To the Editor:     In ''A Maid's Escape Plan in Malaysia'' (photo, June 18), you featured a domestic worker in Malaysia escaping an abusive employer through a 15th-story window....
675 2007-06-23 HIS ideas and opinions aside, nobody has done more than Lawrence Lessig to help people understand the profound effects of technology on the laws governing intellectual property. He is, as Wired magazine called him in 2002, ''the Elvis of cyberlaw'...
676 2007-06-23 BACHMANN--Emile W. 10 years gone. I miss you everyday. You have a new granddaughter, I named her Emilia. Happy Days Dad! Love Always, Karen...
677 2007-06-23 Norman Hackerman, a noted chemist and a former president of both the University of Texas at Austin and Rice University, died June 16 in Temple, Tex. He was 95 and lived in Austin.     The cause was heart failure, his son, Stephen, said....
678 2007-06-24 Danielle Chapman, in her review of Mark Doty's book "Dog Years: A Memoir" (June 3), writes that she is not surprised that "events that seem quite ordinary from the outside" — the impending deaths of Doty's beloved canine companions — "would be felt with this degree of intensity by a poet." For those who have lost their pets, there is nothing ordinary about the experience — it is indeed "the stuff of high tragedy." Perhaps the most disappointing thing about this review is that an outsider to the human-animal bond was permitted to write it.
679 2007-06-24 The style of dress for bridal parties remains untouched by the caprice of fashion. Dream weddings are played out in endless variations throughout June in city parks and gardens and the center of Times Square.
680 2007-06-24 Saturday, after The Newark Star-Ledger published an article about the controversy, Mr. Jackson’s blacked-out kiss became the subject of debate, outrage and inquiry.

The decision to blot out the photo was made by Marion A. Bolden, the Newark Public Schools superintendent. Ms. Bolden said that an assistant superintendent had alerted her to the picture on Thursday afternoon. “I thought that the photo was suggestive,” Ms. Bolden said.

She said she made her decision without seeing the entire yearbook, and looked at only the one page.

The thin, hardcover yearbook, titled “Take Another Look,” features many pictures of the Class of 2007, including several of heterosexual couples embracing and kissing. On the page immediately opposite Mr. Jackson’s, a young man and a young woman kiss on a couch, his hand on her leg as she sits on his lap.

A New Jersey gay rights group, Garden State Equality, demanded that Ms. Bolden publicly apologize to Mr. Jackson and his boyfriend, David Escobales, 19, of Allentown, Pa. The group is also calling on Ms. Bolden to redistribute the yearbooks with the photo of the kiss included, describing the decision to black out the picture as “homophobic” and “unlawful.”

“The school district’s erasure of this student and his boyfriend is a tragic metaphor of the school district trying to erase the lesbian and gay community from its schools, and we won’t stand for it,” said Steven Goldstein, the chairman and chief executive of Garden State Equality.

Ms. Bolden said she did not intend for the officials’ actions to be taken as anti-gay. “I’m a superintendent that talks about tolerance,” she said. “I don’t have a problem at all.”

She said she felt that the photo was provocative for a high school yearbook, regardless of whether it showed heterosexual or homosexual kissing. But she said it was a decision that was made too quickly and without taking into consideration other couples’ pictures. She said she was told on Thursday that neither of the men were students, adding that she would have been more hesitant to black out a picture of a student.

“It looked like two men kissing,” she said. “To me, it looked fairly illicit. It was pointed out as problematic, so maybe I read more into it.”

Ms. Bolden said she wanted to meet with Mr. Jackson and apologize if necessary. “He was personally hurt,” she said. “That bothers me very much.”

Mr. Jackson said he came out when he was 16 and that he and Mr. Escobales have been together since October. Mr. Jackson is graduating on Wednesday, and he plans to attend Berkeley College here.

It was unclear Saturday if the school would redistribute the yearbooks.

Mr. Jackson said he threw away his in disgust. “I didn’t feel right,” he said. “What I wanted to see wasn’t there.”
681 2007-06-24 CANTON, Ohio, June 23 (AP) — The authorities announced Saturday that they had found a body believed to be that of a pregnant woman who vanished from her home a week earlier.

A police officer believed to be the father of the unborn child was arrested on two counts of murder.

The woman, Jessie Davis, 26, who was due to deliver a baby girl on July 3, was reported missing after her mother found Ms. Davis’s 2-year-old son home alone, bedroom furniture toppled and bleach spilled on the floor.

The boy gave investigators their first clues. “Mommy was crying,” he said. “Mommy broke the table. Mommy’s in rug.”

Thousands of volunteers had searched for Ms. Davis for several days, while investigators continued to question the police officer, Bobby Cutts Jr., 30, who is the father of Ms. Davis’s son but is married to another woman.

Investigators did not disclose details of their work until they announced that Mr. Cutts had been taken into custody Saturday and was to be arraigned on murder charges.

The Stark County Sheriff’s Department also said a woman’s body was recovered in Summit County at 3:30 p.m. The authorities said they believed it to be Ms. Davis.
682 2007-06-24 Jay Williamson shot a three-under-par 67 yesterday to take a one-shot lead over Hunter Mahan after three rounds of the Travelers Championship in Cromwell, Conn.

“I wasn’t really looking at the leader boards,” said Williamson, who was at 11 under par after 54 holes. “I figured if I could just keep making birdies, making good swings, I’ve got 18 holes and we’ll figure it out tomorrow.”

Williamson, a regular on the Nationwide Tour who graduated from Trinity College in nearby Hartford, made an 8-foot birdie putt on the par-4 No. 15 to go 11 under and made par the rest of the way, nearly chipping in for birdie on the 18th.

“I don’t usually get excited on the golf course,” he said. “But if that ball would have gone in, I don’t know what I would have done.”

David Toms, a 12-time winner on the PGA Tour, bogeyed the par-3 16th and fell two back after his drive on the 17th hole went into the water. Toms’s 69 was good enough for third place, one stroke behind Mahan, who shot a 67. “I’m in good shape for tomorrow,” Toms said.
683 2007-06-24 The onetime Olympic champion Marion Jones, her career shadowed by doping suspicions, says in court documents that she is deep in debt, The Los Angeles Times reported yesterday. Citing recent court records, the newspaper said that Jones claimed she lost a $2.5 million home in North Carolina to bank foreclosure last year. Jones has “total liquid assets throughout the world” of about $2,000, according to her deposition in her breach-of-contract lawsuit against the veteran track coach Dan Pfaff, The Times said.
684 2007-06-24 Mr. Khatami, the lost hope of Iran’s reform movement, felt compelled to rebut the accusation because such a handshake is religiously suspect, but contended that the crowd seeking to congratulate him for his speech was so tumultuous that he could not distinguish between the hands of men and women. Naturally a video clip emerged, showing the cleric in his typical gregarious style bounding over to the first woman who addressed him on the orderly sidewalk, shaking her hand and chatting amicably.

The dispute over the handshake occurred during a particularly fierce round of the factional fighting that has hamstrung the country since the 1979 revolution. Far more harsh examples abound.

The country’s police chief boasted that 150,000 people — a number far larger than usual — were detained in the annual spring sweep against any clothing considered not Islamic. More than 30 women’s rights advocates were arrested in one day in March, according to Human Rights Watch, five of whom have since been sentenced to prison terms of up to four years. They were charged with endangering national security for organizing an Internet campaign to collect more than a million signatures supporting the removal of all laws that discriminate against women.

Eight student leaders at Tehran’s Amir Kabir University, the site of one of the few public protests against Mr. Ahmadinejad, disappeared into Evin Prison starting in early May. Student newspapers had published articles suggesting that no humans were infallible, including the Prophet Muhammad and Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

The National Security Council sent a stern three-page warning to all the country’s newspaper editors detailing banned topics, including the rise in gasoline prices or other economic woes like possible new international sanctions, negotiations with the United States over the future of Iraq, civil society movements and the Iranian-American arrests.

The entire campaign is “a strong message by Ahmadinejad’s government, security and intelligence forces that they are in control of the domestic situation,” said Hadi Ghaemi, an Iran analyst for Human Rights Watch. “But it’s really a sign of weakness and insecurity.”

At least three prominent nongovernment organizations that pushed for broader legal rights or civil society have been shuttered outright, while hundreds more have been forced underground. A recent article on the Baztab Web site said that about 8,000 nongovernment organizations were in jeopardy, forced to prove their innocence, basically because the government suspects all of them of being potential conduits for some $75 million the United States has earmarked to promote a change in government.

Professors have been warned against attending overseas conferences or having any contact with foreign governments, lest they be recruited as spies. The Iranian-Americans are all being detained basically on the grounds that they were either recruiting or somehow abetting an American attempt to achieve a “velvet revolution” in Iran.

Analysts trace the broadening crackdown to a March speech by Ayatollah Khamenei, whose pronouncements carry the weight of law. He warned that no one should damage national unity when the West was waging psychological war on Iran. The country has been under fire, particularly from the United States, which accuses it of trying to develop nuclear weapons and fomenting violence in Iraq.

President Ahmadinejad and other senior officials have dismissed all the criticism as carping. The president blames the previous administration for inflation or calls it media exaggeration, while Tehran’s chief prosecutor, Said Mortazavi, said Iranians who oppose the Islamic Republic look for an excuse to criticize it.

After a meeting of senior police and judiciary officials in Tehran on June 19 to review what was described as “the public security drive,” the Iranian Labor News Agency quoted Mr. Mortazavi as saying that if the state did not protect public security, then “louts” and criminals “would be safe in society.

The three Iranian-Americans are being held in the notorious Section 209 of Evin Prison, the wing controlled by the Intelligence Ministry, and have been denied visits by their lawyers or relatives. Iran recognizes only their Iranian nationality and has dismissed any diplomatic efforts to intervene. A rally to demand their release is set for Wednesday outside the United Nations.

The three are Haleh Esfandiari, the director of the Middle East program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; Kian Tajbakhsh, an urban planning consultant with the Open Society Institute; and Ali Shakeri, of the Center for Citizen Peacebuilding at the University of California, Irvine. A fourth, Parnaz Azima, a journalist who works for Radio Farda, an American-financed station based in Europe, has been barred from leaving the country.

“People don’t want to come to conferences, they don’t even want to talk on the phone,” said Abbas Milani, the director of the Iranian studies program at Stanford University. “The regime has created an atmosphere of absolute terror.”

To the political crackdown, Mr. Ahmadinejad adds a messianic fervor, Mr. Milani noted, telling students in Qom this month that the Muslim savior would soon return.

The appeal of such a message may be limited, however. Iran’s sophisticated middle class wants to be connected to the world, and grumbles that the country’s only friends are Syria, Belarus, Venezuela and Cuba. But it might play well with Mr. Ahmadinejad’s main constituency.

“They are the poor, the rural,” said Vali Nasr of the Council on Foreign Relations. “They don’t travel abroad, they don’t go to conferences. He is trying to undermine the social and political position of his rivals in order to consolidate his own people.”

Most ascribe Mr. Ahmadinejad’s motives to blocking what could become a formidable alliance between the camps of Mr. Khatami and Hashemi Rafsanjani, both former presidents. Parliamentary elections are scheduled for early next year, and the next presidential vote in 2009.

“Having to face a single pragmatic conservative and reform block is extremely threatening,” Mr. Nasr said, hence the intimidation of all possible supporters.

Not that everyone has been intimidated. More than 50 leading economists published a harshly worded, open letter to the president saying his policies were bringing economic ruin. High unemployment persists, there has been little foreign investment and inflation is galloping, with gasoline alone jumping 25 percent this spring.

Gasoline rationing is expected within a month, with consumers so anxious about it, reported the Web site Ruz, financed by the Dutch government, that skirmishes broke out in long lines at some pumps on June 17.

Iran can prove a difficult country to separate into black and white. Amid all the recent oppression, for example, last week the public stoning of a couple — the punishment for adultery — was called off. Women’s rights advocates had been agitating against it.

Also, two recent movies touched off controversy as too racy. One depicted an extramarital affair, and the hero of the second was an abortion doctor who drank and gambled, and yet was so beloved of the patients he had seduced that they sent him bouquets on his wedding night.

In an attempt to deflect criticism that its standards had grown loose, the Ministry of Islamic Guidance, which vets all books, movies and gallery exhibits, issued a statement noting that both scripts had been approved under the former administration of Mr. Khatami.

Editors’ Note: June 25, 2007 

 A front-page article yesterday described a crackdown in Iran that has included the jailing of three Iranian-Americans, repression or intimidation of nongovernment organizations pressing for broader legal rights, warnings to newspaper editors against articles on banned topics, arrests of advocates for women’s rights and of student leaders, and the detention of 150,000 people for wearing clothing considered not Islamic. The headline over the article said that Iran was cracking down on dissent and “parading examples” in the streets, and one paragraph in the article also said that young men detained for wearing tight T-shirts or western-style haircuts had been “paraded bleeding through Tehran’s streets by uniformed police officers.” The Times caption on an official Iranian news agency photograph that ran with the article said that it showed a police officer punishing a young man in public for wearing un-Islamic clothing by forcing him to suck on a plastic container normally used for intimate hygiene, a punishment the article also asserted was for that offense. But the man in the photograph, according to widespread Iranian news reports, was one of more than 100 people arrested recently on charges of being part of a gang that had committed rapes, robberies, forgeries and other crimes. The caption published on the Web site of the news agency, Fars, had said only that the man was being punished as part of a roundup of “thugs” in a Tehran neighborhood. The current repression has made reporting in Iran difficult. In this case, The Times relied on an interview with a researcher for a nongovernment agency that no longer operates within Iran who said the photograph was evidence of a more visible police role in public crackdowns on what the authorities consider immoral behavior. The reporter then wrongly interpreted what the researcher said as applying to a crackdown on dress, and incorporated the erroneous interpretation into the body of the article, without giving any indication of the source for it. These errors could have been avoided with more rigorous editing. The article should not have said that young men had been paraded through the streets for wearing un-Islamic dress, and the headline over it should not have said that dissenters were being paraded as part of the crackdown.
685 2007-06-24 CHARLESTON, S.C., June 23 (AP) — The blaze that killed nine firefighters this week in a furniture store started on a loading dock, federal investigators said Saturday.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said investigators had completed their work at the scene and would continue examining evidence for the cause of the fire, which led to the single greatest loss of firefighters since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

The loading dock was a covered space between the showroom and the warehouse of the Sofa Super Store, which burned Monday night. The area housed a trash bin and was used to store furniture that was to be thrown away.

Investigators have refused to discuss possible causes of the fire, and would say Saturday only where it started.

The investigation “will be systematic, deliberate and tenacious, and it will take time,” said Ken Chisholm, special agent in charge of the bureau’s national response team for the region. Agent Chisholm would not say where on the loading dock the fire may have started.

A memorial service on Friday drew thousands, including firefighters from around the country. The first funerals were also held Friday.
686 2007-06-24 Factory bosses, I would discover, can overrule the police, and Chinese government officials are not as powerful as you might suspect in a country addicted to foreign investment.

I shouldn’t have been surprised by the reception. The last time I arrived at a factory under suspicion for selling contaminated goods (toothpaste), they quickly locked the gate and ran. A month earlier, I walked into the headquarters of a company that sold tainted pet food to the United States, and the receptionist insisted the owner was not in. When my translator called the owner, we heard his cellphone ring in the adjoining room. I peeked in and saw the boss scamper out the backdoor.

For American journalists, there’s a tradition of showing up at a crime scene, or visiting a place that has made news. But in China, where press freedoms are weak, such visits can be dangerous.

Last year, a young man working for a Chinese newspaper was beaten to death after he tried to meet the owners of an illegal coal mine. Local officials later insisted he was trying to extort money.

My colleagues at The Times have been detained several times. And one of our Chinese research assistants is now serving a three-year prison term for fraud. He originally had been accused of passing state secrets to The Times, a charge this paper has denied.

But life in China is generally much easier for business reporters like me. Usually, I’m welcomed at factories. State-owned companies often treat me like a visiting dignitary. I’m seated in a kind of royal chair next to the chairman. We drink tea and the chairman makes welcoming remarks while the company’s official photographer snaps our picture.

On the walls of many of the factories I visit are portraits of the powerful: Deng Xiaoping, Jiang Zemin, Hu Jintao and others whose images signal to anyone visiting that a factory is “connected” and has the blessing of the Communist Party.

But my toy factory visit made me wonder: who really holds the balance of the power in that relationship these days?

Many experts have told me that one of the most serious problems in China is that the government lacks the power to control the nation’s Wild West entrepreneurs, deal makers and connected factory owners.

Bribery is rampant, and government corruption widespread. Just a few weeks ago, the top food and drug regulator was sentenced to death for taking huge bribes from pharmaceutical companies. But it’s not clear that strong messages like that will stop the anarchy.

“China effectively has no oversight over anything,” said Oded Shenkar, a business professor at Ohio State University and author of “The Chinese Century: The Rising Chinese Economy and Its Impact on the Global Economy, the Balance of Power and Your Job.”

“People have this idea they are Big Brother and everyone is under watch,” Mr. Shenkar said. “But this is not China. In China, local authorities often turn a blind eye to problems because maybe they’re invested in it.”

Indeed, the impotence of local officials was clear to me from my visit to the RC2 Industrial Park in the city of Dongguan, which is thought to be the largest toy manufacturing center in the world.

The private plant is the main supplier to the RC2 Corporation, an Illinois company. And the Hong Kong or Chinese entrepreneurs who run the facility seemed to hold great sway over the government.

We had no problem entering the complex or looking around until we met “Mr. Zhong,” a rough-looking factory complex supervisor. He scolded us for entering the grounds and taking photographs, and then invited us to a small villa on the campus, a stylish house filled with luxurious rooms, black leather chairs, a giant-screen TV, a huge stock of Cuban cigars, even a massage parlor.

This would be our prison. (Business correspondents are a more fortunate breed than war reporters.) Mr. Zhong offered an interview and a tour. But he later changed his mind and issued an ultimatum: hand over the pictures or we call the police.

Confident we had signed in properly with the security guards, who had allowed us onto the campus, we opted for the police. After over an hour, the police failed to show up, and we tried to leave, only to be nearly tackled by the factory’s ragtag army of security officers.

My translator then called the police.

The scene was farcical. We were locked inside the factory gate, surrounded by 16 security guards and 4 or 5 factory bosses. All trucks trying to bring supplies in or out of the complex were rerouted. Inside, large crowds of factory workers in blue uniforms were gawking. A crowd had also gathered outside the gates.

The police arrived an hour later, listened to both sides and then stood around. More police officers came. And more police officers stood around. It was clear they had no power to intervene.

So we called government officials, who suggested other government officials, who offered up more.

Finally, after hours of waiting, a higher-level government official arrived to settle the dispute.

He was a friendly man who admitted that he could not release us, that he didn’t have the power. We should negotiate, he said. For the next five hours, he shuttled between rooms in the villa trying to negotiate a settlement. There were shouting matches. There were demands that pictures be turned over.

After hours of squabbling, Mr. Zhong demanded we write a confession saying we had trespassed. He settled for a few sentences explaining why I had come and that I had not asked his permission to take any pictures.

The fight between government and factory during our detainment seemed to underscore the dysfunctional relationship the Chinese government has with industry.

In the endless back and forth, it was apparent that the government I often imagined as being all powerful and all seeing could be powerless and conflicted when it came to local businessmen and factory owners.

When we were released early Tuesday from a local police station, where we were sent to fill out a report, we noticed that while our translator was giving an account of the day to the police, the factory bosses were laughing and dining in another room, making the nexus of power in these parts and in this age ever more clear.
687 2007-06-24 The stock market fell sharply last week as the subprime mortgage crisis spilled over into the broad financial markets.

Two hedge funds run by Bear Stearns ran into trouble because of their heavy exposure to subprime mortgages. While the company was prepared to bolster one of the funds with its own money, the problems at Bear Stearns raised broader concerns about the possibility of write-downs of securities backed by subprime mortgages at other institutions.

Home Depot rose 3.7 percent for the week, the best performance among the Dow Jones industrials. The company said it would buy back $22.5 billion of stock after it sells its building supply unit. It announced the sale of the unit on Tuesday.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 279.22 points, or 2 percent, to close at 13,360.26. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 30.35 points, or 2 percent, to close at 1,502.56.

The Nasdaq composite index lost 37.75 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 2,588.96.

In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note edged down to 5.13 percent from 5.16 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER
688 2007-06-24 Yet, even as the Iraq debacle has progressively destroyed his popularity at home, his career and his legacy, he has never been heard to complain. (Critics would add that he has never apologized either.) He told the British people that war was necessary to destroy Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction. Later he stood accused of manipulating the intelligence to justify a war to which Mr. Bush was already committed.

It was Mr. Blair’s perceived dishonesty, as much as the war itself, that sent his ratings plummeting. He narrowly survived two inquiries into his government’s conduct. He has been the Houdini of British politics, a man who apparently could escape from any crisis.

In domestic policy, too, Mr. Blair’s career divided into two contrasting phases — but in contrast with his foreign policy, he improved as time went on. Up to 2001 he was a follower more than a leader, obsessively tracking opinion polls and focus groups. Since then he has done his best to drive change in the national health system and in schooling.

Unfortunately, he is a rhetorician and not a manager. While his government has hugely increased spending on hospitals and schools, ensuing improvements are hard to detect. As he himself recognizes, his reforms were too timid and too late.

Mr. Blair has certainly changed the British Constitution. Scotland and Wales now have their own Parliaments. But that devolution will create problems for his successor, Gordon Brown, who is himself from Scotland. English voters are asking why a Scot should govern them now that Scotland has its own legislature (which, incidentally, is now led by nationalists who seek independence from England).

Thanks to Mr. Blair’s reforms, the House of Lords has lost most of those whose appointments were purely hereditary. Yet the overhaul was left untidily half finished, and prime ministers still have too much leeway to appoint cronies. Scandal engulfed Mr. Blair when he proposed peerages for four men who had secretly made huge loans to his party. He has the dubious distinction of being the first sitting prime minister to be interviewed by the police as they investigated possible corruption. Some of his Downing Street aides could be indicted for obstructing the inquiry.

Mr. Blair’s erstwhile supporters were promised a clean-up of politics, and their sense of disappointment now is palpable. Perhaps some of those who now attack Mr. Blair most virulently are in reality angry with themselves for having been naïve. At one time this undisputed master of spin could make most people believe anything. By now, it is hard to find anyone who believes a word he says.

But in some ways Britain does feel a better place now. Mr. Blair has largely chased away homophobia, and civil partnership ceremonies between gays are now everyday events. Differences in skin color matter less than ever, which is remarkable given the July 2005 terrorist attacks on London. Britain is highly attractive to entrepreneurs, oligarchs and migrants. The country has become more cosmopolitan, fueled by cheap flights, and Britons no longer feel resentfully that France and Germany are doing better.

In posterity, Tony Blair will be remembered for winning three elections with large majorities, a feat that matches Margaret Thatcher’s record and was never achieved by any previous Labor leader. Although Britons now think that they see through his charm, I suspect many still rather like him. Had his party not turned against him he might have stayed on in Downing Street and won office yet again. We may well do worse.
689 2007-06-24 AT the corner of 234th Street and 39th Avenue, in the wealthy Douglas Manor section of Douglaston, Queens, a narrow plot of grass abuts a sprawling brick church.

The lot is a ghost of 1960s city planning, lately risen to haunt this waterfront neighborhood near the border between Queens and Nassau. The property was condemned by the city in 1969 for a road-building project that never got off the ground.

For 17 years, the grassy area has served as an unofficial lawn for its neighbor, St. Sarkis Armenian Apostolic Church, which at one point had eyed the site for use as a day care center. That plan has been abandoned, and now the church wants to buy the land from the city’s Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which owns the roughly 80-foot-by-100-foot property, and use it as a parking lot.

But not if the neighbors can help it. Community groups have lobbied the housing agency to turn the property over to the Parks Department so that it can be converted to a park.

“Over 300 doors I’ve knocked on, and no one has said this should be anything but a park,” said Dawn Anatra, a board member of the Douglaston Civic Association, as she stared at the site one recent afternoon. “It’s city property right now, and the proper use is to give it back to the community.”
690 2007-06-24 It seems that with something as critical as pharmaceuticals and food, the solution would be fairly simple: Bar the import of any product produced in China for human or animal consumption. Only when the Chinese government realizes that impure food and drug exports will lead to product embargoes, and in turn, lost economic activity, will it begin taking seriously the threat that lack of oversight provides.

Congress should act swiftly to protect all Americans from contaminated products, lest it take a repeat of “The Jungle” to force its hand.

Have we forgotten why we have big government? The Food and Drug Administration is big government. It was established because people were being harmed by adulterated food and drugs, and trying to find somebody to sue or prosecute after the victims are already dead was not (and still is not) an effective remedy.

We need big government. “Starving the beast” is returning us to the lawless days of “caveat emptor,” and we can’t afford that.
691 2007-06-24 Apart from the occasional memoir (not to mention novels by Linda Fairstein, the prolific former sex crimes prosecutor in the office of Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau), New York’s prosecutors have contributed relatively little to the recent fictional crime canon.

For some of them, crime writing can be perilous. In 2001, an assistant plugging his first novel was demoted after indiscreetly claiming that Brooklyn was the best place to be a homicide prosecutor because “we’ve got more dead bodies per square inch.” Mr. Hynes attributed that demotion to other lapses, but he clearly took umbrage at the remark since he doubtless deserved credit for helping to reduce the borough’s homicide rate.

In “Triple Homicide,” the murders are committed in Brooklyn but the bodies are conveniently dumped on Long Island, outside the jurisdiction of the Kings County district attorney. Moreover, Mr. Hynes prudently places most of the book’s crime and corruption in the bad old days, before his office helped turn things around.

Ask most New Yorkers for directions to the North River these days, and you’ll most likely be greeted with a blank stare.

You may even be directed to the sewage treatment plant in West Harlem, practically the last vestige of the name that, legend has it, the Dutch bestowed on the tidal estuary navigated by Henry Hudson to distinguish it from the South River, now known as the Delaware. Dividing Lower Manhattan from Hoboken, N.J., the North River is at once majestic and treacherous, solid or liquid depending on the season, ebbing and flowing twice daily to mix fresh and sea water.

In “North River” (Little, Brown, $25.99), his 10th novel, Pete Hamill masterfully weaves the river’s ambiguity and mystery (so mysterious that the book’s cover photograph is of the East River) into a Depression-era love story that draws on some of the author’s greatest strengths: a poetic appreciation of New York and a deep familiarity with Spanish culture and classical art.

Mr. Hamill’s tale, stripped of the nuance, historical sweep and metaphysical underpinnings of his earlier novel “Forever,” is charming in its simplicity. “North River” can be read at a single extended sitting on a lazy summer afternoon.

Imagine a glamorous librarian. When Belle da Costa Greene died in 1950, she was hailed as perhaps the country’s best-known library director, a gutsy woman of mysterious origins.

While still in her teens, she had been recruited by the banker J. Pierpont Morgan to manage and expand his collection, which became renowned for its illuminated manuscripts. After she retired in 1948 as director of the Morgan Library in Manhattan, The New York Times wrote that it was Miss Greene “who transformed a rich man’s casually built collection into one which ranks with the greatest in the world.”

What was not generally known was that Miss Greene was black.

“Belle could not have achieved the social and professional prominence she did at the turn of the 20th century had she been completely open about her background,” Heidi Ardizzone writes in a seductive new biography, “An Illuminated Life: Belle da Costa Greene’s Journey From Prejudice to Privilege” (W. W. Norton, $35). “As Belle da Costa Greene, of mysterious exotic origins, rumored to be from Cuba, Portugal, New Orleans, suspected to have some black ancestry, Belle gained far greater privilege and freedom than that which Belle Marion Greener, daughter of the first black man to graduate from Harvard College, could ever have inherited in this period of history.”

Professor Ardizzone, who teaches American studies at Notre Dame, opens a revealing window on New York’s celebrity-packed post-Gilded Age society and the country’s evolving redefinitions of race and gender relationships.

Unlike many biographers, she also acknowledges what she hasn’t been able to learn about her subject’s early life and training; of the first meeting between Belle Greene and Morgan, she writes, “We do not know what words were exchanged, what first impressions were made, yet we can imagine the two sizing each other up: Mr. Morgan trying to judge her ability and her character; Miss Greene anxious to impress and trying not to try too hard, making her own judgments of the notorious man now quizzing her.”

J. P. Morgan Jr. once recalled that Miss Greene had dispatched him to personally negotiate the purchase of 11th-century English manuscripts because the asking price was enormous.

“My librarian told me she wouldn’t dare spend so much of my money,” he said after buying the manuscripts, “but just the same I wouldn’t be able to face her if I went home without them.”
692 2007-06-24 Because of an editing error, a report last Sunday about the marriage of Bosede Ikeolu Gbadegesin and Oreoluwa Adetunji Adeyemi referred incorrectly to the academic honor given to the bride by Harvard, from which she holds both bachelor’s and law degrees. Although she did indeed graduate magna cum laude as an undergraduate, she did not do so as a law student.
693 2007-06-24 The Twenties were just starting to roar when New York and New Jersey agreed to quit feuding over their mutual waterway, the one with the Statue of Liberty in its center. The two state governments created what is now called the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The treaty gave each governor the right to appoint half the agency’s board members.

Since then, this strange organizational bird has been running the port, and over time has taken on the Lincoln and Holland tunnels, the George Washington Bridge, various bus terminals, and the Newark, La Guardia, Kennedy and Teterboro airports. The authority, which also owned the World Trade Center, now controls most of the complicated downtown reconstruction project, including the Calatrava PATH station, the memorial, the Freedom Tower and the foundations for other skyscrapers.

Nevertheless, any agency that answers to two states too easily answers to nobody. And for years, this enormous authority with its $5 billion budget has operated in the shadows — its public business considered too important for the public to know much about.

After Sept. 11, those running the authority started to change. Anthony Coscia, the new chairman as of 2003, began working to make open up the meetings and to de-mystify the authority’s day-to-day business operations. But a problem remains. Mr. Coscia holds his job by appointment, and what is done by the chairman can just as easily be undone by a less public-spirited successor.

Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York and Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey took a good first step toward reform last week, calling on the port to revise its bylaws to make its business more understandable to its millions of customers.
694 2007-06-24 DOWNSIZING may be a chilling concept nearly everywhere, but not in the workshop of George Luhrs, a machinist in Shoreham, N.Y., with an affinity for the very small. Mr Luhrs has built a single-cylinder engine you could lose in a pocketful of nickels and dimes.

The piston of Mr. Luhrs’s itsy-bitsy engine rides in a cylinder whose bore is just 1/8-inch across. The engine’s stroke — the distance that the piston travels up and down inside the cylinder — is only 5/32 of an inch. The spark plug? You could lay seven of them across the face of a dime and still see F.D.R. peeking through.

Mr. Luhrs, whose day job is doing experimental fabrication for aerospace and other companies, is not the sort of hobbyist content to just step back and admire the exquisite details of his handiwork. This engine kicks over and starts, Mr. Luhrs said, though he has yet to overcome all the challenges of working at such a small scale. The engine’s minuscule valves are not yet closing properly, causing the motor to lose compression and stall.

That this little engine runs at all is something of a mechanical miracle. If you let your imagination run wild, in a world where microsurgery has become routine and nanotechnology is mentioned constantly, you can almost visualize the making of ultrasmall parts. But as Craig Libuse, director of craftsmanshipmuseum.com, a Web site dedicated to the recognition of manual skills, observed recently, “You can’t scale electricity, and a fuel molecule is still a fuel molecule.”

For other modelers, the urge to scale back does not stop with miniaturization; it also extends to historical accuracy. Chevrolet’s mainstay V-8, introduced in 1955 models as a 265-cubic-inch engine, is known as the small block, but Jim Moyer, a 66-year-old semiretired machinist and welder in Boyds, Wash., took the concept a few steps further. Over an eight-year period, he built a very small-block replica of a later 327-cubic-inch version used to power Corvettes of the 1960s.

Its designation notwithstanding, Mr. Moyer’s 327, one-sixth the size of the real motor, has a displacement of 1.1 cubic inches. For those inclined to pull the slide rule out of the pocket protector, yes, the displacement in this little V-8 is considerably smaller than the scale would dictate. That is because the bore in each cylinder (0.6 inch, compared with 4 inches in the original) is undersize, a compromise to assure that the cylinders would withstand the heat and compression generated by the eight tiny pistons pumping up and down through their stroke of less than half an inch (compared with 3.25 inches of the real engine).
695 2007-06-24 Supporters of saving at least some of New Jersey’s dwindling supply of open space and undeveloped land have won an important, but regrettably short-term, victory.

For months, conservationists have been urging the Legislature to approve a measure asking voters to continue for another 10 years a highly successful program to acquire open space, much of which would otherwise go to McMansions and strip malls.

But Gov. Jon Corzine has opposed the plan because it would authorize the state to borrow $175 million a year for the next decade. The governor, who inherited a budgetary mess, does not want to commit the state to new long-term borrowing until he gets Trenton’s finances under control.

Now, Mr. Corzine and the environmental community have reached a compromise. Voters will be asked in November to approve a $200–million bond referendum that would continue land acquisition through mid 2010. The arrangement will require that another financing plan be approved after that.

The advantage of the compromise is that land acquisition will not stop in 2010. That could have been disastrous since some owners might have given up on the state and sold out to developers.

The disadvantage is that there is no assurance of long-term funding. Mr. Corzine owes it to this overcrowded state to provide that guarantee.
696 2007-06-24 Nimet Habachy, a former New York radio announcer, and Dr. Hussein Amin-Salem, a professor of gynecology and obstetrics, are to be married today. Judge Deborah A. Batts of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York will officiate in her chambers in Manhattan.

The bride, 63, will continue to use her name professionally. She retired in April as the host of “New York at Night,” a program on WQXR-FM, the classical music radio station in Manhattan owned by The New York Times Company. She is now an independent lecturer specializing in opera. She graduated from Bryn Mawr and received a master’s degree in theater from Columbia.

She is a daughter of the late Gameela Habachy and the late Saba Habachy, who both lived in Cairo.

The bridegroom, 73, an associate professor at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, is also conducting research on hormone therapy and how it may help prevent heart disease if started early in menopause. He received his medical degree from Alexandria University Medical School in Egypt. He is the son of the late Sania and Amin Salem, who both lived in Alexandria.

The couple met in October 2005 in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., where Ms. Habachy gave a lecture sponsored by the Egyptian American Professional Society. Dr. Amin-Salem was a member of the audience.
697 2007-06-24 McClain Livingston Howarth, the daughter of Barbara Livingston Howarth and Robert F. Howarth of Bexley, Ohio, was married yesterday on Martha’s Vineyard to Bridger Edmund McGaw, the son of Eloise See McGaw and Robert E. McGaw of Belmont, Mass. The Rev. Robert D. Edmunds officiated at St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church in Edgartown, Mass.

The bride and bridegroom are both consultants on national security at Booz Allen Hamilton, the consulting concern in McLean, Va.

Mrs. McGaw, 32, graduated from Kenyon College and received a master’s degree in security studies from Georgetown. Her father is a partner in Shoemaker, Howarth & Taylor, a law firm in Columbus, Ohio. He is retired from the United States Air Force Reserve and the Ohio Air National Guard, where he attained the rank of brigadier general and served as a member of the Judge Advocate General’s staff at Beightler Armory, which is in Worthington, Ohio, and is the headquarters of the Ohio National Guard. Her mother is a director of Ohio Cancer Research Associates, an organization in Columbus that raises money for cancer research.

Mr. McGaw, also 32, received both a bachelor’s and a master’s degree from Harvard. His master’s was in public policy, with a focus on international and homeland security. His mother is an assistant vice president and the director of human resources at Wellesley. His father is of counsel in the Boston office of Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge, a law firm.
698 2007-06-24 In “Crackpot Legislation” (Op-Ed, June 17), Henry I. Miller proposes unrealistic dangers in the use of medical marijuana. He worries about “fungi, bacteria, pesticides, heavy metals and other substances.” If citizens grow their own marijuana in limited quantities, these risks are eliminated. He also worries about quality control: if people grow their own, they quickly learn what to expect from their domestic product.

While he acknowledges that marijuana may have some medicinal purposes, he would have patients wait for F.D.A.-approved clinical trials of Sativex, a liquid marijuana derivative. If Sativex is approved, as it has been in Canada, it will have a major drawback: it will be expensive.

Marijuana, if legal, costs almost nothing to grow. Obviously the drug companies will prefer Sativex.

In 1944, after careful scientific study, a commission appointed by New York City’s mayor, Fiorello H. La Guardia, concluded that marijuana posed few, if any, risks. Local and state governments continue to provide a more realistic view than the hysteria that has often come from the federal government.

The writer is a professor of psychology at the College of New Jersey.

Henry I. Miller suggests that advocates for medical marijuana have a “real agenda” to legalize it as a recreational drug.
699 2007-06-24 Which was just fine by Mike. He glanced at his watch again. They were parked around the corner from the gatehouse and watched the previous tour exit from the warehouse. Forty minutes they’d been inside. Twenty-minute gap, then the next group would gather. Limited to 12 names, prebooked. Seven of those names were fake. Seated in the front of the van, Allan and Gissing had a good view of arrivals and departures. No one would contemplate coming here on foot — too far from any form of public transportation. A couple of cabs had disgorged prosperous-looking couples, leading Mike to wonder what the chances were of anyone he knew turning up. Or maybe someone the prof knew, someone he’d taught at the art college or met at a dinner party. Most of the people who bothered with Doors Open were mildly curious, attracted by the notion of passing through doors normally kept locked to the public. But this was an extension of the National Gallery — chances were, it would be art lovers who made the trek ... the very sorts of people Robert Gissing might know by acquaintance.

One reason Gissing was acting as driver. “You don’t step out of the van,” Mike warned him. “Not for anything.”

“Not for anything,” the professor echoed with a wink.

Mike’s heart was pumping; he could hear the blood pounding in his ears. He saw that Westie — the team’s master forger (or so they hoped) — had clamped his hands between his knees, as if to stop them shaking. Gissing had spent what seemed like hours poring over the copies Westie had made, before declaring them “first class,” adding that this was also the mark the final-year student could be sure of getting for his degree show. The eight paintings — unframed — sat on the floor of the van. Mike had already pleaded that no one accidentally put a foot through one of them. Chib’s volunteers just nodded. When the van had picked the four of them up from a housing project on the city’s southernmost edge, Mike tried to break the ice with a bit of chat, until told that Mr. Calloway said they should do what they were told but otherwise keep their mouths shut.

“No offense,” one of them added, before clambering into the back of the van. Since then it had been the grunts and gutturals and a steady stream of nicotine. Which, now that Mike came to think of it, was illegal, smoking having been banned from all Scottish workplaces.

Tut-tut, he thought to himself. Breaking the law.

“That’s the last one going in now,” Allan suddenly piped up, voice half an octave higher than normal.

“Two-minute countdown,” Mike stated, lifting his watch to his eyes. Normally he wore a Cartier, but Chib had suggested something less showy. It still seemed to work, though the second hand was now appearing to crawl around the dial.

Van doors open, seven of them moving briskly, turning the corner, coming into the gatehouse’s line of sight. Mike at the front, doing everything but breaking into a jog. The gates had been opened, a striped horizontal pole acting as a barrier against traffic. The guard was emerging from his cozy little fief, clipboard in hand, pulling his cap back on.

“You’re late,” he chided. “If I can just have your names. ...”

The guard was brought up short by the sight of the sawed-off appearing from under a jacket. Bundled back into the gatehouse by one of Chib’s boys. The rest of them heading down the path, toward the warehouse door. There was a loading bay, one of the museum vans parked there. But space to squeeze in a new arrival next to it. Door open and in: five visitors being addressed by a member of the gallery’s staff. The guardroom was to the left, and another of Chib’s boys headed straight in, gun at the ready. Not a real gun, of course ... well, real, yes, but with the firing pin removed. Not that you could tell. Two guards in there, seated at a bank of CCTV screens, their arms rising slowly as they made out the firearm.

Drawing his gun, Mike realized it was his turn to speak. He had rehearsed the words, rehearsed the voice he would use — gruffer than his own, an insistent snarl.

“Up against that wall, all of you!”

The visitors following his instruction to the letter, while the staff member alone began to remonstrate. One of Chib’s remaining two boys stuck the barrel of a revolver against his ear, after which he, too, shuffled backward until he was pressing into the wall.

Allan and Westie were already on the move, striding into the warehouse proper. Mike walked into the guardroom and removed from an open box the keys he would need. Three of them. Three separate vaults. On his way out, he gave a nodded signal, and the visitors were guided into the guard-room. Surveillance cameras were already switched off, the blinds closed. No one would see what was happening.

Mike caught up with Westie and tossed him a key, did the same with Allan. He tried to stay focused; difficult when surrounded by so many treasures. Shelves and shelves of wrapped and boxed and swaddled artefacts. You could spend weeks just staring and wondering. He had a sudden thought: would he ever dare to come here again? Probably not; doubtful it would ever open its doors to the public again.

Vault 37: his own key. It was just a brick-built store room, “vault” the word Gissing had used. He tucked the gun back into his waistband. Pulled open the door and switched on the overhead light. Framed canvases, dozens of them. He knew which numbers he was looking for. The paintings were stored on their sides, labels hanging from them, cocooned in two layers, one bubble wrap and one cloth. He slid out both paintings and tucked one under each arm before heading back the way he’d come. Made sure no one could see him from the guardroom. Out to the loading bay, where Gissing was waiting, having reversed the van into position. They began to make the swap, carefully unwrapping a painting, finding its copy, Gissing’s practiced hands teasing the frame away from the original, preparing to place that frame around the forgery.

Mike held his breath, but the frame was a perfect fit. He gave a little hiss of satisfaction. Gissing studied the back of the original canvas, seeking markings. They couldn’t hope to copy any he found, not with any great skill. They had only so much time. But mostly, any labels or marks were on the frame rather than the canvas. Another reason they’d opted for smallish canvases: less chance of cross-braces, which meant one less surface that would have held any identifying details.

“Get it wrapped,” Gissing said, already starting work on the second masterpiece. Allan and Westie appeared at the doors of the van, toting three paintings apiece.

Westie said nothing: he was already starting work on his own canvases. Like Gissing, he knew what he was doing; knew, too, that time was against them. No telling how early the next party of visitors might be. Gissing was breathing hard but still had his wits about him, reminded them to make sure the labels were showing when they reswaddled the copies.

“We could be doing this elsewhere,” Westie muttered. Mike knew the argument but sided with Gissing the first time Westie had brought this up. Gissing’s reasoning: no alarm would be raised until after they’d left the premises. That was when time started to be against them. Best make the switch now, meaning a cleaner getaway later.

“Three down,” Allan intoned, watching Westie and Gissing at work. Mike looked at his watch again. Twelve minutes since they’d entered the warehouse. It was going like clockwork... no, better than that: it was going like digital. He found himself smiling, gave Allan a pat on the back.

“Bit early for that,” Gissing grumbled, wiping perspiration from his eyes. “Get back inside, the pair of you, and do the final check.”

Final check: vault doors open, keys in the locks. There’d be trace evidence — Westie had said as much; knew it from all the TV cop shows. But the less they left the better. Checks complete, Mike and Allan shared a nod. Then Allan made for the van again while Mike opened the door to the guardroom. Found a gun aimed at him, lowered as soon as Chib’s boy recognized him. Mike held up three fingers, meaning three minutes. The “hostages” were crouched on the floor, hands on their heads, eyes screwed shut. The CCTV screens were blank.

Back at the van, Allan was in the passenger seat, wiping his face with a handkerchief. Westie was wrapping a painting. Gissing was holding a hand to his chest but nodded to let Mike know he was just a bit breathless.

“Sit back,” Mike told him. “I’ll drive.” He got into the driver’s seat and checked the key was in the ignition.

“It would be nice to leave right now.”

Mike heard a noise, looked in the rearview: three figures emerging. Van doors closing. Mike gunned the engine.

“Not too fast,” Gissing called from the back. He was right: passing traffic. ... They didn’t want to announce themselves, not now. Paused long enough at the gatehouse to pick up the final member. Allan started laughing, and Mike realized he’d put the indicator on, signaling left out of the compound.

“Get going!“ one of Chib’s boys yelled. Side mirror: the guard was already out of the guardhouse. Mike stepped on the accelerator.

They drove in silence after that, listening for sirens. Mike’s senses seemed heightened to an incredible degree. The sound of the tarmac under the van’s wheels; the smell of hops wafting from some distant brewery; the tingling of his blood and the tang of adrenaline in his mouth.

This is what it feels like to be alive, he thought.

The car — Mike’s car — was parked by the seafront in Newhaven. The rain had grown heavier, and there was no one around. They made the transfer and left the van unlocked, driver’s door ajar. The four young men had another car waiting for them, courtesy of their boss. One of them crouched down to remove the ignition key from the exhaust pipe. Mike held out a hand for shaking, but they just stared at it. Westie was closing the trunk of Mike’s car.

“No, hang on.” Gissing went back to the van and pulled open the back doors. Back in the car, Mike looked to him for an explanation.

“The robbers panicked and fled,” Gissing said calmly. Westie was punching numbers into a cellphone — a gift from Chib Calloway, who’d promised it was untraceable. Westie took a deep breath before speaking.

“Is that the police? Listen, I’ve just seen the strangest bloody thing down by the waterfront in Newhaven ... some guys at the back of a van, looked like they were dumping bodies or something. White van, it was. Not sure, but I think they maybe saw me. I got the license plate though.”

He reeled it off, ended the call and took a little bow.

“Little bit of improv, thrown in gratis and for nothing.”

Eight paintings sat arranged on the two sofas and two easy chairs in Mike’s living room. The four men stood gazing at them, Champagne flutes in their hands.

“I like your two better,” Allan told Gissing.

“Strikes me I should have held out for two,” Westie grumbled. Gissing looked at him.

“You got some cash, didn’t you?” Allan added. “Plus the prof’s going to go easy on you come your degree show. ...”

Westie raised his hands as if in surrender. “I was joking,” he apologized. “Trying for a bit of light relief. The looks on your faces, you’d think we were standing graveside.”

“That may still be true,” Gissing warned him. “We can’t afford to get complacent, or go bragging, or let something slip, not even to loved ones. The paintings have to be kept hidden.”

“We’ve been over this a dozen times, Robert,” Allan complained.

“Bears repetition,” Gissing growled, eyes fixed on Westie, doubtless thinking of the student’s girlfriend, Alice, who already knew more than was wise.

“What about Chib Calloway?” Westie asked, trying to deflect the attention elsewhere.

“I’ll see he gets his little reward,” Mike said.

“But can we trust him?” Allan countered. “Robert talked about gold fever. ... Isn’t he the most likely to start wanting what we’ve got?”

“Chib’s fine,” Mike tried reassuring him. “You can leave him to me.”

“He knows the painting has to be kept secret?” Allan persisted.

“He knows,” Mike said, with an edge in his voice. He reached down to the coffee table and picked up the remote, switched on the plasma screen and started flicking through the channels, looking for news.

“Here’s hoping nobody got there first,” Westie said, “and walked off with an armful of my beautiful forgeries.”

“Here’s hoping,” Gissing agreed. The words “Breaking News” were onscreen, and above them a map of Edinburgh, zeroing in on the Granton warehouse.

“Here we go,” Mike whispered to himself. “Now the fun and games begin.” Gissing’s cellphone was ringing. The two men shared a smile, knowing who it would be.
700 2007-06-24 As anyone who has read Gregory Maguire’s “Wicked” or seen the subsequent Broadway show can attest, the Wicked Witch of the West was framed. Elphaba, as Maguire calls her, wasn’t really wicked at all. She was a good girl set up by the powers that be (in this case, the Wizard) for, among other things, the green color of her skin. So it goes with the recently unveiled Gospel of Judas, which posits a theory as impertinent as Maguire’s about the wickedest character in Christendom.

In the New Testament, Judas Iscariot is a Satan-possessed traitor who turns Jesus in for 30 pieces of silver; the other disciples are the heroic founders of the church. In the topsy-turvy Gospel of Judas, branded heretical in A.D. 180 by the church father Irenaeus, the disciples play the goats and Judas the hero. The other disciples, who go by the ganglandish name “the 12,” are murderers and fools. Judas is Jesus’ closest confidante, the one man who truly understands “the mysteries which are beyond the world and the things which will occur at the end.”

Since the fourth-century Coptic version of this second-century Greek text was released last April by the National Geographic Society, a variety of books have appeared promising to decode it. In “Judas and the Gospel of Jesus,” N. T. Wright offered the conservative critique, insisting that the man in question was a villain after all, and that the early Christians chose well when they decided to put their faith in Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. In “The Lost Gospel of Judas Iscariot,” Bart Ehrman tells the cloak-and-dagger story of the papyrus codex from its discovery by an Egyptian farmer in the 1970s through the vagaries of the antiquities market, including a stop in a freezer along the way.

“Reading Judas,” a collaborative effort by the Princeton professor Elaine Pagels, best known for her book “The Gnostic Gospels,” and the Harvard professor Karen L. King, the author of “The Gospel of Mary of Magdala,” focuses exclusively on the meaning of this last-shall-be-first text. It includes a co-written essay on this gospel’s key themes, followed by an English translation and an extensive commentary by King.

One of the genuine puzzles of early Christianity, and of much subsequent Christian history, concerns who is to blame for Jesus’ death. The Gospels make it plain that it was God’s plan, and that Jesus carried out this divine plan in order to save human beings from the wages of sin. And yet Judas and the Jews (to whom the word “Judas” is etymologically linked) are blamed for setting this divine plan in motion. As Pagels and King note, there is something amiss here. How can Judas be branded evil for carrying out God’s plan? Is his infamous kiss, depicted on the dust jacket of “Reading Judas,” really a betrayal if God had the crucifixion in mind from before Jesus’ birth?

Pagels and King do an excellent job explaining why, according to the author of this renegade gospel, mainstream Christianity has gotten it so wrong for so long. Along the way they introduce us to, among other things, a goddess named Barbelo (for some Gnostics, a divine mother figure who often symbolized heaven) and try to make sense of teachings that to most readers today will seem like nutty musings on numerology, cosmology, astrology and eschatology. On the perennial question of death and the afterlife, Pagels and King explain that whereas other early Christians affimed the doctrine of bodily resurrection, the Christians to whom this gospel is addressed believed in the immortal spirit. Here the body is suspect. Jesus is not reborn in the flesh but simply appears. The eternal life he offers is lived in the spirit alone, and it is won more through Jesus’ teachings than through his sacrifice on the cross.
701 2007-06-24 Through summer the museum will exhibit glass sculptures by Richard Jolley, an artist from the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee. The show brings together his work from 1985 to the present, including hand-made glass vessels, miniature figurines and dainty totem sculptures made of layers of colored, carved and etched glass. Mr. Jolley also paints and draws in a fake-folkloric mode, but glassmaking is his strength.

Tom Otterness, Curt Brill, Christopher Cairns, Bela Fuko and Lila Katzen are among the artists whose works have been newly installed on the grounds, where more than 240 sculptures are on permanent display. Especially striking is Mr. Brill’s seated cast bronze figure “Dana” (2003), situated on a granite slab under shady trees apparently absorbed in the landscape view, taking the pulse of a summer’s day.

LongHouse Reserve may not have the big names of outdoor sculpture, but it does have a sense of unerring style. It is a garden, a museum and a sculpture park, with a fine collection of 50 works placed about the manicured grounds, including glass art by Dale Chihuly, elegant standing ceramic forms by Toshiko Takaezu and bronzes by Willem de Kooning, Peter Voulkos and Lynda Benglis.

Among the new additions is a funky, three-dimensional sculpture that creates the illusion of a suburban house by Roy Lichtenstein, a Pop art stalwart and longtime Southampton resident. Dennis Oppenheim, earth artist, also weighs in with a triumphal steel mesh arch in the shape of a neatly folded shirt that simultaneously appropriates and critiques fashion and monumental architecture.

Then there are favorites to make you swoon, like Yoko Ono’s “Play It by Trust” (1999), an outsize white cement chess set, the pieces as big as a grown child and just as heavy, and Buckminster Fuller‘s geodesic dome sculpture, planted in the middle of an open field and looking like a giant golf ball.

It would be hard to find anyone who doesn’t love Storm King in Orange County, a 500-acre property in the Hudson Valley in New York encompassing woods, a stream, several ponds, alfalfa fields, lawns and rolling hills dotted with spectacular sculptures. Alluring pieces by Deborah Masters and Louise Bourgeois are among the newest additions to the center’s superb permanent collection of postwar American and European works.

Ms. Bourgeois’s sculptures are grouped near the patio of the museum building beneath a fringe of leaves. Among them is one of her menacing 10-foot-high bronze spiders poised to strike its prey. Other pieces are tamer, but no less unsettling, including several granite benches, each carved in the shape of a human eyeball.

Over by the parking area, Ms. Masters has installed a group of three carved concrete figurative sculptures titled “Travelers” (2007). The group, portraying a displaced family, was conceived as a response to news media images of refugees fleeing disasters. The mother carries an infant and household items, the father holds a lamb, and the child juggles a fish and bird. Tender and affecting, the pieces remind visitors of the suffering of those who have little else than the land we walk on.

Matej Andraz Vogrincic’s outdoor installation in a section of the abandoned Farmington Canal that can be seen from Whitney Avenue in downtown New Haven is a one-man sculpture park. The project was commissioned and organized by Site Projects Inc., a nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting public art in the city, and can be viewed through August.

The installation consists of a fleet of 50 boats made of large-scale Erector Set pieces laid out on the floor of the canal. The boats, each about 20 feet long, are filled on each end with bricks, gravel or shells, and surrounded by more than 160 cubic yards of biodegradable wood chips. It took a team of volunteers more than a month to complete it. Nicely blending elements of culture and nature, history and geography, the installation references the 19th-century use of the canal for ferrying materials to and from the nearby port into town, as well the first manufacture of Erector Sets in 1913 by the A. C. Gilbert Company in New Haven.
702 2007-06-24 The Twenties were just starting to roar when New York and New Jersey agreed to quit feuding over their mutual waterway, the one with the Statue of Liberty in its center. The two state governments created what is now called the Port Authority of Ne...
703 2007-06-24 Lapo Elkann, grandson of the Fiat chairman, Gianni Agnelli, fell about as far as you can go in October 2005 when he almost died of a drug overdose in the Turin apartment of a transsexual prostitute....
704 2007-06-24 AFTER a decade in power, Tony Blair steps down as prime minister of the United Kingdom on Wednesday to a chorus of yawns from his countrymen and hisses from most of his Labor Party colleagues. Well, if his former friends and voters don't have a go...
705 2007-06-24 The halls of Congress have been looking like the floor of the Detroit auto show in recent days. All manner of Detroit executives have found their way to Washington to lobby lawmakers on efforts to raise automobile fuel economy standards....
706 2007-06-24 AS an American journalist based in China, I knew there was a good chance that at some point I'd be detained for pursuing a story. I just never thought I'd be held hostage by a toy factory....
707 2007-06-24 DOWNSIZING may be a chilling concept nearly everywhere, but not in the workshop of George Luhrs, a machinist in Shoreham, N.Y., with an affinity for the very small. Mr Luhrs has built a single-cylinder engine you could lose in a pocketful of nicke...
708 2007-06-24 Vladimir O. Potanin...
709 2007-06-24 Rose Marie Bravo, 56, stepped down last week from the board of the Burberry Group, the British luxury-goods brand known for its trademark plaid patterns and trench coats, once worn by Humphrey Bogart and Audrey Hepburn....
710 2007-06-24 The stock market fell sharply last week as the subprime mortgage crisis spilled over into the broad financial markets.     Two hedge funds run by Bear Stearns ran into trouble because of their heavy exposure to subprime mortgages. While the compan...
711 2007-06-24 The stock market fell sharply last week as the subprime mortgage crisis spilled over into the broad financial markets.     Two hedge funds run by Bear Stearns ran into trouble because of their heavy exposure to subprime mortgages. While the compan...
712 2007-06-24 Iran is in the throes of one of its most ferocious crackdowns on dissent in years, with the government focusing on labor leaders, universities, the press, women's rights advocates, a former nuclear negotiator and Iranian-Americans, three of whom h...
713 2007-06-24 To the Editor:...
714 2007-06-24 The Twenties were just starting to roar when New York and New Jersey agreed to quit feuding over their mutual waterway, the one with the Statue of Liberty in its center. The two state governments created what is now called the Port Authority of Ne...
715 2007-06-24 To the Editor: I fondly read Evan Rail's ''One More for the Road'' (May 20). It reminded me of when I was a college student in Cologne. My first few days there were spent at a pension in the heart of the city. Downstairs was a bierstube, where Col...
716 2007-06-24 AFTER a decade in power, Tony Blair steps down as prime minister of the United Kingdom on Wednesday to a chorus of yawns from his countrymen and hisses from most of his Labor Party colleagues. Well, if his former friends and voters don't have a go...
717 2007-06-24 Suit7...
718 2007-06-25 The transportation commissioner answers a first round of reader questions....
719 2007-06-25 Along with creating new strands of DNA, a related strand of engineering also has unknowable, but potentially frightening consequences: nanotechnology–building materials out of very small particles. So far, there has been no nanotech disaster. Bu...
720 2007-06-25 The Supreme Court dealt a huge blow to the McCain-Feingold campaign finance act today, loosening "the restrictions on what companies and unions can spend on television advertisements just before elections." The Republican co-sponsor of the act, Jo...
721 2007-06-25 A corporate executive compares himself to Rosa Parks...
722 2007-06-25 Just how much would Congress's proposed tax increase cost Fortress Investment Group? When two United States senators introduced legislation two weeks ago that could more than double the tax rate for publicly traded buyout firms, there was speculat...
723 2007-06-25 Most audits of the companies and agencies that get government grants and contracts are deficient, a study finds....
724 2007-06-25 The New Yorker's John Cassidy this week takes a close look at the mystique of hedge funds, and, in a way, sees an industry that would rather not let you look behind its curtain. Hedge funds have proliferated in recent years, in part by cultivating...
725 2007-06-25 Bear Stearns's recent hedge-fund troubles could affect more than just the investment bank's reputation. They could jeopardize its independence as well. At least, that is what an analyst at Merrill Lynch said Friday in a research report after Bear ...
726 2007-06-25 GLG Partners, one of Europe's largest hedge funds, will go public in the United States through a $3.4 billion merger with an investment company, Freedom Acquisition Holdings, according to The New York Times. The unusual deal would give GLG, based ...
727 2007-06-25 The British banking giant Barclays said Friday it has some exposure to troubled hedge funds that invested in the subprime mortgage market, but any loss from the exposure would not be material to its overall performance. The bank's statement follow...
728 2007-06-25 Visa, the biggest credit card network in the United States, took its first official step Friday toward becoming a public company, outlining to federal regulators how it proposes to restructure and combine its global operations. The registration st...
729 2007-06-25 Senior executives at Nasdaq spent the weekend locked in discussions over whether they oppose a 1.63 billion euro ($2.2 billion) deal between the London Stock Exchange and Borsa Italiana, according to The Independent. On Friday, the London exchange...
730 2007-06-25 To get their $17.5 billion deal approved by antitrust regulators, Thomson and Reuters may have to sign off on some significant disposals, notes The Deal.com. So which assets might hit the block? The Deal says that Robert Doyle, an antitrust partne...
731 2007-06-25 Vonage Holdings is scheduled Monday to appear in the United States Court of Appeals in Washington to make what may be a final stand in fighting charges that its online telephone service infringes patents held by Verizon Communications. A verdict a...
732 2007-06-25 WASHINGTON, June 25 — A District of Columbia administrative law judge who filed a $54 million lawsuit against his neighborhood dry cleaner over a pair of missing pants will not get a penny, a court here ruled today.

Judge Judith Bartnoff of Superior Court ruled that Judge Roy L. Pearson Jr. failed to prove that Custom Cleaners misled consumers with its “satisfaction guaranteed” sign. For that matter, Judge Pearson was not even able to convince her that the owners of the dry cleaner had lost his pants.

“The court finds that the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief whatsoever,” Judge Bartnoff wrote.

She ordered Judge Pearson to pay the defendants’ court costs, such as transcript and filing fees, which their lawyer said today could run as high as $5,000. But Judge Bartnoff has yet to rule on their motion for lawyers’ fees, which could top $100,000 and will hinge on whether she deems the lawsuit frivolous.

Judge Pearson, who represented himself, rejected a settlement offer of $12,000 in March. He asked for damages as high as $67.3 million, using a formula charging each of the store’s owners with multiple breaches of Washington’s consumer protection law. (He later lowered his claim to $54 million.) He did not answer his phone or his door or respond to an e-mail message today.
733 2007-06-25 Ms. Lightfoot is fairly typical of how women fit businesses into their lives, say the founders of Ladies Who Launch, Beth Schoenfeldt and Victoria Colligan. Women follow their instincts and build businesses that stem from their lifestyles. They seldom begin with a business plan or financing. They multitask the many parts of their lives, hatching companies on the side while working in other jobs or raising families. And their careers rarely follow linear paths.

Before joining Ladies Who Launch, Ms. Lightfoot worked as a buyer in Bloomingdale’s, held jobs in the hospitality and sales industries, and co-wrote the book, “The BAP Handbook: The Official Guide to the Black American Princess” (Random House, 2001).

Ms. Schoenfeldt and Ms. Colligan fit the pattern as well. Though each comes from a corporate business background, their organization is dedicated to what they call “launching,” a term so broad that they apply it to things ranging from starting a global manufacturing company to getting a knitting circle off the ground.

Women join Ladies Who Launch to network in both their personal and business lives; referrals to both accountants and acupuncturists are common. As Ms. Schoenfeldt says, “It’s about realizing that even though you just finished a master’s degree, it’s O.K. if you want to be a yoga instructor.”

Late in 2004, after successful careers in law, business and with Internet start-up companies, Ms. Colligan, 38, and Ms. Schoenfeldt, 40, started to flex their entrepreneurial muscles. Ms. Colligan, who holds law and business degrees, started an online newsletter under the Ladies Who Launch name where she interviewed high achieving women and wrote about their success stories. Ms. Schoenfeldt, who was struggling with a learning solutions company she had founded, organized a women’s group with some friends. “It was kind of like a book club or investment club, but focused on what we wanted to do,” she says.

When the two met, they decided to become partners in a live networking event that would bring together the best of what they were doing separately. They advertised the event to Ms. Colligan’s e-mail list, borrowed a friend’s town house in New York and invited women to show off their businesses. As Ms. Schoenfeldt puts it, “When women network without drudgery and dark suits, passion and creativity just flow, and things start to happen.”

After that, they realized that many women wanted the same things they wanted. “So many women are like us. They have advanced degrees, but they don’t find the traditional corporate environment fulfilling or conducive to their lifestyle,” Ms. Schoenfeldt said.

Today, Ladies Who Launch has evolved into what the partners call an “online/offline media company meets social network.” With more than 2,000 incubator members in 45 cities, it has offices in Cleveland, where Ms. Colligan lives, and New York, where Ms. Schoenfeldt lives. Its online newsletter reaches 40,000 people. It runs about 10 live conferences a year in incubator cities, each attracting several hundred participants.

It has been a big year for Ladies Who Launch. The founders published their “Ladies Who Launch” book in May. That was a month after they announced that after three years of organically growing in what they call the “feminine” model, they had finally put together a business plan and raised money from an outside investor, Greycroft Partners.

Amid the good news, even the founders acknowledge that the group has received some criticism. Many incubator members question the wisdom of a one-size-fits-all approach that throws novices together with more established business.

“We really believe that the best ideas come from people who don’t look like you,” Ms. Schoenfeldt said. “Still, we are working on more advanced programming. As our members evolve, so will our offerings.”

According to the Center for Women’s Business Research, women are at the helm of about 10.4 million private companies nationwide, and businesses owned by women are growing at twice the rate of male-dominated companies. In addition to the broad-based appeal of a group like Ladies Who Launch, or the more established National Association of Women Business{cq} Owners, options for entrepreneurial women include WomenandBiz.com, Wild Women Entrepreneurs (www.thewildwe.com), Women Business Owners (www.womenbizowners.org), eWomenNetwork (ewomennetwork.com) and Damsels in Success (damselsinsuccess.com).

There are also niche groups. For graduates or students of participating universities, there is 85 Broads, a group of more than 17,000 members founded by a former partner at Goldman Sachs,Janet Hanson. For mother/entrepreneurs there are groups like Mompreneurs Online and Home-Based-Working Moms.

BlogHer, a network of women bloggers, was started in 2005 because its three founders were tired of hearing the same, “Where are the women?” question in its various incarnations: “Where are the women op-ed voices?” “Where are the women C.E.O.’s?” “Where are the women pundits on television?”

Elisa Camahort, 43, and two other women met in Palo Alto, Calif., and decided to have a conference for women bloggers, blog about it, and see who showed up. “The response was immediate, passionate and positive,” said Ms. Camahort, a BlogHer founder, who previously worked as a consultant to companies on blogging strategy. Though the company began with a live event and still centers around two annual conferences, most of BlogHer’s activity exists in the virtual realm. The site, which is supported by advertising, offers one-stop shopping for women’s voices about topics from potty training to politics. “At this year’s conference we had 150 women speakers,” Ms. Camahort said. “I don’t think anyone can say anymore that there is no woman blogging about X.”

As businesses owned by women grow, so, it appears, do their reasons for wanting to do business with other women. Sari Gabay-Rafiy, 33, a New York lawyer, and her partner, Anne-Marie Bowler, 32, left the law firm Proskauer Rose and founded Gabay-Rafiy & Bowler because they wanted autonomy, flexibility and to work on their own terms. They belong to Ladies Who Launch and have advertised on the site.

“There is just something about woman-to-woman legal advice,” Ms. Gabay-Rafiy said. “We’re never condescending. We explain things in plain English. And when I’m on the phone with a client launching a business from her basement who keeps apologizing because a baby is crying in the background, I just get it. I have two kids myself and I know what it’s like.”
734 2007-06-25 That has made Center Court the tournament’s great curiosity, which has as much to do with aesthetics and ambience than the effect that the old roof had on combating weather.

It was less a roof than an awning that covered most of the seats but left a large open-sky hole over the court — a sunroof of sorts, but all too often a rain roof instead.

Even if the old roof had remained, many matches today would not have been completed because of the day’s drizzle. But once the retractable roof is in place in 2009, matches on Center Court will be played as scheduled — good news for future ticket holders, but also for the broadcasters that cover Wimbledon for 180 countries and are often forced to fill delays with replays from earlier matches or previous years.

During today’s delay, the BBC showed Rafael Nadal’s victory over Federer in the recent French Open final.

By next year’s Wimbledon, a new fixed portion of the roof, much in the shape of the original, will be built. The retractable portion, made of a semi-translucent fabric to allow natural light, will be installed before the 2009 Wimbledon. The only delays at Center Court then might be the 15 minutes or so it will take for the roof to close.

Ian Ritchie, the chief executive of the All England Club, explained it all as he sat in his office, which he has had to abandon during construction but reclaimed during the tournament. For a year, Center Court has been surrounded by construction cranes and the enveloped by the constant hum of change. But the 300 construction workers scrambled to clean the site in time for Wimbledon’s start. When the tournament ends, the workers and the heavy equipment will parade back into place again.

“You constantly need to improve fundamentally for the spectators, and for everybody else who watches on television,” Ritchie said. “We take very seriously being a sort of world-class event, hopefully.”

The club’s overhaul has been taking place for more than a decade. A new No. 1 Court was completed in 1997. Demolishing the old one provided room for the Millennium Center, a multistory complex for members, competitors and journalists. Construction on a new, larger No. 2 Court will begin after this year’s tournament, ready for 2009.

But none of that can compare to the intrigue surrounding the roof at Center Court. Andy Roddick, the third seed, admitted that he and his coach, Jimmy Connors, “snuck in” to Center Court a couple of weeks ago to see it from the inside.

“I can’t get arrested for that, like, after the fact, can I?” said Roddick, who beat Justin Gimelstob, 6-1, 7-5, 7-6(3).

Federer said he was proud to be the champion last year in what some might remember as the last tournament with the original roof. And he would love nothing more than to be the answer to what Ritchie said could be a future trivia question.

“For argument’s sake, say the lifespan of the new Center is 50 years, so from 1922 to, say, 2060, this will be the only year where there isn’t a roof,” Ritchie said. “It’s a natural sort of trivial pursuit question.”

Ritchie was interested to see how the temporary look changes the dynamic of the crowd, typically more reserved than those at large arenas of other Grand Slam tournaments.

“The roof, I’m sure, keeps some of the noise in,” Ritchie said. “And to a degree, there’s always those people who have said it’s a bit cloistered. Maybe with the roof off, I don’t know, it is going to get people more excited.”

There were few reasons for fans to raise their voices today, as Federer cruised past Gabashvili. But many players poked their heads into the arena in recent days and gazed skyward. They said that the breezes were stronger and more swirling, and that the lack of shadows in the stands makes it feel larger and less intimate. The former player John McEnroe called it “a bit Americanized” — bigger and more expansive.

“There was always a constant breeze from the one end, like in many of the stadiums around the world,” Federer said. “So that was not very different. It was just different for Center Court. I definitely prefer the old one over this one right now, but obviously it’s a work in progress.”

There are no plans to cover any of the other 18 courts used during the championships, but a roof over Center Court guarantees that some tennis, starting in 2009, will be completed every day.

In other words, perfect for days like today.
735 2007-06-25 GLG Partners, one of Europe’s largest hedge funds, will go public in the United States through a $3.4 billion merger with an investment company, Freedom Acquisition Holdings, the two companies announced Monday.

The unusual deal would give GLG, based in London, a footprint in the United States and access to public markets at a time when investors still seem eager for the enormous returns that hedge funds have generated in recent years. GLG, which was founded in 1995 as a division of Lehman Brothers and became independent in 2000, is widely known in Europe but relatively unknown in the United States.

Though GLG had been considering going public for some time and started preparations in April, an approach by one of Freedom’s co-founders, Nicolas Berggruen, helped solidify its plans, a person close to the hedge fund said.

Freedom is a so-called special-purpose acquisition company — a publicly held company that has no operations of its own but is designed to take over other companies. It was founded last year by Mr. Berggruen and Martin E. Franklin, chief executive of a consumer products conglomerate, Jarden.

Freedom will pay GLG $1 billion in cash and 240 million shares. The hedge fund’s management company — as opposed to one of its multibillion-dollar funds — will then be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker GLG, in place of Freedom, which is listed as FRH on the American Stock Exchange.
736 2007-06-25 The defending Dew Cup champion, Nate Adams, won the freestyle motocross event yesterday at the Dew Action Sports Tour’s Panasonic Open in Baltimore. Adams scored a 95.67 with multiple backflips. “Last year I won the first stop and ended up winning the whole tour,” he said. “I’m feeling pretty good.”
737 2007-06-25 Vladimir Karpets of Russia won the Tour de Suisse yesterday by finishing sixth in the race’s final stage, a 21-mile time trial in Bern.Luxembourg’s Kim Kirchen finished second over all, and Stijn Devolder of Belgium was third.Switzerland’s Fabian Cancellara, the world time trial champion and the winner of the Swiss tour’s prologue, won the stage in 41 minutes 46 seconds. Karpets crossed in 42:52.“This victory comes in the most beautiful city in the world, in my birth city,” Cancellara said.Vladimir Efimkin of Russia, who led the overall standings heading into the final stage, was more than three minutes behind the leaders. He finished sixth over all.
738 2007-06-25 Gov. M. Jodi Rell has signed a bill to penalize gun owners who fail to inform the police within 72 hours of discovering that a firearm has been lost or stolen. The first offense is an infraction, punishable by a fine of up to $90; subsequent offenses would be felonies. In a statement yesterday, she said the law, which takes effect Oct. 1, will help “stem the tide of stolen guns used in crimes.”
739 2007-06-25 GLG Partners, one of Europe’s largest hedge funds, will go public in the United States through a $3.4 billion merger with an investment company, Freedom Acquisition Holdings, according to people briefed on the transaction.

The unusual deal, which is expected to be announced today, would give GLG, based in London, a footprint in the United States and access to public markets at a time when investors still seem eager for the enormous returns that hedge funds have generated in recent years. GLG, which was founded in 1995 as a division of Lehman Brothers and became independent in 2000, is widely known in Europe but relatively unknown in the United States.

Though GLG had been considering going public for some time and started preparations in April, an approach by one of Freedom’s co-founders, Nicolas Berggruen, helped solidify its plans, a person close to the hedge fund said.

Freedom is a so-called special-purpose acquisition company — a publicly held company that has no operations of its own but is designed to take over other companies. It was founded last year by Mr. Berggruen and Martin E. Franklin, chief executive of a consumer products conglomerate, Jarden.

Freedom will pay GLG $1 billion in cash and 240 million shares, according to people briefed on the transaction. The hedge fund’s management company — as opposed to one of its multibillion-dollar funds — will then be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker GLG, in place of Freedom, which is listed as FRH on the American Stock Exchange.
740 2007-06-25 High school students cramming for the SAT test have traditionally relied on thick books full of practice exams, sharpened No. 2 pencils and intensive tutoring sessions. But now a traditional test preparation company is offering some options for the iPod generation.

Three interactive programs from Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions are for sale at iTunes for downloading to iPods with video screens. The programs were released last week, giving vacationing students plenty of time for practice quizzes before the next test date in October.

The three programs, in critical reading, mathematics and writing, correspond to the three graded sections of the exam. The programs cost $4.99 each and are available in the iPod games section of the iTunes store alongside slightly more entertaining, if less educational, options like Tetris, Pac-Man and Lost: The Game.

“Learning styles have changed a lot since Stanley Kaplan founded Kaplan in 1938,” said Kristen Campbell, the national director of SAT and ACT programs for Kaplan. “Students take their iPods with them all the time, whether they’re in a car driving to baseball practice, or at home, or sitting at school waiting for their parents to come and pick them up.”

The programs include about 1,000 practice questions and hints and strategy sessions on subjects like “Top 10 Test-Taking Tips” and “SAT Math Basics.” They can be used only after being downloaded to an iPod, not in iTunes. The company also recently introduced a MySpace page (www.myspace.com/kaplan) and a series of vocabulary-building manga, or graphic novels.

But Ms. Campbell does not expect high school students to entirely forsake their books and tutors in favor of playing with their iPods on the beach or taking digital quizzes during coffee breaks on the summer job.
741 2007-06-26 The commissioner answers questions about cars in the parks, bike lanes and traffic enforcement....
742 2007-06-26 The House of Representatives unanimously approved an appropriations bill for the Department of the Interior that contains a largely symbolic provision urging that the Statue of Liberty’s crown be reopened to the public for the first time since t...
743 2007-06-26 Google loses a round against Microsoft in court, but takes another blow against one of Microsoft’s most sensitive areas: corporate e-mail....
744 2007-06-26 TIP OF THE WEEK Want to undo a whole bunch of changes in a Microsoft Word document — without having to repeatedly hit Control-Z (Command-Z on the Mac) to back up one change at a time? In most versions of Word, just go to the Standard toolbar — or the Quick Access toolbar in Word 2007 — and find the Undo Typing icon, which looks like an arrow curving down and to the left.

Click on the small triangle next to the Undo Typing icon to see a drop-down list of actions taken on the document and select the point you’d like to return to. If you make a mistake and go back too far, the Redo Typing icon (the right-curving arrow next to Undo Typing) keeps its own list of actions that you can use to restore your text.
745 2007-06-26 Now, Joey Chestnut has nothing in his way....
746 2007-06-26 Stephen A. Schwarzman is quickly learning the downside of being a public company. Just a few days after his giant private equity firm, Blackstone Group, made its splashy debut on the New York Stock Exchange - an event that drew an armada of televi...
747 2007-06-26 Bear Stearns may have a lot of explaining to do about a big restatement of losses at one of its troubled hedge funds-and not just to its investors. According to BusinessWeek, the Securities and Exchange Commission recently opened a preliminary inq...
748 2007-06-26 IntercontinentalExchange on Monday commenced its proxy battle to block the merger of Chicago Board of Trade Holdings with Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings, urging C.B.O.T. shareholders to vote against the deal. ICE also is seeking to merge wit...
749 2007-06-26 Federal prosecutors trying to bolster their faltering tax-shelter investigation have essentially dared a federal judge to dismiss charges against former employees of the accounting firm KPMG so that they can appeal the ruling and get the case movi...
750 2007-06-26 PricewaterhouseCoopers has withdrawn all its audit reports on the bankrupt Yukos oil company amid a tax-evasion investigation into the accounting firm, a decision that some of the oil producer's shareholders said Monday was "spineless." The audito...
751 2007-06-26 In a sign that the flood of private money in Hollywood only continues to rise, Legendary, the production company of the venture capitalist Thomas Tull, will invest $1 billion in a portfolio of films co-produced by Warner Brothers Pictures. The dea...
752 2007-06-26 Financial shares tumbled Monday on concern that hedge fund losses tied to subprime mortgages would deepen, extending the stock market's worst weekly decline since March, Bloomberg News reported. Bear Stearns, the second-biggest United States under...
753 2007-06-26 Google is pressing for an extension to the Justice Department's oversight of Microsoft's business practices, which for the most part is set to expire in November, according to a court filing Monday. "Microsoft's hardwiring of its own desktop searc...
754 2007-06-26 A man accused of cheating immigrants by posing as a federal agent and promising them green cards and other documents in exchange for money was sentenced yesterday in State Supreme Court to three to six years in prison. The man, John Nevarez, 55, of Manhattan, was sentenced after Justice Edward J. McLaughlin refused to let him withdraw his plea of guilty of grand larceny. The police had accused Mr. Nevarez of using a fake badge to convince immigrants that he could solve their documentation problems. Lt. John Zerillo of the Police Department’s impersonation unit said that Mr. Nevarez charged $8,000 per person in exchange for “absolutely nothing.”
755 2007-06-26 For the first time in its 44 years, The New York Review of Books will publish a special fiction issue, including an excerpt from “Diary of a Bad Year,” a novel in progress by J. M. Coetzee. Robert Silvers, the review’s editor, said, “It’s a new step we’ve long wanted to take.” Reviews of fiction in the issue, dated July 19 but on sale on July 5, will include Hilary Mantel on Mischa Berlinski’s first novel, Tim Parks on the Nobel Prize winner Elfriede Jelinek and Nathaniel Rich on the writing and films of Pier Paolo Pasolini. The issue will also include essays, among them one by Colm Toibin on “The Portrait of a Lady.”
756 2007-06-26 The review is in. A Harry Potter kiss is pure enchantment. Who says so? None other than Katie Leung, who plays the boy wizard’s Hogwarts classmate Cho Chang, speaking at a news conference in London to promote the premiere on July 3 of “Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix,” Agence France-Presse reported. “He was great,” Ms. Leung, 19, said of locking lips with Daniel Radcliffe, who portrays Harry. “I’m sure everyone wants to know if he was a good kisser; he definitely was.” Mr. Radcliffe, who turns 18 on July 23, said he was initially nervous while filming the scene, above, but said, “After the first few takes, it was fine, and we finally started enjoying ourselves.” David Heyman, a producer of the film, the fifth in the series, said: “Many of us have known Daniel since he was 10 years old, have seen him grow up before our eyes, care for him so, and are protective of him. It was so strange. I kept thinking, ‘I shouldn’t be watching this.’ ”
757 2007-06-26 Oil prices fell by nearly $1 a barrel after labor unions halted a strike in Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, where the work stoppage had shut down most major economic activity. The unions said they had accepted the government’s proposal to hold off raising fuel prices for a year, while accepting an earlier proposition to halve a previous price increase that set off the four-day strike.
758 2007-06-26 A chartered plane carrying 22 people between tourist destinations in Cambodia crashed in a mountainous jungle, aviation officials said. The plane, a Russian-made An-24, was flying from Siem Reap, home to the Angkor complex of ancient temples, to the coastal city of Sihanoukville, said Him Sarun, a spokesman for the Secretariat of Civil Aviation. He said teams of soldiers and policemen had not yet reached the crash site nine hours after the plane disappeared. The plane, which belonged to PMT Air, a small Cambodian airline that began flying the route in January, lost contact five minutes before it was to land, an official at the Siem Reap airport said. He said 13 South Koreans and three Czechs were aboard, with a crew of five Cambodians and a Russian co-pilot.
759 2007-06-26 Had the filing gone through, Bear Stearns could eventually have sold its $400 million stake in Everquest, subject to Securities and Exchange Commission rules and so-called lockup arrangements.

The sale of that stake would have allowed the Bear Stearns funds to eliminate some of their exposure to the high-risk mortgages. With the filing withdrawn, Bear Stearns still appears to hold its Everquest stake.

Wall Street has been buzzing about the timing of the Everquest equity offering in particular because the Bear Stearns funds had encountered losses and redemption requests well before the filing appeared.

Last week, the investment bank, under pressure from its lenders, agreed to lend up to $3.2 billion to one of the hedge funds to help in an orderly liquidation of its assets.

An analyst at Portales Partners, Charles Peabody, said in a note to clients last week that Everquest appeared to be an investment vehicle used in part “as a way for Bear Stearns to offload some of its own mortgage exposure.”

If Bear Stearns knew that two of its funds were in trouble by May, why did it allow the Everquest filing to proceed, Mr. Peabody asked.

Although the Everquest filing has been withdrawn, it nevertheless provides a glimpse inside the murky world of leveraged-debt investments that has attracted so much investor money in recent years.

It also shows how, in the bull market for risky-debt investing, potential conflicts of interest on Wall Street were presented as beneficial to investors.

Bear Stearns was central to the creation of Everquest, which is incorporated in the Cayman Islands but operated in Midtown Manhattan. In addition to selling securities to Everquest, Bear Stearns was to serve as lead underwriter of the stock offering, collecting lucrative fees.

Everquest had other ties to Bear Stearns as well. The new company was to be run by Michael J. Levitt, a founder of Stone Tower Capital, a private money management concern, and Ralph R. Cioffi, a senior managing director at Bear Stearns who also oversaw the troubled hedge funds.

The funds that sold the securities to Everquest invested in big pools of loans backed by home mortgages, known as collateralized debt obligations. Roughly half of Everquest’s portfolio is invested in those securities, but it also owns collateralized loan obligations, backed by commercial assets.

According to its filing, Everquest began operation in September and paid almost $548.8 million to buy 10 collateralized debt obligations from the Bear Stearns hedge funds.

It paid Bear Stearns $148.8 million in cash and issued 16 million shares at $25 each to cover the rest. By the end of 2006, Everquest said its debt obligations had a value around $700 million.

During the first quarter of 2007, even as the subprime mortgage market was plummeting, Everquest bought $33 million more of debt securities.

The company hoped to use the proceeds of its stock offering to pay down part of a $200 million credit line it received from Citigroup Financial Products. A spokeswoman for Citigroup declined to comment.

While the Everquest filing did not discuss the hedge fund losses at Bear Stearns, it did highlight the enviable returns generated in recent years by Bear Stearns Asset Management. Average annualized returns, as of the end of 2006. were 12.6 percent, the filing said. Bear Stearns Asset Management, the prospectus said, “has a strong track record” in the C.D.O. arena and helped give the new firm a leg up on its competitors.

When Everquest acquired collateralized debt securities, the filing said, the assumptions it used for the performance of the assets were based on projections made by the organizations that put the debt pools together. While this might sound risky, the filing stressed the considerable risk-management skills of Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Levitt.

Bear Stearns Asset Management and Stone Tower Capital “monitor assets in real time with systems that are designed to be early warning in nature, as opposed to systems that provide alerts only after an asset begins to deteriorate,” the filing said.

The relationship between Bear Stearns and Everquest did raise questions about whether the new company overpaid for the securities it purchased from the Bear Stearns hedge funds, the prospectus noted.

“The consideration given by us in exchange for these assets was not negotiated at arms-length and may exceed the values that could be achieved upon the sale or other disposition of these assets to third parties,” it said.
760 2007-06-26 The decision was a reminder of the ways in which the justices appointed by President Bush are moving the court. While Chief Justice Roberts’s predecessor, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, was a dissenter when the court upheld the law four years ago, Justice Sandra Day O’Connor was in the 5-to-4 majority. Her successor, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., voted with Chief Justice Roberts on Monday, and in fact was the only justice to join his opinion fully.

Two other closely divided rulings announced on Monday also showed the influence of the new justices. The court limited student speech and ruled that taxpayers do not have standing to challenge the administration’s program of support for social service programs offered by religious institutions.

Coming as the 2008 presidential race takes off, the campaign finance decision has the effect of jettisoning a major part of the McCain-Feingold law, which Congress passed in 2002 to curb the flow of unregulated “soft money” into federal election campaigns.

While the decision did not deal directly with the soft-money ban, which is in a separate section of the law, election experts said the effect would be to undercut the soft-money section as well by permitting a largely unlimited flow of money from corporate treasuries to pay for the all-important broadcast advertisements in the weeks before primary and general elections. Groups seeking to influence the outcome of the election could easily sidestep the prohibition on explicit appeals for or against candidates, supporters of the law said.

It is not clear which candidate or party is more likely to benefit from the ruling in 2008. But Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican seeking his party’s presidential nomination, may suffer the most in the short term. His sponsorship of the law, formally called the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, is unpopular with conservatives and Republican primary voters, and the Supreme Court’s decision is a reminder of his role.

Although the court’s five most conservative justices voted in the majority and the four more liberal justices were the dissenters, the outcome was not easy to categorize simply along ideological lines. Both sides of the campaign finance debate have always attracted unusual coalitions. Chief Justice Roberts pointed out in his opinion that among the groups supporting the challenge to the law, which was brought by the Wisconsin Right to Life, were the American Civil Liberties Union and the A.F.L.-C.I.O., as well as the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Rifle Association.

The dissenters, Justices David H. Souter, John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer, said the decision stood the court’s earlier interpretation of the statute “on its head” and would invite the “easy circumvention” of the sponsors’ purpose.

The dissenters’ argument that the court had effectively overruled its 2003 decision in McConnell v. Federal Election Commission, presented in an opinion by Justice Souter, found agreement among election law experts.

“Corporations received the victory that they did not achieve in 2003,” said Edward B. Foley, a professor at the Moritz College of Law at Ohio State University.

It may be only a matter of time before the court reconsiders its 2003 decision upholding the constitutionality of the entire law, or at least expands its Monday decision to strike down any restriction on advertising. Three of the five justices in the majority, Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy and Clarence Thomas, declined to sign the chief justice’s opinion because it did not take that step.

In fact, Justice Scalia, in a footnote to his separate opinion, agreed with the dissenters that the court has in effect already reversed the 2003 decision when it came to the advertising restriction. The decision changed the law so substantially that it “effectively overrules” the 2003 decision “without saying so,” Justice Scalia said. And demonstrating that he does not consider the new chief justice immune from the insults for which his opinions are famous, he added: “This faux judicial restraint is judicial obfuscation.”

Justice Alito indicated in a separate opinion that he, too, would be open to reconsidering the earlier decision, as “we will presumably be asked in a future case” to do.

Legal experts and political advocates said the ruling, Federal Election Commission v. Wisconsin Right to Life Inc., No. 06-969, represented a swing back from a tighter approach toward regulating political contributions that peaked with passage of the 2002 law.

Congress enacted the law in part in reaction to a flood of special interest money into both parties. Throughout the 1990s, both parties had aggressively courted contributions to their allied party committees from corporations, unions and wealthy individuals for the express purpose of winning elections.

These donations, known as soft money, thus circumvented the limits on campaign contributions under older campaign laws. The McCain-Feingold law sought to end the use of soft money in part by barring corporations and unions from contributing to parties or political action committees.

The new decision brings back soft money, said Kenneth A. Gross, a Washington lawyer who represents corporations in election law matters. “The significance of it is, you can use soft money to do these ads,” he said. “This is a clear shot over the bow by this court that there is going to be less regulation of money in politics. The fulcrum has now shifted.”

It remains to be seen how the Federal Election Commission applies the new ruling. The decision held that Wisconsin Right to Life had a constitutional right to run three television commercials in 2004 that criticized Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, for helping to block Mr. Bush’s judicial nominees. Contact the senator, the commercials said.

Wisconsin Right to Life conceded that the advertisements were prohibited by the statute because they named Mr. Feingold, who was seeking re-election; were intended to reach Wisconsin voters; and were to run during the law’s 30-day blackout period before the primary. So the question was whether they were nonetheless permitted by the First Amendment, as a special three-judge Federal District Court here held that they were. The decision on Monday upheld that ruling.

In its decision in 2003, the Supreme Court ruled that the advertising restriction was not unconstitutional “on its face.” Although many assumed that the ruling ended the matter, James Bopp Jr., Wisconsin Right to Life’s counsel, pressed for the right to challenge the restriction “as applied” to his group and others like it, which he said were engaged in constitutionally protected issue advocacy, albeit with corporate contributions.

In its last term, the Supreme Court gave the go-ahead for “as applied” challenges, a signal that the court might soon be taking a different view of the law.

The law’s supporters, including Fred Wertheimer, a longtime advocate of tighter campaign laws, asserted on Monday that a remaining part of the law, prohibiting federal officials from soliciting soft money, was still extremely important.

Mr. McCain agreed. While calling the decision “regrettable,” he pointed out that the solicitation ban was unaffected. “Fortunately, that central reform still stands as the law,” he said.
761 2007-06-26 But there is a catch: Prosecutors also said in the filing that they did not believe any of the defendants’ rights had been violated — and that they would appeal any such dismissal. A hearing has been scheduled for Monday.

“We have concluded that the defendants are correct in their assertion that the only remedy that directly addresses the constitutional violations found by the court is dismissal of the indictment,” the government said in its filing, referring to Judge Kaplan’s legal-fees ruling last year, a decision known as Stein 1.

But it said later that “if the court’s analysis and holdings in Stein I are correct — and we respectfully submit that they are not — following any trial and conviction,” it would be appealed and would be overturned, “even if the record contains overwhelming evidence of guilt.”

Prosecutors have some ammunition behind their move: In May, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed a ruling by Judge Kaplan last year in which he ordered KPMG to stand trial over its refusal to pay the legal fees of its indicted former employees.

In their ruling, the appellate judges wrote that if the rights of the KPMG defendants had been violated because of the firm’s refusal to pay legal fees, dismissal of the indictment against them was the proper remedy. The court would hear any appeal by prosecutors of any Kaplan ruling.

Michael N. Levy, a lawyer who leads the white-collar and criminal investigations group at McKee Nelson, said that the government’s memorandum, “shows the United States attorney’s office has concluded that the legal-fees issue is distracting it from the core purpose: It was about tax shelters, and now the case is about legal fees and the right to counsel, and that’s not what they want it to be about, so it’s an effort to push those issues to the side and get the case back on track.”

The government’s filing was first reported yesterday by The Wall Street Journal.

KPMG, which has argued it did not act improperly, cut off the fees as the firm was under investigation for its tax shelter work. It averted indictment and settled its case for $456 million under a deferred-prosecution agreement in 2005; the charges were dismissed in January.

Judge Kaplan’s opinion last year on legal fees sparked an outcry over tough prosecutorial tactics and later helped usher in a softer Justice Department policy on criminal investigations. It also raised questions over whether he would make good on his hints that he might dismiss the case altogether on those technical grounds.

Deutsche Bank, the accounting firm Ernst & Young and the Quellos Group, a Seattle investment boutique firm, are all part of a broader, related investigation by the federal prosecutors in Manhattan over tax shelter work that began in the late 1990s.

The case against Ernst & Young is unlikely to falter on the legal fees issue; the firm is paying the legal fees of current and former employees, according to an Ernst & Young spokesman. Deutsche Bank declined to comment on whether it was paying any legal fees to current or former employees in the inquiry.

The 12 KPMG employees covered in the filing include Jeffrey Stein, a former vice chairman of the firm. Calls yesterday to his lawyer, David Spears, were not returned.

Among the defendants who would still face charges are two former KPMG tax employees, John Larson and Robert Pfaff, who left the firm in the late 1990s to form an investment boutique, Presidio Advisory Services, to make and sell tax shelters.

Joshua G. Berman, a former Manhattan prosecutor, said yesterday that “the government is trying to get to the Second Circuit and have the underlying issue resolved, and this probably gets them there.” Mr. Berman, who heads the litigation practice at Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal, said that prosecutors could still file new charges against the 12 KPMG defendants if Judge Kaplan dismissed the charges against them. The six other defendants would still stand trial.

In its filing on Friday, the government included several unusual exhibits. One was a June 2006 letter from Mr. Pfaff and Mr. Larson to a Norwegian citizen, Helge Vilhelmsen, regarding payment of legal fees. The letter said that an entity that employed Mr. Vilhelmsen, known variously as Norwood Holdings Inc., Norvest Limited and Skandia America, had paid a portion of their combined estimated $20 million in legal fees. A 2003 Senate subcommittee report on tax shelters identified Norwood as a Presidio entity.

A second exhibit provided a rare inside look at KPMG’s efforts to draft, under the supervision of prosecutors, a statement regarding the firm’s tax shelter work in 2005.

The marked-up draft showed how lawyers for KPMG wrangled over what prosecutors said those lawyers had called “weasel words” in a effort to spread responsibility in the case, including to the wealthy investors who bought the shelters. On Friday prosecutors also released KPMG e-mail messages they said showed that prosecutors had not coerced the firm into signing the final statement in 2005 admitting to criminal wrongdoing with certain shelters.
762 2007-06-26 Financial shares tumbled yesterday on concern that losses tied to subprime mortgages would deepen, extending the stock market’s worst weekly decline since March.

Bear Stearns, the second-biggest United States underwriter of mortgage bonds, slid to its lowest level in nine months after a Merrill Lynch analyst said it might have to salvage another hedge fund.

Mounting speculation that hedge fund losses were greater than forecast erased a rally that lifted the Dow Jones industrial average 129 points.

“People are concerned that there’s some great big unknowable out there,” said Brian Barish, president of Cambiar Investors, based in Denver. “There’s nothing the financial markets dislike more than uncertainty. That’s why the market is jittery.”

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 4.82 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,497.74. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 8.21 points, or 0.06 percent, to 13,352.05. The Nasdaq composite index declined 11.88 points, or 0.46 percent, to 2,577.08. The Russell 2000 index, a benchmark for smaller companies, fell 7.29 points, or 0.9 percent, to 827.46.
763 2007-06-26 Patrick A. Berzinski, a spokesman for Stevens Tech, said that “the indemnification request is part of the process we’re going through.”

The troubles at the cave come during a time of change in Hoboken, as gleaming apartment complexes sprout throughout the city, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan. At the same time, a recent election brought in new City Council members, and some of them are demanding answers.

“Here is something that was promised,” said Elizabeth A. Mason, who was recently elected to the Council and lives near the cave. “The question is, what’s going on?”

Mr. Roberts and historians say optimistically that they expect to get back inside the cave soon and envision finds like trinkets that 19th-century visitors tossed into the spring-water cistern for luck. Because of the setbacks, the mayor has asked the town’s police chief to oversee the restoration project.

“The delay will not seem very long when this historic site is returned to the people of the greater Hoboken metropolitan area,” said Mr. Roberts, 50, a real estate investor who was elected in 2001. Long before he became mayor, Mr. Roberts was interested in the cave, whose legend he has heard about since childhood.

The first mention of the cave appeared in travel journals in the 1830s, said Robert Foster, the director of the Hoboken Historical Museum. It was near Elysian Fields, a tract of land that stretched from the estate of Col. John Stevens north to Weehawken. Colonel Stevens ferried visitors from New York to attractions on the Hoboken waterfront, including the cave and River Walk. In etchings from the time, couples stroll near benches outside the cave, which sits near the shore of the Hudson.

In the summer of 1841, the place acquired a darker reputation, when the body of Ms. Rogers, an attractive 21-year-old clerk at a Manhattan tobacco store, was found. Her death — ruled a murder by the police at the time but now believed to have been the result of a bungled abortion — became a scandal. It was one of the first killings covered by tabloids, and the basis for the Poe potboiler “The Mystery of Marie Roget.”

By 1871, as Hoboken’s waterfront became more industrial, the luster of Elysian Fields and Sybil’s Cave faded. An article then in The New York Times about places to go rowing put it this way:

“Then, after a brief stroll under the superb old trees, which the insatiate hand of trade will not much longer leave to adorn the front of Hoboken, a peep into the now obsolete wonders of the Sybil’s Cave, or perhaps a dip into the sparkling waters at the base of Weehawken, the rower may return to breakfast, with a keener appetite than can be found in gallons of tonics or mineral waters.”

The cave’s natural spring was still flowing in 2004, when Daniel Gans, a local developer and friend of Mr. Roberts, broke through the long-covered mouth with a backhoe. The cave, made of the same greenish-brown serpentine rock as the cliff that looms over it, is partly natural, but mostly dug out, and is low enough in places to stoop a six-foot-tall explorer.

“To crawl into it that first time was a real thrill,” Mr. Gans said.

But the thrill did not last. Besides the fights over permits and insurance, financing for the project, which the mayor assumed would be easy to obtain, never materialized. “I’ve put $19,000 of my own money into this,” Mr. Roberts said.

Mr. Foster, from the museum, said that while the cave holds the promise of interesting finds inside, the main goal is to revive a rare oasis in Hoboken’s increasingly dense urban landscape. One of the few times he was able to get into the cave, he said, he stood inside, in pitch black, and looked out on a clear view of the Empire State Building.

“So many buildings get destroyed,” he said. “Here’s history being revealed.”
764 2007-06-26 WASHINGTON, June 25 — A District of Columbia administrative law judge who filed a $54 million lawsuit against his neighborhood dry cleaner over a pair of missing pants will not get a penny, a court here ruled Monday.

Judge Judith Bartnoff of Superior Court ruled that Judge Roy L. Pearson Jr. failed to prove that Custom Cleaners misled consumers with its “satisfaction guaranteed” sign. For that matter, Judge Pearson was not even able to convince her that they had lost his pants.

“The court finds that the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief whatsoever,” Judge Bartnoff wrote.

She ordered Judge Pearson to pay the defendants’ court costs, such as transcript and filing fees, which their lawyer said Monday could run as high as $5,000. But Judge Bartnoff has yet to rule on their motion for lawyers’ fees, which could top $100,000 and will hinge on whether she deems the lawsuit frivolous.

Judge Pearson, who represented himself, rejected a settlement offer of $12,000 in March. He asked for damages as high as $67.3 million, using a formula charging each of the store’s owners with multiple breaches of Washington’s consumer protection law. (He later lowered his claim to $54 million.) He did not answer his phone or his door or respond to an e-mail message Monday.
765 2007-06-26 SEATTLE, June 25 (AP) — Google is pressing for an extension to the Justice Department’s oversight of Microsoft’s business practices, which for the most part is set to expire in November, according to a court filing Monday.

“Microsoft’s hardwiring of its own desktop search product into Windows Vista violates the final judgment” in the United States government’s antitrust case against the software maker, Google said in the court document.

Over the last year, Google has complained to state and federal regulators that Microsoft’s Instant Search program, which helps Windows Vista users search their hard drives, slows down third-party desktop search programs. Google has also said that Microsoft makes it hard for PC users to choose alternatives to the built-in search, including its own free Google Desktop program.

The search company’s claims were meant to show that Microsoft was not complying with the antitrust settlement, reached in 2002 after the government concluded that Microsoft used its near-ubiquitous Windows operating system to suppress competition. Microsoft is now bound by a consent decree that requires it to help rivals build software that runs smoothly in Windows.

In a report published last week, the Justice Department and Microsoft detailed a compromise response to Google’s complaints that would let Vista users set a non-Microsoft program as the default desktop search engine.

For Google, those changes did not go far enough. The company asked Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly of the Federal District Court to extend beyond November parts of the consent decree that govern “middleware,” or software that links different computer programs.
766 2007-06-26 In Spain, the main entry point for cocaine in Europe, the report shows that 3 percent of the population uses cocaine, with particularly high levels recorded among teenagers, where the figure rises to 7.2 percent. By contrast, in the United States, 2.3 percent of the population, and 2.7 percent of teenagers, are users, Mr. Costa said.

He said that the market for amphetamine-type stimulants like Ecstasy was stable and that for the first time in decades, global statistics did not show a growth in the production and use of marijuana, even though it attracts 160 million annual customers and is grown in 172 of the 198 countries and territories participating in the study. The greatest concentrations were found in Afghanistan, Morocco and Pakistan.

According to the new data, global cannabis herb production eased 6 percent in 2005, the last year measured, from the year before. And global production of the amphetamine-style stimulants decreased 2 percent in 2005.

The report shows that amphetamine production continues to be primarily in Europe, notably in the Netherlands and Poland, followed by the Baltic region and Belgium.

Mr. Costa said coordinated drug law enforcement was driving up the volume of drug seizures, with 48 percent of the cocaine and 24 percent of the heroin produced globally now being intercepted. The interdiction figures for the two drugs in 1999 were, respectively, 24 percent and 15 percent.

This success, however, is forcing traffickers of cocaine from Colombia and heroin from Afghanistan to focus on establishing new routes, and smugglers are increasingly turning to Africa, the report said.

“This threat needs to be addressed quickly to stamp out organized crime, money laundering and corruption, and to prevent the spread of drug use that could cause havoc across a continent already plagued by many other tragedies,” Mr. Costa said.

The pattern of seizures outlined in the report shows that the transport of heroin via Central Asia to Russia is relatively disorganized with many people from countries along the routes involved.

By contrast, the report says, shipments of cocaine from Latin America are dominated by large syndicates based in Mexico and Colombia with little participation by the transit countries of Central America.

According to the report, the greatest spike in figures is occurring in Afghanistan, where the growth in opium cultivation in the country’s heavily conflicted south has made Helmand Province alone the world’s biggest supplier of heroin.

“The province of Helmand is likely to account for more illicit leaf cultivation than the entire rest of Afghanistan and more than the entire country of Colombia,” Mr. Costa said.

Ninety-two percent of the world’s heroin comes from poppies grown in Afghanistan, and the increase there more than canceled out successes in eliminating other sources of opium in Southeast Asia, where poppy cultivation has fallen 80 percent since 2000, Mr. Costa said.

“Southeast Asia is closing a tragic chapter that has blighted the Golden Triangle for decades,” Mr. Costa said. “The region is now almost opium free, yet it is not free of poverty and therefore farmers remain vulnerable to the temptations of illicit income.”

While he conceded that the statistics for Afghanistan were alarming, Mr. Costa asserted that they did not undermine the report’s overall conclusion that drug abuse was now being contained.

“The problem in Helmand is the fighting between the coalition forces and the Taliban and the fact that it is a province totally out of control,” he said. “In Helmand, we don’t have a drug problem, we have an insurgency problem.”

While he had praise for American-led drug control efforts, he said that there remained 25 million drug abusers in the world and that the new gains could be lost if there was not greater awareness of the need to treat addiction as a sickness.

“If we see addicts as people affected by illness, the way we do with cancer or diabetes or tuberculosis, if we bring drug addiction into the mainstream of health care in major countries, then we would make real progress in curbing consumption,” he said.
767 2007-06-26 Chauncey Billups, the Detroit Pistons’ point guard, has opted out of the final year of his six-year, $35 million contract to become an unrestricted free agent heading into the summer signing season.

“He informed the team this morning that he was opting out of his final year with the Pistons, and that makes him a free agent — which we expected,” the team spokesman Matt Dobek said yesterday.

Billups, a 6-foot-3, 202-pound All-Star, has said he would prefer to stay with Detroit and expected to be back if the Pistons can match the best deal he can find from another team.

Joe Dumars, the Pistons’ president for basketball operations, said shortly after the team was eliminated from the Eastern Conference finals by the Cleveland Cavaliers that his top priority was re-signing Billups, 30, when he became a free agent.

“We certainly hope we will be” able to re-sign him, Dobek said.

The 10-year veteran Billups, who played with Boston, Denver, Orlando and Minnesota in his first four seasons, was named the most valuable player of the 2004 N.B.A. finals, when Detroit won the championship. He was an All-Star in each of the next two seasons.

Billups averaged 17 points and 7.2 assists in 70 games last season, and he has averaged 14.5 points and 5.3 assists over his nine-year career.
768 2007-06-26 His high school apologized for blacking him out, but Andre Jackson, a graduating senior whose kissing summoned the censors, remained unsatisfied.

Last week, a picture of Mr. Jackson kissing his boyfriend was deemed “suggestive” by the superintendent of the Newark public schools and redacted, with black marker, from the yearbook of East Side High School. Yesterday, the school district reversed course, and released a statement apologizing to Mr. Jackson and saying the yearbook would be reissued with the picture unmarked.

“Superintendent Marion A. Bolden personally apologizes to Mr. Jackson and regrets any embarrassment and unwanted attention the matter has brought to him,” read the statement, which was issued by the Newark public schools’ general counsel, Perry L. Lattiboudere. “The district takes pride in its diverse student population and supports all our students, regardless of race, gender, ethnic background or sexual orientation.”

Mr. Jackson, 18, said that nobody bothered to call him. “I’m not looking to accept the apology,” he said in a telephone interview yesterday afternoon, a few minutes after he finished his graduation rehearsal. Any apology needed to be personal, and not contained in a press statement, he said. After all, the yearbook incident revived tensions with members of his family he has quarreled with because he is gay, he said.

“I have yet to speak to the board, the school, anyone,” he said.

Ms. Bolden, the superintendent, did not return calls seeking comment. Her office said that a meeting between Mr. Jackson and Ms. Bolden was scheduled for today, but Mr. Jackson said he knew nothing about it.
769 2007-06-26 There were squeals of recognition, hugs and tears. There was a “soirée,” as the invitation put it, on Saturday night and a picnic on Sunday afternoon in Riverbank State Park in Hamilton Heights. But one theme persisted, beneath the laughing memories and the hopeful chatter at the Gathering, a weekend reunion of performers from Dance Theater of Harlem. How lucky they were, attendees told one another repeatedly in different ways, to have found a place where classically trained African-American dancers could perform.

Dance Theater of Harlem was founded in 1969 by Arthur Mitchell, a black star of the 1950s and ’60s at New York City Ballet, and his teacher, Karel Shook. Financial troubles forced the troupe into hiatus in 2004, though its school continues at the headquarters on West 152nd Street. Over the weekend there was talk about small but important signs of progress in putting the company back onstage.

“In many ways it’s back to the future,” said Laveen Naidu, executive director of the organization and a former dancer with the company. “Dance Theater didn’t start out as the company. It grew into that from lots of hard work. The environment has changed. And we are in the process of doing that again.”

Dance Theater has whittled down its deficit by about two-thirds, to $800,000, Mr. Naidu said, adding that its budget next year will be $4.3 million. Following the precepts of Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Shook, who, like practical French cooks, used all the ingredients at hand, the company is working with Mustang Marketing, a feisty young consulting group based at Southern Methodist University, to help chart the way ahead.

And reunion attendees talked excitedly of the news that the internationally known balletmaster John Taras, who died in 2004, had left the rights to all his ballets to the Dance Theater, augmenting a repertory that ranges from a Creole “Giselle” to works by George Balanchine and Agnes de Mille and fusion pieces like Louis Johnson’s “Forces of Rhythm,” a company signature.

Photographs by Marbeth Schnare lined the walls of the big, airy third-floor studio where the reunion, organized by the dancers themselves, began on Saturday morning. Ms. Schnare chronicled the company’s history from the start, providing a vivid portrait of early classes, smiling company members meeting with American presidents and important cultural figures of the times, and flower-strewn curtain calls on international tours.
770 2007-06-26 Mr. Murdoch cooperates closely with China’s censors and state broadcasters, several people who worked for him in China say. He cultivates political ties that he hopes will insulate his business ventures from regulatory interference, these people say.

In speeches and interviews, Mr. Murdoch often supports the policies of Chinese leaders and attacks their critics. A group of China-based reporters for The Journal accused him in a letter to Dow Jones shareholders of “sacrificing journalistic integrity to satisfy personal and political aims,” a charge the News Corporation denies.

His courtship has made him the Chinese leadership’s favorite foreign media baron. He has dined with former President Jiang Zemin in the Zhongnanhai leadership compound in Beijing and repeatedly met other members of the ruling Politburo in Beijing, New York and London. Television channels affiliated with Mr. Murdoch beam more programming into China than any other foreign media group.

“The reality is that the Chinese government is not going to let anything radical happen in media,” says Gary Davey, an Australian who once ran Star TV for Mr. Murdoch. “But we got a lot farther than anyone else did.”

News Corporation officials in Beijing and Hong Kong declined to comment for this article. After The New York Times began a two-part series on Monday about how Mr. Murdoch operates his company, the News Corporation issued a statement:

“News Corp. has consistently cooperated with The New York Times in its coverage of the company. However, the agenda for this unprecedented series is so blatantly designed to further the Times’s commercial self interests — by undermining a direct competitor poised to become an even more formidable competitor — that it would be reckless of us to participate in their malicious assault. Ironically, The Times, by using its news pages to advance its own corporate business agenda, is doing the precise thing they accuse us of doing without any evidence.”

China has never been a make-or-break proposition for the News Corporation, since its operations here represent a small part of the company, which is valued at $68 billion. But Mr. Murdoch pushed for nearly 15 years to create a satellite television network that would cover every major market in the world, including China.

He coveted the $50 billion in ad spending that flows mainly to China’s state-owned news media whose products, even after years of improvements, still reflect propaganda directives as well as consumer demand.

The News Corporation’s competitors in television and film, the Walt Disney Company, Viacom and Time Warner, also had to accommodate Chinese demands as the price of admission to the local market.

But Mr. Murdoch gave more, his associates said.

“The Chinese discovered that Rupert was a real emperor who controlled everything himself,” said H. S. Liu, who oversaw government relations for the News Corporation in China. “His rivals had big, cautious bureaucracies that could not always deliver.”

China has long meant more than business to the Murdoch clan. Mr. Murdoch’s father, Keith, wrote about China as a war correspondent in the 1930s. As a newspaper proprietor in Australia, he collected Ming dynasty porcelain.

When Rupert Murdoch visited Shanghai in 1997, Wendi Deng, then a junior News Corporation employee in Hong Kong, flew up to serve as his translator. Together they explored Shanghai, which was then emerging as a lively center of finance and commerce.

“He was knocked over by the place,” recalled Bruce Dover, a former China manager for Mr. Murdoch, “and by her.” Within two years, Mr. Murdoch had left his second wife, Anna Mann, and married Ms. Deng.

Mr. Murdoch’s initial foray into China was disastrous. Shortly after he purchased the satellite broadcaster Star TV in Hong Kong for nearly $1 billion in 1993, he made a speech in London that enraged the Chinese leadership.

He said that modern communications technology had “proved an unambiguous threat to totalitarian regimes everywhere.” Star could beam programming to every corner of China, and Murdoch had paid a big premium for the broadcaster for that reason.

Prime Minister Li Peng promptly outlawed private ownership of satellite dishes, which had once proliferated on rooftops. Star TV faced a threat to its viability.

Chinese leaders rebuffed his attempts to apologize in person — a ban that lasted nearly four years. But he sought to placate them. One target was Deng Xiaoping, then retired but still China’s senior leader.

HarperCollins, Mr. Murdoch’s book unit, published a biography of Mr. Deng written by his daughter, Deng Rong. Although it mainly recycled propaganda about Mr. Deng, Mr. Murdoch threw an elaborate book party at Le Cirque in New York. The book sold poorly.

He also cultivated ties with Mr. Deng’s eldest son, Deng Pufang, who is disabled. Mr. Murdoch chartered a jet to ferry a troop of disabled acrobats that the younger Mr. Deng had promoted to perform abroad, according to a former News Corporation official.

Star TV overhauled its programming to suit Chinese tastes. In 1994 it dropped BBC News, which had frequently angered Chinese officials with its reports on mainland affairs.

Mr. Murdoch said the decision was made for business reasons, not political reasons. Mr. Davey, who then ran Star TV, agreed that cost was a primary consideration.

But he said he had pressed the British broadcaster to stop showing a video of a man facing down a tank outside Tiananmen Square — an indelible image from China’s crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in 1989 — during its on-air programming breaks. He said the BBC refused, calling the video a “journalistic presentation.”

“The BBC never got the sensitivities of the situation,” Mr. Davey said. “It was relentless and stupid. Neither party was too upset about ending the relationship.”

If Star was a potential threat to the one-party state, it was also a new opportunity. Chinese officials disliked Western news media coverage of China and wanted to present their own face to the world. Mr. Murdoch provided the access they wanted.

In 1996, he entered a joint venture with Liu Changle, a onetime radio host for the People’s Liberation Army who had connections with propaganda officials. Their joint news and entertainment channel, called Phoenix, beamed programs to the small number of urban households permitted to see foreign broadcasts in China. Mr. Murdoch transmitted the same programming around the world on his satellites.

Phoenix imitated the fast pace and on-the-scene reporting style popular in the West and shook up the mainland’s staid news media, which still featured well-coiffed narrators reading scripts about meetings between senior leaders held that day. But Phoenix also tended to steer clear of the most sensitive political topics and could be bombastically nationalistic.

Phoenix may have demonstrated that the Chinese news media could become more sophisticated and dynamic without threatening the party’s power. It also showed that Mr. Murdoch could be an asset.

“Officials realized he had a good intentions,” Mr. Liu said.

After Phoenix proved a hit, Ding Guangen, a hard-liner who exercised sweeping control over all Chinese news media as chief of the country’s Propaganda Department, granted Mr. Murdoch his first meeting. So did Zhu Rongji, then the prime minister.

Mr. Zhu noted that Mr. Murdoch had become an American citizen to comply with television ownership rules in the United States. He joked that if he wanted to broadcast more in China, he should consider becoming Chinese, a person who attended the meeting recalled.

The News Corporation’s outreach intensified. When Mr. Murdoch learned that China Central Television, known as CCTV, was struggling to develop a news Web site, he dispatched a team from Fox News to help design and operate one. Another News Corporation team brought People’s Daily, the mouthpiece of the Communist Party, online.

China also needed help encrypting satellite transmissions so it could develop a pay-TV service, a specialty of the News Corporation’s NDS subsidiary. NDS helped Beijing create a proprietary encryption system. It never realized sizable royalties, people who worked at the News Corporation said.

Similarly, the company brought delegations of Chinese officials to Britain, so they could study how Mr. Murdoch’s BSkyB unit had become a lucrative gateway for satellite television in Europe.

“Our thinking was that we would show off our technology and they would contract News Corporation to do the same for them,” said Mr. Dover, Mr. Murdoch’s former China manager. “Their thinking was, ‘We want this for ourselves.’ ”

“It ended being more of a giveaway,” Mr. Dover said.

In late 1998, President Jiang invited Mr. Murdoch to Zhongnanhai. The official Xinhua news agency, reporting on the session, made clear that the media baron had a new reputation.

“President Jiang expressed appreciation for the efforts made by world media mogul Rupert Murdoch in presenting China objectively and cooperating with the Chinese press over the last two years,” Xinhua said.

The Murdochs often echoed the Chinese government line. In a 1999 interview with Vanity Fair, Mr. Murdoch spoke disparagingly of the Dalai Lama, whom the Chinese condemn as a separatist. “I have heard cynics who say he is a very political old monk shuffling around in Gucci shoes,” he said.

James Murdoch, who ran Star TV from 2000 to 2003, said in a speech in Los Angeles in 2001 that Western reporters in China supported “destabilizing forces” that are “very, very dangerous for the Chinese government.” He lashed out at the Falun Gong spiritual sect, which had just endured brutal repression in China, calling it “dangerous and apocalyptic.”

The Journal won a Pulitzer Prize for its coverage of the suppression of the Falun Gong movement in 2001. Last month, seven China-based reporters for The Journal wrote a letter to Dow Jones’s current controlling shareholders arguing that the articles on Falun Gong “may never have seen the light of day” if The Journal had been owned by Mr. Murdoch.

News Corporation officials say such fears are baseless. While several reporters who worked in China for the company’s publications in the 1990s say Mr. Murdoch’s editors pressed them to tone down their coverage of delicate issues that could anger the Chinese leadership, reporters serving in such posts now say they have not come under similar pressures.

By the late 1990s, Mr. Murdoch was traveling several times a year to the country. He was often joined by Wendi Murdoch, who left her formal position in the company but continued to scout for investments in China and participate in strategy decisions there, several people who worked for the News Corporation said.

One of her roles: introducing her husband to Chinese entrepreneurs. Many of them had received business degrees in the United States, as she had at Yale.

The Murdochs invested about $150 million in half a dozen start-up Internet and telecom companies at the height of the Internet bubble between 1999 and 2001. Only one, Netcom, returned an appreciable investment profit, two former News Corporation executives said.

But one of the entrepreneurs the Murdochs befriended during the investment spree was Jiang Mianheng, the son of President Jiang. Ms. Murdoch and some other News Corporation employees argued internally that the younger Mr. Jiang could help Star distribute its broadcasts more widely, two former News Corporation executives said.

It is unclear what role, if any, Mr. Jiang played. But in 2002, the company became the first foreign broadcaster to receive “landing rights” to sell programs to cable systems in Guangdong Province, near Hong Kong.

The license came with a catch. The News Corporation again consented to transmit Chinese programs — this time, the English-language news, talk shows and cultural shows on CCTV’s Channel 9 — to the United States and Britain. Time Warner later agreed to similar terms. But the market appeared to be opening, with the News Corporation in the lead.

The News Corporation and its joint venture partners controlled 9 of the 31 foreign channels, including news, movies, music videos and sports, more than any other foreign media company. Officially, however, it could still reach only government and foreign compounds and luxury hotels, as well as homes in Guangdong. Mr. Murdoch wanted more.

Good news appeared to come in 2004. The authorities began allowing Chinese-foreign joint ventures to produce shows that could be broadcast locally without the restrictions that apply to overseas content.

Mr. Murdoch interpreted the order liberally. The News Corporation allied itself with a state-run broadcaster in the western province of Qinghai. The arrangement covered not only production but also distribution. Through middlemen, the News Corporation also purchased prime-time slots in 25 Chinese provinces. It had become a backdoor national broadcaster.

Aware that the venture pushed the limits of what regulators allowed, the News Corporation sought to arrange political cover, people involved in arranging the deal said. It recruited a media and stock market entrepreneur named Ding Yuchen to join the venture as a partner. Mr. Ding’s father, Ding Guangen, was the longtime propaganda chief. A second partner was the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League, considered the political power base of China’s new top leader, Hu Jintao.

In comments to News Corporation investors in early 2005, Mr. Murdoch boasted of a “new venture,” which he did not name, “where we’ll have nearly 50 percent of a prime-time channel, which will have access to well over 100 million homes.”

It did not endure. The News Corporation used Qinghai to broadcast branded shows it had produced for its own, more limited channel. When they began appearing nationally, competitors complained that Mr. Murdoch was getting special treatment.

The Propaganda Department forced the News Corporation to end its involvement with Qinghai shortly thereafter. The cost of the debacle: between $30 million and $60 million, people connected to the company at the time said.

News Corporation executives said they felt the political winds had shifted against them. President Jiang, who retired from his final post as military chief in 2004, had lost much of his day-to-day influence. President Hu’s propaganda team pulled in the reins. Mr. Murdoch said publicly that he had hit a “brick wall.”

Mr. Liu, Mr. Murdoch’s partner at Phoenix, said the Qinghai venture “is not something I would have tried” because it ran afoul of media regulations. But he said Mr. Murdoch had not lost the good will of senior officials. “They still recognize his contributions,” he said.

When Mr. Murdoch visited China late last year, he met Liu Yunshan, Mr. Ding’s successor as propaganda chief, and Liu Qi, the party secretary of Beijing and the top coordinator for the 2008 Olympics.

The News Corporation also entered an alliance with China Mobile, the state-owned company that is the world’s largest mobile communications operator. Mr. Liu of Phoenix said the move “could open a new, lucrative highway” to provide media content to China’s 480 million mobile-phone users.

Wendi Murdoch has stepped up her role in China. She plotted a strategy for the News Corporation’s social networking site, MySpace, to enter the Chinese market, people involved with the company said. The News Corporation decided to license the MySpace name to a local consortium of investors organized by Ms. Murdoch.

As a local venture, MySpace China, which began operations in the spring, abides by domestic censorship laws and the “self discipline” regime that governs proprietors of Chinese Web sites. Every page on the site has a link allowing users or monitors to “report inappropriate information” to the authorities. Microsoft, Google and Yahoo have made similar accommodations for their Web sites in China.

The Murdochs will soon be able to call Beijing home. Workers have nearly finished renovating their traditional courtyard-style house in Beijing’s exclusive Beichizi district, a block from the Forbidden City. Beneath the steep-pitched roofs and wooden eaves of freshly coated vermillion and gold, the courtyard has an underground swimming pool and billiard room, according to people who have seen the design.

Plainclothes security officers linger on the street outside. One neighbor is the retired prime minister, Mr. Zhu, who invited Mr. Murdoch to become Chinese.
771 2007-06-26 The case is rooted in the death of Michael J. Sandy, 29, last October. According to the charges, the three men used an Internet chat room to lure Mr. Sandy to a secluded area in Sheepshead Bay known as a gay trysting spot. They were in search of money and drugs, it is charged, and thought that a gay man would be an easy target, unlikely to put up much resistance or to report the crime.

The charges say that they beat Mr. Sandy, but that he broke free and ran onto the nearby Belt Parkway, where he was hit by a car. Five days later, he died.

The defendants are accused not only of murder but also of murder as a hate crime. It is the hate-crime charge that their lawyer, Gerald J. Di Chiara, wants tossed out. They bore no ill will against gays, Mr. Di Chiara says. “The crimes alleged are not crimes of hate but rather crimes of opportunity,” he wrote the judge, Justice Jill Konviser-Levine of State Supreme Court.

The distinction that Mr. Di Chiara makes is significant, some would say. Not Brooklyn prosecutors, however. They acknowledge that there is no evidence of “an animus toward gay men” by the defendants. But blatant hatred is not required under the 2000 law, they say. If it were, the law would have explicitly said so.

What it says instead is that a person commits a hate crime when he makes someone a target “in whole or in substantial part because of a belief or perception regarding the race, color, national origin, ancestry, gender, religion, religious practice, age, disability or sexual orientation of a person.” The prosecutors say that the three men picked on Mr. Sandy precisely “because of a belief or perception” about him — namely that a gay man would make a soft target.

The statute’s language, they told the judge, is “unambiguous.”

WOULD that life were so simple.

The law also says that “proof of race, color, national origin” and all the rest “does not, by itself, constitute legally sufficient evidence” to substantiate a hate crime charge. More is presumably needed. Like what? Mr. Di Chiara cited a State Senate memorandum from 2000 that spoke of limiting prosecutions to “only those who are truly motivated by invidious hatred.”

Invidious hatred? Not on the part of his clients, the lawyer said. They were just looking for easy pickings.

Under the prosecution’s interpretation, he said, hate crime charges could be brought against a mugger who attacks an old woman in the belief that she will offer little resistance. Or against a burglar who goes after an illegal immigrant figuring that the victim won’t go to the police.

One might also conclude, Mr. Di Chiara said, that “all sex crimes are hate crimes because the victims were chosen ‘because of’ their sex.” Yet you do not see rapists routinely prosecuted as hate criminals.

Slippery slopes. They are what happens, some say, when the law does not let actions speak for themselves, and climbs into people’s heads in often fruitless attempts to figure out what is rattling there.
772 2007-06-26 In this lesson, students reflect on the ecological and chemical changes caused by forest fires. Then they work in groups to create diagrams showing how specific variables can affect a forest fire and the chemical reactions that take place during c...
773 2007-06-26 Hungary's central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate, the European Union's highest, for the first time since 2005 after inflation slowed. Policy makers, led by the central bank's governor, Andras Simor, left, cut the two-week deposi...
774 2007-06-26 HSBC Holdings, the European bank, said it would buy part of an office tower in Shanghai to house its China headquarters as it speeds up expansion in China. HSBC agreed to buy naming rights and occupy 20 floors of one of the twin towers of the Shan...
775 2007-06-26 MURDOCH'S BUSINESS IN CHINA As Rupert Murdoch seeks to buy Dow Jones, the parent company of The Wall Street Journal, his record in China has drawn attention for what it shows about his management style.      AN I.P.O. IS WITHDRAWN Everquest Financ...
776 2007-06-26 Hate-crime laws have long had their skeptics, and the one enacted by New York State in 2000 is no exception.     The law increases the penalties for wrongdoing committed out of hatred of the victim because of factors like  race, religion, age, sex...
777 2007-06-26 The Saga Group, a British provider of insurance and vacations to the consumers 50 and older, agreed to merge with the Automobile Association in a transaction that values the two closely held companies at £6.2 billion ($12.4 billion). The deal wou...
778 2007-06-26 Financial shares tumbled yesterday on concern that losses tied to subprime mortgages would  deepen, extending the stock market's worst weekly decline since March.     Bear Stearns, the second-biggest United States underwriter of mortgage bonds, sl...
779 2007-06-27 The new city transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, answers a third round of questions from readers....
780 2007-06-27 The popular Di Fara Pizza of Brooklyn reopened on Saturday, after being shut down for health code violations....
781 2007-06-27 A rare jaw problem may prevent Takeru Kobayashi from taking part in the Nathan’s Famous July 4 International Hot-Dog Eating Contest next week — a competition he has won every year since 2001....
782 2007-06-27 Conde Nast adds dynamic ad insertion to podcasts...
783 2007-06-27 Bid for Tweeters...
784 2007-06-27 Angry drivers set fire to at least two gas stations overnight in Tehran after the government announced that gasoline rationing would begin....
785 2007-06-27 Releasing the family jewels is a big step forward for the C.I.A. But don't revel in the glasnost just yet. There are still troves upon troves of documents that the C.I.A., F.B.I., and other intelligence agencies are keeping locked away. Dirty tric...
786 2007-06-27 EuropaCorp, the film production company founded by the French director Luc Besson, set a price range on Tuesday for a stock market listing, which it said would raise more than 70 million euros ($94.2 million). EuropaCorp gave a range of 14 euros t...
787 2007-06-27 Big Lots, the nation's largest seller of overstocked and discontinued items and whose fare includes organic plant food made from chicken droppings, is losing its novelty for its hedge fund investors, Bloomberg News reported. New management and a p...
788 2007-06-27 Having fun, Mr. Hillier says, it what life is all about, no matter how old you are, and he is proving it with another venture he just started with his wife, Barbara, a Web site called Obit (www.obit-mag.com) that runs obituaries of people famous and obscure, pets and even inanimate objects. It also features New Yorker cartoons about death and essays about the living, including a section about active people over age 80.

"It's not about obits, it's about life," Mr. Hillier said.

It is unorthodox. Obit published an obituary of the "Sopranos." It ran a feature on "Edwin Traisman: A Life in Pictures," a series of images that trace the evolution of Mr. Traisman's creation, Cheez Whiz, with a photo of him at the end. It published a link to The New York Times review of the Broadway production "Eurydice," presumably because the play lingers "on the themes of love, death and memory."

It runs a daily "Mourning Roundup" where you can go to any major city to see who has died. It has a feature called "Reveal" that invites readers to write obituaries of people, pets and pretty much anything else. "One person wrote about the demolition of a building," Mr. Hillier said.

As entrepreneurs do, he believes he has spotted a neglected market niche: fascination with death. Most people turn to the obituary pages of newspapers to see who died, he says, but Obit aims to go beyond providing information to examining death from every conceivable angle.

He got the idea for the magazine when he noticed that a woman sitting next to him on an airplane was weeping as she read the obituary of Bob Keeshan, who played Captain Kangaroo on television for many years.

"That made me think that when somebody you have some association with dies, even if it is a TV personality that was important to you as a kid, a little something inside you dies, too," Mr. Hillier said. "We are trying to capture that."

He says Obit has not "quite got the right magic yet" because only half of the site's 5,500 hits a day are return visits. "We've got to get the magic that made that woman cry," he said.

Mr. Hillier says he and Obit's editor, Avery Rome, are prepared to try just about anything that would grab the attention of Internet browsers, especially baby boomers, who he believes are struggling to face up to their mortality. Obit has even written a story about freeze-drying rather than cremating corpses, "and spreading the remains over your lawn for the grass to grow on," he said.

That somehow led to a thought by yours truly: Why not run jokes about death? Mr. Hillier said he had not thought of that, but he liked the concept.

What is going on here? Does it make sense for a near septuagenarian, who by his own account puts in 90-hour workweeks, to embark on such an unusual undertaking?

Absolutely, says Tim Knox, a Huntsville, Ala., serial entrepreneur, business consultant, columnist and author of "Everything I Know About Business I Learned From My Mama."

"Just look at this guy," he said. "Gosh, he's almost 70. He's traveling the world, doing property deals, starting a magazine. He's not ready to become fodder for his Web site."

Mr. Knox lauded Mr. Hillier for targeting the graying population, a huge and lucrative market. Also, he said, he is taking a smart approach in mixing obituaries, essays, cartoons and sundry other elements into an entertainment package.

"I want to hang out with this guy," Mr. Knox said. "I want to be him in a few years."

His advice to Mr. Hillier: create an Internet community around the site, allowing people to comment on other writers' contributions. It could be the next myspace?.com, he said.

Mr. Hillier said he was "trying to get that blog thing going — that could be the magic." He is not counting on creating a media empire — he has set a limit of investing $2 million before Obit becomes profitable — but he thinks the enterprise "could become very big."

More important, perhaps, it arouses a passion in him that is a trademark of the entrepreneur. "I can dream all I want," he said. "Right now, I'm feeling the same rush I did when I started Hillier."

Is it his last hurrah? He scoffs at that question and describes his latest Princeton, N.J., real estate venture, the creation of an "Italian village" on a 30-acre site that will leave 20 acres forever green. He figures the $78 million project will take six years.

"Life moves on to more and more opportunities," he said. "I feel sorry for people who say they are retiring."
789 2007-06-27 Three former executives of Countrywide Financial, a mortgage lender, have agreed to plead guilty to insider trading in the week prior to the release of a disappointing earnings report, federal prosecutors have said. Alan Cao, Quan Zhu and Jun Shi ...
790 2007-06-27 Manulife Financial, a Canadian life insurance company, said it would buy the Berkshire-TWC Financial Group's mutual fund and securities dealerships to bolster its Canadian wealth management business. Manulife said the deal would double its number ...
791 2007-06-27 Coca-Cola will buy a 34 percent stake in the Tokyo Coca-Cola Bottling Company to increase sales in Japan after volume declined last year. The Japanese subsidiary of Coca-Cola will buy new shares of the closely held Tokyo-based bottler, the compani...
792 2007-06-27 The White House, the vice president’s office and the Justice Department declined today to say how they would respond to the subpoenas. “We’re aware of the committee’s action and will respond appropriately,” Tony Fratto, White House deputy press secretary, said.

“It’s unfortunate that Congressional Democrats continue to choose the route of confrontation,” he added.

A spokeswoman for Vice President Cheney also said his office would respond later, while a Justice Department spokesman said, “The department will continue to work closely with the Congress as they exercise their oversight functions, and we will review this matter in the spirit of that longstanding relationship.”

The Senate panel’s action comes after dramatic testimony last month by James Comey, former deputy attorney general, who described a March 2004 confrontation at the hospital bedside of then-Attorney General John Ashcroft between Justice Department officials and White House aides over the legality of the program.

Before Mr. Comey’s testimony, the White House had largely been able to fend off aggressive oversight of the N.S.A. wiretapping program since it was first disclosed in December 2005. The Republican-controlled Congress held a series of hearings last year, and even considered several legislative proposals to curb the scope of the eavesdropping. But Mr. Cheney repeatedly pressured Republican Congressional leaders to pull back without forcing the administration’s hand.

When the Democrats won the 2006 midterm elections, many political analysts predicted that the N.S.A. program — which a federal judge declared unconstitutional — would be one of the first Bush administration operations to undergo new scrutiny. But in January, administration officials announced that it was placing the program under the legal framework of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a move it had previously refused to consider.

The Democrats have largely focused on objections to the war in Iraq in their first months in power, and had appeared reluctant to take aggressive steps to challenge policies on harsh interrogation practices, secret Central Intelligence Agency prisons and wiretapping without warrants, for fear of being labeled soft on terrorism.

For instance, at a confirmation hearing June 19 for John A. Rizzo as general counsel of the C.I.A., no member of the Senate Intelligence Committee directly challenged the agency’s practices of secret detention or harsh interrogation.

Mr. Rizzo successfully dodged the tougher questions by saying he preferred to answer them in closed session. The Senate Intelligence Committee has conducted closed-door oversight of the N.S.A. wiretapping program, but it has not been as aggressive as the Judiciary Committee in publicly challenging the administration over it.

But Mr. Comey’s testimony has given Democrats an opening to argue that they are focusing on the legal issues involved in the program, rather than on the merits of monitoring the phone calls of suspected terrorists.

“The Comey testimony moved this front and center,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is a member of the Judiciary Committee. “Alarm bells went off. His testimony made it clear that there had been an effort to circumvent the law.”

The Senate panel has been asking the administration for documents related to the program since Mr. Comey’s testimony, but the White House had not responded to a letter from Mr. Leahy and Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the ranking Republican on the committee. As a result, the panel voted 13 to 3 last Thursday to authorize Mr. Leahy to issue the subpoenas, with three Republicans voting in favor of issuing them. Separately, the House Judiciary Committee has also threatened to issue subpoenas for the same documents.

The wiretapping is just one of several legal issues on which Congress and the administration are squaring off. For example, the White House is under pressure to respond to subpoenas issued two weeks ago by the House and Senate judiciary committees for witnesses and documents related to the dismissal of federal prosecutors. Thursday is the deadline for the White House to turn over documents linked to Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel and Sara M. Taylor, the former political director.

If the White House fails to produce the material, the House and Senate could begin a process leading to contempt resolutions to force compliance. Meanwhile, Mr. Cheney is in a separate standoff with Congress and the National Archive over his office’s refusal to follow an executive order concerning the handling of classified documents by his office.

Congressional Democrats were angered when Mr. Cheney declared that his office did not have to abide by the order that all executive branch offices provide data to the National Archives about the amount of material they have classified.

Mr. Cheney’s office said that he was not a member of the executive branch, because he was president of the Senate, and so was not bound by the order. House Democrats responded by threatening to cut off funding to his office.
793 2007-06-27 TEHRAN, June 27 — Angry drivers set fire to at least two gasoline stations in Tehran Tuesday night after the government announced that fuel would be rationed beginning at midnight.

Long lines were seen at other gas stations in the capital today as new rules took effect, limiting drivers of private cars to 26 gallons a month at the subsidized price of 34 cents a gallon. Taxicab drivers are limited to 211 gallons a month. The government is still considering whether to allow drivers to buy additional fuel at higher prices.

Traffic jams developed near some stations as police officers worked to control the lines.

The government first planned to start the rationing a year ago, but put the decision off repeatedly out of fear that it would spark unrest. State television reported today that “several gas stations and public places had been attacked by vandals.” One was set ablaze by protesters in the western Tehran neighborhood of Poonak and Niayesh. Another in Azadi Street in southwest Tehran was attacked, according to a report in Etemad, a daily newspaper.

Iran is rich with crude oil and is the second largest exporter of oil in OPEC. But it has far fewer refineries than it needs to satisfy booming domestic demand, so it must import as much as half of its gasoline from refineries abroad, at a cost of $5 billion a year.

Analysts warned that rationing would make it difficult for unemployed people who used their private cars as taxis to earn a living, and that it could accelerate inflation, which is already a problem in the country. Prices of dairy products like milk, butter and yogurt have risen by 20 percent or more this week.
794 2007-06-27 LONDON, June 27 — It had been so often foretold as to seem an anticlimax. But finally — and not quite as in the movie starring Helen Mirren — Gordon Brown got his “Queen moment” today when he took over from Tony Blair as prime minister of Britain.

By long tradition and constitutional custom, both men paid visits to Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace, where the gold and blue royal standard fluttered aloft to signify that the monarch was, in fact, in residence. (The red, white and blue Union Jack flies in its place when she is not).

For the Queen, there was, perhaps, a hint of déjà vu: Mr. Brown is the 11th prime minister to hold office since her reign began in 1952. And, as with all the others, the details of the encounter were kept secret — save for one assertion from Buckingham Palace: the movie “The Queen” got it wrong.

Technically, the moment when the Queen first greets a new prime minister is called “Kissing Hands” — and that’s what happened in the movie, when Mr. Blair, played by the actor Michael Sheen, physically knelt to kiss the hand of the monarch, played by Ms. Mirren, as he took office in 1997.

But a spokesperson for Buckingham Palace said shortly before Mr. Brown’s encounter today that “there will be no kneeling or kissing of hands — that is not something that has happened in modern-day politics.”
795 2007-06-27 Bolivia rallied to tie host Venezuela, 2-2, in the Copa América last night at San Cristobal, Venezuela, scoring the equalizer when Juan Carlos Arce tipped in the ball in the 83rd minute.Earlier, in a game at Merida, Peru upset the 14-time champion Uruguay, 3-0, on goals by Miguel Villalta, Juan Carlos Marino and Paolo Guerrero.The tournament, South America’s championship, is being played in Venezuela for the first time in its 91-year history. The United States, an invited guest, opens tomorrow against Argentina.
796 2007-06-27 The Coca-Cola Company will buy a 34 percent stake in the Tokyo Coca-Cola Bottling Company to increase sales in Japan after volume declined last year. The Japanese subsidiary of Coca-Cola will buy new shares of the closely held Tokyo-based bottler, the companies said in a statement. The financial terms were not disclosed. The Takanashi family, which founded the bottler 50 years ago, will retain control of about 65 percent of the company, Charlie Sutlive, a Coca-Cola spokesman, said.
797 2007-06-27 Iran, the world’s second-largest oil exporter, will begin gasoline rationing for private vehicles today to rein in consumption and cut expensive gas imports, state television reported, quoting the Oil Ministry. It said private cars would get 100 liters of gas per month, or 26 gallons.
798 2007-06-27 In recent years, a handful of chefs and restaurateurs have invoked intellectual property concepts, including trademarks, patents and trade dress — the distinctive look and feel of a business — to defend their restaurants, their techniques and even their recipes, but most have stopped short of a courtroom. The Pearl Oyster Bar suit may be the most aggressive use of those concepts by the owner of a small restaurant. Some legal experts believe the number of cases will grow as chefs begin to think more like chief executives.

Charles Valauskas, a lawyer in Chicago who represents a number of restaurants and chefs in intellectual property matters, called their discovery of intellectual property law “long overdue” and attributed it to greater competition as well as the high cost of opening a restaurant.

“Now the stakes are so high,” he said. “The average restaurant can be millions of dollars. If I were an investor I’d want to do something to make sure my investment is protected.”

Ms. Charles’s investment was modest. She built Pearl Oyster Bar for about $120,000 — a cost that in today’s market qualifies as an early-bird special.

She acknowledged that Pearl was itself inspired by another narrow, unassuming place, Swan Oyster Depot in San Francisco. But she said she had spent many months making hundreds of small decisions about her restaurant’s look, feel and menu.

Those decisions made the place her own, she said, and were colored by her history. The paint scheme, for instance, was meant to evoke the seascape along the Maine coast where she spent summers as a girl.

“My restaurant is a personal reflection of me, my experience, my family,” she said. “That restaurant is me.”

Mr. McFarland, she said, had unfairly profited from all the thought she had put into building Pearl. “To have that handed to you, so you don’t have to make those decisions — it’s unfair,” she said.

But the detail that seems to gnaw at her most is a $7 appetizer on Mr. McFarland’s menu: “Ed’s Caesar.”

She has never eaten it, but she and her lawyers claim it is made from her own Caesar salad recipe, which calls for a coddled egg and English muffin croutons.

She learned it from her mother, who extracted it decades ago from the chef at a long-gone Los Angeles restaurant. It became a kind of signature at Pearl. And although she taught Mr. McFarland how to make it, she said she had guarded the recipe more closely than some restaurateurs watch their wine cellars.

“When I taught him, I said, ‘You will never make this anywhere else,’ ” she insisted. According to lawyers for Ms. Charles, the Caesar salad recipe is a trade secret and Mr. McFarland had no more business taking it with him after he left than a Coca-Cola employee entrusted with the formula for Diet Coke.

Mr. McFarland called the allegation that he was a Caesar salad thief “a pretty ridiculous claim.”

“I have my own recipes for my items,” he said.

Asked to elaborate on the differences between his restaurant and Pearl, Mr. McFarland said: “I’d say it’s a lot more upscale than Pearl. A lot neater, a lot cleaner and a lot nicer looking.” Ed’s Lobster Bar incorporates novel features like a raw bar and a skylight, he said; as for the white marble bar, he said one could be seen in “every raw bar” in Boston, where he had done “additional homework in designing the dining room.”

Calling the lawsuit “a complete shock to me,” Mr. McFarland went on to say: “I just find it interesting that she’d want to draw attention to the fact that she’s bringing a lawsuit against me that’s just going to bring more business my way. I personally have nothing to be concerned about, in my opinion.”

Other chefs, however, are taking intellectual property rights seriously.

One of Mr. Valauskas’s clients, Homaro Cantu, has applied for patents on a number of his culinary inventions, like a method for printing pictures of food on flavored, edible paper. Mr. Cantu also makes his cooks sign a nondisclosure agreement before they so much as boil water at Moto, his restaurant in Chicago.

Tim Wu, a professor at Columbia Law School, said that this almost seemed an inevitable result of bringing lawyers into the kitchen. “The first thing a lawyer would say is have all your people sign nondisclosure agreements,” he said. “It’s a classic American marriage between food and law.”

Few chefs have followed Mr. Cantu’s footsteps all the way to the Patent and Trademark Office. One who did is David Burke, the chef at David Burke & Donatella, on the Upper East Side and other restaurants. He said he had trademarked a “swordfish chop” but no longer tried to defend that term from copycats.

“You’ve got to chase people down if they use it. I got tired of it,” he said. But he said he still applied for trademarks on more recent innovations, like his bacon-flavored spray.

Many chefs are skeptical that intellectual property law conforms to their line of work. Tom Colicchio said that he had decided not to do anything about a sandwich shop that he considers a clone of his sandwich chain, ’Wichcraft. “There’s nothing you can do,” he said. “You can’t protect recipes, you can’t protect what a place looks like, it’s impossible.”

But Ms. Charles is willing to spend some time and money to prove her point. (She once sued the partner she opened Pearl with, Mary Redding, in an ownership dispute. Ms. Redding went on to open her own West Village seafood restaurant, Mary’s Fish Camp.)

Ms. Charles has come to think that if this case forces Ed’s Lobster Bar to change until it no longer resembles Pearl Oyster Bar, it could be the most influential thing she has ever done.

“I thought if I could have success with this lawsuit, that could be an important contribution,” she said. “If some guy in California is having problems, he could go to his lawyer and look at this case and say, ‘Maybe we can do something about it.’ ”
799 2007-06-27 A popular Brooklyn pizzeria reopened on Saturday nearly three weeks after it was cited by the city health department for unsanitary conditions. Di Fara Pizza, at East 15th Street and Avenue J in Midwood, was closed after it failed an inspection on June 4, when inspectors found flies, a mouse infestation and bare-hand contact with food. That was the second time since March that the shop had been closed this year. After a visit last week, Di Fara’s reopened. “We passed the inspection,” Dominick DeMarco, the son of the owner, said last night. “It’s just all bureaucracy. You have to go through the paperwork.”
800 2007-06-27 A few months after announcing a $1.3 billion deal with France to rent the Louvre’s name and gain access to its collections for a new museum in Abu Dhabi, that oil-rich emirate says it also wants to be the film and television capital of the Arab world. In October it will hold its first Middle East International Film Festival. And today it will announce an agreement with the New York Film Academy, a technical school, to open a branch in Abu Dhabi to train 100 students a year in television and film production. (Tuition at the Manhattan school is $34,000, but the emirate is likely to subsidize a portion of that.) Officials with the Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture and Heritage also said they were soliciting investment in the Persian Gulf region for a sizable fund, to be unveiled later this summer, that would offer financial incentives for film production in Abu Dhabi exceeding those offered by governments in Europe and elsewhere. Sami el-Masri, the authority’s director of strategic planning, said the initiatives were aimed at erecting bridges across cultures in a region accustomed to destroying them: “It’s about looking for common denominators at a time when we only look at differences.” Within the United Arab Emirates, Abu Dhabi has been in something of a footrace to announce cultural and tourist attractions, anticipating a future when the oil wells run dry. Neighboring Dubai is already building a $2.5 billion sports complex and a theme park based on Marvel Entertainment comics, and on Monday a unit of Viacom Inc. said it had signed a deal with a developer in the United Arab Emirates for a $2.5 billion theme park based on its library of films like “Titanic.”
801 2007-06-27 Three former executives of the Countrywide Financial Corporation have agreed to plead guilty to charges they conducted insider trading in the mortgage lender’s shares in the week leading up to a disappointing earnings report, federal prosecutors have said.

Alan Cao, Quan Zhu and Jun Shi admitted to betting that Countrywide shares would decline after they learned the company’s results in the third quarter of 2004 would fall short of analysts’ forecasts, according to the United States attorney for the Central District of California.

Each defendant pleaded guilty to one count of securities fraud, which carries a maximum 20-year prison sentence. The case stemmed from a investigation by the F.B.I., with the assistance of the Securities and Exchange Commission, prosecutors said.

Mr. Cao, 38, was a former vice president for financial planning; Mr. Zhu, 43, was executive vice president for portfolio risk management; and Mr. Shi, also 43, was first vice president for planning at Countrywide’s banking unit, Countrywide Bank.

Donald Etra, a lawyer for Mr. Cao, said his client “fully acknowledges his responsibility,” was cooperating with prosecutors, and hoped for a probation sentence. Lawyers for Mr. Zhu and Mr. Shi did not immediately return calls seeking comment.

The pleas were announced after Countrywide shares fell 2.6 percent yesterday on speculation that the company might be the target of a government inquiry related to subprime loans and that the F.B.I. was raiding its headquarters.

An assistant United States attorney, Beong-Soo Kim, would not comment on whether the investigation had concluded, or whether other Countrywide executives were being investigated.
802 2007-06-27 The Dutch chemicals maker Basell said yesterday that it had agreed to buy an American chemical company, the Huntsman Corporation, for $5.6 billion excluding debt, in a bid to strengthen its position as a global chemicals group.

Under the terms of the agreement, Basell will acquire all of the outstanding common stock of Huntsman, based in Salt Lake City, for $25.25 a share.

Basell, which is based in the Netherlands but owned by the privately held American industrial group Access Industries, is a leading producer of polypropylene, which is used in products like textiles, reusable containers and laboratory equipment.

The deal would broaden Basell’s holdings and give it access to Huntsman’s technology, used in paints, footwear and cleaning products.

The companies said that the combined entity would have “an extensive geographic footprint, with operations on all continents of the world, and will be well positioned in fast-growing markets such as China, India, Eastern Europe and Latin America.”

But an HSBC analyst, Hassan Ahmed, said: “When you go out and make this sort of an acquisition, obviously you need to justify it with certain synergy estimates. I struggle to see how Basell is going to justify this.”
803 2007-06-27 WASHINGTON, June 26 (AP) — The chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday defended the agency’s record in pursuing corporate misconduct, rebuffing accusations that it may be tilting toward business interests.

At the same time, the chairman, Christopher Cox, showed some understanding for Republican lawmakers’ complaints that class-action lawsuits against corporations had grown out of control.

“Regulation has costs. So does litigation,” Mr. Cox said at a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee, where he appeared with the other four commissioners. He said regulators must be “particularly attentive” to potential conflicts of interest on the part of those who sue companies.

Mr. Cox also disclosed that the agency had started about a dozen investigations related to complex aggregations of debt known as collateralized debt obligations, in which hedge funds have increasingly invested. The situation took on urgency last week with the near-collapse of two funds managed by the Wall Street investment firm Bear Stearns.

In New York on Tuesday, Bear Stearns said it needed to invest only half of the $3.2 billion that it had pledged to rescue one of its ailing hedge funds, and it did not expect to rescue a second troubled fund.

The firm said that it would provide about $1.6 billion in secured financing to its Bear Stearns High-Grade Structured Credit Fund after the fund sold some assets to partly mollify lenders. The fund invests in complicated securities underpinned by risky mortgage-backed bonds. It ran into trouble when the value of its assets fell sharply as defaults of subprime mortgages increased.
804 2007-06-27 For far too long, New York’s presidential primaries have been an insider’s business, with political bosses from both parties deciding whose names went on the ballot. As recently as 2000, it took a lot of arm-wrestling and public outrage for Republicans to even include Senator John McCain, a strong contender that year.

This time, the Republicans in New York should be congratulated for planning a truly open primary. If Gov. Eliot Spitzer signs a bill that sets the rules for both parties’ primaries, a G.O.P. contender who wants to be considered by New York’s voters would only need the state board of elections to determine that he or she is “recognized according to reports in the national or state news media.”

That makes a lot of sense — no contortions, no signatures, no expensive election lawyers. But the idea is revolutionary to some party insiders who are said to be worrying that any declared candidate who has spent a few minutes on Oprah’s couch will be able to claim a place on the ballot. For voters, however, more choices are always better.

Democratic candidates for the White House will have to work somewhat harder to see their names on next year’s presidential primary ballot in the delegate-rich state of New York. Each contender will need 5,000 valid signatures of party voters.

But if Democratic candidates have a little more trouble making it on to the ballot, they are compensated by having a better chance of getting a few delegates for their trouble. Democratic delegates are awarded proportionally according to the percentage of the vote each candidate receives. New York Republicans still assign their delegates a less-democratic way — winner take all.

Too bad the two parties could not share their better instincts. New York’s presidential primary on Feb. 5 could then be as open as the Republicans want it and as good about dividing up the delegates as the Democrats.
805 2007-06-27 LOS ANGELES, June 26 (Reuters) — Nike posted higher fourth-quarter net profit on Tuesday as strong sales of Nike-branded footwear helped offset overall challenges in the American athletic shoe market.

The results, which were announced after the close of regular trading, exceeded analysts’ expectations. Nike’s shares, which were up a penny in regular trading, rose as much as $2.78, or 5.2 percent, to $56.60, in after-hours trading.

The company, the world’s top maker of athletic shoes and apparel, said quarterly net profit was $437.9 million, or 86 cents a share, compared with $332.8 million, or 64 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 9 percent, to $4.38 billion.

Excluding items, earnings were 90 cents a share. That beat analysts’ average expectations of earnings of 86 cents, excluding items, on revenue of $4.36 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.

Sluggishness in the athletic shoe market has been a worry on Wall Street since last year, with Nike’s two largest United States customers, Foot Locker and Finish Line, experiencing weakness in same-store sales. Nike has been working on initiatives to help its retail partners and has offered shoes in a broader range of prices to appeal to cost-conscious shoppers.
806 2007-06-27 The New York Times has assembled a panel of intelligence experts and historians to review and comment on the Central Intelligence Agency documents. Following are the comments of Philip Taubman, an associate editor of The New York Times who has specialized in intelligence issues and national security affairs. Assessments by the others: washington.blogs.nytimes.com

The Atmosphere of the Agency

Reading through the litany of C.I.A. domestic spying abuses and other questionable activities during the cold war years, including plots to assassinate foreign leaders, it is hard not to wonder what the men and women of the C.I.A. (mostly men, in those days) were thinking as they wandered far afield from the agency’s own charter. The 1947 founding document banned the agency from domestic spying. Assassination plots against Fidel Castro and other foreign leaders, at a minimum, presented tricky legal and ethical issues for anyone involved.

Richard M. Bissell Jr., who directed C.I.A. operations in the late 1950s and early 1960s, offered a partial answer in his memoirs, “Reflections of a Cold Warrior,” published in 1996, after his death. He noted that it was difficult to know if the privileged world from which he and many early C.I.A. officers came, including elite boarding schools and Ivy League colleges, had influenced their behavior.

“Many of us who joined the C.I.A.,” Mr. Bissell wrote, “did not feel bound in the actions we took as staff members to observe all the ethical rules that we would have observed and regarded as valid before we joined. But in a larger sense, the patriotism, the belief in the need for the United States to play an important role in the world had some of their roots in our upbringing and education, and they certainly did affect the atmosphere at the agency.”

The C.I.A. and the Mob

In a memorandum recounting the C.I.A.’s involvement with Mafia figures as the agency plotted to assassinate Castro, Howard J. Osborn, the agency’s director of security, recalls the qualifications of John Roselli as a potential partner for the C.I.A. It is difficult to divine from the memorandum how well agency officials understood the inner workings, and alliances, of the mob. At one point, Mr. Osborn reports that Robert A. Maheu, a Howard Hughes aide who served as an intermediary between the C.I.A. and the mob, knew Mr. Roselli slightly but had been told he was a high-ranking member of the “syndicate.” As a further sign of Mr. Roselli’s power, Mr. Maheu said Mr. Roselli controlled all the ice-making machines on the Las Vegas Strip.

The C.I.A. monitoring of journalists in 1963, 1971 and 1972, including wiretapping their phones and setting up observation posts across the street from their offices to track their comings and goings and their visitors, was a practice that the White House itself employed during the Nixon administration.

It is interesting to see in the description of Project Mockingbird, which describes C.I.A. wiretapping of two Washington reporters (unnamed) from March 12, 1963 to June 15, 1963, that the intercepting of calls, executed under the authority of John McCone, the director of Central Intelligence, was done in coordination with Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, Defense Secretary Robert McNamara and the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Gen. Joseph Carroll.
807 2007-06-27 At an investor conference in February, Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group called the public markets overrated. After the performance of his firm’s stock over the last two days, he may feel even more strongly about that.

Shares in Blackstone closed at $30.75, down 5.2 percent, or $1.69, on the day, and slipping below the $31 price set for its initial offering on Friday. The slide poses an embarrassing setback for Blackstone, whose debut was among the most widely anticipated of the year, drawing armies of television cameras to the New York Stock Exchange.

The price may also give pause to other equity firms — like Blackstone’s archrival, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts — that are considering going public.

“I don’t think they would have figured that this would have occurred,” Scott Sweet, managing director of IPO Boutique, a research firm, said of Blackstone. “On a scale of one to 10, this was probably closer to a two.”

Though shares in Blackstone’s management company traded as high as $38 on the first day, and closed up 13 percent, at $35.06, those gains have since been erased. On Monday, the shares fell 7.5 percent.
808 2007-06-27 The General Motors Corporation said yesterday that it would consolidate the national creative assignments for its Buick, Pontiac and GMC brands at the Pontiac creative agency. It was the second time in five months and the third time in a year that G.M., once loath to change agencies, had shifted large accounts.

The decision, effective Oct. 1, was unexpected and came without a formal review. The changes were described by G.M. as a consolidation, reflecting the automaker’s recent grouping of the three brands in marketing efforts as if they were a single division.

The Pontiac creative agency, Leo Burnett, part of the Publicis Groupe, will gain the Buick assignment, with spending estimated by TNS Media Intelligence at $122 million last year, from the Birmingham, Mich., office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Burnett will gain the GMC assignment, with spending last year estimated by TNS at $261.5 million, from another Interpublic agency, Lowe Worldwide in New York. Burnett will handle the creative work for all three brands from Troy, Mich., with support from its headquarters in Chicago and other Publicis agencies.

Burnett and predecessor agencies have created campaigns for Pontiac since 1935; spending last year was estimated by TNS at $146 million. McCann Erickson created Buick ads since 1958, when it acquired a Detroit agency named Kudner, and Lowe created ads for GMC since 1997.

In January, G.M. removed the creative account for the Saturn division after five years at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, part of the Omnicom Group, and awarded it to an Interpublic agency, Deutsch. Last year, the company moved the national creative assignment for Cadillac, which Burnett and predecessors had handled since 1936, to Modernista, which creates ads for Hummer.
809 2007-06-27 The Saudi Telecom Company, the largest phone company in Saudi Arabia, bought a 25 percent stake in Maxis Communications of Malaysia for 11.4 billion riyals ($3 billion) to tap growth in developing markets like India. Saudi Telecom bought the share...
810 2007-06-27 The Manulife Financial Corporation, a Canadian life insurance company, said it would buy the Berkshire-TWC Financial Group's mutual fund and securities dealerships to bolster its Canadian wealth management business. Manulife said the deal would do...
811 2007-06-27 A popular Brooklyn pizzeria reopened on Saturday nearly three weeks after it was cited by the city health department for unsanitary conditions. Di Fara Pizza, at East 15th Street and Avenue J in Midwood, was closed after it failed an inspection on...
812 2007-06-27 BY now, everyone is well convinced that tuna is a fine replacement for steak. And by now, many people have realized that the absolute best tuna -- bluefin -- has been overfished. The result is that it's scarce, hard to find, practically unaffordab...
813 2007-06-27 The Altria Group, the cigarette maker, will close a North Carolina factory and increase European production to save $335 million a year by 2011. The shutdown of the plant in Cabarrus County will result in a one-time charge of $325 million in the s...
814 2007-06-27 Alstom, a maker of coal-fired power stations, agreed to buy Ecotècnia of Spain to enter the wind energy market. Alstom will pay 350 million euros ($471 million) for Ecotècnia, which also makes solar panels, it said. The purchase will help Alstom...
815 2007-06-27 A few months after announcing a $1.3 billion deal with France to rent the Louvre's name and gain access to its collections for a new museum in Abu Dhabi, that oil-rich emirate says it also wants to be the film and television capital of the Arab wo...
816 2007-06-27 The Newark schools superintendent, Marion A. Bolden, promised yesterday to meet regularly with a task force of the city's gay and lesbian leaders, according to the head of a New Jersey gay rights group. The promise comes after Ms. Bolden ordered a...
817 2007-06-27 The Coca-Cola Company will buy a 34 percent stake in the Tokyo Coca-Cola Bottling Company to increase sales in Japan after volume declined last year. The Japanese subsidiary of Coca-Cola will buy new shares of the closely held Tokyo-based bottler,...
818 2007-06-27 The General Motors Corporation said yesterday that it would consolidate the national creative assignments for its Buick, Pontiac and GMC brands at the Pontiac creative agency. It was the second time in five months and the third time in a year that...
819 2007-06-28 Beach Patrol: From the lifeguards of Fire Island to an “animal house” map in Belmar. It’s the beach news that gets between your toes....
820 2007-06-28 Circulating online, the thoughts of an employee who’s worked at both places, comparing the offices, pay and perks....
821 2007-06-28 The authors of a study that tries to figure out the source, and cost, of the parts that go into an iPod will be answering questions here....
822 2007-06-28 Over the weekend of June 17, executives at Bear Stearns scrambled to avert the collapse of two hedge funds. In the midst of the turmoil, Richard Marin, the head of the Bear unit that ran the troubled funds, "stole away" from the "crisis-hedge-fund...
823 2007-06-28 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Clayton Dubilier & Rice have decided to finance their $7.1 billion buyout of U.S. Foodservice with a bridge loan after canceling a $650 million bond offering, as investors appeared reluctant to back the financing. The l...
824 2007-06-28 Terra Firma Capital Partners, the private equity firm that has offered 2.4 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) for the British music firm EMI Group, extended its takeover bid on Thursday until July 4. As of June 27, Terra Firma had received acceptances ...
825 2007-06-28 Federal regulators filed charges against a hedge fund manager, Simpson Capital Management, for allegedly defrauding mutual fund investors of millions of dollars in a late-trading scheme lasting more than three years. And in a twist, the chief of t...
826 2007-06-28 Citigroup, the world's largest financial company, was cleared of insider trading in Australia on Thursday in a case that challenged the way investment banks operate. The nation's securities regulator did not prove its claim that Citigroup, based i...
827 2007-06-28 New shows in New York include "Old Acquiantance" and "Gone Missing."...
828 2007-06-28 Many of the fans on a sunny day here wearily tracked the Center Court loss of the Englishman Tim Henman to Feliciano López of Spain, 7-6 (3), 7-6 (5), 3-6, 2-6, 6-1. But those who squeezed around No. 18 were treated to something far more rare than a Henman disappointment at the All England Club.

Qureshi, 27, was only the second Pakistani man to reach Wimbledon’s second round. The first was Haroon Rahim, in 1975 and 1976.

“In Pakistan, people don’t know that much about tennis, but everybody knows about Wimbledon,” Qureshi said. “I’ve heard nobody is thinking cricket or talking cricket, so it’s a good feeling.”

Qureshi had previously tried to qualify for 11 Grand Slam events, falling short each time. But he gained confidence by beating the 11th-ranked Richard Gasquet at Halle, a Wimbledon tune-up. Still unseeded during Wimbledon’s qualification tournament, he won three times to make the draw.

That sent his family in Lahore, Pakistan, scurrying. About 20 family members rushed to London.

“When he qualified, we got a flight,” said Qureshi’s mother, Nosheen Ihtsham, a former Pakistani tennis champion.

Once in, Qureshi beat the British qualifier Lee Childs in the opening round. His second-round match with Safin was scheduled for Court No. 1 on Wednesday, until rain postponed it and forced the move to a far smaller stage.

Qureshi played the match with contagious joy, serving and volleying in a style he grew up watching from Boris Becker and Stefan Edberg. But he was 0 for 8 on break points, including a set point in the third, putting an end to the fan-fueled momentum he was building.

“A lot of people, they said that he’s pretty tough — serves well, good volleys, good hands, very dangerous player,” Safin said. “I saw they were right.”

Safin is often described by a combination of his résumé and his surliness. The winner of the 2000 United States Open and the 2005 Australian Open, he has never made it past the quarterfinals at Wimbledon. Earlier in the week, he expressed his displeasure with the food here, considering it too expensive and not too tasty.

“For £10, which is $20, you can have a great pasta at Cipriani in New York,” he said when asked his feelings after the match. Safin, a 27-year-old who has earned roughly $13 million in prize money in his playing career, added, “They could have done better for the prices.”

About two months younger than Safin, Qureshi is merely hoping to get his tennis career going. He is best known, perhaps, for playing doubles with Amir Hadad of Israel in 2002. Qureshi, a Muslim, and Hadad, a Jew, garnered attention when they reached the third round at Wimbledon.

Their relationship was widely scrutinized against the backdrop of Middle East tensions and the fight against terrorism. The men were given the Arthur Ashe Humanitarian Award in 2003.

“There were some extremists back home, and some sports authorities started talking negative,” Qureshi said. “I still stand with the point that I really believe you shouldn’t mix politics, religion or color into sports.”

Today, Qureshi made another bold statement with his tennis. Back in January, borrowing an idea used by Martina Navratilova at the encouragement of Billie Jean King, Qureshi began writing his primary goal in a diary.

“I want to qualify for Wimbledon,” he wrote, again and again, until the day he actually did it.

That is why his family cheered from the seats and snapped photos of him playing. For as good as it feels to represent his country, known for so much other than tennis, Qureshi was most enamored with pleasing those who followed him here.

“Tennis has given me a way to make my parents proud of me, and that’s a really big thing for me,” Qureshi said. “It’s really good and nice when your parents are proud of you. That’s why it feels good.”
829 2007-06-28 SYDNEY, Australia, Thursday, June 28 (Bloomberg News) — Citigroup, the world’s largest financial company, was cleared of insider trading in Australia on Thursday in a case that challenged the way investment banks operate.

The nation’s securities regulator did not prove its claim that Citigroup, based in New York, failed to protect the interest of Toll Holdings when it traded shares of the Patrick Corporation. Citigroup advised Toll in a hostile bid of 5.2 billion Australian dollars ($4.4 billion) for Patrick.

The trial in Sydney was the first test of an Australian law governing how securities firms manage conflicts of interest between their advisory roles and proprietary trading on their own account. The case had global implications for investment banking models, said Justin O’Brien, professor of corporate governance at the Australian National University.

“There is no question this is a bad result for the regulator,” Mr. O’Brien said in an interview. “It took a morally strong, but legally weak, case.”

A federal court judge, Peter Jacobson, ruled Thursday that Citigroup had no fiduciary duty to Toll.

“The claims failed at the outset because the letter of engagement under which Toll retained Citigroup as its adviser specifically excluded the existence of such a relationship,” he said in his judgment. “The law doesn’t prevent an investment bank from contracting out of a fiduciary capacity.”
830 2007-06-28 Playboy Enterprises will open a 40,000-square-foot entertainment complex, the Playboy Mansion Macao, with dining, entertainment and retail shops, in Macao in late 2009, the chief executive, Christie Hefner, said. The complex will be part of the Macao Studio City complex, with the gambling operations run by a casino operator, Melco International Development, Ms. Hefner, left, said in an interview in Macao. Macao Studio City, a $2 billion joint venture between the Hong Kong-listed ESun Holdings and partners including Silver Point Capital, is next to the Lotus Bridge, which will link Macao and the mainland Chinese city of Zhuhai. It will include a film studio, a million-square-foot shopping mall, and gambling and convention sites.
831 2007-06-28 Poland’s central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest rate, for a second time this year, on concern that wage growth will force companies to increase prices. The Monetary Policy Council, which is led by the central bank, lifted the seven-day reference rate a quarter-point, to 4.5 percent. ”It is possible that wage pressure will continue to grow, strengthening inflation pressure,” the council said after the meeting. It said inflation might temporarily slow in the third quarter, helped by the healthy financial standing of companies and growing competition among service providers and goods producers. The inflation rate, at 2.3 percent in May, is nearing the central bank’s mid-range target rate of 2.5 percent.
832 2007-06-28 Japan’s industrial production unexpectedly dropped in May for a third month, the longest losing streak in almost two years. Production fell a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent from a month earlier, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said. Slower production diminishes hopes that economic growth will accelerate, in contrast with other reports released in the last week, which said that export growth almost doubled to 15.1 percent in May and retail sales gained for the first time in eight months. The Bank of Japan’s governor, Toshihiko Fukui, said this month that the bank needed more evidence of the economy’s strength before it raises the key interest rate from 0.5 percent.
833 2007-06-28 North Korea has test-fired “several missiles,” the United States said, as United Nations nuclear inspectors prepared to visit the Yongbyon reactor today, which North Korea has promised to shut down. “The United States is deeply troubled that North Korea has decided to launch these missiles during a delicate time in the six-party talks,” said Gordon D. Johndroe, a spokesman for the National Security Council. He added that the United States expected North Korea “to refrain from conducting further provocative ballistic missile launches.” But a Pentagon spokesman, Lt. Cmdr. Chito Peppler of the Navy, played down the launchings and said they were short-range missiles. “We believe that this was a routine exercise,” he said.
834 2007-06-28 Taking an antidepressant like Prozac may increase a pregnant woman’s risk of having a baby with a birth defect, but the chances appear remote and confined to a few rare defects, researchers are reporting today.

The findings, appearing in two studies in The New England Journal of Medicine, support doctors’ assurances that antidepressants are not a major cause of serious physical problems in newborns.

But the studies did not include enough cases to adequately assess risk of many rare defects; nor did they include information on how long women were taking antidepressants or at what doses. The studies did not evaluate behavioral effects either; previous research has found that babies suffer withdrawal effects if they have been exposed to antidepressants in the womb, and that may have implications for later behavior.

“These are important papers, but they don’t close the questions of whether there are major effects” of these drugs on developing babies, said Dr. Timothy Oberlander, a developmental pediatrician at the University of British Columbia, who was not involved in the studies. “There are many more chapters in this story yet to be told.”

In both studies, researchers interviewed mothers of more than 9,500 infants with birth defects, including cleft palate and heart valve problems. They found that mothers who remembered being on antidepressants like Zoloft, Paxil or Prozac while pregnant were at no higher risk for most defects than a control group of women who said they had not taken antidepressants.

There were a few exceptions. One of the studies, led by Carol Louik of Boston University and financed in part by the drug makers GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi-Aventis, found that use of Paxil was associated with an increased risk of a rare heart defect, which the company had previously reported.
835 2007-06-28 Still, the episode — and Mr. Marin’s blog — offer some insight into Bear’s response to the near collapse of the funds. An embarrassing hit to the bank’s reputation, the incident has forced Bear to pledge up to $1.6 billion in secured loans to bail out one of the hedge funds. It is not providing any financing for the second, much more heavily leveraged fund, which was started in August and has suffered much bigger losses.

But Bear Stearns’s troubles are far from over. The Securities and Exchange Commission has started an informal inquiry into issues surrounding the Bear hedge funds and how the industry is valuing mortgage-related securities like those that Bear holds.

In addition, Bear Stearns has temporarily shifted its top mortgage trader, Thomas Marano, over to the unit, Bear Stearns Asset Management, to help with the funds, say people who were briefed but were not authorized to speak for attribution. They added, however, that assets in the two funds have already been reduced by 90 percent through sales and agreements with creditors.

Standing in the middle of this firestorm is Mr. Marin, a Wall Street veteran who spent 25 years at Bankers Trust, where he helped develop and build its derivative business.

When Mr. Marin joined Bear Stearns Asset Management four years ago, the unit was considered a sleepy backwater inside the bank, largely overlooked for faster growing, more profitable businesses.

“When I joined Bear, Bear had not run the business as aggressively as they wanted to. The way they put it to me was, ‘Bear wants to succeed in whatever it does and that includes asset management,’ ” Mr. Marin said yesterday.

He set a course to bolster the unit’s profit and its stature by shedding unprofitable businesses — like its retail mutual fund distribution arm — and focusing on adding products with richer fees, like hedge funds and structured credit securities for institutional and wealthy clients.

It is the same strategy undertaken by many Wall Street firms. But the crisis involving the two hedge funds, which nearly set off a broader sell-off in the market for mortgage-related securities, helps illustrate the potential risks Wall Street firms are increasingly willing to take to improve profit in their asset management arms.

“If you want to stay alive in the asset management business,” said Richard Bove, an analyst with Punk, Ziegel & Company, “you have to go into unique products and go out on the risk spectrum. You have to do the things that Bear Stearns did. Until as of late, the strategy was working out beautifully for them.”

Since Mr. Marin took over the Bear unit, assets under management have nearly doubled to $60 billion and revenue has risen 138 percent, to $332 million at the end of last year.

Taking risk was comfortable and familiar to Mr. Marin. The son of a career United Nations diplomat, Mr. Marin grew up all over the world before attending undergraduate and business school at Cornell in Ithaca, N.Y., in the early 1970s.

He joined Bankers Trust after business school. For the next 25 years, he helped create and establish the bank’s presence in several cutting-edge fields, including futures and options trading, emerging markets debt and derivatives.

Soon after joining the Bear unit in 2003, Mr. Marin devised a strategy that was known internally as “10 in 10.” He wanted the division’s profit to represent roughly 10 percent of Bear Stearns’s revenue and profit by 2010.

He was starting at a low base; the unit’s share of revenue in 2003 was about 1 percent. Its share of the company’s overall profit was even less.

To reach that goal, Mr. Marin needed to develop products that had richer fees and higher profit margins, and he turned much of his effort toward hedge funds, said two former employees who did not want to speak for attribution because they are still involved in the industry.

Mr. Marin tapped the brokerage side of the business for talent, bringing over traders from Bear Stearns’s proprietary desks and giving them seed money to start hedge funds.

One of those tapped in 2003 was Ralph R. Cioffi. Mr. Cioffi, a longtime bond salesman who had been trading Bear Stearns’s own money for about six months, was brought over to start a hedge fund, the High-Grade Structured Credit Fund. It would invest in bonds and securities backed by subprime mortgages. While some of the mortgage-related securities were easily valued and traded, others, like collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.’s, do not trade frequently and can be very difficult to value.

“His concept had been looked at carefully for six months using the firm’s own money, and it was decided he would be appropriate to bring over to B.S.A.M. and start taking and running client money,” Mr. Marin said. “He had come up with an approach to trading those assets that people who are experts in that arena thought was a sound and interesting approach.”

The approach was so successful that the company started a sister fund last summer, the High-Grade Structured Credit Enhanced Leverage Fund, that would use even more leverage.

The timing of that fund, however, could not have been worse; the cooling housing market began to reveal the lax lending standards used by subprime lenders. Last fall, delinquencies and defaults began rising, making the environment for trading and valuing the esoteric securities that are related to those loans much more difficult.

Mr. Marin declined to answer questions about the second fund, which is still a subject of negotiations between Bear Stearns and creditors.

However, his blog, where access was restricted after he was questioned about it, reveals that the last few weeks have indeed been challenging. On June 23, he posted an entry saying he had spent two weeks “trying to defend Sparta against the Persian hordes of Wall Street.”

“Nothing like a good dog fight 24X7 for a few weeks to remind you why you chose the life you chose,” he wrote. “The good news is that after two embattled weeks both I and my loyal staff are still standing to fight another day.”

While Mr. Marin said the blog was personal, it did post pictures of him at Bear Stearns events and it included his corporate e-mail address. “It’s the only e-mail address I check regularly,” he said. “I don’t get many e-mails from it.”

A spokesman for the company said, “We have no comment on his personal blog.”

Last Sunday, after “another long weekend day at the office saving the world,” Mr. Marin took in “Evan Almighty,” according to his blog.

While he said the movie had a “cute message about how everyone can make the world a better place by always taking up the opportunity to engage in a random act of kindness,” he still found the film to be “perfectly bland and mildly funny.”
836 2007-06-28 The Red Bulls acquired defender Kevin Goldthwaite from Toronto FC for Todd Dunivant. Goldthwaite played in nine games. He scored the eventual game-winning goal in Toronto FC’s first-ever victory May 12. He also had an assist in a victory over FC Dallas. Dunivant, also a defender, played in seven matches for the Red Bulls. He was acquired last June from the Los Angeles Galaxy. He had two goals and two assists in 22 games last season.
837 2007-06-28 But her biggest amateur moment came this month. She shot 72-71 in a 36-hole qualifier on June 11 at Heathrow Country Club near Orlando to earn a spot at Pine Needles among other pony-tailed youngsters who have carved a niche in the highest levels of the game.

As in women’s tennis, where teenage accomplishment has become the norm, the bold play of young golfers has manifested itself in a rush for trophies, a growth in rivalries and the inevitable controversies.

Two years ago, Paula Creamer won an L.P.G.A. event four days before she graduated high school. At the Kraft Nabisco Championship this April, Morgan Pressel became the youngest woman, at 18, to win a major championship. Michelle Wie, 17, who has not broken par in 20 competitive rounds against women and men, attracts intrigue and huge galleries nevertheless.

“Think back 10 years ago,” Roberta Bolduc, the chairwoman of the United States Golf Association’s women’s committee, said Wednesday during a news conference. “You didn’t have very many teenagers playing on the L.P.G.A. Tour. Now we have some who are extremely accomplished players.”

In the 156-player field, there are 24 teenagers (not including Thompson) and 56 golfers age 22 or under.

David Fay, the executive director of the U.S.G.A., said a player’s ability and handicap were the overriding factors in who could compete, not the golfer’s age.

“It’s a good thing that Morgan Pressel qualified as a 12-year-old; it’s good that we have a 12-year-old this week,” he said. “There’s a lot of comment on, are you pushing players too soon? I expect that if a 12-year-old who makes it here had not been here, she’d probably be playing more golf at home.”

The L.P.G.A. limits nonmembers to six sponsor’s exemptions a year and prohibits full membership on the Tour until age 18 (unless petitioned for and granted by the commissioner), but the youngest competitors are often at the center of golf’s story lines.

Wie’s mysterious wrist ailments and murky withdrawal May 31 from the Ginn Tribute — where she was in danger of shooting an 88 that would have disqualified her from L.P.G.A. events for the year — have easily rivaled Lorena Ochoa’s rise to No. 1 in the world. Even Karrie Webb, a two-time United States Women’s Open champion, questioned how much control Wie had in running her career.

“Ultimately, I don’t think some of the decisions that have been made for Michelle have been made by Michelle,” Webb said. “She’s starting to be old enough to probably know what’s best for her. I think everyone has been quite tough on her knowing the situation she’s in and the amount of pressure that’s put on her, not only by the public and the expectations, but all the people around her.”

Where Thompson, who is from Coral Springs, Fla., fits in the constellation of young stars is unclear.

At 5 feet 6 inches tall and with a tee shot that travels 240 yards, she can easily blend into a field of golfers dressed in pastels. But Thompson is also a child heading into the seventh grade who has cats named Angel and Smelly.

“I’ll probably just try to shoot 75 or 74 or under,” she said of her expectations for the tournament. “Hopefully, I’ll make the cut. If I don’t, it’s all right.”

She began the week by signing autographs along the gallery ropes and having her father, Scott, who will caddie for her this week, limiting her ever-growing requests for news media interviews. Her older brother, Nicholas, who plays on the Nationwide Tour, also spoke to reporters at Pine Needles about the sister he helped inspire.

On Monday, he walked the course with Thompson and their father, helping them chart the course.

“Whether she’s playing well or not, I want her to have fun,” Nicholas said. “Right now, her career isn’t on the line. This is an experience she needs to enjoy.”
838 2007-06-28 There may be a silver lining in the recent hedge fund debacle at Bear Stearns.

Until now, the deepest pain of the housing slump has been felt by hard-pressed borrowers, generally low-income homeowners stuck with unsuitable and even predatory subprime loans — adjustable-rate mortgages made to people with weak credit. As monthly payments have increased, the loans have become unaffordable, while falling housing prices and tougher credit terms have made them harder to refinance. Defaults and foreclosures have multiplied, but Congress has provided scant relief.

But now the pain is being felt by Wall Street. The two big Bear Stearns hedge funds that neared collapse last week were full of tricky investments tied to subprime mortgages. To try to ensure that hundreds of billions of dollars worth of similar investments don’t also plummet, endangering the financial system, Congress may finally have to do more to help lower-end borrowers. That, in turn, would prop up the investments based on their mortgages.

We’re all for helping distressed borrowers. And we accept government’s role, if necessary, to avert a financial collapse. But in the end, intervention on behalf of Wall Street would be an outrage, because Wall Street — abetted by lax federal regulation — is largely to blame for this fiasco. Wall Street firms encouraged the issuance of risky loans to troubled borrowers and then reaped a windfall by packaging them as investments for hedge fund clients.

And yet, the possibility of economywide problems from further Bear Stearns-like debacles is real. The Bear Stearns funds, like many others, borrowed big to invest in subprime loans. Investing with borrowed money juices returns in hot markets and magnifies losses in down markets, making losers out of lenders as well as equity investors.

One of the Bear Stearns funds borrowed some $6 billion, from Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and other powerhouses. For the other fund, Bear Stearns reportedly put up $3.2 billion to help liquidate holdings. That’s 32 cents on the dollar for assets once valued at $10 billion.

In the past two years, Wall Street firms have issued investments similar to the Bear Stearns holdings, worth about $500 billion on paper. If those were to tank, the damage could be felt broadly. It would likely become harder, for instance, to get loans for everything from homebuying, which supported the economy for most of the decade, to leveraged buyouts, which have buoyed the stock market.
839 2007-06-28 Tina L. Brozman, a former chief judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, whose work helped change international bankruptcy law, died on Tuesday in New York. She was 54.

The cause was complications of ovarian cancer, said her friend and a former clerk, Jerry Lawton, a lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.

In the four years that Ms. Brozman served as chief judge of the busy bankruptcy court in Manhattan, she handed down rulings that had a lasting effect on how the government dealt with bankruptcies involving multinational corporations. Through her interpretation of the law, she encouraged cooperation between courts in the United States and abroad.

It was her work as a judge on the 1991 bankruptcy case of Maxwell Communication, a former parent company of The Daily News of New York, that defined the standard for handling future international bankruptcies.

The United Nations adopted the policies set by Ms. Brozman in that case to create the model law on cross-border insolvencies; it later served as the basis for the Chapter 15 section added to the United States Bankruptcy Code in 2005.
840 2007-06-28 An illegal immigrant drowned in a border canal after a Border Patrol agent trying to rescue him was hit in the head with a rock thrown by a suspected human smuggler, Border Patrol officials said. The agent fired at least one shot at the suspect and another would-be immigrant, who fled back into Mexico, said an agency spokesman, Patrick Berry.
841 2007-06-28 Mr. Kelly said the department would retain Operation Impact for at least six months, staffing it with two-thirds of yesterday’s graduates.

Operation Impact was introduced by Mr. Kelly in 2003 in an effort to zero in on pockets of crime, many of them no larger than a housing project, a subway station or a few city blocks.

Using a computerized analysis of crime patterns that had been developed by the department since the 1990s under the Compstat program, police officials said they were able to identify hot spots where crime was either rising or the pace of the decline was slower than in most other areas of the city.

Paul J. Browne, a department spokesman, said yesterday that 1,038 rookie officers were assigned to the program and were supervised by about 200 experienced officers.

Most of the rookies are deployed on foot patrol or to stationary posts.

Dennis C. Smith, a professor at the Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University and an author of the new analysis, described Operation Impact as “Compstat on steroids” because of the deep reductions it had produced in some categories of crime.

Professor Smith, working with Robert Purtell, a statistician at SUNY Albany, used police data to analyze how crime rates in the seven most serious categories — those used by the Federal Bureau of Investigation to compute overall crime rates — were affected in the zones that Operation Impact had focused on.

To account for situations in which an increased police presence prompted criminal activity to shift to another spot nearby, they computed crime rate reductions in the entire precinct surrounding a high-crime zone.

The report found the most drastic decline in the number of grand larcenies, which fell an average of 0.025 percent a month in the precincts with Operation Impact zones between January 2003 and the end of last year. It said 57 percent of the drop was accounted for by declines just within the selected zones.

The study was partly financed by the New York City Police Foundation, a charity that supports police programs.

Professor Smith said that the financial arrangement had no bearing on the study’s design or outcome, and that police officials were not told of the results until the study was completed.

Although the study did not attempt to assess the potential effect of recruitment difficulties on Operation Impact, Professor Smith said the success of the program should strengthen arguments by Mr. Kelly and others who are calling for an increase in officers’ starting pay.

“I’d say it’s a no-brainer,” he said.

In a prepared statement, the analysts said, “No other use of rookies leaving the academy could have such a measurable impact on crime reduction, or provide such an intensive finishing school for their development as police professionals.”

Professor Smith added that the department’s success with the program could in some cases backfire, since the experience gained by rookies assigned to Operation Impact “can make them all the more attractive targets to be hired away by other departments.”
842 2007-06-28 The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, the daughter of a retired union electrician who was first elected in 1999, has received a total of nearly $70,000 in union contributions. One of her top aides, Maura Keaney, is the former political director for Unite Here, which represents hotel, restaurant and apparel workers.

Ms. Quinn has repeatedly drawn a distinction between a union negotiating with the city for better pay and benefits, and developers and corporations vying for lucrative land deals or government contracts.

“The situation here is to require that everyone gets treated the same way,” she said yesterday. “A union or a PAC can give one contribution, whatever the maximum is for the office in question. Someone who did business with the City of New York prior to this could have every person in the business give a contribution of the maximum level allowed to that office. So I think this in fact much more levels the playing field.”

If a union does get involved in a land-use application or a contract that is not labor related, she said, it would be bound by the same contribution restrictions.

Only four council members voted against the bill, citing concerns that the contribution limits would give an unfair advantage to wealthy candidates while restricting the speech of certain groups.

“The fact that we’re leaving out interest groups — unions in this particular case — at the expense of the rest of the city is questionable at best,” Councilman Vincent Ignizio, a Staten Island Republican who voted against the bill. “The government is determining which speech ought to be heard loudest.”

Under the bill, people who do business with the city could donate a maximum of $250 to City Council candidates and $400 to mayoral candidates. That cap would apply to lobbyists, developers, people with land-use and zoning applications pending before the city, and those with city contracts worth $100,000 or more. Union limits would remain the same as ordinary contributors at $2,750 in Council races and $4,950 in mayoral races.

A review of campaign finance contributions shows that unions give far less to candidates than do lobbyists, contractors and other groups who would be bound by the bill’s “pay-to-play” restrictions.

In the 2001 and 2005 elections, for example, groups defined as “doing business” with the city that would be bound by the new restrictions gave a total of about $25 million to citywide candidates. Unions and labor-related political action committees gave about 16 percent of that total, or about $4.1 million.

Under the new restrictions, contributions from groups doing business with the city would be reduced to 10 percent of their present levels, amplifying the effect of union dollars.

That increase in monetary influence would come on top of the already considerable influence the unions have in manpower, get-out-the-vote efforts and endorsements.

“In comparison, the unions don’t give that much money, so this kind of equalizes their power — that’s No. 1,” said Hank Sheinkopf, a longtime Democratic consultant. “No. 2, they’re still powerful in that they can bring resources to bear in particular districts and in particular campaigns.”

Evidence of that power can be seen in how the bill was put together. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had been calling for stricter pay-to-play restrictions since his first term, including limits to union giving. When negotiations on the current bill began late last year, there was little or no talk of putting restrictions on unions, according to people close to the negotiations.

Councilman Simcha Felder, a Democrat of Brooklyn and chairman of the Council’s Governmental Operations Committee, was one of the lead negotiators on the Council side. He said the bill would never have passed without the union exclusion.

But even with the union exception, Mr. Felder praised the bill.

“I think we have to be practical,” he said. “I think that this deal with all the restrictions is a very significant improvement over what exists.”

The new restrictions come as more than two-thirds of the 51 council members will be forced out of office in 2009 by term limits, including Ms. Quinn.

Ms. Quinn is frequently mentioned as a possible mayoral candidate, and some analysts and critics of the bill said that now would be a bad time for her to anger the unions. Her chief rivals for the office, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. and Representative Anthony D. Weiner, Democrat of Queens, also enjoy broad union support. Mr. Thompson has received nearly $170,000 in union contributions since 2001, more than any other current city office holder.

Ms. Keaney, the speaker’s deputy chief of staff, said the union exception has nothing to do with Ms. Quinn’s strong ties to labor.

“She has a strong relationship,” Ms. Keaney said, “but you could also say that she has strong relationships with the business community and developers.”

Councilman Bill de Blasio, who also has strong ties to labor and has received about $153,000 from unions since 2001, supported the exclusion.

“There’s no question about the business community’s ability to defend itself,” Mr. de Blasio said before yesterday’s vote. “The only balance when it comes to working people’s interests is labor, and anyone who argues that we should ban labor contributions is basically ceding the playing field to businesses and the wealthy.”

Critics of the bill, mainly lobbyists and developers most affected by it, say placing restrictions on some groups but not on unions is tantamount to discrimination. Some have threatened a lawsuit challenging it on constitutional grounds.

Critics also say the restrictions will give more power not only to the unions but also to the very rich who can finance their own campaigns.

“Communicating with the electorate is very expensive these days,” said Norman Adler, president of Bolton-St. Johns, the city’s second-largest lobbying firm in terms of revenue last year. “My view is it’s anti-democratic.”
843 2007-06-28 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. announced yesterday that the Bush administration would start a formal review of how the United States regulates financial markets and hedge funds amid concerns over competition from overseas trading capitals.

Any substantive changes to the regulatory structure would have to be vetted by Congress, where Republicans lost their majority in last year’s election. Mr. Paulson and his top finance aide have repeatedly said their goal is to frame the debate for their successors.

“To maintain our capital markets’ leadership, we need a modern regulatory structure complemented by market leaders embracing best practices,” Mr. Paulson said.

The initiatives are the latest effort by Mr. Paulson and Robert K. Steel, under secretary of the Treasury, both formerly of Goldman Sachs, to streamline capital markets regulation.

Mr. Paulson said yesterday that rising interest rates and increased volatility in financial markets were a “wake-up call.” Prolonged low borrowing costs and limited volatility have led to excesses, he said, including looseness in loans to finance buyouts and “mispriced” risk in the market for bonds backed by subprime mortgages.
844 2007-06-28 The political landscape is all the more tangled for Mr. Brown, in that he was the architect of many of the policies in health, education and housing that he is now promising to change.

Yet, as was underscored by Wednesday’s low-key events, he will try to do so without the flashing wit and charisma of Mr. Blair, who had captivated the nation until he sacrificed his popularity by sending British troops to war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

For all the years Mr. Brown had waited for his moment of triumph outside 10 Downing Street, he seemed less confident and more low-key in his delivery than Mr. Blair. He offered hard work but no grand visions. Impatient with trivia and ill-equipped to emulate Mr. Blair’s easy charm, Mr. Brown signaled Wednesday that he would seek to impress Britain’s voters with a more traditional and far less personal political style.

His words suggested as much a shift in tone as an effort to create a new social compact built on what Mr. Brown has called the values of his own moral compass, like hard work and fairness.

As if to amplify the earnest new mood music, Mr. Brown, the 56-year-old son of a Church of Scotland minister with a reputation for dourness, quoted his old school motto: “I will try my utmost.”

Mr. Brown’s hoopla-free accession offered a marked contrast to the flag-waving jubilation of party supporters who greeted Mr. Blair at Downing Street after the landslide victory in 1997 that ended Labor’s 18 years in opposition.

Specifically, Mr. Brown said he would seek to enhance the prospects for young people to buy homes in Britain’s skyrocketing real estate market and to improve state-run schools and hospitals. In effect, he was pledging to complete the domestic reforms that Mr. Blair left unfinished. Moreover, Mr. Brown hinted that he would seek a new style of government away from the narrow coterie of Labor loyalists who advised Mr. Blair. “I will reach out beyond narrow party interests,” Mr. Brown said. “I will build a government that uses all the talents.”

He did not say whom he would seek to embrace. The small opposition Liberal Democrats have already rebuffed an approach, but Mr. Brown has persuaded a midranking member of the opposition, Quentin Davies, to defect, chastening Mr. Cameron and robbing him of political momentum.

Mr. Brown did not offer a detailed account of his intentions toward Iraq or President Bush, reportedly the first world leader to telephone the new prime minister with congratulations.

Mr. Brown rose to the highest office after years in waiting as the prime minister’s sometimes loyal, sometimes impatient lieutenant in a rivalry that became legend. But the transfer of office unfolded to a smooth and time-honored script. Each man went separately to meet Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace — Mr. Blair to quit and Mr. Brown to assume office — the closing acts of a decade since Mr. Blair came to power.

Beyond the pageantry, though, Mr. Brown embarked on the hard-nosed business of dropping some cabinet ministers and elevating his chosen team. Several senior figures, including John Reid, the home secretary; Attorney General Lord Peter Goldsmith, and Deputy Prime Minister John Leslie Prescott, all said they would retire along with Mr. Blair.

Mr. Brown’s allies include Edward Balls, a close adviser who is already a government minister, and Alastair Darling, who is expected to take over Mr. Brown’s previous job as chancellor of the Exchequer. Several other Blairite stalwarts, including the foreign secretary, Margaret Beckett, and the health secretary, Patricia Hewitt, are likely to lose their jobs, the BBC reported.

Mr. Blair’s last few hours included a remarkable exchange in Parliament with Mr. Cameron, the Tory leader, who has routinely sought to mock and belittle the prime minister’s political record at the weekly encounters known as Prime Minister’s Questions.

But the half-hour session ended Wednesday with legislators from both government and opposition rising to give Mr. Blair an unusual standing ovation. Seen often as something of a showman, Mr. Blair declared to much laughter, “I wish everyone, friend or foe, well — and that is that: the end.”

In more somber tones, he referred to the British troops he had deployed alongside American forces, saying he was “truly sorry about the dangers they face today in Iraq and Afghanistan.”

Mr. Brown’s meeting with the queen at Buckingham Palace was an unusually lengthy one, running 55 minutes. While he was there, his unarmored Vauxhall sedan was quietly replaced with an armor-plated Daimler, reflecting the heightened security arrangements and prestige associated with his new office.

Mr. Blair set records for the Labor Party by winning three straight election victories, and he said in September 2004, several months before the last ballot, in May 2005, that he was ready to serve a full third term, usually four or five years. But that pledge crumbled under sustained pressure from Mr. Brown’s supporters, who mounted a revolt, forcing Mr. Blair to commit himself to an earlier departure.

Mr. Blair choreographed one of the longest farewells, announcing seven weeks ago that he would quit on June 27. But the trappings of power fell away quickly. In early May, when Mr. Blair traveled to northeast England to announce his impending departure, he went in presidential style, with an executive jet, a motorcade and motorcycle outriders. On Wednesday, after leaving Buckingham Palace, he was taken to the railroad station and went by train, British news reports said.

Mr. Blair left with a final word of praise from President Bush in an interview with The Sun. “I’ve heard he’s been called Bush’s poodle,” Mr. Bush said. “He’s bigger than that. This is just background noise, a distraction.

“We’ve served together during a time of war, and shared the same determination to succeed. We analyzed the enemy the same way — and found each other in the same foxhole.”
845 2007-06-28 The Associated Press reported on Tuesday from Tokyo that “The champ may not be able to chomp.”

Surely this meant that the Mustard Yellow International Belt, the Stanley Cup of frankfurter-eating, was Mr. Chestnut’s for the taking; that the Fourth of July, without Mr. Kobayashi, was a mere victory lap?

Or maybe not.

Yesterday, Mr. Kobayashi, 29, made known his intention to board a flight to the United States today and compete for the seventh time, swallowing and chewing through almost clenched teeth.

Was the declaration (and the ailment) psychological warfare? Competitive-eating rope-a-dope? Warrior zen with mustard?

In a telephone interview yesterday from San Jose, Calif., where he is a civil engineering undergraduate at San Jose State University, Mr. Chestnut, asked about Mr. Kobayashi, replied with a long sigh and several stammers.

“All my friends and family,” he said, “they’re all saying, ‘Don’t pay any attention to it.’ But it doesn’t make sense. Why would anybody say, ‘Oh I’m going to compete, but I’m hurt’?” Mr. Chestnut sighed again and thought out loud: “He’s never gone into it as an underdog.”

Mr. Kobayashi, he said, “could come to the Fourth of July with his jaws wired shut, and I’m sure he could still do all right; he’s that good of an eater.”

Other competitive eaters yesterday also wondered what was going on, but seemed to lean, if slightly, to the psychological warfare theory.

Arturo Rios Jr., 30, of Long Branch, N.J., who won yesterday’s qualifying round for the July Fourth contest, seemed to play down Mr. Kobayashi’s calamity, which some news reports described as “jaw arthritis.”

Mr. Rios, a truck driver for The Daily News, said after he won the regional competition, “He’ll show up.”

Mr. Rios ate 27 ½ hot dogs in 12 minutes, or one hot dog every 26 seconds.

He expressed admiration for both Mr. Kobayashi, who last year ate 53 ¾ hot dogs, or one every 13 or so seconds, and Mr. Chestnut, who ate 59 ½ hot dogs this month, or one every 12 or so seconds.

The two leading competitors seem to have little in common. At 6-foot-1 and 215 pounds, Mr. Chestnut is taller and heavier than Mr. Kobayashi, who is 5-foot-6 and last weighed in at 160 pounds.

But Mr. Chestnut said the two were actually quite similar.

Mr. Kobayashi is a champion, he said, “because he’s healthy and controls his calorie intake.”

Mr. Chestnut — whose weight has fallen to 215 pounds from 240 during his two years of competing in eating contests — controls his intake with minimum-calorie meal-replacement shakes when he is not competing. The shakes are as important psychologically as they are physically, he said.

“I tell myself that there’s nothing solid inside of me,” he said, “so I can put 14 pounds of food inside. It’s a mental thing, to be able to convince your body that it can do this.” He added, “My body says, ‘Hey, I’m hungry.’ There’s a reason to eat this much food.”

In his short career, Mr. Chestnut has won more than $112,000 in prize money eating a dizzying variety of food, including deep-fried asparagus, waffles, chicken wings and Krystal Burgers (similar to White Castle burgers). Only crab cakes have made him throw up, he said, even though he loves crab.

And his favorite food of all? His mother’s home cooking, especially the chicken parmigiana.
846 2007-06-28 MINNEAPOLIS, June 27 (AP) — The electronics retailer Best Buy moved aggressively on Wednesday to support its stock, saying it would immediately start a $5.5 billion buyback program and raise its quarterly dividend nearly a third.

It also said that it was increasing its North American growth plans by 400 stores, bringing its goal to 1,800. The company provided no details.

Wall Street applauded the news. Analysts said it showed that the company had confidence in its future.

Shares of Best Buy, which is based in Richfield, Minn., rose $1.68, or 3.7 percent, to $46.67.

A week ago, Best Buy reported a disappointing first quarter and cut its profit forecast for fiscal 2008.

The company said it had immediately used a portion of the $5.5 billion on an accelerated share repurchase program and would buy $3 billion worth of its stock by February. The remaining $2.5 billion will be used as business conditions dictate.

Best Buy plans to finance the buyback with cash, short-term investments and interim borrowing. It said it would raise the quarterly dividend 30 percent, to 13 cents a share.
847 2007-06-28 LOS ANGELES, June 27 (Reuters) — The video rental chain Blockbuster said on Wednesday that it had settled a patent dispute with its rival Netflix that challenged Blockbuster’s entry into online DVD rental. Blockbuster also signaled that the new business was taking a toll on its finances.

Although terms of the settlement were not disclosed, shares in Netflix jumped $1.26, almost 6.5 percent, to $20.78, while Blockbuster slipped 2 cents, to $4.20.

Blockbuster also disclosed in a securities filing on Wednesday that it planned to seek an amendment to its Aug. 20, 2004, credit agreement that would lower earnings requirements.

The company said in the filing that it planned to modify its popular Total Access plan before the end of the year to “strike the appropriate balance between continued subscriber growth and enhanced profitability.”

Blockbuster has poured hundreds of millions of dollars into building and promoting its online service as in-store rental revenues decline in the $9 billion rental industry.

Blockbuster will not make changes to its Web site or business model as a result of the patent lawsuit settlement, a spokeswoman, Karen Raskopf, said.
848 2007-06-28 Three congregations that broke away from the Episcopal Church over the appointment of a gay bishop are not entitled to property claimed by the Episcopal Diocese of Los Angeles, a California appeals court has ruled.

In a unanimous decision on Monday overturning a lower court ruling, a three-judge panel supported the diocese’s assertion that the property — buildings and other items — did not belong to the individual congregations, but was held in trust for the diocese and the Episcopal Church, the American arm of the worldwide Anglican Communion.

State property laws vary to such an extent that legal experts say the ruling will probably not set a precedent in similar disputes around the country, where other congregations have broken with the Episcopal Church. But they also said the ruling’s encyclopedic discussion of church property precedents, especially in California, could make it a persuasive resource in other cases.

“This is a very scholarly opinion, and trial judges know when a decision is more learned,” said L. Martin Nussbaum, a Colorado Springs lawyer representing the Episcopal Diocese of Colorado in a dispute with a breakaway parish. “This will have persuasion beyond its jurisdiction and will have persuasion beyond the state of California.”

In August 2004, All Saints Church in Long Beach, St. James Church in Newport Beach and St. David’s Church in North Hollywood voted to leave the Los Angeles Diocese and the Episcopal Church. Their departure stemmed from a dispute over biblical authority and interpretation that culminated a year earlier with the church’s consecration of V. Gene Robinson, a gay man in a long-term relationship, as bishop of New Hampshire. The churches placed themselves under the authority of Anglican bishops overseas.

The dispute over homosexuality has frayed relations between the Episcopal Church and many other provinces in the Anglican Communion, which has 77 million members. It has also prompted about four dozen American congregations to split from the church since 2003; many of them are involved in similar lawsuits over church property.
849 2007-06-28 TEHRAN, June 27 — Angry drivers set fire to at least two gas stations overnight in Tehran after the government announced that gasoline rationing would begin Wednesday just after midnight.

The state television news said Wednesday that “several gas stations and public places had been attacked by vandals.” While there were some reports that a large number of gas stations had been set on fire, only two fires were confirmed.

The government had been planning for a year to put rationing into effect but held off because of concerns that it could cause unrest. Some officials indicated it might have been started now because of the threat of stronger economic sanctions by the United Nations over Iran’s nuclear program.

Iran contends that its nuclear enrichment program is for civilian energy purposes, while the United States and some other Western nations contend that Iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons.

Under the new regulations announced by the Oil Ministry on Tuesday evening, private cars will be able to buy a maximum of 26 gallons of gasoline a month at the subsidized price of 34 cents per gallon. Taxis will be allowed 211 gallons a month. Parliament would have to determine whether individuals would be allowed to buy more at market rates.
850 2007-06-28 UBS, Europe’s largest bank by assets, was accused yesterday by Massachusetts regulators of “dishonest and unethical” practices in dealings with hedge fund advisers.

The bank’s investment banking division in Stamford, Conn., gave hedge fund managers below-market rent, low-interest personal loans and other benefits to retain and increase business, according to a complaint from the office of William F. Galvin, the secretary of the commonwealth and its top securities regulator. The treatment created conflicts of interest for fund managers that may have hurt their clients, the complaint says.

UBS, based in Zurich, trails Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley in the competition for about $8 billion in prime brokerage fees generated each year by hedge funds, according to Celent, a research and consulting firm in Boston. Federal regulation generally governs relationships between hedge funds and brokers.

“Brokers want their business, and they’re willing to spend money to make money,” said Jeffrey R. Blumberg, a partner in the investment management practice of the Chicago law firm of Drinker Biddle & Reath, which is not involved in the case. “What’s surprising is that, assuming UBS complied with federal guidelines, Massachusetts thinks their rules somehow trump compliance at that level.”

The complaint also charges UBS with failure to supervise its employees’ giving of gifts and gratuities.

Douglas Morris, a UBS spokesman in New York, declined to comment.
851 2007-06-28 In the World Wide Bridge Contest played on June 1, the top finishers from Manhattan were R. Jay Becker and Scott Levine. Playing at Honors Bridge Club, 133 East 58th Street, Manhattan, they finished 8th in the United States and 43rd in the world. (Full details can be found at www.ecatsbridge.com.)

They had an excellent result on the diagramed deal, which was Board 7.

Levine (South) opened one heart, as would we all.

West overcalled two diamonds. A few would pass (not the modern style), and some, because the diamond suit is relatively weak, would prefer a takeout double, which is more flexible, keeping the black suits and no-trump more in the picture, but risks reaching a poor 4-3 spade fit.

Becker (North) raised to two hearts, when some would inadvisedly jump pre-emptively to three hearts because they had four-card support. (With a weak hand, get to the nine-trick level with nine combined trumps.) That action ought to be reserved for hands with more offense and less defense. Becker planned to compete to three hearts on the next round if he deemed it expedient.

East competed with three diamonds of course.

South, despite having seven losers, liked his 5-4-3-1 distribution and issued a game-invitation with a so-called maximal double.
852 2007-06-28 One approach to tracing supply chain geography might be to attribute the cost of each component to the country of origin of its maker. So $73 of the cost of the iPod would be attributed to Japan since Toshiba is a Japanese company, and the $13 cost of the two chips would be attributed to the United States, since the suppliers, Broadcom and PortalPlayer, are American companies, and so on.

But this method hides some of the most important details. Toshiba may be a Japanese company, but it makes most of its hard drives in the Philippines and China. So perhaps we should also allocate part of the cost of that hard drive to one of those countries. The same problem arises regarding the Broadcom chips, with most of them manufactured in Taiwan. So how can one distribute the costs of the iPod components across the countries where they are manufactured in a meaningful way?

To answer this question, let us look at the production process as a sequence of steps, each possibly performed by a different company operating in a different country. At each step, inputs like computer chips and a bare circuit board are converted into outputs like an assembled circuit board. The difference between the cost of the inputs and the value of the outputs is the “value added” at that step, which can then be attributed to the country where that value was added.

The profit margin on generic parts like nuts and bolts is very low, since these items are produced in intensely competitive industries and can be manufactured anywhere. Hence, they add little to the final value of the iPod. More specialized parts, like the hard drives and controller chips, have much higher value added.

According to the authors’ estimates, the $73 Toshiba hard drive in the iPod contains about $54 in parts and labor. So the value that Toshiba added to the hard drive was $19 plus its own direct labor costs. This $19 is attributed to Japan since Toshiba is a Japanese company.

Continuing in this way, the researchers examined the major components of the iPod and tried to calculate the value added at different stages of the production process and then assigned that value added to the country where the value was created. This isn’t an easy task, but even based on their initial examination, it is quite clear that the largest share of the value added in the iPod goes to enterprises in the United States, particularly for units sold here.

The researchers estimated that $163 of the iPod’s $299 retail value in the United States was captured by American companies and workers, breaking it down to $75 for distribution and retail costs, $80 to Apple, and $8 to various domestic component makers. Japan contributed about $26 to the value added (mostly via the Toshiba disk drive), while Korea contributed less than $1.

The unaccounted-for parts and labor costs involved in making the iPod came to about $110. The authors hope to assign those labor costs to the appropriate countries, but as the hard drive example illustrates, that’s not so easy to do.

This value added calculation illustrates the futility of summarizing such a complex manufacturing process by using conventional trade statistics. Even though Chinese workers contribute only about 1 percent of the value of the iPod, the export of a finished iPod to the United States directly contributes about $150 to our bilateral trade deficit with the Chinese.

Ultimately, there is no simple answer to who makes the iPod or where it is made. The iPod, like many other products, is made in several countries by dozens of companies, with each stage of production contributing a different amount to the final value.

The real value of the iPod doesn’t lie in its parts or even in putting those parts together. The bulk of the iPod’s value is in the conception and design of the iPod. That is why Apple gets $80 for each of these video iPods it sells, which is by far the largest piece of value added in the entire supply chain.

Those clever folks at Apple figured out how to combine 451 mostly generic parts into a valuable product. They may not make the iPod, but they created it. In the end, that’s what really matters.
853 2007-06-28 FOOD SAFETY CRACKDOWN IN CHINA After weeks of insisting that food in China is largely safe, regulators there said that they had recently closed 180 plants and that inspectors had uncovered more than 23,000 food safety violations.      REGULATOR BL...
854 2007-06-28 Playboy Enterprises will open a 40,000-square-foot entertainment complex, the Playboy Mansion Macao, with dining, entertainment and retail shops, in Macao in late 2009, the chief executive, Christie Hefner, said. The complex will be part of the Ma...
855 2007-06-28 ''The Darjeeling Limited'' will open the 45th New York Film Festival on Sept. 28 at Avery Fisher Hall in Lincoln Center. A comedy directed by Wes Anderson, it stars Owen Wilson, Adrien Brody and Jason Schwartzman and features Anjelica Huston in a ...
856 2007-06-28 Poland's central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest rate, for a second time this year, on concern that wage growth will force companies to increase prices. The Monetary Policy Council, which is led by the central bank, lifted the seve...
857 2007-06-28 North Korea has test-fired ''several missiles,'' the United States said, as United Nations nuclear inspectors prepared to visit the Yongbyon reactor today, which North Korea has promised to shut down. ''The United States is deeply troubled that No...
858 2007-06-28 Japan's industrial production unexpectedly dropped in May for a third month, the longest losing streak in almost two years. Production fell a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent from a month earlier, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said. S...
859 2007-06-29 The New York City transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, provides a fifth and final set of answers to readers’ questions....
860 2007-06-29 Takeru Kobayashi, the Japanese hot-dog-eating champion whose mysterious jaw ailment has riveted the world of competitive eating, arrived in New York City late Thursday night. He hopes to defend his title next week....
861 2007-06-29 New York City’s 52 outdoor swimming pools opened today for the summer season....
862 2007-06-29 Flights are up at Kennedy International Airport this year — and so are delays....
863 2007-06-29 New rules for subprime mortgages may put downward pressure on home prices....
864 2007-06-29 An all-American family in Wisconsin takes in a foreign exchange student as a way to bolster their geeky son's popularity.
865 2007-06-29 The New York City transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, answers questions from readers about congestion pricing....
866 2007-06-29 William A. Houlihan, who most recently was chief financial officer of Sedgwick Claims Management Services, has joined UBS as a managing director in its financial institutions group. He will report to Oliver Sarkozy, joint global head of investment...
867 2007-06-29 A couple of days after an unusual spike in shares of McClatchy prompted talk - highly speculative talk - that the newspaper chain was a takeover target, there is another intriguing, though inconclusive, development. Citadel, Kenneth Griffin's big ...
868 2007-06-29 Excerpts from an interview with Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly about the decision to phase out wooden sawhorses, a longtime symbol of police presence at protests, parades and other large gatherings....
869 2007-06-29 As Rupert Murdoch vies for control of Dow Jones and The Wall Street Journal, another newspaper battle is taking place across the Atlantic. Pearson, the British publisher that owns The Financial Times, is considering a sale of French financial dail...
870 2007-06-29 3i, the private equity firm, said Friday that it has invested $57 million in Fulcrum, a hedge fund administrator, through its Growth Capital division. As part of the deal, Akshaya Bhargava of 3i will become Fulcrum's chief executive. The private e...
871 2007-06-29 Last year, Intel Capital, the venture capital arm of the giant chipmaker, invested in more U.S. deals than some of the biggest venture firms in Silicon Valley, including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital. That marks a major shif...
872 2007-06-29 Following rumors earlier this month, Moneysupermarket.com Group has officially announced it will proceed with an initial public offering of its ordinary shares thought to be worth 1 billion pounds ($2 billion). UBS has been appointed as its main a...
873 2007-06-29 In a move to boost its fixed-income sales team, Credit Suisse has hired three new bankers in Australia. Chris Dickman, Clare-Louise Nightingale and Adam Roberts-Thomson have all been recruited to new roles with the firm and will also cover New Zea...
874 2007-06-29 A federal court froze the assets of Lake Shore Asset Management, a hedge fund firm run by a former chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, after regulators said it overstated its holdings. Lake Shore, based in Chicago, said that it managed $1...
875 2007-06-29 “We’re not acting under the threat of police action,” Shawn Brant, a spokesman for the men’s council at the reserve said by telephone. “We just don’t feel it’s right to be unnecessarily sticking a finger in people’s eyes.”

Via Rail Canada, the country’s passenger rail system, canceled service between Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa for the duration of the day. Canadian National said that freight service is also being disrupted.

Phil Fontaine, the national chief of the Assembly of First Nations, had called for a “national day of action” earlier this year to protest a variety of grievances.

Relations between native groups and the Canada’s current Conservative government have been strained. Shortly after taking power last year, the Conservatives canceled an agreement between the federal government, the country’s 10 provinces and three territories that would have provided 5 billion Canadian dollars for education, employment training and health care improvements for native people.

This month, the government announced a new system for settling native land claims that met with a favorable reaction from Mr. Fontaine, whose group is the main national organization for natives. The government also rushed to settle a land claim from a tribe in Manitoba that had also threatened to block railroads today.

Despite those developments, Mr. Fontaine and other native leaders still have a long list of complaints, including demands for a formal apology for programs that once removed native children to distant boarding schools. Pupils at several of those schools were sexually and physically abused. While the government is offering financial compensation, it has rebuffed requests for an apology.

Most demonstrations this morning appeared to be peaceful. Mr. Fontaine was to be joined by several opposition politicians and prominent Canadians in a march past the Parliament buildings in Ottawa in the afternoon that was to end at an Ottawa River island claimed by a native group.

The Mohawk tribe that blocked roads and rail lines today had shut down the Canadian National tracks in April.

Mr. Brant, who is the subject of an arrest warrant from that episode, said that his tribe has found non-disruptive protests to be ineffective.

“We possess strength and power. Our people have a great deal of courage and our making this kind of disruption is to get a message to government,” he said. “Pushing the button of disruption and inconvenience moved our status up.”

Julian Fantino, the commissioner of the provincial police force, said that no attempt will be made to arrest Mr. Brandt until the protest ends at midnight. Mr. Brant has promised to turn himself in at that time.
876 2007-06-29 WASHINGTON, June 28 (AP) — House Democrats on Thursday defeated a Republican effort to block the District of Columbia from subsidizing needle exchange programs intended to curb the spread of AIDS among heroin users.

The proposed Republican amendment, sponsored by Representative Mark Souder of Indiana, was defeated 216 to 208. It was part of a $21 billion bill financing the Treasury Department and White House budgets, as well as numerous agencies.
877 2007-06-29 The foreign policy issue of the night was how to end the genocide in Darfur; the candidates generally agreed that the policies of the Bush administration have neglected the crisis there.

“Let’s face it, if Darfur had a large supply of oil, this administration would be occupying it right now,” said Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio.

The forum was restrictive, with each of the eight candidates offered one minute to respond to a question. There was no opportunity for follow-up and the candidates were not able to engage one another.

The audience was filled with prominent black leaders, and the candidates — including a black man, a Latino man and a woman — did not begin talking until after 14 minutes of speeches and introductions. Tavis Smiley, a host of a PBS talk show devoted to black issues, moderated the debate.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York drew loud applause when she denounced the White House for its response to the AIDS epidemic in black America, moments after Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico complimented Mr. Bush’s effort to finance a campaign to curb H.I.V. infection in Africa.

“You know, it is hard to disagree with anything that has been said, but let me just put this in perspective,” Mrs. Clinton said. “If H.I.V./AIDS were the leading cause of death of white women between the ages of 25 and 34, there would be an outraged outcry in this country.”

“If we don’t begin to take it seriously and address it the way we did back in the ‘90s, when it was primarily a gay men’s disease,” Mrs. Clinton said, “we will never get the services and the public education that we need.”

Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware announced to the audience that he and Mr. Obama had been tested for H.I.V., the virus that caused AIDS. Mr. Obama peered quizzically at Mr. Biden as he shared this information.

“I got tested for AIDS, I know Barack got tested for AIDS,” he said. “There’s no shame in being tested for AIDS. It’s an important thing.”

When it was Mr. Obama’s turn to talk he clarified what Mr. Biden had referred to. “Tavis, Tavis, Tavis, I just got to make clear — I got tested with Michelle,” referring to his wife. The test came on a visit last summer to Kenya in which Mr. Obama highlighted the necessity for widespread testing to slow the spread of the disease.

“I don’t want any confusion here about what’s going on,” Mr. Obama said with a grin.

Mr. Biden responded: “And I got tested to save my life, because I had 13 pints of blood transfusion.”

The forum opened with Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, the state’s first black governor, introducing the candidates.

None of the candidates appeared to stand out, and each of the best-known ones drew relatively similar reactions from the audience.

The candidates were pressed to respond to a Supreme Court decision earlier in the day that barred public school systems from explicitly using race to achieve or maintain integration. The candidates were unified in denouncing the decision as a setback.

Mr. Obama cast himself as a product of the landmark 1954 Brown v. Board of Education decision that found school segregation unconstitutional. And he reminded his audience that it was on the Howard campus that the arguments that prevailed in Brown were developed by Thurgood Marshall, then the chief counsel for the N.A.A.C.P., later the first black Supreme Court justice.

“If it hadn’t been for them, I would not be standing here today,” Mr. Obama said. “And it was their fundamental recognition that for us to achieve racial equality was not simply good for African-Americans, but it was good for America as a whole.”

Mr. Richardson said: “Issues of diversity for me — the first Latino to run for president — aren’t talking points. They are facts of life.”

On the economy, the candidates were unified in calling for a change in policies that they said had hurt the middle class and poor Americans to favor wealthy ones.

“People who have done well ought to have more responsibility to pay back to the country and to the community and those around them,” Mr. Edwards said.

Issues of crime and punishment also were raised, with each of the candidates calling for an end to racial disparities in sentencing laws and policing. “We’ll get better justice with Democrats in the White House,” said Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut.
878 2007-06-29 Dozens of residents were evacuated from their homes on a street on western Staten Island last night as the New York City police and federal law enforcement officials raided a house believed to be involved in the Internet sale of commercial chemicals, including potassium nitrate and sulfur.

A man who lives at the raided house, and who was identified by neighbors as Miguel Serrano, 57, was in law enforcement custody last night for questioning by federal and local investigators. He had not been charged with a crime, a law enforcement official said.

“As of right now, there are no federal explosives laws that have been violated, and therefore no one has been arrested,” said Joseph Green, a spokesman for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, which received the tip that led to the raid. “We’ll let the investigation unfold, and we’ll follow it wherever it leads.”

The police said charges against Mr. Serrano, possibly including reckless endangerment, were pending.

While relatively small amounts of the chemicals were found in the home, about 2,500 pounds of potassium nitrate was found in a storage facility on Goethals Road North, the official said. Potassium nitrate, also known as saltpeter, has a variety of commercial uses, including as fertilizer, as a solvent for cleaning septic tanks, as a meat preservative and as a component in making black powder.

Mr. Serrano had apparently been buying chemicals in bulk wholesale quantities and selling them in smaller amounts at retail prices over the Internet, according to the authorities.
879 2007-06-29 Nashville Predators forward Paul Kariya plans to enter free agency, the latest loss for a team ”fighting for its life,” General Manager David Poile said. Poile said Kariya decided to become a free agent because the Predators are up for sale and the team’s future is uncertain. The Predators have already shed several of their franchise players, including goaltender Tomas Vokoun, defenseman Kimmo Timonen and forward Scott Hartnell.
880 2007-06-29 British house prices advanced this month at the fastest pace since December, bolstering the case for an interest rate increase by the Bank of England next week. The average cost of a home rose 1.1 percent from May, to £184,070 ($368,000), according to the Nationwide Building Society, the biggest mortgage lender in Britain. “The bounce-back in June is a bit stronger than expected,” said Fionnuala Earley, chief economist at Nationwide. “It looks like the bank will bring forward the decision to increase interest rates, and increase the risk that rates get to 6 percent this year.”
881 2007-06-29 Given that the Mel Brooks musical “The Producers” introduced the $480 ticket to Broadway, it’s no wonder that rumors are already spreading about the ticket pricing for “The New Mel Brooks Musical Young Frankenstein,” opening on Nov. 8 at the 1,821-seat Hilton Theater. Well, here’s the official word: On Friday and Saturday evenings and at weekend matinees, you will be able to buy something called a premier seat — roughly, one of the best 100 seats in the theater — for $450. Premium seats, the next-best 120 or so seats, will go for $375. The remaining orchestra and dress circle tickets will be priced at $120 each, and the balcony will be divided between $80 and $60 tickets. Both premium and premier seats will cost $100 less for other performances, and prices for balcony seats will be slightly lower as well. A production spokesman said $25 orchestra seats would be available for most performances, though there are no specific details about those tickets yet. One more thing: “Young Frankenstein” is allotting fewer tickets than normal to groups — 50 at most per weekend performance — to “allow greater single-buyer access,” the spokesman wrote in an e-mail message.
882 2007-06-29 “She wanted to know why President Bush hated her,” Mrs. McCain said of her daughter’s inquiry, during an interview in the family’s condominium here. “And I had to explain to her that it wasn’t the president that hated her, that no one hates her. It was a very maturing process for her. I had to explain to her how nasty campaigns can be.”

Ugly accusations about her family, she insisted, will not be tolerated this time.

“That I truly believe was a once-in-a-lifetime thing,” Mrs. McCain said. “And I’m now very experienced also, and I also know that if that were to even bubble its head up again, we’d knock that flat.”

Mrs. McCain’s pixie haircut has grown into long frosted locks. She has had a role in her husband’s elections since 1982, when he first ran for Congress in Arizona and they worked the district together one door at a time. But her personal investment in the nation’s war policies, her recent recovery from a stroke and her increased comfort with being in the white-hot center of a national campaign appear to have made her more publicly candid.

“I think she is a lot more seasoned now,” said Betsy Bayless, former Arizona secretary of state and a close friend of Mrs. McCain’s, who traveled on the campaign bus with the family in 2000. “I think she is comfortable with herself, and I think she is comfortable with what she wants to say. And you know she is a military mom, and you don’t find many of those in the U.S. Senate.”

Until recently, Mr. McCain took pains to avoid criticizing President Bush, and keep up appearances of friendship. But Mrs. McCain has staked out her own critical territory, particularly on the matter of the Iraq war, which she explains without apology.

“I am speaking specifically to this issue because now I’m involved on a different level with it,” she said in the interview, which was punctuated by the chirps of parakeets in a large cage in the living room.

“I really do wish they’d listen to my husband,” Mrs. McCain said. “He’s a man of experience. And he tried to tell them in the early days when he went over there and the guys were saying we need more boots on the ground. And he went back and said: ‘Look this is what I was told. I know it, I saw it.’ He speaks from experience, and yet they weren’t listening.”

Even while outspoken on Iraq and South Carolina, Mrs. McCain limits her formal role in the campaign largely to retail politics, and has usually resisted taking policy positions, criticizing other candidates publicly or making comments about the current occupant of the White House.

“I’ve never been involved in day-to-day issues,” said Mrs. McCain, who is active in several charities. “It’s just not me. I don’t feel it’s my job, and I just don’t like it.” Her closest thing to a political contribution to her husband’s campaign Web site is a recipe for guacamole.

But Mrs. McCain is clearly not interested in having her husband take a beating at the expense of his family or enduring accusations about his briery temperament.

“There’s no temper,” Mrs. McCain countered, before a question concerning it was even finished. “I think it’s been fabricated by a race in 2000. I think that’s what the then-Bush candidate was trying to point out. But there’s no temper. There is an extreme amount of passion, yes.”

Clutching tightly her giant Starbucks cup, she added: “I get a little frustrated when I hear that because it’s not temper. That’s a concoction that they made up. And I don’t like that.”

Mrs. McCain serves as Mr. McCain’s conscience from time to time, telling him which fences need mending and when to do it. Earlier this year, after Mr. McCain made a frosty remark to a reporter during a news conference, he later went to the back of a campaign plane to say his wife had scolded him and instructed him to apologize, the reporter said.

During the 2000 campaign, Mrs. McCain was a hit among the voters she courted at coffee shops and campaign stops, charming them with the sort of good looks and elegance that make some women long to find a snag in her pantyhose (they will not find it) and frequent references to her carpooling, charity work and children.

Mr. McCain’s mother, Roberta McCain, said it had always been so.

“Johnny had said, ‘I’d like you to meet her,’ and it never occurred to me it was anything but a friendship,” Ms. McCain said in a telephone interview. “She was so exquisite I really couldn’t keep my mouth closed. I mean I just couldn’t shut it.”

She added: “You know how when people talk about their children, and say, ‘I have never seen anything wrong about them.’ That is how I feel about Cindy.” When asked if that is how she feels about her son, the senator’s mother changed the subject.

Cindy McCain grew up in Arizona and was a rodeo queen in 1968. She schooled her husband in the ways of her home state when he moved there with her after their marriage in 1980. Mr. McCain had met her in Hawaii while he was married to his first wife, Carol.

It was far from clear whether Mrs. McCain would be more liability or asset as the wife of an ambitious politician. In 1994, her addiction to painkillers was exposed, in tandem with a federal investigation into her theft of painkillers from a medical charity she ran.

Mrs. McCain said in the interview that it was the most difficult period in her marriage and stemmed from her inability to deal with back pain. Mr. McCain made weekend trips from Washington to Arizona; she informed her husband of the addiction over the phone.

“I didn’t want my husband to come home to a woman who couldn’t function,” she said. “I should have just told him I had a back problem. He never knew it. I wanted to be the perfect woman in those days.”

The McCain home is awash in family photographs — college graduations, panels of images from the 2000 campaign, baby pictures, family portraits. There are dog cages for new puppies, and artifacts of a Western way of life, like cowboy boots. The bathroom holds political cartoons, some of them poking fun at the candidate Mr. Bush, in the context of the 2000 primary.

A candidate’s spouse is fair game, Mrs. McCain said, acknowledging that voters were curious.

“I am too when I vote for a candidate,” she said. “I like seeing family units. I like seeing normal people who live everyday lives.”
883 2007-06-29 Following are excerpts from opinions by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Anthony M. Kennedy in the court’s 5-to-4 decision yesterday that public school systems cannot seek to achieve or maintain integration through measures that take explicit account of a student’s race. Also included are excerpts from the dissent by Justice Stephen G. Breyer.

The parties and their amici debate which side is more faithful to the heritage of Brown, but the position of the plaintiffs in Brown was spelled out in their brief and could not have been clearer: “[T]he Fourteenth Amendment prevents states from according differential treatment to American children on the basis of their color or race.” What do the racial classifications at issue here do, if not accord differential treatment on the basis of race? As counsel who appeared before this court for the plaintiffs in Brown put it: “We have one fundamental contention which we will seek to develop in the course of this argument, and that contention is that no state has any authority under the equal-protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to use race as a factor in affording educational opportunities among its citizens.”

There is no ambiguity in that statement. And it was that position that prevailed in this court, which emphasized in its remedial opinion that what was “[a]t stake is the personal interest of the plaintiffs in admission to public schools as soon as practicable on a nondiscriminatory basis,” and what was required was “determining admission to the public schools on a nonracial basis.” What do the racial classifications do in these cases, if not determine admission to a public school on a racial basis?

Before Brown, schoolchildren were told where they could and could not go to school based on the color of their skin. The school districts in these cases have not carried the heavy burden of demonstrating that we should allow this once again — even for very different reasons. For schools that never segregated on the basis of race, such as Seattle, or that have removed the vestiges of past segregation, such as Jefferson County, the way “to achieve a system of determining admission to the public schools on a nonracial basis,” is to stop assigning students on a racial basis. The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.

Our nation from the inception has sought to preserve and expand the promise of liberty and equality on which it was founded. Today we enjoy a society that is remarkable in its openness and opportunity. Yet our tradition is to go beyond present achievements, however significant, and to recognize and confront the flaws and injustices that remain. This is especially true when we seek assurance that opportunity is not denied on account of race. The enduring hope is that race should not matter; the reality is that too often it does.
884 2007-06-29 The government also created special courts to try such cases but witnesses have been afraid to speak out.

The armed forces said the Human Rights Watch report was unfair and one-sided. “We categorically deny the allegations that there is a dirty war being waged by the armed forces of the Philippines, particularly against the leftist groups,” Lt. Col. Bartolome Bacarro, a military spokesman, said Thursday.

Though he conceded that some military elements might have been involved in such killings, Colonel Bacarro said, “It is not a policy to commit extrajudicial activities.”

Sophie Richardson, deputy director of Human Rights Watch’s Asia program, said, “There is strong evidence of a ‘dirty war’ by the armed forces against left-leaning activists and journalists.” She said, “The failure to prosecute soldiers or police suspected in these killings shifts the spotlight of responsibility to the highest levels of the government.”

The report said the killings “appeared to shift into a higher gear” in February 2006, after several leftist groups were accused of participating in a coup plot led by renegade members of the military. The report also said that around the same time, Ms. Arroyo also ordered an “all-out war” against Communists.

Karapatan, a Philippine human rights group, some of whose members have been killed, has documented nearly 900 cases of what it describes as extrajudicial killings. There has also been a recent spate of abductions of leftists, some of whose bodies were later found.

The military denies that it goes after unarmed activists, insisting that the killings have been carried out by the Communists themselves as part of a long-running purge.

But Human Rights Watch said that while the rebel New People’s Army continued to violate human rights, its investigation did not uncover evidence of the rebels’ participation in any of the killings.

The group urged Ms. Macapagal-Arroyo to issue an executive order prohibiting extrajudicial killing and called on the United States to suspend military assistance to the Philippines until members of the armed forces those implicated in the killings were prosecuted.

“Actions speak louder than words, and the only real proof of the government’s commitment to end these killings will be when the perpetrators are finally held to account in a court of law,” the group said.
885 2007-06-29 Michael B. Nifong, the Durham County prosecutor, did not show up at a hearing to consider his immediate removal as district attorney, a position from which he has been suspended and already pledged to resign. But Mr. Nifong, who was disbarred for his handling of the discredited Duke lacrosse rape case, told the lawyer hired to prosecute his removal that he planned to resubmit his resignation Monday, making it effective immediately. At the hearing, Judge Orlando F. Hudson Jr. of Superior Court said he would reconvene Monday to accept Mr. Nifong’s resignation or issue an order kicking him out of office.
886 2007-06-29 The Bush administration, along with economists of the Chicago school, had argued that the blanket prohibition against resale price maintenance agreements was archaic and counterproductive because, they said, some resale price agreements actually promote competition.

For example, they said, such agreements can make it easier for a new producer by assuring retailers that they will be able to recoup their investments in helping to market the product. And some distributors would be unfairly harmed by others, like Internet-based retailers, which could offer discounts because they would not have the expense of product demonstrations or other specialized consumer services.

A majority of the court agreed that the flat ban on price agreements discouraged these services and other marketing practices that could promote competition.

“In sum, it is a flawed antitrust doctrine that serves the interests of lawyers — by creating legal distinctions that operate as traps for the unaware — more than the interests of consumers — by requiring manufacturers to choose second-best options to achieve sound business objectives,” the court said in an opinion written by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy and signed by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr.

But in his dissent, portions of which he read from the bench, Justice Stephen G. Breyer said that there was no compelling reason to overturn a century’s worth of Supreme Court decisions that had affirmed the prohibition on resale maintenance agreements.

“The only safe predictions to make about today’s decision are that it will likely raise the price of goods at retail and that it will create considerable legal turbulence as lower courts seek to develop workable principles,” he wrote. “I do not believe that the majority has shown new or changed conditions sufficient to warrant overruling a decision of such long standing.”

During a 38-year period from 1937 to 1975 that Congress permitted the states to adopt laws allowing retail price fixing, economists estimated that such agreements covered about 10 percent of consumer good purchases. In today’s dollars, Justice Breyer estimated that the agreements translated to a higher annual average bill for a family of four of about $750 to $1,000.

The dissent was signed by Justices John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

The case involved an appeal of a judgment of $1.2 million against Leegin Creative Leather Products after it cut off Kay’s Kloset, a suburban Dallas shop, for refusing to honor Leegin’s no-discount policy. The judgment was automatically tripled under antitrust law.

Leegin’s marketing strategy for finding a niche in the highly competitive world of small leather goods was to sell its “Brighton” line of fashion accessories through small boutiques that could offer personalized service. Retailers were required to accept a no-discounting policy.

After the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, upheld the judgment and said it was bound by Supreme Court precedent, Leegin took the case to the Supreme Court. Unless it is settled, the case, Leegin Creative Leather Products v. PSK Inc., will now be sent down to a lower court to apply the new standard.

The Supreme Court adopted the flat ban on resale price agreements between manufacturers and retailers in 1911, when it found that the Dr. Miles Medical Company had violated the Sherman act. The company had sought to sell medicine only to distributors who agreed to resell them at set prices. The court said such agreements benefit only the distributors, not consumers, and set a per se rule making such agreements unlawful.

Justice Kennedy said Thursday that the court was not bound by the 1911 precedent because of the “widespread agreement” among economists that resale price maintenance agreements can promote competition.

“Vertical agreements establishing minimum resale prices can have either pro-competitive or anticompetitive effects, depending upon the circumstances in which they are formed,” he wrote.

But Justice Breyer said in his dissent that the court had failed to justify the overturning of the rule, or that there was significant evidence to show that price agreements would often benefit consumers. He said courts would have a difficult time sorting out the price agreements that help consumers from those that harm them.

“The upshot is, as many economists suggest, sometimes resale price maintenance can prove harmful, sometimes it can bring benefits,” he wrote. “But before concluding that courts should consequently apply a rule of reason, I would ask such questions as, how often are harms or benefits likely to occur? How easy is it to separate the beneficial sheep from the antitrust goats?”

“My own answer,” he concluded, “is not very easily.”
887 2007-06-29 Music blogs and social networking sites like MySpace are playing an increasingly important part in record companies’ marketing plans. Now they will also be able to sell songs from a major label that will play on the iPod from Apple.

EMI Music and Snocap are to announce today that Snocap will sell the label’s music in its MyStores, online shops that can be added to various sites on the Internet. Snocap’s MyStores would be placed on the Web sites of EMI artists like Korn, Suzanne Vega and Yellowcard, as well as on artists’ MySpace pages. Fans would also be able to place MyStores “widgets” on their own sites and MySpace pages, although Snocap would still control sales.

“It’s almost like you’re giving the label a vending machine,” Snocap’s chief executive, Rusty Rueff, said. “They can fill it up and people can take it and put it as many places as they want. This allows the artists and the fans to have a chance to engage in commerce on the most popular music sites, like MySpace.”

The price will be $1.30 a song for high-quality MP3 files that will work on any digital media player, including the iPod. Until now, Snocap had been selling independent label songs in the MP3 format, as well as Warner Music Group material in a format that did not work on the iPod.

Since MyStores can be added to a variety of Web pages, they will offer fans more places to shop for music. Over the last few years, as CD sales have fallen, music chains like Tower Records have closed, which has in turn fueled further declines. Snocap also planned to sell music at a variety of different price points, a feature the major labels want, but cannot get, from Apple’s iTunes store.

“My whole mantra has been, you have to make it easy for people to buy music,” said Barney Wragg, the head of EMI’s worldwide digital division. “You don’t have to have one big store which everyone has to come to; you can take this store and put it into pages all over the place.”
888 2007-06-29 DETROIT, June 28 (AP) — General Motors said Thursday that it had agreed to sell the commercial and military business of its Allison Transmission unit for about $5.6 billion to a private equity firm, the Carlyle Group, and the Onex Corporation of Canada.

The deal is part of an effort by G.M. to raise money and focus on its core business. G.M. said in January that it was considering a sale of Allison.

The sale includes seven manufacturing plants in Indianapolis and its global distribution network and sales offices.

A plant in Baltimore that makes conventional and hybrid transmissions for pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles will remain with G.M.

G.M., based in Detroit, said the deal was expected to close as early as the third quarter pending union and regulatory approval.

“This is another important step to strengthen our liquidity and provide resources to support our heavy investments in new products and technology,” G.M.’s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said in a statement announcing the sale.

The Carlyle Group is a private equity firm based in Washington. Onex is an investment conglomerate based in Toronto.
889 2007-06-29 As finance minister in 1986 and 1987, he won popularity with high levels of public works spending, financing some of it through privatization of government companies.

To Americans he was vividly etched in the public consciousness when in 1992, President Bush fell ill at a banquet during a trip to Japan and vomited on him. The prime minister cradled the head of the flu-stricken president in his lap afterward.

Mr. Miyazawa was long known as a shrewd backroom operator who seriously contended for the office of prime minister beginning in the late 1970s.

He occupied the fuzzy borderline where his Liberal Democratic Party intersected with business interests. His rise was perceived as a return to old-style politics, signifying indifference to reforms being proposed at the time he became prime minister, The New York Times suggested at the time in an analytical article.

His career was thought to have ended in December 1988, when he was forced to resign as finance minister because of his involvement in a corporate influence-peddling scandal. In 1993 he was ousted as prime minister after he could not pass political reform bills he had promised. That ended the Liberal Democratic Party’s 38 consecutive years of rule.

In a rare case of a former prime minister’s taking a lesser cabinet post, he returned to serve as finance minister at the age of 78 in 1998. He proposed a system of bilateral currency swaps between Asian countries that is still in place today.

Kiichi Miyazawa was born on Oct. 8, 1919, in Tokyo. His father represented the Hiroshima area in Parliament, and his mother came from a prominent political family. A teacher wrote on his report card, “He speaks his own mind, and some of his classmates don’t like his straightforwardness.”

He graduated from Tokyo Imperial University, and he attended a conference of American and Japanese students in the United States in 1939. His intellectual prowess allowed him to avoid military service in World War II.

In 1942 he joined the Finance Ministry and within seven years had become the minister’s private secretary. Like many Japanese, he recalled the American postwar occupation with distaste, particularly having to listen to lectures by Gen. Douglas A. MacArthur.

“It may be hard for young people today to understand how unpleasant it was to live under the occupation,” he wrote in his memoirs.

Mr. Miyazawa was an aide to his country’s delegation at the peace conference in San Francisco in 1951. There, 49 nations restored “full sovereignty” to Japan while permitting the continuing presence of American troops on Japanese soil.

From 1953 to 1965, Mr. Miyazawa served in the largely ceremonial upper house of Parliament. In 1967 he was elected to his father’s seat in the lower house.

His government posts while a member of the house included general director of the Economic Planning Agency and minister of international trade and industry. He was also chairman of his party’s executive council.

The Japanese government released no information on survivors, but this year’s edition of Who’s Who said he had a wife and two children.

Mr. Miyazawa admired the United States as a student, and his excellent English allowed him to forge warm relationships with Americans. When he concluded a major trade pact with the United States in 1993, he attributed his success to charming President Clinton over a sushi dinner.

He could also be provocative. As prime minister, he said Japan must show “compassion” for social problems like homelessness in the United States, and criticized Americans’ work ethic.
890 2007-06-29 “Iran’s dependence on imported gasoline has been a focus of international debate over future sanctions,” according to the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultant. “Rationing will reduce Iran’s vulnerability, and Iran’s leadership explicitly mentioned this goal in commenting on the measure,” it said.

Saeed Leylaz, an economist and political analyst in Tehran, said, “The high gasoline consumption has made Iran very vulnerable, and this is a security decision now.”

“We are importing gasoline from 16 different countries,” he said. “The country would be on the verge of collapse if they suddenly decide not to sell us gasoline. The government has to find a way to lower the consumption.”

In Washington on Thursday, leaders of a bipartisan House panel, led by Representative Mark Steven Kirk, Republican of Illinois, and Representative Robert E. Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey, proposed legislation intended to punish any company that provides Iran with gasoline or helps it import gasoline after Dec. 31. Such a company could lose its access to American customers through sanctions.

The Iranian government had planned for a year to ration gasoline but had postponed the move, fearing unrest. Iran offers the highest subsidies for gasoline in the region, buying foreign gasoline for slightly more than $2 a gallon, according to official figures, and offering it for 34 cents a gallon.

“Iran is in a bind,” said Vera de Ladoucette, an energy analyst with Cambridge Energy Research Associates in Paris. “They have acted too late and too harshly.”

According to Ms. de Ladoucette, Iran is also seeking to increase its gasoline production and has outlined plans to spend $18 billion by 2012 to increase its refining capacity by 1.5 million barrels a day from about 1.6 million. The government’s plan is to build four refineries and expand older ones. But, she added, it is unlikely to achieve that goal by 2012. “The problem will be financing all this,” she said.

Parliament voted last month to increase the price of gasoline to 64 cents a gallon. It said that its studies showed that the move would lead to a decline in the consumption. But Mr. Ahmadinejad rejected the proposal and decided to proceed with rationing.

The price of subsidized gasoline was raised by 25 percent last month. The new regulation allows private cars 26 gallons of gasoline a month for 34 cents a gallon. Taxis are allowed 211 gallons a month.

Despite a warning to the local news media to avoid reporting the unrest caused by rationing, newspapers continued to criticize the decision. The daily Etemad Melli wrote that public transportation had been insufficient to move stranded people on streets since Wednesday, when rationing took effect. “The question is if our dear officials enjoy or benefit from causing such unexpected difficulties,” it wrote.

Five gallons of gasoline has been selling for $15 in the black market in Zahedan, in the southeast, the daily Seday-e-Edalat reported.

The Web site Norouz reported that riots had erupted in Ilam on the eastern border and that people had attacked a gas station in Shiraz in the south.

Longstanding discount prices have encouraged gasoline consumption in Iran, where many people believe that the vast oil resources make cheap gasoline a basic right.

“There is no reason why we should pay the same price as people outside Iran do,” said Amir Aram, a carpenter in Tehran. “We have all this oil beneath our feet and have to wait for hours in line to get our ration.”

Some fear rationing could make inflation worse. Many people are dependent on their vehicles as a source of income, and many jobless people or low income government employees use their private cars as taxis.

Mr. Ahmadinejad is facing growing discontent over his economic policies and is being blamed for failing to deliver on his promises to improve the economy. He suffered a setback last December when he lost local elections, and he faces crucial parliamentary elections in March.

“The government will have to back down or face consequences,” said Ehsan Mohammadi, 32, who uses his motorcycle to work as a delivery man. “There are many people like me, and we cannot support our families with rationed gasoline.”
891 2007-06-29 That is more than any quarterly period since the Google-fueled buzz of late 2004 — and before that, since the heady days of the late 1990s.

On Wednesday alone, five high-technology companies went public, including the Internet traffic measurement company comScore, whose shares started selling on Nasdaq at $16.50, raising $73.7 million. The shares closed yesterday at $25.59.

“There is no question that for Internet and networking communications companies, the market was slammed shut for several years,” said Jim Breyer, managing partner at Accel Partners in Palo Alto, Calif., which has a stake in comScore.

Mr. Breyer says he first started to notice that the public markets were opening when another company he invested in, the data storage firm Riverbed Technology of San Francisco, went public last September.

“What Riverbed showed to many of our portfolio companies was that there was significant demand for high growth on-their-way-to-profitability types of businesses in the traditional technology segment,” Mr. Breyer said.

What changed? Historically, very little. When sanity returned to the market after the bust, the standard for becoming a public company reverted to preboom levels.

Venture-backed companies had to do more than demonstrate good customer numbers, or in the vernacular of the first dot.com boom, “lots of eyeballs.” Now, venture capitalists say companies need to have at least $100 million in annual revenue, positive cash flow and a clear path to profitability.

Only now are the technology companies created earlier in the decade that survived the bust reaching those milestones. “I don’t see a lot of companies today with $100 million in revenue and a 100 percent growth rate that are trying to go public but can’t,” said Erik Strasser, a partner at Mohr Davidow Ventures in Menlo Park, Calif.

That is good news for venture capitalists who are still cleaning up their books. In lean times, venture capitalists had to rely on acquisitions of their companies to see returns and pass them along to investors, or limited partners, in their funds. And that dependence on buyouts was unhealthy. Without a robust initial public offering market, buyers typically have more leverage, since start-ups may struggle to raise capital.

Still, despite the early enthusiasm, the market may not yet be back to full speed. Many companies that have gone public in the last year, like Riverbed Technologies and Data Domain, a storage company based in Santa Clara, Calif., that reached the market this week, are infrastructure technology firms. Aside from the Web photo-site Shutterfly, which went public in September, few consumer Internet companies have tested the public market.

But that might change soon, too. The promising public market has revived another ritual in Silicon Valley — speculation about companies poised to file for offerings.

Recent speculation has swirled around LinkedIn, and OpenTable, which lets users book restaurant reservations. This month, the company hired as chief executive, Jeff Jordan, a former PayPal and eBay executive who was once talked about as the successor to Meg Whitman. The hiring was largely seen as a sign of an impending offering; OpenTable declined to comment.

Then there is Facebook, the fashionable social networking site, with 27 million members. The site’s 23-year-old founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has indicated his preference for staying independent and going public.

A Facebook offering, venture capitalists say, could infuse the industry with the kind of open-for-business optimism that Netscape supplied in 1995 and Google provided so briefly again in 2004.

“If Facebook goes public, that tells me, depending on the valuation, that companies building digital media businesses are able to go public and the market is valuing them highly,” said Todd Dagres, a partner at Spark Capital, based in Boston. “They are able to go public because the market is confident that they should.”
892 2007-06-29 A federal court froze the assets of Lake Shore Asset Management, a hedge fund firm run by a former chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, after regulators said it overstated its holdings.

Lake Shore, based in Chicago, said that it managed $1 billion for investors and traded in United States commodity futures contracts, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. A review showed that the fund had about $466 million. Lake Shore barred regulators from inspecting its accounts on June 14, which is a violation of the Commodity Exchange Act, according to the commission’s complaint.

Laurence M. Rosenberg is listed as Lake Shore’s director, according to records from the National Futures Association, a self-regulating group for the futures industry. He is a previous chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the largest American futures exchange. Lake Shore had been profitable 13 years in a row, the trading commission said.

The commission froze $228 million of investors’ money at Lake Shore, according to a spokeswoman, Ianthe Zabel.

“The commission’s ability to inspect books and records is a critical regulatory tool that allows us access to a registrant’s daily operations,” Gregory G. Mocek, the commission’s head of enforcement, said in a statement.
893 2007-06-29 Long ago, the JVC Jazz Festival started programming its concerts by formula. Perhaps for that reason, Wednesday night’s show at Carnegie Hall, built around the bassist Ron Carter, felt familiar. It was a quadruple-decker, with some of Mr. Carter’s old friends of high repute, as well as his two current bands, and the straw occasion for it was his 70th birthday last month.

Though he’s better known as a sideman than as a bandleader, Ron Carter is important to jazz; at this point he can be given full-dress reconsideration without any excuse. It’s just that this festival is birthday-crazy. The familiar feeling could have been a result of Lee Konitz’s 80th-birthday show two days before, or an anticipation of Nancy Wilson’s 70th-birthday concert still to come. But there was also the memory of a Herbie Hancock JVC Festival concert from last year, which was set up similarly, running from duets to full-band performances, including some of the same musicians.

In Wednesday night’s show, the audience was treated to Ron Carter, Wayne Shorter and Herbie Hancock: three-fifths of the mid-’60s Miles Davis Quintet. Mr. Carter is the most stolid of the three, but whenever two or more of these musicians convene, their playing shines with a mischievous energy, a sense that they are creatively breaking rules to make themselves happy.

It didn’t quite take flight. With the drummer Billy Cobham making it a quartet, the group played Miles Davis’s “So What,” and Mr. Hancock’s exquisite accompanying figures — in every bar he seemed to be turning harmonies freshly upside down or inside out — were muffled by either the room’s acoustics or Mr. Cobham’s clattering figures. Too quickly, they turned into “Seven Steps to Heaven,” at too fast a tempo.

“Stella By Starlight,” a careful duet for piano and bass, put some clarity in the situation, but then “All Blues,” with the whole quartet, made it fuzzy again. The musicians put in some alterations — for four-bar stretches, they modulated up a whole step or double-timed the rhythm — but these nice little ideas grew stale in repetition, and even Mr. Shorter’s thoughtful solo brought no revelations.

One of Mr. Carter’s best recent bands is a drummerless trio with the pianist Mulgrew Miller and the guitarist Russell Malone, and that group played a bright set, constantly revolving itself to thrust a different player forward. Its arrangement of “The Golden Striker,” a simple and beautiful piece written by John Lewis for the Modern Jazz Quartet, left enough open space to allow Mr. Carter’s firm, rhythm-pushing notes, and his surprising harmonic choices, to really be heard.
894 2007-06-29 The seafood alert is the latest and perhaps broadest indictment yet against Chinese products, which have come under increasing scrutiny in recent months after pet food, toothpaste, toy trains and tires have been found to be contaminated or defective in some way.

China is the world’s leading producer of farm-raised fish. Its shipments to the United States were valued at $1.9 billion in 2006, a 193 percent increase from 2001, according to the Department of Agriculture. The biggest American imports from China are shrimp, tilapia, scallops, cod and pollock, federal statistics show.

The move by the F.D.A. comes after several Southern states have already blocked the sale of Chinese seafood contaminants. Now, Chinese catfish can be sold only if it passes testing that proves it has no contaminants.

The state of Alabama announced its ban after testing found 14 of 20 samples contained fluoroquinolones, a type of antibiotic banned by the F.D.A. Mississippi officials found that 18 of 26 samples of Chinese catfish were contaminated with fluoroquinolones.

“We are saying all Chinese seafood that comes in here has to be tested prior to sale,” said Bob Odom, Louisiana’s agriculture and forestry commissioner. “The simple reason for that is we found a lot of it that is contaminated.”

The problems with Chinese seafood are evident in a database of products that the FDA stops at the border. In May, for instance, the F.D.A. turned away 165 shipments from China, 49 of which were seafood.

Monkfish was rejected for being filthy. Frozen catfish nuggets were turned away because they contained veterinary drugs. Tilapia fillets were contaminated with salmonella.

The problems were even worse in April, when 257 shipments from China were rejected, including 68 of seafood. Frozen eel contained pesticides, frozen channel catfish had salmonella and frozen yellowfin steaks were filthy, the records show.

In a report on the F.D.A.’s oversight released in May, Food and Water Watch, a Washington-based nonprofit organization, found that more than 60 percent of the seafood that was rejected at the border by the F.D.A. came from China.

The report also found that the percentage of seafood shipments that were pulled out for laboratory analysis declined in recent years, from .88 percent in 2003 to .59 percent in 2006, the report found. Over all, about 2 percent of seafood import shipments between 2003 and 2006 received either a sensory examination for color and smell or a more detailed laboratory analysis.

Of the seafood that was refused at the border, filth was the top reason and salmonella was second, with shrimp accounting for about half of those, the report found.

Of the shipments rejected for veterinary drug residues in 2006, 63 percent were from China, the report found. Vietnam had the second most rejections for veterinary drug residue, 11 percent.

The Government Accountability Office has also criticized the F.D.A.’s oversight of seafood imports. In a 2004 report, the G.A.O. determined that the seafood inspection program had improved from 2001, when the agency concluded that the seafood inspection program did not sufficiently protect consumers.

But the G.A.O. also found that the F.D.A. still had considerable room for improvement.
895 2007-06-29 The Bush administration, along with economists of the Chicago school, had argued that the blanket prohibition against resale price maintenance agreements was archaic and counterproductive because, they said, some resale price agreements actually promote competition.

For example, they said, such agreements can make it easier for a new producer by assuring retailers that they will be able to recoup their investments in helping to market the product. And they said some distributors could be unfairly harmed by others — like Internet-based retailers — that could offer discounts because they would not be incurring the expenses of providing product demonstrations and other specialized consumer services.

A majority of the court agreed that the flat ban on price agreements discouraged these and other marketing practices that could be helpful to competition.

“In sum, it is a flawed antitrust doctrine that serves the interests of lawyers — by creating legal distinctions that operate as traps for the unaware — more than the interests of consumers — by requiring manufacturers to choose second-best options to achieve sound business objectives,” the court said in an opinion by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy and signed by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr.

But in his dissent, portions of which he read from the bench, Justice Stephen G. Breyer said there was no compelling reason to overturn a century’s worth of Supreme Court decisions that had affirmed the prohibition on resale maintenance agreements.

“The only safe predictions to make about today’s decision are that it will likely raise the price of goods at retail and that it will create considerable legal turbulence as lower courts seek to develop workable principles,” he wrote. “I do not believe that the majority has shown new or changed conditions sufficient to warrant overruling a decision of such long standing.”

During the period from 1937 to 1975 when Congress allowed the states to adopt laws that permitted retail price fixing, economists estimated that such agreements covered about 10 percent of consumer good purchases. In today’s dollars, Justice Breyer estimated that the agreements translate to a higher annual average bill for a family of four of roughly $750 to $1,000.

The dissent was signed by Justices John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

The case involved an appeal of a judgment of $1.2 million against Leegin Creative Leather Products Inc. after it cut off Kay’s Kloset, a suburban Dallas shop, for refusing to honor Leegin’s no-discount policy. The judgment was automatically tripled under antitrust law.

Leegin’s marketing strategy for finding a niche in the highly competitive world of small leather goods was to sell its “Brighton” line of fashion accessories through small boutiques that could offer personalized service. Retailers were required to accept a no-discounting policy.

After the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, upheld the judgment and said it was bound by Supreme Court precedent, Leegin took the case to the Supreme Court. Unless it is settled, the case, Leegin Creative Leather Products v. PSK Inc., will now be sent down to a lower court to apply the new standard.

The Supreme Court adopted the flat ban on resale price agreements between manufacturers and retailers in 1911, when it founded that the Dr. Miles Medical Company had violated the Sherman act. The company had sought to sell medicine only to distributors who agreed to resell them at set prices. The court said such agreements benefit only the distributors, not consumers, and set a rule making such agreements unlawful.

Justice Kennedy said today that the court was not bound by the 1911 precedent because of the “widespread agreement” among economists that resale price maintenance agreements can promote competition.

“Vertical agreements establishing minimum resale prices can have either pro-competitive or anticompetitive effects, depending upon the circumstances in which they are formed,” he wrote.

But Justice Breyer said in his dissent that the court had failed to justify the overturning of the rule, or that there was significant evidence to show that price agreements would often benefit consumers. He said courts would have a difficult time sorting out the price agreements that help consumers from those that harm them.

“The upshot is, as many economists suggest, sometimes resale price maintenance can prove harmful, sometimes it can bring benefits,” he wrote. “But before concluding that courts should consequently apply a rule of reason, I would ask such questions as, how often are harms or benefits likely to occur? How easy is it to separate the beneficial sheep from the antitrust goats?”

“My own answer,” he concluded, “is not very easily.”
896 2007-06-29 British house prices advanced this month at the fastest pace since December, bolstering the case for an interest rate increase by the Bank of England next week. The average cost of a home rose 1.1 percent from May, to £184,070 ($368,000), accordi...
897 2007-06-29 Striking down an antitrust rule nearly a century old, the Supreme Court ruled today that it is no longer automatically unlawful for manufacturers and distributors to agree on setting minimum retail prices.     The decision will give producers sign...
898 2007-06-30 This week's failure of the immigration bill and a possible poor showing in second quarter collections highlight mounting problems for Senator John McCain's campaign....
899 2007-06-30 Although the police said there was no evidence of bomb-making or terrorist activity at the home, Daniel M. Donovan Jr., the Staten Island district attorney, defended the raid. “As we learned from the Oklahoma City bombing,” Mr. Donovan said in a statement yesterday, “many chemicals that have innocuous household uses can often be combined to create powerful explosives when in the wrong hands.”

A lawyer for Mr. Serrano, Joseph Tacopina, ridiculed that argument, pointing out that even Home Depot stocks fertilizer containing potassium nitrate.

“They might as well arrest all the Home Depot employees, too,” Mr. Tacopina said in a telephone interview. “The law for a Class D felony requires ‘grave risk of death’ — death! What was someone going to get? A rash? This whole thing should have been dismissed.”

At the arraignment, another defense lawyer, Brian King, said the endangerment charge was baseless because the amount of chemicals stored in the home — about 375 pounds, according to the authorities — was “minuscule.” He accused the authorities of filing the charge in response to broad media coverage of the raid.

“They’ve charged a D felony because this got a lot of media attention,” Mr. King said.

A prosecutor, John Waszak, argued that the chemicals were being taken seriously because they were not in a safe place. “This was a residential neighborhood,” he said.

Mr. Serrano’s wife, Maritza Serrano; their sons, Billy and Chris; and a family friend attended the court hearing.

In the courtroom lobby, a worried Mrs. Serrano said her husband was a pastor. “He runs Hands of Hope Church here on Staten Island,” she said. There is no listing for the church on the Internet or in local telephone directories.

A church official on Staten Island who spoke on the condition of anonymity said Mr. Serrano was not ordained, and had been fired from his job as a math teacher at New Dorp Baptist Church when his previous conviction for fraud came to light.

Mr. King said Mr. Serrano used the chemicals to teach science to underprivileged children in his ministry.

Besides the chemicals found in the home, investigators discovered 350 pounds of sulfur and 1,470 pounds of potassium nitrate in the nearby storage facility, on Goethals Road North.

Potassium nitrate, also known as saltpeter, has a variety of commercial uses, including as fertilizer, as a solvent for cleaning septic tanks, as a meat preservative and in making gunpowder. The chemicals were taken to the Police Department bomb squad facility at Rodman’s Neck in the Bronx, officials said.

The police said it was unclear how long Mr. Serrano had been buying the chemicals.
900 2007-06-30 Walter McCarty, a former Kentucky star who played 10 seasons in the N.B.A., has rejoined his mentor, Rick Pitino, as an assistant basketball coach at Louisville. “To be back here with him, it means a lot,” McCarty said yesterday. He played for Pitino in 1996, when Kentucky won the N.C.A.A. title.McCarty replaced Marvin Menzies, who was introduced yesterday as the head coach at New Mexico State. Menzies replaced Reggie Theus, another former assistant to Pitino at Louisville, who left to coach the Sacramento Kings. Theus rebuilt the New Mexico State program in two seasons.
901 2007-06-30 Daniel Brière broke off negotiations with the Buffalo Sabres and will test the free-agent market when it opens tomorrow. Brière finished 10th in the league with 95 points (32 goals and 63 assists). But Brière’s agent, Pat Brisson, did not rule out a re-signing with Buffalo.
902 2007-06-30 The shake-up came just five months after Commerce said that federal regulators were investigating Mr. Hill’s business dealings, and shocked many on Wall Street who believed that he would never be forced out. Commerce stock soared 9.4 percent yesterday, to $36.99, as investors bet Mr. Hill’s departure would make the company prime takeover bait.

“I have no doubt if they hung the for-sale sign up, you would have a line of buyers down the block,” said Mark T. Fitzgibbon, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners. He said big national banks, regional players, and private equity firms were all on the prowl.

But on a conference call yesterday morning, Commerce executives suggested there were no immediate plans to sell. They said the bank would continue building branches. And with interest rates rising, analysts said they have flexibility to be patient. The bank’s profitability is expected to improve, suggesting its market value would rise.

“The plan here is to stay the course; this isn’t a company that has run out of gas,” said Dennis DiFlorio, Commerce’s new chairman. Still, he left the door open to potential suitors. “We’ll look at whatever makes good strategic sense for the company.”

Mr. Hill’s next move is similarly unclear. Upon leaving Commerce next month, he may be entitled to a severance package worth as much as $17.3 million, although he and the board are still negotiating the terms. He also holds more than 6.1 million shares of Commerce stock, worth more than $225.6 million. Colleagues say his entrepreneurial streak burns so bright that it is conceivable he may start another business.

Neither Mr. Hill nor the lawyer representing him could be reached yesterday for comment.

Analysts say Mr. Hill’s departure marked a sad and sudden end to a remarkable career.

“He brought to retail banking what Starbucks brought to coffee,” said Meredith A. Whitney, an analyst at CIBC in New York.

A former real estate developer, Mr. Hill founded Commerce in 1973 when he opened its first branch in Southern New Jersey. But over the next three decades, he turned it into the fastest-growing retail bank in the nation by flouting the industry convention. Today, Commerce, based in Cherry Hill, N.J., has more than 450 branches from New York City to Washington.

With a “Burger King approach” that standardized the look and feel of Commerce branches, Mr. Hill brought a retail mindset to banking that did not exist before. He focused on collecting deposits rather than making loans and on improving the customer experience rather than offering better interest rates. As rival banks championed the arrival of the cash machine, he opened friendly, spacious branches — and kept them open seven days a week.

“We believe that this is a retailing business, and we want to drive as many customers into our stores as we can,” Mr. Hill said in an interview last year. “My competition sees customers in stores as costs so they do things to drive them out.”

He was similarly a maverick about his business dealings, giving Commerce the appearance of a piggy bank for insiders instead of a public company.

While Mr. Hill survived past government inquiries, federal regulators began reviewing those transactions late last year.

Critics have long complained about the bank’s business ties with firms that are either owned or controlled by Mr. Hill and his wife, Shirley. Most were regularly disclosed in public filings, making him an unlikely target for criminal prosecutors but ripe for regulatory action. Yesterday’s agreements did not end the federal investigations, according to a person briefed on the matter.

For years, Commerce leased land for bank branches from firms that were owned by Mr. Hill and his family trusts; the firms earned about $1.9 million in annual rent in 2005. Commerce also had agreements with businesses run by members of his family.

InterArch, a firm owned by Shirley Hill, was paid more than $50 million over the last 10 years to design and decorate the bank’s branches. Interstate Commercial Real Estate, where Mr. Hill’s brother and son are executives, made more than $1 million in commissions from Commerce-related deals. And the bank spent hundreds of thousands of dollars over the years at Galloway National Golf Club, an 18-hole course near Atlantic City owned by Mr. Hill.

Under pressure from regulators, Commerce agreed to end those practices this month. But as talks intensified over the last two weeks, the board concluded that Mr. Hill’s departure was necessary for the government to reach a final deal, according to another person briefed on the negotiations. Commerce’s growth strategy depends on opening branches to feed deposits, but regulators were reluctant to approve new offices until they reached an agreement.
903 2007-06-30 With two competitive rounds and even the early-week practice rounds marred by thunderstorms, the 62nd United States Women’s Open has yet to find its flow. By late Friday afternoon, the golf course and driving ranges were empty as players scurried for the cover of courtesy cars and the clubhouse.

With more storms possible Saturday and Sunday, officials for the United States Golf Association said a contingency plan was in place should weather force play into Monday.

“We always do for our national championships,” said Mike Davis, the U.S.G.A. senior director of rules and competitions. “Maybe unlike a tour event that might think twice about going into Monday or Tuesday, our plan is to play 72 holes of stroke play to determine a winner. We will most definitely go to Monday if we need to.”

If the weather permits, the second round will resume at 7:30 a.m. Saturday, and the third round will start at 3:30 p.m., but many of the routines that golfers have become accustomed to have been altered by the weather. Thompson, who woke up at 5:30 a.m. Friday, said she had trouble sleeping. Angela Stanford, the runner-up in 2003, had to log 22 holes.

“My last holes were getting kind of rough,” Stanford said. “Any time you have to play more than 18 holes on a U.S. Open course, you’re in for a long day.”

The golf course is punishing the players — only seven are under par — but any significant rainfall might soften the fairways and slow the greens, allowing for more accuracy. (Pine Needles, at 6,664 yards, is 566 yards shorter than Oakmont Country Club played for the men’s United States Open two weeks ago, and the highest rough, at about three inches, is half as high as Oakmont’s.)

If more rain falls, the players might continue to hone their skills shooting pool and playing table tennis, both of which Thompson did during the delay. At one point, she was interrupted by the 19-year-old Pressel, who was the youngest qualifier in the championship before Thompson eclipsed her mark.

On sunnier days in the future, the two may compete in the final round of a major. On Friday, they engaged in chitchat.

“She wanted my e-mail and phone number so we can keep in touch,” Thompson said.

Silvia Cavalleri withdrew because of heat exhaustion Friday after playing nine holes. She was at 15-over-par for the championship. Temperatures climbed into the low 90s. A high of 84 is forecast for Saturday and Sunday.
904 2007-06-30 “This is the biggest change in Chinese labor law in the reform and opening period,” said Qiu Jie, a labor law expert at People’s University in Beijing. “It gives legal protection to the vast majority of workers, who had no way to protect their rights under the old system.”

In recent years, President Hu Jintao and other leaders have sought to increase worker protections because discontent among migrant workers has contributed to a surge in social unrest and violent crime.

But the new measure may not improve conditions for low-wage workers unless it is enforced more rigorously than existing laws, which already offer protections that on paper are similar to those in developed economies.

Urban workers may also see little change unless the state-run union, which in the past generally represented management over workers, decides to play an active role in defending worker rights, which many analysts consider unlikely.

Passage of the measure came shortly after officials and the state news media unearthed the widespread use of slave labor in as many as 8,000 brick kilns and small coal mines in Shanxi and Henan Provinces. It was one of the most glaring labor scandals since China began adopting market-style economic policies a quarter century ago.

The police have freed nearly 600 workers, many of them teenagers, held against their will in factories owned or operated by well-connected businesspeople and local officials.

Abuses of migrant laborers have been endemic in China, where millions of temporary workers have faced unpaid wages, unsafe working conditions and collusion between factory owners and local officials.

Party-run courts and local labor bureaus often fail to enforce the legal rights of migrant workers, many of whom never seek remedies.

While the new law will do little to eliminate violations of existing laws, it does require that employers treat migrant workers as they do other employees. All will have to have written employment contracts that comply with minimum wage and safety regulations.

It also moves China closer to European-style labor regulations that emphasize employment contracts. It requires that employees with short-term contracts become full-time employees with lifetime benefits after a short contract is renewed twice.

Perhaps most significant, it gives the state-run union and other groups representing employees the power to bargain with employers.

Many multinational corporations had lobbied against certain provisions in an earlier draft of the new labor law. An early draft gave unions greater powers and made it more difficult to fire workers.

Companies argued that the rules would substantially increase labor costs and reduce flexibility, and some foreign businesses warned that they would have little choice but to move their operations out of China if the provisions were enacted.

International labor experts said several of the most delicate clauses had been watered down. But lawyers representing some big global companies complained that the new law still imposed a heavy burden.

“It will be more difficult to run a company here,” said Andreas W. Lauffs, head of Baker & McKenzie’s employment law group, which represents many of America’s biggest corporations in China.

The National People’s Congress released only a summary of the legislation, and officials did not detail how they had changed it from the many earlier drafts.

The summary said companies must “consult” the state union if they planned layoffs, suggesting a softening from earlier drafts that would have given unions the right to approve or reject layoffs before they could take place.

But the summary retained language that limits the “probationary contracts” that many employers use to deny employees full-time status. It tightens conditions under which an employee can be first, while requiring severance packages for the first time. High salaried workers would face caps of severance, however.

Moreover, the law empowers company-based branches of the state-run union or employee representative committees to bargain with employers over salaries, bonuses, training and other benefits and duties.

The Communist Party’s monopoly union, known as the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, is a legacy of China’s socialist planned economy. It is an official state organization charged with overseeing workers, that in practice has tended either to play no role whatsoever or to help managers monitor and control workers. The state union rarely if ever presses for higher wages or enhanced benefits. It does not permit strikes.

Workers are not allowed to form independent unions.

But as Mr. Hu has pressed the state union to take a more active role, it has demanded greater representation in private Chinese and foreign-financed companies. Some foreign company executives say that if the union takes part in wage and layoff negotiations, that could greatly complicate labor relations.

Foreign executives said they were especially worried about new labor regulations because their companies tended to comply with existing laws more rigorously than some Chinese competitors do. This disadvantage could increase sharply, they said, if the new rules produce fresh burdens that local counterparts ignore.

Chinese legislative officials said Friday that such concerns were overblown, and that many local governments bent the rules to favor foreign investors over local companies.

“If there is some bias in the application of the law, it would tend to be in favor of foreign investors because local governments do so much to attract investment,” Xin Chunying, deputy chairwoman of the legislature’s law committee, said at a news conference announcing the new measures. “The only people who will suffer under the new law are those who violate the law.”
905 2007-06-30 Because today’s wounds are different and the families of the veterans are different — many are older, with homes and spouses to return to — more veterans should be allowed to return home for treatment, commissioners said.

Returning patients to their homes can relieve the strain on some families, said commissioners, who reported that some relatives must now leave their homes and jobs to assist with their service members’ treatment in distant hospitals run by the Departments of Defense or Veterans Affairs. But caring for injuries at home requires support from the V.A., they said, and support offered now is often insufficient.

Another consideration is that the patients’ physical wounds are also accompanied by post-traumatic stress disorder, commissioners said.

The hearing on Friday was the commission’s seventh, and several members of Congress who have introduced legislation on veterans care came to testify. Mr. Dole and Ms. Shalala asked if they would include the commission’s recommendations in pending legislation.

“We would welcome suggestions, absolutely,” said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the Senate Armed Services committee.

Mr. Levin said the Senate’s veterans bill, which is scheduled for the floor, seeks to improve medical record sharing between the military and the Department of Veterans Affairs as well as address discrepancies in the disability ratings each department uses to determine how much in benefits a service member is paid each month.

Representative Steve Buyer, Republican of Indiana and the ranking member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, said he was concerned that the departments did not adequately use private contractors to provide outpatient treatment, which could allow patients to receive care at home rather than have to travel to a veterans hospital.

“If we’re patient-centric, we should allow the transition of that patient to occur,” Mr. Buyer said.

Ms. Shalala said, “This is a different war in which we have people who have families and they want to go home.”
906 2007-06-30 The task of moving any of the major names will be helped by the opening of the free-agent period. Most N.B.A. trades require teams to match salaries, a process made easier when teams can use players in sign-and-trade deals.

The Timberwolves have resolved to trade Garnett, the face of their franchise since 1996, and have involved seemingly half of the league in an effort to make a deal. Phoenix remains the most likely destination. But it will probably require three or four teams to complete the trade.

The Lakers, in an effort to bolster their roster and appease the disgruntled Bryant, have been making overtures for O’Neal for some time. The Pacers want forward Lamar Odom and center Andrew Bynum in return, a price the Lakers have deemed too steep. The Lakers’ attempts to acquire Garnett were stymied because of the Timberwolves’ soft interest in Bynum and a lack of other intriguing players on the Lakers’ roster.

Once free agency starts, the Lakers could conceivably use forward Luke Walton, their top free agent, in a sign-and-trade deal.

The Pistons, who a year ago lost their starting center, Ben Wallace, to the Chicago Bulls, have resolved not to let another star depart. They hope to re-sign Billups, who opted out of the final year of his contract, worth $6.8 million. Billups struggled with injuries this season and the Pistons collapsed internally in losing to the Cleveland Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference finals. But Billups, the most valuable player of the 2004 finals, will probably command a salary of more than $10 million a season, on par with Tony Parker of San Antonio and Steve Nash of Phoenix.

Vince Carter will be among the flashier free agents on the market when he opts out of his contract, but he is expected to quickly re-sign with the Nets. Several people with direct knowledge of the Nets’ plans say they will give Carter a four-year deal worth about $15 million a season. Because the Nets’ owner, Bruce Ratner, is a fan of Carter’s and recognizes his appeal, the Nets are expected to go the distance to keep Carter, even if they have to overpay.

The Charlotte Bobcats were expected to be major players in free agency. But their draft-night acquisition of guard Jason Richardson from the Golden State Warriors, and their desire to re-sign Gerald Wallace, probably eliminates them from the bidding wars. That leaves Orlando as the team with the most salary-cap space and thus the best chance at landing Lewis.

Under N.B.A. rules, the SuperSonics can pay Lewis more than any other team, but they may be inclined to let him leave after drafting forward Kevin Durant on Thursday night. Ray Allen, who was traded by the Sonics to Boston on Thursday, speculated that Lewis would follow him out the door.

“Now that I’m no longer there, I’m not even sure Rashard is going to want to come back,” Allen told The Tacoma News Tribune.

If the Sonics entertain sign-and-trade offers, the Eastern Conference powers Miami and Cleveland are expected to make overtures. The Knicks and perhaps a dozen other teams could also join the bidding.

Cleveland, the defending Eastern Conference champion, will try to keep two key players while avoiding the luxury tax. Sasha Pavlovic, a starting guard, and Anderson Varejão, a hyperactive reserve forward, are free agents. The Memphis Grizzlies, who will have about $8 million of cap space, are expected to pursue Varejão.

After Billups, the best point guard on the market could be Milwaukee’s Mo Williams. After Lewis, the top small forwards on the market will be Chicago’s Andres Nocioni and Orlando’s Grant Hill. Other swingmen entering free agency include Milwaukee’s Ruben Patterson, Portland’s Travis Outlaw, Dallas’s Jerry Stackhouse, Miami’s Eddie Jones, Washington’s Jarvis Hayes and DeShawn Stevenson, and Golden State’s Matt Barnes. The free-agent forward crop includes Orlando’s Darko Milicic and Detroit’s Chris Webber.

Available centers include Portland’s Jamaal Magloire, the Nets’ Mikki Moore and Houston’s Dikembe Mutombo.
907 2007-06-30 The character Farfour, a Mickey Mouse look-alike who preached Islamic domination on "Tomorrow's Pioneers," a Hamas-affiliated children's television show was beaten to death in the final episode Friday, The Associated Press reported. The character was killed by an actor posing as an Israeli official trying to buy Farfour's land. "Farfour was martyred while defending his land," said the show's teenage presenter, adding that the character was murdered "by the killers of children." The show, featuring a giant black-and-white rodent with a high-pitched voice, had attracted attention because the character urged Palestinian children to fight Israel. It was broadcast on Al Aqsa Television, affiliated with Hamas. Israeli officials denounced the show as incendiary and outrageous. It was also opposed by the state-run Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation, which is controlled by Fatah, a rival of Hamas.
908 2007-06-30 KABUL, Afghanistan, June 29 — Four civilians were killed early Friday by American and Afghan forces in eastern Afghanistan, according to the leader of a small human rights group who gave an account of the deaths entirely at odds with that of the United States-led coalition.

“The soldiers claimed they were looking for three Taliban suspects, and they blew out the door of the house that belongs to Haji Muhammada Jan, who was about 80 years old, killing him and two of his sons and a grandson,” said Lal Gul, chairman of the Afghanistan Human Rights Organization and a resident of the area in Nangarhar Province where the killings took place. “There were no Taliban here.”

The American-led coalition offered a markedly different version, saying its forces had been fired upon after “credible intelligence” led them to three separate compounds suspected of harboring Taliban fighters. It said that three militants were killed in the ensuing combat. A search of the compounds yielded rocket-propelled grenade launchers and grenades, Maj. Christopher Belcher said. Sixteen militants were taken prisoner, the coalition said.

Such competing versions of reality have become an almost daily part of the war in Afghanistan, where the nation’s president and many of its people vehemently complain that American and NATO military forces are causing needless civilian casualties.

On Friday, the NATO secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, addressed the matter in remarks made in Macedonia, promising, “We will do our utmost to reduce the loss of civilian life.” He continued, “Let me make one point unmistakably: NATO has never and will never intentionally kill innocent civilians.”

But the issue is not one of intent. Last week, President Hamid Karzai rebuked the United States military and NATO for “careless operations.” He spoke after a week in which more than 100 civilian deaths were reported from airstrikes and artillery fire against the Taliban. Among his specific criticisms were what he called “the disproportionate use of force to a situation and the lack of coordination with the Afghan government.”
909 2007-06-30 Romero’s father, a golf pro in Villa Allende, noticed Cabrera when he was a young caddie. Romero heard his father talk about Cabrera’s talent and potential, and Romero and Cabrera have been close since.

When Cabrera needed money to play on the European Tour in the early 1990s, Romero sponsored him.

“We’ve had a great relationship for a really long time,” Cabrera said Wednesday on a conference call, using his manager, Manuel Tagle, as a translator. “We traveled around Europe for 10 years on tour together.”

Romero and Cabrera still play in Argentina, teaming against other golfers in the area for games of four ball, Romero said. But Cabrera has had a higher profile in Argentina since he became the first South American to win the United States Open.

“It was fantastic,” Romero said of the celebration to welcome Cabrera home after the victory. “The people were waiting for Cabrera at the airport, more than 100 cars waiting for him, all people from villages.”

Cabrera was in Buenos Aires this week visiting the president of Argentina, Néstor Kirchner, according to Romero, and continuing a celebration that has sparked many Argentines’ interest in playing golf.

“The president of amateur golf in Argentina tells me, ‘Now we have more than 50,000 more people coming to practice golf after Cabrera,’ ” Romero said. “Unbelievable. Unbelievable.”

Cabrera’s success has coincided with a surge by Romero, who has 96 career victories, but none on the PGA Tour and only one on the Champions Tour. That was in August at the JELD-WEN Tradition, one of the Tour’s majors. He has that victory and two second-place finishes in his past three Champions Tour majors, and he is fifth in the Charles Schwab Cup standings.

Romero said Friday that he was using this week’s tournament to prepare for the United States Senior Open next week at Whistling Straits in Kohler, Wis.

Cabrera and Romero have been asked about the likelihood of two Argentines, from the same city, winning United States Open titles weeks apart.

“It would be great, because it would mean we would have another big trophy in Villa Allende, in our hometown,” Cabrera said.

Romero’s face lighted up at the thought of it.

“I can’t imagine,” he said. “It would be a big celebration again, of course.”
910 2007-06-30 What were their first splurges? He bought the full-size unabridged edition of the Oxford English Dictionary and an Acura NSX. She remembers a moment in the grocery store, realizing she could afford to buy $5-a-pound strawberries, “and what would it matter?” But she decided not to buy them.

“The one thing that doesn’t change with money is who you are,” Mrs. Saal said. “If you saved paper clips before you had money, you’ll still save paper clips.”

It is strange to imagine that even after a vast windfall, someone might feel that tug of war between what they can afford versus what they choose to afford. But this is something the Saals frequently discuss.

In some of their earliest discussions, Mr. Saal recalls, “We said to ourselves, ‘Let’s not spoil our lives.’ ”

He explained, “There was a pending possibility of doom if we let the genie out of the bottle, if we didn’t think carefully about our lifestyle.”

That’s not to say their lives have remained uniformly modest. While the couple remain in the house in Palo Alto, Calif., where they have lived for decades, they also built a Tuscan villa in the California wine country.

But living in Silicon Valley throughout the tech boom, the Saals were also wary of how money could muddle their lives, as well as their relationships, if they were not careful. “I think privately some people assumed this was the end of our friendship, that we’d want to move on to bigger and better circles,” Mrs. Saal said.

While they have joined some elite groups, the Saals “still meet friends for breakfast at the little local joint” and invite them to stay at their country home, so that “no one would feel jealous — or locked out,” Mrs. Saal said.

Dealing with family members, they both say, has been more difficult. “It’s much harder to balance things out with family than with friends, because the issues are more intense,” Mr. Saal said. He and his wife say it has been hard to cope with their loved ones’ financial expectations, “not just in daily events, like going to a restaurant,” but when there was a family trip or a relative became ill.

IT has taken constant thought and effort to stay grounded in their financial and emotional lives, the Saals say, but money did make one thing easier. The two had always leaned toward the philanthropic; now they could give money in such quantities, “the grants and gifts we make are transformational,” Mr. Saal said.

Although he was referring to the impact of their donations, some of them in the millions of dollars, there was an intimation of something more personal. The Saals describe an immense sense of satisfaction and joy that comes from giving to the many causes that matter to them, like helping to establish a Center for Clinical Immunology at the Stanford University School of Medicine.

It was a 15-year labor of love, partly inspired by their daughter Jessica, who suffered from severe juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, an autoimmune disorder. Their daughter died of complications from the disease in early 2004, on her 34th birthday. “Money does not protect you from the vicissitudes of life,” Mrs. Saal said, and her voice sounded heavy.

Nonetheless, they both maintain that their wealth has been a great and continuing blessing. “Money inhibits you. It’s a worry. It looms large when you don’t have enough,” Mrs. Saal said. “But when you do, it removes all that, and then you can focus on other things.”
911 2007-06-30 Daniel Gordon’s large color photographs, the subject of a solo exhibition at Zach Feuer Gallery in Chelsea, have several things going for them. They operate in the gap between collage and set-up photography, which is a lively place to be at the moment. They benefit from an impressive if not entirely original way with scissors that involves creating figurative tableaus from cut paper and cut-out images that Mr. Gordon then photographs.

In addition, he seems motivated by a deeply felt obsession with the human body and the discomforts of having one. Not for nothing is this show titled “Thin Skin II.” He likes to depict the body in extreme situations: a woman giving birth, for example, or a man cowering under a table in a work titled “Quake.” A certain interest in crime scenes is indicated, as in the pile of little girls, seemingly dead, in “Rock Garden” and the body twisted in the corner of a suburban house in “Headless Man.”

The images in this show are a bit like ransom notes, with different parts coming from different places, and the whole barely hanging together. They are both unsettling and goofy, even when they seem relatively benign. Less violent subjects scamper from the generic to the abjectly erotic (“Rubber Plant”) to domestic weirdness, like the gangly hands and arms stretching across the red-checkered tablecloth in “Pomegranate,” a fruit that is being shared by two or more people.

The undercurrent of discomfort bordering on self-loathing that runs through much of Mr. Gordon’s work is clearest in “Man in Grass,” which portrays an aroused, naked sunbather whose thighs are covered with insect bites.

In an odd way, the problem with Mr. Gordon’s work lies more with context: His images and themes hew too closely to what seems to be the Feuer Gallery’s house style of faux-naïve, often appealingly grotesque, figuration. They evoke the tubular limbs, simplified faces and brusque techniques already seen at Feuer, most notably in the paintings of Dana Schutz (see Mr. Gordon’s “Bee Eater” and “Birth”), Jules de Balincourt and Christoph Ruckhäberle; the cut-paper sculpture of Ryan Johnson; and the videos of Nathalie Djurberg.

There are other, also bothersome echoes from further afield, like the discombobulated collage figures of the talented graphic designer Stephen Kroninger and the cobbled-together figures of Red Grooms.
912 2007-06-30 DAKAR, Senegal, June 29 — A plane carrying Ivory Coast’s prime minister came under heavy fire as it landed in the northern rebel stronghold of Bouaké on Friday, witnesses said.

Guillaume Soro, the rebel commander who signed a peace agreement in March under which he became prime minister to his old nemesis, President Laurent Gbagbo, was unhurt, but three others were killed in the attack and several people wounded. The plane, which was carrying Mr. Soro, his entourage and several journalists, was hit just as it landed.

The attack deals a blow to a fledgling peace effort aimed at ending the conflict that has divided Ivory Coast, once a beacon of peace and prosperity in a troubled and war-torn region, since 2002.

There were no immediate indications who was responsible for the attack. Analysts said it could have come from either a disgruntled faction within the northern rebellion or a pro-government militia seeking to derail the peace agreement that aims to reunify the country after nearly five years of division between the rebel-held north and the government-controlled south.

Whoever is responsible, the attempt on Mr. Soro’s life underlines the fragility of Ivory Coast as it slowly emerges from the crisis that has hobbled the nation’s economy and damaged its image as a regional power.
913 2007-06-30 BUSY BEES There is no doubt that workers are busier, but are they really more productive?

Writing in The Conference Board Review magazine, the management consultant E. J. Heresniak says that may not be the case, arguing that technology has deceived workers into believing that they are getting more done than they actually are.

“Being constantly interrupted by phone calls, e-mail, text messaging and all the rest certainly keeps you busy,” he wrote, “which for some can be terrifically satisfying, but it ain’t real work.”

WORKDAY BUZZ If you find yourself slumping during the workday, it could be that you are following outdated advice, Daryn Eller writes in Prevention.

For example, while you may think that a midmorning coffee break is the best time to get a caffeine boost, it is actually better to have your coffee later in the day.

“Caffeine keeps you operating at a high level by blocking the effects of adenosine, a sleep-inducing brain chemical that accumulates as the day wears on,” Ms. Eller writes. By the time adenosine builds up to the point where you start to feel sleepy, usually late in the afternoon, your morning coffee will have worn off.

One solution is to drink two ounces of coffee — about the size of a large shot glass — several times a day.

Plus, instead of sleeping longer, “get up at the same time and bathe yourself in light.”

“You need 30 minutes of exposure to light first thing.”

If you have to get up when it is dark outside, Ms. Eller suggests buying a light therapy box, “with 20 times the intensity of average indoor lighting, which people use to treat seasonal affective disorder.”

And forget about loading up on carbohydrates to build energy.

“Although they can provide a burst of ‘quick burn’ fuel, carbohydrates are an energy drain if you consume too many.” A far better plan, she writes, is to follow a healthy diet.

TIME OFF The average American gets 14 days of vacation annually, and about this time of year, most people wish they had more time off.

One strategy to get it, writes Backpacker, is to ask for more paid time off instead of a raise.

MOTHERS’ DAYS Citing figures compiled by the Census Bureau and the Center for Work-Life Policy, Women’s Health reports that some 5.6 million mothers stayed home with their children in 2006; that figure was 4.4 million in 1995. Another statistic shows that the percentage of mothers with “graduate or high-honors bachelor’s degrees” who have left the work force is 43 percent.

FINAL TAKE Here’s Marie Claire’s “Cubicle Coach” deal-breaker of the month: “Job candidates who send thank-you notes using their current employer’s messenger or express-mail account.” PAUL B. BROWN
914 2007-06-30 Nowadays, it is a rarer pastime. The sole survivor is the strangely quaint Roosevelt Baths and Spa, which has 42 private rooms along two wings and a drinking fountain off the lobby where the water tastes faintly like Alka-Seltzer. Last year the Roosevelt drew 14,000 baths.

With the discoveries in modern medicine, most visitors no longer come to ease gout or control hypertension. But many insist that the warm, amber-colored baths, once marketed as “Nature’s Champagne,” somehow make them feel better.

“It’s very relaxing,” said Annamae Conry, a nurse practitioner from Rockville Centre, on Long Island. “Do I know what it does? No. But it feels really good.”

Mr. Roth goes every day he is in Saratoga Springs — most summer weekends along with three weeks during the horse season at Saratoga Race Course in July and August. “You feel a little bit lighter,” he said. “Your skin is smoother. It makes me feel calm and energized at the same time.”

The first bathhouse, built in 1784, drew water from an iron-rich spring prized for its effect on skin diseases. By the late 1800s, entrepreneurs were bottling the waters and making their own fantastic claims, with the Patterson Spring, for instance, recommended for “kidney and liver complaints, rheumatism, diabetes, heartburn, dyspepsia, sour stomach, sick headache, malaria and weaknesses of women.”

But by the 1950s, such boasts were being put to rest, and the numbers of visitors started to slide. After a state study critical of the supposed health benefits, the bathhouses handled 83,000 baths in 1960, less than half the number 15 years earlier.

“The study flat-out said that there’s no proof that any of this stuff has curative, medicinal benefits,” said Robert D. Kuhn, assistant regional director of the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. “It’s just therapeutic.”

While the state still owns the Roosevelt bathhouse, a private company, Xanterra Parks and Resorts, operates it, along with the venerable Gideon Putnam Resort and Spa (both are in Saratoga Spa State Park). Three years ago, the bathhouse reopened after a seven-year, $3 million renovation that took the institutional, dowdy edge off the interior while keeping the retro-hip tiles and old porcelain tubs.

Many people who call these days to schedule a massage, at a cost of $85 for an hour, are not even aware of the baths, which are $25 for 40 minutes.

While the bather puts on a robe in a nearby changing room, an attendant, dressed in white, draws the bath and places two votive candles at the front of the tub and a folded towel at the back for a headrest. After squirting some scented oil of the bather’s choosing — Adirondack woods, grapefruit — into the tub, which is set four inches into the floor, the attendant leaves the room. The bubbles in the bath make tiny popping sounds, punctuating the soft music, and the minerals help the water retain its heat.

“I noticed if I swished my arms around, there was a warm sensation,” said Sunny Killoran of Westford, Mass., who had just had her first mineral bath. “The bubbles tickle up.”

The mineral water is piped into the Roosevelt bathhouse almost a mile underground from the bubbly Lincoln Spring, near the Lincoln Bathhouse, now defunct and once one of the largest in the world, with a capacity for 4,500 baths a day.

The water, which has a year-round temperature of about 50 degrees, enters the tub through a small spigot beneath a regular faucet that runs with hot tap water. Years ago, the state used to heat the mineral water with boilers, but stopped because the mineral buildup required costly maintenance.

Since the 1980s, the mineral water has been mixed with extremely hot tap water, to bring the bath temperature to 98 degrees. But some bathers have complained that heating also reduces some of the fizz and dilutes the mineral content. A recent article in The New York Post declared the practice a scandal, prompting other news accounts and a state engineering study. Mr. Kuhn declined to share or to discuss a draft report, other than to say it suggests “four or five directions to go in.”

Mr. Roth, something of a purist, shuns the new system and insists on taking his baths cold. “When you first get in, you have to take a deep breath,” he said. “But after a while, you don’t notice it any more. It’s so effervescent that it’s a bit caustic. It stings a little.”

The state got into the unusual enterprise of giving baths after the turn of the 19th century when a group of prominent Saratoga Springs residents raised alarms about the health of the mineral springs. It was a time of increasing industry, with companies building plants atop the springs and using powerful steam-powered pumps to extract mineral water for its gas, which was then sold to beverage companies.

“Those gas plants were sucking up so much water that the springs started to go dry,” Mr. Kuhn said.

In 1909, New York State stepped in to protect the springs. It bought 600 acres of land, abolished all gas plants and created the State Reservation at Saratoga Springs, later renamed Saratoga Spa State Park. The reservation included 110 springs; the state closed all but 18 to allow them to rebound. From 1915 to 1935, New York built four stately bathhouses, as well as a large research center, with laboratories and doctors’ offices.

While the Roosevelt no longer claims that its baths heal anything in particular, it does provide a list of the 16 dissolved mineral ions in the water, along with their concentrations. Bicarbonate, sodium and calcium dominate the brew, along with chloride ions.

Michael Collins, of Freeport, on Long Island, swathed in a crisp white robe after emerging from a bath — his third in three days — is still a believer.

“The water is healing,” he said. “It’s nature. People have forgotten nature. You don’t need empirical evidence. Nature doesn’t break things out. The pharmaceutical industry does.”

Under a gazebo across the park, four spigots flow constantly with free water. Just about everyone there holds jugs under the three marked spring water, which tastes bracing and clean.

Every so often, someone heads for the lone spigot marked mineral water, with its strong metallic flavor. Les Richmond, a retired electrician with a mop of curly gray hair, filled a plastic cup and drank.

“All I know is it was good for the Indians, and I’m part Indian,” said Mr. Richmond, who was born in Saratoga Springs and lives nearby. “They were closer to the earth.”
915 2007-06-30 No one can accuse the mayor of pandering, much less of having a clue, but such an attitude among meat packers would cause riots or congressional hearings. The meat industry must face animal welfare activists and concerned consumers. Janet M. Riley, senior vice president at the American Meat Institute, which represents the packers, said, “We have found that optimal handling not only is ethically appropriate, but also has distinct quality benefits.”

“We get better meat products when we take good care of the livestock,” she said.

So it’s not that New Yorkers are sheep. It’s that they are not.

“Ain’t no space,” noted Naomi Estes of the Bronx. “We don’t get that law on the No. 4. There’s none at all. We’re worse than cattle, bumper to bumper, toe to toe” and so on, continuing through other parts of colliding bodies.

On a visit to Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to see her daughter and grandchildren, Ms. Estes stood on the platform at the Lorimer Street station awaiting the L train. As a Bronxite and regular on the No. 4, she regards the L with deep, possibly corrosive, envy.

“They’re a lot more respectful on this line,” she said, wistfully. “No respect on that 4 line. Shoving and pushing, cussing and carrying on. I wish this L could take me where I’m going.”

A few steps down the platform, Sam Brown, an avowed comedian, had a colder eye for the L, his daily ride. Before he gave up regular work for the rigors of comedy, he faced the morning commute of L trains bulging to the doors, 103 percent of maximum capacity by the official estimates. “You’d have people trying to get momentum” — he mimes a person about to hurtle into an invisible void — “to jump into the crowds and make a little space,” Mr. Brown said. He simply let the trains go. “I wasn’t that good a worker, so I chose being late,” he explained, with the heart of an unconscientious objector.

New York is the only important city in the world to have decreased its mass transit capacity since World War II, tearing down the Third Avenue El and replacing it, half a century later, with a couple of holes in the ground that supposedly are going to turn into the Second Avenue subway.

Mr. Bloomberg, worried about his daring, visionary plan to charge fees to drivers so that more of them will use subways or buses, which he rides at least sporadically, scoffs at the reality of this historic felony.

The livestock people lack the luxury of denial.

“We don’t have too many laws on animal transport, but if you put too many pigs on a truck in hot weather, you’ll end up with a lot of dead pigs,” Ms. Grandin, a professor of animal science at Colorado State University, said. “Too many cattle, you’ll end up with a lot of bruises.”
916 2007-06-30 More than 130 players will spill into the N.B.A.'s free-agent market after the clock strikes midnight tonight. That makes at least 130 new pawns in the N.B.A.'s real off-season game: the hunt for Kevin Garnett.     The 2007 free-agent class is gen...
917 2007-06-30 BUCKNER--Emil. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club mourn the loss of our esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Claudia, his daughters Ellen, Karen...
918 2007-06-30 In trucks that roll down the great American roads, the ordinary ruminant -- that is, your basic cow, sheep or bison -- is afforded more space than the average New York subway rider has the faintest prayer of commanding at rush hour. Rhetorical exc...
919 2007-06-30 The character Farfour, a Mickey Mouse look-alike who preached Islamic domination on ''Tomorrow's Pioneers,'' a Hamas-affiliated children's television show was beaten to death in the final episode Friday, The Associated Press reported.  The charact...